CSR Report 2012/13 Extract from Annual Report 2012/13 Sustainable development Clas Ohlson is a dedicated retail company with 174 stores and e-commerce ­platforms in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. We offer a range of 15,000 products in Hardware, Home, Multimedia, Electrical and Leisure. Our head office and distribution centre are located in Insjön, Dalarna and the company has some 4,300 employees. Clas Ohlson does not own any factories but cooperates with ­approximately 600 suppliers and 700 manufacturers in 30 countries. This Sustainability Report describes how we work with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). This work includes Clas Ohlson’s social and environmental responsibilities, meaning our efforts to achieve sustainable development. Contribution to sustainable development efforts to achieve a sustainable society and also engaging Our business concept has remained relatively unchanged our customers and owners in this work. since 1918. Clas Ohlson wants to make it easy for people Clas Ohlson’s sustainability work is led and coordinated to solve their everyday practical problems. The company’s by a CSR forum comprising the CEO, Director of Inforfounder, Clas Ohlson, wanted to promote the interests of mation and IR, Director of Purchasing, Director of Supply employees, customers and the local community and laid Chain, Director of HR, Senior Legal Adviser, Environmental the foundation for the company’s strong corporate culture. Coordinator, internal controller and Director of CSR and The “Clas Ohlson spirit” underlies our willingness to take Code of Conduct. responsibility and adapt our operations, and contribute to The forum makes decisions concerning objectives, sustainable social development. strategies and activities for the entire Group’s sustaina­bility We set high standards for our company, and for our efforts and ensures that the company works effectively suppliers and manufacturers, in terms of working conditoward achieving the set objectives. The CEO is ultimately tions and human rights, workplace health and safety and responsible and the aim is that sustainability efforts will be environmental impact. With a long-term sustainable busian integral part of the organisational strategy. ness concept and operation, Clas Ohlson aims to create value for its shareholders, customers, employees and society at large. Clas Ohlson will contribute to sustainable development and help improve the quality of life for current and future generations. Contributions to sustainable social development are business-critical and one of the company’s core strategies. While demands and expectations from customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders are growing, sustainability issues present new business opportunities for Clas Ohlson. All major investment decisions are to take financial, social and environmental implications into account. Our sustainable vision We will commit the company’s resources to economic, social and environmental development that generates value for our stakeholders and society at large, and contributes to sustainable living conditions for current and future ­generations. CSR organisation and responsibilities Energy saving bulb with twilight switch. 15 W. E27 base. Clas Ohlson works according to the philosophy that sustaiRated life: 12000 hours. Warm tone full colour spectrum nability issues require a holistic approach and that these is(2700K). Temperature range: -20°C to +50°C. sues must permeate the entire organisation and its various 36-3610 operations. This requires involving the entire organisation in Sustainable development Sustainable development 27 Policies and period for CSR reporting Our stores This is Clas Ohlson’s fifth sustainability report and is based In conjunction with store establishments, Clas Ohlson coon the most recent Global Report Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. operates with municipalities, regions and authorities. There Clas Ohlson has chosen to report against the criteria in Appis a shared interest in creating a viable local business comlication Level C* (not audited by an external party). A crossmunity, particularly in the city locations that Clas Ohlson prireference table is presented on page 43 showing where the oritises when establishing its stores. Central locations mean various GRI indicators can be found in Clas Ohlson’s Annual that people can shop where they live and work, reducing Report, Sustainability Report or website. the need for driving to business centres outside city centres. The information and key ratios presented in the SustainaEvery year, Clas Ohlson opens a large number of new stores bility Report have been selected on the basis of significance in our existing four markets, which creates many new job and relevance from a sustainability perspective for Clas Ohlopportunities. son, and in accordance with stakeholder requests. The Sustainability Report covers the 2012/13 financial Financial development generates value year, which is the 1 May 2012 – 30 April 2013 period. InClas Ohlson has reported a profit every year since the formation, key ratios and diagrams for the 1 January 2012 company was founded in 1918. Healthy profitability and – 31 December 2012 period are presented in some of the sound finances are essential for conducting long-term sussections below. tainable operations and generating value for shareholders, employees, suppliers and society at large. As the company Clas Ohlson’s stakeholders grows and expands, new job opportunities are created and, Clas Ohlson’s key stakeholders and target groups are through the taxes paid in our various markets, Clas Ohlson customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and manucontributes to public finances and the financing of society’s facturers, non-profit organisations and the general public. joint commitments. We have ongoing dialogue with our most important stakeholders and also perform internal and external measurements to capture any views and requests pertaining to the company’s operations and development. Open dialogue generates greater knowledge and helps to determine any improvements that may be required in our sustainability ­efforts. We hold meetings with various fund and asset management companies and their sustainability analysts to ­discuss various sustainability issues and the opportunities and challenges facing Clas Ohlson. During the financial year, Clas Ohlson also participated in seminars and forums arranged by various non-profit organisations to hear about their views, experience and work with human rights and the ­environment. Participation in international initiatives Clas Ohlson has been a signatory to the UN petition to promote human rights, the UN Global Compact, since 2008. Clas Ohlson has also participated in the international ­Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2008 and during the financial year, the company reported both the direct and indirect greenhouse emissions generated by its operations during 2012. Employee surveys Our work environment surveys show a high level of job satisfaction and a good working environment. During the financial year, a Group-wide employee survey was con­ ducted – an Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI). The survey provides valuable feedback from our employees about our workplaces, working conditions and satisfaction (read more on page 38). Customer survey During the year, Clas Ohlson participated in the 2012 Sustainable Brands Image Survey. The survey measures Swedish attitudes and perceptions of corporate sustaina­ble Industry, 2012.” Our dialogue with customers around sustainability issues Efergy e2 IR wireless energy monitor with optical sensor. Displays energy consumption and costs by reading your electricity is important and will be further developed to include our meter's pulse LED. Connects to your PC for statistical analyses. customers in the development of Clas Ohlson’s operations 36-5041 and offering. 28 Sustainable development Significant events during the year •C  las Ohlson extended its partnership with Save the During the financial year, we continued to make progress Children. The partnership includes training initiatives for with our sustainability efforts. Some of the activities that migrant and young workers (16-20 years) in China, and took place were: campaigns in our sales channels to collect money for children in Nepal, one of the poorest countries in the •P  urchasing processes and monitoring compliance world. The goal is that 8,000 children will be able to with the Code of Conduct were integrated with joint start school over a three-year period. organisation, tools and processes. During the financial • In December 2012, Clas Ohlson was selected for incluyear, 409 (617) factory audits of our manufacturers in sion in the NASDAQ OMX Asia were conducted to identify any non-compliance Sustainability Index, which that needed to be addressed. serves as a guide for sus• Emissions from transport (CO2/tonne/km) were retainable investments. duced by raising the filling height for pallets used in distribution, increasing the proportion of rail freight and changing transport routes and procedures. • Energy optimisation continued in a number of stores by introducing better lighting plans and new lighting technology. The new lighting is used in all new stores, and introduced into older stores when they are renovated. *GRI Application Levels • Clas Ohlson continued to contribute to the phase-out The GRI Guidelines have three Application Levels: A, B and C. The disclosure requirements for each level represent the degree of conventional light bulbs and conversion to LED lighof application or compliance with GRI’s Framework. When an ting through marketing campaigns and communication “+” is added to the Application Level, it shows that a report is in our various sales channels. externally assured. Clas Ohlson’s overall sustainability strategies: Strategy Activities CSR must be an integral part of our busiStakeholder feedback compiled from the Employee Satisfaction Index, customer ness and operations. We will contribute to surveys and participation in the Sustainable Brands Image Survey. sustainable development, capitalise on exInternal training to raise Group-wide expertise and awareness of CSR issues. isting business opportunities and strengthen our long-term competitiveness. More extensive collaboration with suppliFocus on reducing the number of suppliers and manufacturers. ers and manufacturers to promote better Integrated organisation, processes and tools for purchasing and verifying compliance working conditions. with our Code of Conduct. Training programmes for both factory managements and factory workers. Partnerships with other companies and organisations to improve CSR effectiveness. Open dialogue with our stakeholders and Stakeholder feedback and dialogue, and results from the Employee Satisfaction non-profit organisations about our CSR Index and customer surveys. Participation in seminars, and sustainability dialogues process. with non-profit organisations, universities, forums and other parties. External CSR reporting based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. Develop offering and communication to Develop the product range with new, smart solutions that help our customers guide our customers to the right solution for minimise their environmental impact. various practical needs. Guide our customers to the right quality according to need, spare parts, repairs and tips for more sustainable consumption. Phase-out hazardous substances in products. Smaller and better packaging and packaging material. Communicate with customers about CSR through various sales and communication channels. Contribute to society by promoting the rights Long-term cooperation with Save the Children to promote better conditions for of children and young people children. Implementation of the new Children’s Rights and Business Principles in Clas Ohlson’s operations. Community involvement by supporting cultural and sporting activities for young people in Insjön and the surrounding region. Efficient and long-term supply chain Increased use of rail for freight transport. sustainability. Higher fill rate. More efficient transport routes and delivery schedules. Transport partners with optimised environmental performance. Sustainable development Sustainable development 29 Our work to promote human rights Taking responsibility for the individuals duction of products that we purchase from various suppliers and manufacturers. We are also responsible for ensuring and environmental factors affected by that the products have the lowest possible environmental our operations is important for Clas impact over their entire life cycle. Verifying compliance and working for improvements in our supply chain is a long-term Ohlson. Responsibility in our supply chain and complex process that requires commitment from our entails making demands and verifying entire organisation as well as our suppliers and manufactucompliance, but also developing longrers. Since the introduction of our Code of Conduct in 2005 and the establishment of our purchasing office and CSR term relationships with our suppliers and department in Shanghai in 2008, and in Shenzhen in 2010, supporting their sustainability efforts. we have come closer to manufacturers and taken several significant steps forward in our efforts to influence, verify compliance and improve conditions in our supply chain. Integral part of the operations Our supply chain In an effort to improve our supplier responsibility, the Clas Ohlson is a dedicated retailer. Clas Ohlson does not Purchasing and CSR departments work together to balance own any factories and the company’s product range is both financial and social aspects when selecting partners. purchased from about 600 suppliers and 700 manufactuBoth departments use the same administrative purchasing rers in some 30 countries. 37 per cent of our products are systems and as part of their everyday procedures, can purchased directly from factories in Asia. This direct purchacheck and register information about our manufacturers’ sing provides greater opportunities for us to influence, veCSR status, audit reports and improvement processes to rify and support our manufacturers in their work to improve support their purchasing decisions. If manufacturers fail to working conditions and workplace safety. address any issues of non-compliance, they are blocked in Our processes to verify and support our suppliers and mathe purchasing system until the problems are rectified. nufacturers focus primarily on production in countries where Our CSR department in China is responsible for verifying, the risk of non-compliance with our Code of Conduct is high. assessing and monitoring compliance with Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct, as well as training and providing inforLong-term commitment and partnership mation to our suppliers and manufacturers in Asia. This Our ambition is to contribute to a better workplace and ­assignment includes performing CSR audits and supporting improved working conditions for people involved in the promanufacturers in their improvement processes. At the end of the financial year, the department consisted of the CSR Manager Supply Chain, the CSR team leader, administraHistory of Clas Ohlson's CSR work tors and CSR auditors who perform manufacturing audits and provide information and training in factories. 1998 Policy concerning child labour introduced. 2001 Environmental policy introduced. 2004 Launched process to develop and introduce Challenges and opportunities Code of Conduct. Clas Ohlson has a broad product range with about 15,000 2005 Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct for suppliers products that are purchased from a large number manuadopted by Board and published. facturers. For many of these manufacturers, Clas Ohlson is 2006 Working basis for the company’s systematic a small customer that accounts for less than 5 per cent of CSR work is prepared, approved and tested. their annual sales. 2007 First external CSR audits carried out. Factories in Asia are often characterised by a range of challenges, such as excessive overtime, unsafe working 2008 Establishment of a special Corporate Social conditions, inadequate protective equipment, no or weak ­Responsibility organisation in Shanghai. unions and manipulated time sheets. Corruption, bribery 2009 Expansion of the number of audits and deepeand other problems can also compound verification procesning of cooperation with suppliers in regard to ses. We make both announced and unannounced visits to our Code of Conduct. our manufacturers. All companies operating either directly or indirectly in Asia 2010 Anti-corruption section added to our Code of encounter these challenges and can contribute to improveConduct. Additional CSR office established in ments in several ways. Clas Ohlson’s strategy is to use a southern China. combination of its own CSR auditors and third-party audit 2011 Purchasing office in southern China with CSR­ firms. Regular visits to the factories by our own personnel auditor. enable an overall assessment, including working conditions, 2012 Clas Ohlson conducts educational efforts for when selecting manufacturers. Many factories have several migrant workers and young workers together international customers that demand compliance and perwith Save the Children. form regular factory audits, while others have limited experience since purchasers have rarely demanded compliance 30 Sustainable development ture, core values and behaviour. During the financial year, training programmes were arranged for all Group functions and employees with purchasing responsibilities. Training Training programmes to provide all employees with basic CSR knowledge continued during the year. Training provides a shared platform for the company, describes the various components of Clas Ohlson’s CSR processes and how each individual can contribute to achieving the company’s sustainability targets. Our Purchasing Department undergoes regular training in corporate and supply chain re­ sponsibility and the purchasers participate in audits every year, which provides greater knowledge and experience of the process and insight into how they, as purchasers, can make a contribution to improvements. During the year, Clas Ohlson’s auditors underwent external environmental training, an introductory course on the CSR SA8000 standard, along with seminars on labour legislation. Training programmes were also conducted in factories to raise knowledge of various production processes, carbon emissions and greater awareness of special require­ ments and conditions for young workers (older than 16). Each year, Clas Ohlson arranges training courses in Hong Kong, Taipei and Shanghai for our agents regarding our CSR programme and how we monitor the supply chain. Our agents, who assist with direct purchasing in Asia, also participate in audits to raise their knowledge and become involved in the process. PIR solar garden light. Energy saving technology, energy-saving Our tools and processes mode and full brightness when motion activated. Extra-bright light. Stainless steel. IP44. 36-5185 Code of Conduct Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct contains the standards we set for ourselves, and for our suppliers and manufacturers, and performed CSR audits in the past. Joint demands by regarding working conditions, workplace health and safety, purchasing companies to improve working and environanti-corruption and environmental impact. The Code refers mental conditions are a positive trend and can generate to international conventions as well as national laws and even better results by attempting to harmonise the various regulations. The standards in the Code are based on the tools and methods that are used. Clas Ohlson is a member UN Declaration on Human Rights and Rights of the Child, of CSR Asia, an organisation that presents opportunities and the ILO core conventions. The Code is based on the for us to share experiences with other purchasers. We also OECD guidelines for multinational companies and also cooperate with Save the Children’s Centre for Children’s complies with the ten principles in the UN Global Compact Rights and Corporate Responsibility in China to help imin the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environprove conditions for migrant and young workers (older than ment and anti-corruption. During the year, the UN principles 16) (read more on page 32). were amended to include a more detailed description of the As part of this process, and in line with the UN Global rights of the child in relation to the business sector, whereby Compact initiative to combat corruption, the company uneach company is responsible for paying special attention derwent advanced internal training in business ethics, free to the rights and conditions for children in every part of its competition, bribery and corruption during the fiscal year. operations. Our Code includes the following: • we do not tolerate child labour or forced labour. Business ethics • employees must not be discriminated against on the Clas Ohlson works to uphold high ethical standards in busigrounds of personal characteristics or beliefs. ness practices, promotes free competition, does not accept • workers’ health and safety must be prioritised in offers of, or payment of, bribes or inappropriate benefits workplaces, for example that proper protection is and is committed to compliance with applicable laws and used, and equipment and buildings are safe. ordinances. As a company and purchaser of goods and • hazardous substances and waste must be handled services, we are both able and obligated to demand high safely. standards of business conduct, both our own and our sub• employees must have acceptable working conditions, contractors’, and our business ethics guidelines are an inteincluding wages and working hours. gral part of Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct. The Code is available in Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish, Caring and showing respect for people and the environEnglish, Mandarin, Vietnamese, Korean and Japanese and ment, and upholding high ethical standards, integrity and has been published in its entirety on Clas Ohlson’s website honesty, are cornerstones of Clas Ohlson’s corporate culunder Financial Information (http://about.clasohlson.com). Sustainable development Sustainable development 31 Demands on suppliers and manufacturers To identify any non-compliance, we also work with selfAll of our suppliers and manufacturers must sign our Code assessments where the manufacturer completes a of Conduct. The suppliers, in turn, are responsible for encomprehensive questionnaire about factory conditions in suring that their sub-contractors and manufacturers comterms of workplace health and safety, working conditions ply with our Code. Since the introduction of our Code of and the environment. The most extensive control is ­carried Conduct, a number of suppliers have chosen not to sign out during audits, when our own or third-party auditors the Code or have not qualified to be one of our partners for inspect the manufacturing facility, interview the personnel various reasons. If our partners do not permit us to perform and examine various documents. Clas Ohlson pays the audits or are unwilling to introduce improvements, despite costs incurred by manufacturing audits (for a description of discussions and attempts, we terminate our partnership how an audit is conducted, see page 35). with them (read more on pages 33-34). The standards in the Code are based on: Manufacturers with a committed management and a ro• The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. bust business management system for monitoring, control • United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and document management are generally successful in (1989). complying with our Code of Conduct. • ILO Convention 138 – Concerning the minimum age for admission to employment (1973). Assessment and control of new factories • ILO Convention 182 – Concerning the prohibition and Before Clas Ohlson purchases products directly from a new immediate action for the elimination of the worst forms supplier or manufacturer in Asia, a representative from the of child labour (1999). company visits the factory to make an initial assessment • The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and of various CSR aspects based on our requirements. The Rights at Work (1998). factory is also required to sign our Code of Conduct. What we want to achieve in Targets What we achieved in 2012/13 2013/14 • Improve conditions • Participation in the CSR Asia organisation, leading • Increased focus on environmental issues for our for individuals and the to cooperation with other retail companies in the manufacturers by introducing training initiatives for factory environment at the sites region. managements and our own CSR auditors. of our suppliers and • Developed organisation, processes and tools for • More intense cooperation with key manufacturers and manufacturers. monitoring compliance with our Code of Conduct suppliers to encourage and reward their CSR efforts. and achieving better working conditions. • More initiatives to support manufacturers’ CSR processes in • Higher proportion of external audits by third parties relation to their sub-contractors. Increased CSR audits of our to supplement the audit process. suppliers’ sub-contractors. • Closer collaboration with key manufacturers in • Improved “hotline” for reporting deviations at factories thorder to reduce the number of manufacturers. rough new channels that reach more factory workers. • Expand our work with • Our auditors provided information and training for •C  ontinued training initiatives for both new and existing information and training for factory managements in health and safety, Human manufacturers regarding our Code of Conduct and our manufacturers. Resources and the environment. standards. • Training initiatives for migrant and young workers •T  raining for manufacturers in the new principles concerning through partnership with Save the Children’s CSR the rights of the child and the business sector. centre in China. • Increased training initiatives for migrant and young workers at factories in Asia. •T  o develop a new training program for factory workers and managements in health and safety and workplace dialogue. • Conduct regular training for • During the year, our CSR auditors underwent • Continuous further training for our CSR auditors. our purchasing and CSR training in ISO 14000, OHSAS 1800, Energy Saving • Strengthened environmental expertise. organisation. and Job hazardous assessment. • Cooperate with other • Participation in CSR Asia. • Assess the potential to cooperate with other companies and companies and organisa• Cooperation with Save the Children in China (CCR organisations when performing audits to acquire greater tions in order to influence CSR). efficiency and opportunities to exercise influence. and continue improving. • Participation in various research projects into CSR, • Expanded dialogue with stakeholders in the countries where including Lund University, Sweden. we operate. • Deeper, long-term cooperation with Save the Children. • Improved communication, • More information about CSR on Clas Ohlson’s • Increased customer communication about CSR via all both internally and website. channels: stores, e-commerce, catalogues, telephone and externally. • CSR training for all personnel (May/June 2012). marketing. • Participation in the Sustainable Brands Image Sur• Enhanced cooperation with Save the Children and campaigns vey – rated “Best in the Industry” in 2012 and 2013. to offer children in Nepal the opportunity to attend school. • Regular CSR information to our employees via our internal communication channels. 32 Sustainable development Preventive and training measures Initially, some manufacturers may have very little knowledge of our demands and regulations or how they can achieve compliance. During the audits, our auditors inform the manufacturers of our requirements and the areas that must be improved. We have produced training material in health and safety, Human Resources and the environment to support manufacturers’ efforts to improve their operations. During the year, we conducted 71 training programmes at manufacturing facilities in Asia. Although Clas Ohlson is often a small customer for our suppliers, most of them react positively to being audited and are willing to work toward improving any deficiencies. However, we do encounter manufacturers that for various reasons are not prepared to permit access for audits or are not interested in working within the given timeframes for achieving the improvements that are required. If we cannot convince them to change their position, despite attempts and discussions, we terminate our partnership with them. Recurring audits We conduct recurring audits of our active manufacturers, and these are revised at least every second year. During the financial year, we performed 409 audits, both initial and recurring. Our own auditors conducted 380 audits, and 29 external audits were performed by third-party audit firms specialised in social responsibility and human rights. An audit normally takes 1-2 days, depending on the size Cotech laser distance meter. Quick, accurate and easy-to-use distance meter. Accurate readings even on small areas and long of the factory and number of employees. The auditors indistances (up to 40m). spect the factory’s premises, interview employees and exa40-8786 mine documents. The audit is documented in a report. If we identify any non-compliance with our Code, an action plan is prepared with information about the actions that must be taken by the factory within a given timeframe (read more GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) under “The CSR audit process” on page 35). In 2009, Clas Ohlson introduced GRI – the global standard for sustainability reporting – to benchmark our progress with Assessment of the CSR level sustainability. The introduction of GRI has also generated Our manufacturers’ CSR levels are assessed according to a value for Clas Ohlson by providing a framework with well-derange of colours: fined performance indicators that can be used to set targets Green Meets the requirements of our Code Conduct and monitor results in selected areas. Yellow Identified non-compliance with the Code Reporting non-compliance and Orange Identified high-risk non-compliance with the Code implemented measures Red Identified zero-tolerance non-compliance with Selected performance indicators in the area of human rights the Code are presented in tables on page 34. Non-compliance and improvements HR4 Non-discrimination In our audits, most non-compliance is identified in the areas Audits during the year identified zero cases of discriminaof health and safety, such as deficiencies in the use of protion. In past years, identified cases of discrimination have tective equipment, evacuation and fire protection, and in included the absence of an anti-discrimination policy or wages and working hours, such as excessive overtime or specifying the desired age and/or gender of candidates in job denial of social security rights. During the year, most improadvertisements. In these cases, Clas Ohlson has ­demanded vements were noted in the health and safety area. General the introduction of an anti-discrimination policy and improvements in relation to wages and working hours take reformulation of the advertisements. longer to achieve. These issues are complex and require a long-term process, in which both the purchasers and maHR5 Freedom of association and the right nufacturers of goods in Asia, in consultation with ­authorities to collective bargaining and NGOs, must work together to find sustainable soluWe identified 15 cases of restricted freedom of association tions. Since many manufacturers have “yellow” in terms and the right to collective bargaining. We have demanded of their CSR level (with some non-compliance), we plan to that these suppliers introduce systems to eliminate this re­ focus on raising the manufacturer’s level toward green (no striction. In general, freedom of association is a major pronon-compliance) to enable goal-setting and to strengthen blem in Asia and represents a considerable and important cooperation with strategically important manufacturers that area of development that requires collaboration between macan demonstrate a positive CSR result. nufacturers, purchasing companies, NGOs and ­authorities. Sustainable development Sustainable development 33 HR6K Child labour (under 16 years) Our audits identified two cases of child labour during the year. In both of these cases, identified by audits in China, the children were 15 years of age (the minimum working age in China is 16). When we discover under-age workers, we try to find the best solution for the child by working together with the child, the parents and the factory. In another 15 cases, factories did not have satisfactory ID documentation to verify the age of employees (with no suspicion of child labour at the time of the audit) and in one case, the factory did not have a child labour policy. In these cases, Clas Ohlson demanded that the companies introduce a child labour policy and procedures for maintaining records of identification documents. HR7 Forced labour During the financial year, we identified one case of forced 3M Half Mask Respirator. 4 different filters in one mask. Protects labour. The incident was discovered at a factory that only against fine particles, waterand oil-based spray paints, solvents paid wages to its workers three times per year. Clas Ohlson and organic gases. Fitted with 2 large carbon filters for low breathing demanded that this serious case of non-compliance be imresistance. 2 adjustable head straps. Type: FFA2P3 R D. Conforms to: EN 405:2001 + A1:2009. mediately addressed and that the factory introduce a policy 40-8054 and procedures to prevent forced labour. All non-compliance has now been rectified and meets our standards. Status after completed CSR audits per finanical year Year 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 Green 14 11 4 11 8 Yellow 24 296 332 300 438 314 Status per active manufacturer 30 April 2013 Orange 50 82 109 63 Status Green Yellow Orange Red Red 14 49 51 40 59 24 Per cent Total 38 359 444 426 617 409 proportion 11% 88% 1% 0% Non-compliance based on GRI indicators after completed audits: GRI indicators 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Totalt HR4K Non-discrimination 16 15 20 6 0 57 HR5K Freedom of association and the right to collective 29 9 7 17 15 78 bargaining HR6K Child labour 1 1 6 12 2 23 HR7K Forced labour 5 2 0 0 1 8 Glossary and definitions GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Global reporting standard for sustainability programmes. IntroCSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) duced in 2009 at Clas Ohlson. CSR entails that companies, on their own initiative, demonstrate Suppliers active commitment and responsibility in terms of social developCompanies with whom we place orders. ment. The term encompasses companies’ social responsibility, environmental responsibility and HR policies. Manufacturers (factories) Companies that manufacture our products. Code of Conduct Agents A Code of Conduct includes guidelines that describe how a Suppliers in Asia with whom we have a long-standing relationscompany should conduct operations, ethically, socially and hip and who purchase products from other suppliers and manuenvironmentally. It is often based on various international agrefacturers in Asia. ements, such as UN and ILO conventions, national legislation and regulations. Requirements may also pertain to the producRead more tion carried out by suppliers and manufacturers. By applying a The complete Code of Conduct and further information about Code of Conduct, companies aim to ensure that products are Clas Ohlson’s efforts to promote human rights is also available manufactured under satisfactory working conditions. on the website at http://om.clasohlson.com/en. 34 Sustainable development The CSR audit process At Clas Ohlson’s CSR department in Shanghai and Shenzhen, six auditors are employed to check the conditions in factories. Clas Ohlson performs internal audits using its own auditors and external audits through third-party organisations. An audit comprises the following components • An audit is initiated when our auditors convene an opening meeting together with the owner of the factory or a senior official. During this meeting, we provide information about Clas Ohlson, describe the audit process and the agenda for the day, the auditor collects information about the factory and reviews the documents that the factory must produce for review. • This is followed by a visual inspection of the factory and its premises, including canteens and any housing. Some of the items we check are: Health and safety Documents for production and • Fire safety (including fire other properties equipment, escape routes, • Certificates and permits emergency exits, fire drills) • Policies • Protective equipment for workers, • Attendance lists including protective gloves, • The practice of fines or other ear-plugs disciplinary actions • Ventilation, noise and light Child labour • Drinking water • Pay attention to and check for • Toilets young workers • Canteen and kitchen (including The environment hygiene and certificates). • Report the factory’s environmental • First aid equipment. impact and risks • Electric wires and cables. • Relevant documents and • Machinery equipped with safety certificates devices. • Hazardous substances and waste If the factory provides housing for are marked and handled safely the workers • Access to MSDS (Material Safety • Number of people per rooms Data Sheet) • Personal space • Training and medical examinations • Toilets for people who work with • Gender-separated rooms hazardous substances • Fire safety (including fire • Recycling management equipment, escape routes, • Water purification, air purification emergency exits) • Ventilation and light • Hygiene and safety • Documents are verified in the next phase, including payrolls, time sheets, ID documents, employment contracts and various types of certificates and permits. • Employees at the factory are then interviewed. The interviews are voluntary and confidential, as protection of individual workers is important. • The visit is concluded with a closing meeting where the factory management is informed of the audit findings. If non-compliances have appeared, we discuss the improvements that must be made and the timeframe for their implementation. • A follow-up inspection is carried out later to ensure that the factory complies with the audit’s improvement requirements. This inspection is conducted by either Clas Ohlson’s own representatives or an independent organisation. We also reserve the right to make both announced and unannounced audits of our manufacturers. Clas Ohlson bears the costs of the audits. Sustainable development Sustainable development 35 Our employees and core values Committed and goal-oriented employees Warmth Warmth is the friendliness, care and service-mindedare the core of our brand and fundamenness that permeates all interaction with our customers, tal to the company’s continued expansion ­colleagues and suppliers. and development. Commitment Our core values – drive, commitment, Commitment means that every employee is given, and innovation and warmth – form the baaccepts, personal responsibility. Every employee, regardless of their role or area of responsibility, is important for sis for how we work and care about our ­achieving our goals. customers, and how we strive to achieve our goals. Innovation Innovation means being creative, innovative and curious. Always seeking new opportunities, products and solutions is an important part of the Clas Ohlson spirit. The key to our continued expansion in Europe is that we Diversity and gender equality can retain, develop and attract skilled and committed All Clas Ohlson employees must have the same rights, oppemployees to our various professional roles and markets. ortunities and obligations. We consider diversity a natural We do this by being a modern, responsive and exciting reflection of the world we live in and vital for our continued employer, and by offering a gender-balanced and healthy growth. Our approach to diversity and gender equality will workplace with challenging assignments, continuous skills permeate all of our operations, and discrimination on the development, good working conditions and international grounds of gender, age, religion, ethnic origin, disability career opportunities. or sexual orientation is not permitted. One of our goals is that neither gender will account for less than 40 per cent Exporting the Clas Ohlson spirit of each professional category, which is achieved through One of our greatest challenges is to simplify and devetargeted skills development combined with the prioritisation lop our core values. Spreading the Clas Ohlson spirit of ­gender equality when recruiting. throughout our international operations. Understanding and During the financial year, 43 per cent (42) of the capitalising on cultural differences, encouraging frequent company’s employees were women. The proportion of interchange between countries and employees and setting women on the Board was 38 per cent (38) and in senior maclear measures and goals. nagement, 20 per cent (20). Of national managers and seOur core values are the compass for all work conducted nior executives, women accounted for 25 per cent (25). On by the Group and the guiding principle for how we approach 30 April 2013, 47 per cent of our personnel were younger and communicate with our customers. In our current phase than 30, while 10 per cent were older than 50. of growth, it is even more important that our core values remain clear, alive and present in our everyday work. We want Skills development to present the same image and Clas Ohlson experience to Business-orientated skills development is vital for our our employees and customers in Sweden, Norway, Finland, continued growth and to increase employees’ commitment, the UK and China. motivation and job satisfaction. Our core values rest on commercial awareness. We enjoy New employees in the Group undergo “Insjön training,” a our business, and always have the customer’s best interests basic course located in Insjön to learn about Clas Ohlson’s at heart. Commercial awareness has four cornerstones: corporate culture and core values. Continuous training takes place in all professional categories and levels. In the Drive preceding year, our employees participated in a total of 10 Drive is the desire, willingness and ability to generate results. hours training per person, including interactive training proTo turn problems into solutions and words into action. grammes via Clas Ohlson’s digital learning portal. Total number of employees Number of employees, men/women Employees per country Men, 57% Women, 43% China, 1% Sweden, 51% 5,000 UK, 7% 4,000 4,280 Finland, 10% 3,962 3,920 3,430 Norway, 31% 3,000 3,100 2,000 1,000 0 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 36 Sustainable development From Lund to London in less than two years When Sophia Bonnevier Dudzik commenced Clas Ohlson’s traineeship programme in Insjön in autumn 2010, she was already determined to work abroad. Just a few weeks after completing the programme, she landed at Heathrow, ready for her first project as a Business Developer at Clas Ohlson UK in Kingston-upon-Thames in South West London. Sophia did not arrive in London by chance. “My supervisor and I maintained an open dialogue throughout the trainee period. We set up a long-term plan, where the organisational requirements and objectives were matched with my personal qualities and ambitions. Working abroad was one of the milestones.”. During her 18 months as a trainee, Sophia became familiar with many facets of the business, from working in stores and customer service to purchasing, sales and business development. “Ever since I was 16, when I started working in a chocolate store in Lund, I have loved everything about interacting with customers – serving, selling and talking to people. Working at Clas Ohlson has strengthened that feeling, so helping to develop our sales and marketing communication feels very exciting.” Business development with variation Sophia is involved in development projects in a range of areas in the UK market, including product ranges, store environments, sales and communication strategies. “We are ambitious, driven and goal-oriented. But we maintain a high level of flexibility. We spur and challenge each other, share our knowledge and experience, discuss ideas and enjoy working together. I love my job!” Day-to-day variation appeals to Sophia. “I am not a specialist, I have a broad range of interests. I prefer to know a little about lots of topics, see the entirety and broader context, which Clas Ohlson has seen, respected and leveraged. As a result, I am growing, feel confident and am working with something I love, which benefits the company in the end.” Work-life balance Sophia often refers to Clas Ohlson’s unique corporate culture and work environment. “I think the company’s work climate and leadership are unusually flexible and open. They are based on a long-term strategy. Junior employees, like me, can also make a contribution. The company also respects that employees have a family and private life, which creates a healthy work-life balance and job security.” Last but not least, Sophia describes how working at Clas Ohlson never feels monotonous After completing the traineeship or boring. programme, Sophia has found the perfect “The combination of a modern, expansive Group and an almost century-old retailing tradition environment and challenge as a Business creates a wonderful dynamic and presents fantastic opportunities to contribute and make a Developer in the UK. difference.” The Group: Store Store Salaried Other WareWomen Men Total manager employees managers house Total number of training hours 27,292 6,553 4,059 2,200 1,225 17,720 23,609 41,329 Average per employee 9 38 9 22 3 9 10 10 Number of employees* Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Stores 1,302 1,224 344 266 3,136 Distribution centre 377 377 Salaried employees 500 116 63 34 54 767 Total 2,179 1,340 407 300 54 4,280 – of whom women, % 43 39 55 52 63 43 – of whom permanent employees, % 87 86 97 94 4 87 – of whom full-time, % 58 44 44 28 100 51 Average period of employment in the company, year* Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Salaried employees 7.6 8.6 5.0 3.0 4.0 7.1 Stores/Distribution centre 7.1 3.6 2.0 1.9 4.9 Average sickness absence ,% Sweden Norway Finland UK China Totalt Total sickness absence 5.9 6.0 4.2 2.0 0.6 5.4 – long term sick leave 2.5 2.7 0.3 0.4 0.2 2.2 – women 7.2 7.8 5.2 2.3 0.8 6.6 – men 4.9 4.8 3.4 1.7 0.2 4.5 * April 30, 2013 Sustainable development Sustainable development 37 Health Employee Satisfaction Index Clas Ohlson offers a healthy work environment, where emOn 30 April 2013, the number of employees in the Group ployees enjoy physical and mental well-being, and feel a totalled 4,280, of whom 3,716 (87 per cent) were permasense of security and belonging. During the financial year, nent employees. Of these, 54 per cent were full-time emthe employee turnover was 17.9 per cent (including partployees. Some 85 per cent (84) of personnel responded to time employees) compared with 18.4 per cent in 2011/12. our annual employee survey in Sweden, Norway, Finland, Total sickness absence was 5.4 per cent, of which absence the UK and China. The ESI (Employee Satisfaction Index) exceeding 14 days accounted for 2.2 percentage points. for the Group was 76 per cent (74), which compared Clas Ohlson works proactively and preventively to improve favourably with other companies in an external comparison. the company’s sickness absence figures, through initiatives The survey shows that most of our employees feel proud such as training courses and preventive healthcare. of working at Clas Ohlson and that they can contribute to the decisions that are made. Confidence in managers and Leadership executive management is strong on average, while our Managers at Clas Ohlson are expected to combine good efforts to promote diversity, equal treatment and gender employeeship with clear, goal-oriented and commitequality are rated highly. ted leadership based on the company's core values. Our The employee survey provides an effective basis for ­managers play a key role in developing the business skills how we can develop leadership within the Group and of each employee. To create a culture where we are always how we should be working to stimulate and motivate our open to opportunities to develop the company based on employees. our commercial awareness, customer focus and desire to generate results. Activities and initiatives during the year The following is a brief summary of significant events, Recruitment initiatives and activities in the HR area during the 2012/13 All recruitment is aligned with our growth strategy and our financial year: objective to promote gender equality and diversity. Recruit• Continued consolidation of our core values, with the ment takes place both externally and internally, although we objective that all employees throughout the entire endeavour to recruit internally if the expertise already exists. organisation will understand our history and corporate Clas Ohlson encourages employees to take on new chalculture and help to develop the Clas Ohlson spirit. lenges within the Group. • Continued focus on skills development in the areas of Over the past the year, the number of employees commercial awareness and leadership. increased by 360, of whom 276 are permanent employees. • Implemented Group-wide leadership training for managers, other key individuals and employees with Salaries leadership talent. Clas Ohlson offers competitive salaries, in line with our • Completed the second round of our traineeship remuneration policy, local ordinances and currently programme. New traineeship programme will start in applicable collective agreements and labour legislation. autumn 2013. Salaries are based on an employee’s professional role • Continued development of our interactive learning and responsibilities, performance, level of expertise and portal (LMS), with a broader range of courses and results. The fixed salary is adjusted annually in accordance training programmes. with applicable collective agreements, in relation to the • Follow-up of ESI 2012 (Employee Satisfaction Index), employee’s personal development and the general market and establishment of action plans in each team. situation. Locally adapted benefits, such as physical wellness subsidies, personnel discounts and levelling out of salaries during parental leave, are also offered. A young organisation A large proportion of our employees are younger than 30 years, which is natural since many of our store employees work part time. Students often work evenings and weekends in one of Clas Ohlson’s stores. Age breakdown, Clas Ohlson Group Employee turnover* Employee turnover, men/women* Over 50 years, 9,7% Below 30 years, 46,5% Over 50 years (9,1%) Below 30 years (27,5%) Men (18,3%) Women (17,4%) 30-49 years (9,7%) 30-49 years, 43,8% * Current statistics (according to GRI) also include part-time employees. 38 Sustainable development Focus on spare parts – Clas Ohlson likes wear but not waste! A key component of Clas Ohlson’s service concept is our own workshop and vast range of spare parts – comprising more than 9,000 items – that can extend the service life of various products. Items range from clock parts to drive belts and coffee pots. To date, only a small proportion of our customers have known that we offer both spare parts and our own workshop to which they can turn for help in repairing products. “Many customers are positively surprised when they hear that we offer spare parts and workshop services and can extend the service life of a favourite product – ranging from machinery, tools and electronics to household products, multimedia and leisure products. This is an issue of service and sustainability or, in other words, economising with ­resources and not dumping things unnecessarily,” says Sven-Åke Östberg, Customer Service Manager at Clas Ohlson. A key aspect of Clas Ohlson’s new e-commerce venture is being able to display the extensive range of spare parts that are also available for various products. Customers can also search for spare parts for products that are no longer included in the product range – a feature that is much appreciated, especially in the case of more expensive machinery and tools. And for support, Clas Ohlson can also offer considerable expertise, with 25 service engineers divided between the various speciality areas: electrical and clock parts, machinery and tools, multimedia, home and household, and leisure and toys. Offering spare parts and workshop services is a key feature of our service, but also makes a significant contribution to sustainable development due to extended wear and less waste. Our aim is to always guide our customers to the right product with the right quality for solving their specific problem. A simpler, low-cost product can function perfectly for many years when used less often and for simpler tasks. However, a professional who uses a product for demanding tasks every day requires a more advanced and often more expensive product that can withstand sustained use. Sustainable development Sustainable development 39 Responsibility for the environment Clas Ohlson purchases products from which reduced the company’s emissions and costs during the year. some 600 suppliers in 30 countries. The • Energy efficiency in stores continues. A programme to products are transported to the distribudevelop the lighting systems of existing stores commenced during the year, and reduced energy contion centre in Insjön in Dalarna, where they sumption by 25 to 50 per cent. are sorted and stored for onward distri• Clas Ohlson’s model for the risk assessment of chemibution to our stores in Sweden, Norway, cals in goods was developed and is now more exact and effective. Our method has been acclaimed by aut­Finland and the UK, and to mail order/Inhorities and industry colleagues. ternet customers. The goods are mainly Environmental work in a wider context transported by road, but transport by sea Our greatest challenge, from a risk and cost perspective, is and rail is growing by the year. our dependence on fossil energy sources and their climate impact, particularly in terms of our freight. In addition to the threat of a future oil shortage, current climate policy could lead to higher tax and charges. The climate impact of logistics is one of two prioritised We work systematically to achieve our environmental objecareas in our environmental work. In partnership with the tives and continuously improve the company’s environmentransport companies we engage, we are seeking solutions tal performance. Clas Ohlson’s environmental policy states to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions. that the environmental perspective must be firmly integraClimate change also shifts the focus to energy consumpted in our day-to-day activities and underpin all important tion in society. The EU has issued directives aimed at improdecisions, in order to generate long-term value for our ving the energy efficiency of products. Today, Clas Ohlson ­customers, employees, shareholders and society at large. offers a broad range of energy-saving products. As part of This entails a lifecycle perspective that spans the entire the process to help our customers minimise their electricity chain, from the choice of products, suppliers, manufacturconsumption, Clas Ohlson’s product range and product ining methods and transport modes to a product’s materials, formation is continuously developed, which is both environusage, energy utilisation and waste management. mentally and financially sound. One example is the phase-out of traditional light bulbs, whereby Clas Ohlson has invested in Key events during the year training and marketing to provide practical tips and advice to • Strengthened organisation for goods-flow managecustomers who seek alternative lighting solutions. ment, including a new transport director with responThe EU REACH regulation drives efforts to phase-out hasibility for developing Clas Ohlson’s goods transport, zardous chemicals from goods. We apply a risk assessment enhancing efficiency and minimising the company’s model that classifies our products on the basis of supplier environmental impact. category, brand, area of application and user group. We • More efficient distribution. By raising the filling height adapt our supplier and product requirements to the risk for pallets, more goods and less air are transported, classification. Environmental Start Goal Outcome goals 2007 2012 2012 Comments Sea freight 3.63 (Asia), The performance indicator is dependent on the global economy, -5% CO2/tkm 3.70 3.52 3.77 (incl. EU) which affects the fill rate and our outcome. Road Since emission calculations are based on standards, improve-10% CO2/tkm 51.9 46.7 50.8 ments generated by higher fill rates, for example, are hidden. Train +10% of the proportion of Increased rail use for the flow of goods between the Distribution land transports 16.1 17.7 23.1 Centre and stores. Air -10% lower share 0.094 0.085 0.066 Development of internal procedures for ordering air freight. Business travel -20% CO2/km 124.3 99.4 102.0 New company cars are increasingly fuel-efficient. Consumption of operating electricity at the DC in Insjön -25 %kWh/pallet 23.8 17.1 17.6 Systematic efforts to improve energy efficiency The Energy-related Products Directive (ErP 2009/125/EC). The Ecodesign Directive means that the product must offer a certain energy efficiency and resource efficiency in order to be used in the EU. The ecodesign regulation takes the form of EU stipulations with specifications for various product groups. The regulations apply in all EU countries and the requirements apply from the date stated in the document. Explanation for the table: CO2/tkm = CO2 emissions per tonne/kilometre. DC = Distribution Centre. 40 Sustainable development Organisation and responsibility Product responsibility Environmental efforts are a feature of Clas Ohlson’s ­sustainability work, which is coordinated by a CSR forum. Overall environmental objective The forum formulates targets and strategies, and plans and The products we sell must have properties that meet or exmonitors sustainability efforts. Each function manager is ceed market expectations in regard to material characterissubsequently responsible for measures relative to the entics, energy utilisation, safety and quality. The product range vironmental impact generated by his/her operations. Read and information will be developed to help our customers more about Clas Ohlson’s CSR forum on page 27. minimise their own environmental impact. Chemical risk substances Freight and business travel The number of chemical substances covered by the EU Our overall environmental objective is that fossil-fuel carbon REACH regulation is rapidly increasing. Clas Ohlson has dioxide emissions per tonne/kilometre for freight and person/ worked extensively to train suppliers in legislation and the kilometre for business travel must be reduced by 30 per cent chemical risk assessment of contents in products and by 2020, compared with 2007. The reduction ­applies to the packaging. In addition to partnerships with laboratories in total performance indicators for current transport modes. Sweden and Asia, we have also acquired sources of experIn 2012, about 85 per cent of the goods transported by tise pertaining to the properties and risk substances in masea from Asia to Gothenburg were transported by rail to terials. This increases precision when goods are subjected the terminal in Insjön. From January 2013, the total flow of to chemical analyses. goods will be transported by rail. Goods from Swedish and European suppliers are coordinated in several locations for Phase-out of risk substances transport by road to Insjön. All materials and substances in products must meet the Deliveries from the distribution centre to stores and requirements of applicable legislation. We are phasing out customers mainly takes place by road but during the year, risk substances on the REACH Candidate List by setting a the proportion of rail and sea transport was 18 per cent, maximum limit of 0.1 weight per cent. We have identified adcompared with 16 per cent in 2011. ditional substances, beyond legal requirements, for textiles The performance indicator for climate impact in conjunand leather products, which we are minimising. Our procesction with business travel by road, air and rail decreased ses improved during the year and the number of substances 6 per cent, from 108 to 102 grams per CO2/kilometre. The we now test increased from 5 to 26. Clas Ohlson also appunderlying factor is a higher proportion of train travel, and a lies more stringent requirements than the legally permitted lower proportion of car and air travel. levels for materials that come into contact with skin or that are used by children. The EU REACH regulation includes a requirement that consumers must be informed of the content Results of hazardous chemicals in goods within 45 days of a request. Clas Ohlson’s total carbon dioxide emissions generated We have chosen to provide information directly on both by freight increased from 15,349 tonnes (2011) to 18,161 the product and our website if we consider that a product tonnes (2012). Emissions per tonne/kilometre are largely in­ contains a hazardous chemical. However, our supplier revariable, with a reduction from 6.0 grams per tonne/kilomequirements stipulate that no hazardous chemicals are pertre (2011) to 5.9 grams per tonne/kilometre (2012). mitted in any products. Energy consumption* Carbon dioxide emissions from 2012 2011 2010 The performance transport and travel indicators show energy Store premises, (kWh electricity/m2, year)*135 141 147 consumption in four Transport gram CO2 per tonne/kilometre Offices, (kWh/m2, year, total) 142 153 143 different areas: electricity consumption in stores, 2012 2011 2010 Distribution Centre, (kWh/m , year, total) 92 2 88 99 electricity consumption, Outgoing freight 47.4 46.6 47.7 Distribution Centre (kWh electricity/pallet)19.5 20.2 22.6 district heating and oil consumption at the head Incoming freight Europe 21.1 17.1 22.5 Fuel oil Insjön, (m3) 2.2 ** 0.8 9.4 office and distribution . Incoming freight Asia 4.07 4.29 3.76 * Excluding stores in the UK. centre, and electricity ** Own heat generation due to disrupted district heating consumption per deliveservices, 13–14 December. red pallet. Business travel gram CO2 per person/kilometre Total electricity consumption (GWh) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Mean value road,air, rail 102 108 100 Store premises* 36.1 34.0 30.9 Offices 1.5 1.5 1.6 Distribution Centre 4.7 4.6 5.1 Proportion of air freight (%) of total goods flow Fossil carbon dioxide (tonnes) 0,14 0,12 2012 2011 2010 0,10 Freight 17,234 15,349 16,289 0,08 Travels 683 794 514 0,06 Heating*** 15 11 186 0,04 Electricity 3,648 3,453 2,760 0,02 0,00 ***Carbon emissions originate from burning of fuel oil. During 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Mål 2012 2012, 1% of district heating at Insjön was based on fuel oil and 99% on biomass. Of the carbon emissions, 5.7 tonnes comes Mål 2012 from own consumption and 9.2 tonnes from district heating production. Sustainable development Sustainable development 41 Energy efficiency and additional electric signage, which increases their energy The Ecodesign Directive and Energy Labelling Directive are consumption. ­ key instruments in the EU objective to reduce energy conEnergy consumption in our stores shows the reversed sumption by 20 per cent by 2020. The directives entail that trend in 2011/12 will continue in 2012/13. Electricity utilicertain product groups must provide certain energy and resation declined by slightly more than 4 per cent, from 141 source efficiency to qualify for use within the EU, and that the kWh per square metre and year (2011/12) to 135 (2012/13), energy efficiency of products must be clear for consumers. excluding stores in the UK. In our Nordic stores, cooling/ A considerable proportion of the products affected by the heating is included in the leasing contract. However, in the directives is included in Clas Ohlson’s product range. SpeUK, all property-related energy is billed separately, which cific examples are demands for reduced “standby-losses , means that electricity consumption in UK stores cannot be higher energy efficiency in transformers and more stringcompared with that of stores in the Nordic region. ent requirements for light sources, in terms of both energy The lower electricity consumption is due to a greater ­efficiency and energy labelling. internal focus on lighting issues, effective cooperation with suppliers and a higher proportion of energy-efficient light Aftermarket service – wear but not waste sources and fittings. Repairing a product rather than throwing it away is a good example of sustainability. In addition to extending the life of Waste a product, less waste generates environmental benefits. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive Clas Ohlson’s product range includes more than 9,000 (WEEE Directive) pertains to producer responsibility for the respare parts and our customer service employees can offer cycling and recovery of electrical and electronic products. The product knowledge that is highly appreciated by customers. WEEE Directive applies in all countries where we operate and Service engineers in our workshops carry out repairs at cost Clas Ohlson accepts producer responsibility ­through memprice. Now that our spare part inventory is available via our bership in national waste collection systems in our markets. online store (e-commerce), sales of spare parts have inThe distribution centre in Insjön has had efficient syscreased significantly. tems for waste separation at source and recycling for many years. Surplus packaging is pressed into large bales that are Quality according to need sold and become raw material for new products. The same Another key feature for extending the service life of products applies to various fractions from plastic. Other waste is seis that our personnel can help customers choose the right parated at source into about ten fractions. quality according to their needs. A product designed for professional use has totally different demands on quality Packaging and function compared with ordinary and less frequent use In cooperation with our suppliers, we aim to reduce the proin the home. This has been Clas Ohlson’s basic philosophy portion of packaging pollution. This will be accomplished by since the company was founded in 1918. avoiding the use of plastic packaging or by replacing PVC with PE or PET plastics. As far as possible, packaging size Energy consumption is adapted to match the content in an effort to minimise the amount of packaging materials and to reduce our freight Overall environmental objective transport and environmental impact. All energy consumption in our own and leased premises During the year, REPA repeated its sampling measuand properties must be documented. Energy consumption rements of Clas Ohlson’s product packaging. The results in the distribution centre, head office and stores must move show that the amount of paper and plastic has declined 51 toward specific energy-saving targets. Energy from fossil and 42 per cent respectively in three years. sources will be phased out in our own operations. In 2012/13, the number of carrier bags sold in our stores will be 9.5 million, of which paper carriers account for about Distribution Centre 9 per cent. Other carrier bags are made of polythene and Despite an increase of 5 per cent in operational time, total come in two different versions: white = medium (6.7 million, energy consumption rose 3.7 per cent in the distribution with 60 per cent recycled materials), and black = large (1.9 centre. The marginal increase from 88.2 (2011/12) to 91.6 million, with 85 per cent recycled materials). Sales of rekWh/m2 is a result of continued optimisation of ventilation, usable carriers made of fibre-reinforced plastic amounted to cooling equipment and automation equipment. almost 200,000. Other performance indicators reinforce the impression Packaging sent to our mail order/Internet customers is of a positive trend. Energy consumption per handled pallet sustainable due to recovered fibre and bio-based adhesives continued to decline from 20.2 (2011/12) to 19.5 (2012/13) accounting for about 63 percent of the content. Clas Ohlson kWh/pallet. accepts its producer responsibility for packaging through membership in national collection and recycling systems in Head office Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. Clas Ohlson’s head office in Insjön comprises two buildings totalling 20,000 square metres of floor space, which also house the Insjön store, customer service with workshops, Printed matter the spare parts inventory and so forth. From December Overall environmental objective 2009, all sections of the buildings have been connected to When choosing a communication channel, environmental bio-based district heating. The total consumption of electriimpact will influence our decisions. We aim to increase the city, district heating and oil continues to decline. amount of our online customer and shareholder communication. Production of our printed matter is to take place with Stores technology and materials that are well-documented and Electricity and energy requirements vary substantially from sustainable. It must be possible to recycle our printed matstore to store. For example, some stores have escalators ter as high-quality fibre raw material. 42 Sustainable development Clas Ohlson’s catalogues are printed according to Nordic • Regulations on the use of substances with a toxic imEcolabel criteria, and mainly distributed in conjunction with pact on human health and the environment in product goods deliveries to our stores. Our direct marketing and this (REACH, RoHS (directive on materials intended to annual report are also printed on Nordic Ecolabel-approved come into contact with food and the Toy Safety Direcpaper. The Clas Ohlson Annual Report is only distributed to tive). • The regulation of energy-related products (ErP). shareholders who request printed information, which has • Producer responsibility for the recycling of electrical and reduced the number of issues printed by some 70 per cent electronic equipment (WEEE). and thus lowered our environmental impact. Read more For more information about our environmental Legislation and guidelines and sustainability efforts, please visit our website Clas Ohlson is mainly impacted by the following EU http://about.clasohlson.com. directives: RoHS: 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the Use of certain Hazardous turers and users shall prepare data on the chemicals’ properties and assess Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. the risks. A new authorisation procedure will be introduced for chemicals The RoHS Directive forbids the use of mercury, cadmium, lead, hexawith properties that are seriously hazardous to the environment and health. valent chromium and the flame-retardant substances PBB and PBDE in Particularly hazardous substances are entered in a so-called candidate list. new electrical and electronic products released into the market as of 1 July All manufacturers, importers or sellers of goods on the candidate list con2006. The quantity limit is 0.1 per cent by weight (0.01 per cent cadmium taining more than 0.1 per cent by weight of a substance must present this by weight) of homogeneous material. RoHS covers the product categories information to their customers to ensure that the product can be handled included in WEEE. In Sweden, the Swedish Chemicals Agency is the regusafely. latory body. WEEE: 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Reach: 1907/2006/EC Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and ResThe aim is to design and produce electrical and electronic products in a triction of Chemicals. manner that prevents waste. When waste anyway occurs, it is to be collecThe Directive came into effect throughout the EU on 1 June 2007 and ted and reused or recycled in an environmentally sound manner. ManufactuREACH regulations will be introduced gradually through 2018. REACH is rers and importers are to pay for future recycling of products and ensure that based on the principle that it is the party that manufactures or introduces collection and environmentally sound recycling is performed. In Sweden, the a chemical into the market who is responsible for determining the risks Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the regulatory body. associated with the chemical before it is put into use. Chemical manufacClas Ohlson's GRI profile (Global Reporting Initiative) A complete version is available at http://om.clasohlson.com/en Clas Ohlson reports at C level. Performance indicators Page Financial impact EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 60-63 Environmental impacts EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 41 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. 41 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 41 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 41 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved. 28, 40, 41, 42 Social impact LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment terms and region. 37, 75 note 31 LA2 Employee turnover. 38 LA10 Average number training hours per employee and year per employee category. 37 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other diversity indicators. 38, 78-83 Human rights HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken. 7, 33 HR4 Number of cases of discrimination and actions taken. 34 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 34 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. 34 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. 34 Product responsibility PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 41, 42 Sustainable development Sustainable development 43 Clas Ohlson AB (publ.) SE-793 85 Insjön, SWEDEN Phone: +46 247 444 00 Fax: +46 247 444 25 www.clasohlson.se Corporate identity number: 556035-8672
