SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF ŠIAULIU BANKAS FOR 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Introduction Joining the Global Compact network under the United Nations in 2008 the Bank has been operating transparently, honestly and responsibly with the respect to human and labour rights, clients' rights, being environment friendly, preventing the corruption and other possible dishonesty, taking care of society and contributing to its sustainable development. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 From the CEO For 20 years Šiauliu bankas has been property and the professional constantly increasing its market share. The performance of our employees, results achieved in 2011 indicate that we moreover, it makes as significant impact succeeded in overcoming the turmoil in strengthening the organizational the financial sector caused by the „Snoras“ structure, where the employees' values crisis and ensuring the reliable clients' meet the values fostered by the management – which is obviously seen in organization and its irreproachable Šiauliu bankas due to the increasing reputation. number of the clientele. By presenting its social responsibility Šiauliu bankas presents its social report and achievement for 2011 , Šiauliu responsibility report for the fourth time. It bankas ensures that it shall be further joined the Global Compact network under applying the milestones foreseen by the the United Nations in 2008. Since that Global Compact, acting in compliance time more and more attention has been with the sustainable business principles, paid to the social responsibility and taking care of its employees, it will be initiatives. Each year this activity is joined open and honest with its clients, by the bigger number of the bank's environmentally friendly and responsible employees who willingly contribute their to the society to which it is serving. significant actions and share the ideas with the clients. The social responsibility projects Audrius Žiugžda implemented by Šiauliu bankas are not the one-time actions, they are obligations and promises to the society to implement the Chief Executive Officer of Šiauliu banks long-term strategy of the responsible and transparent business. Implementation of the social responsibility principles allow us ensuring the bank's stability, reliable protection of our clients' SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 About the Bank Established in 1992 Šiaulių bankas pays special attention to funding of small and medium-sized business (SME), assists small and medium-sized enterprises and natural entities in seeking for financial welfare and stability. Being a European / Lithuanian bank it contributes to the development of business in the country, finances municipal and regional projects, renders professional services to private customers and searches for new solutions of efficient business development. Šiaulių bankas is engaged in usual activities of commercial banks, renders a wide range of services and seeks to become the major bank for its clients. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Šiauliu bankas' Our vision business philosophy To be a professional, reliable of includes the professional and modern financial partner to our clients. performance, direct and easygoing communication, quick and comprehensible services, expedience in decision-making, long-term relations with the clients Our values based on mutual trust. We are seeking to become the major bank Attention to clientele. for our clients. High internal standards, respect to each other and clients. Open communication. Our mission Constant growing. We are here to help our clients grow, reach for their goals, fulfil their dreams and projects which assist in creating a new quality of life in Lithuania. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Employees Employees are one of the biggest the employees of Lithuanian values of the Bank. The Bank and banks. the Group foster responsible The Bank takes care of its relations with the employees, take employees' health living and care of their welfare. The Bank is fosters active sports – the improving the employees' employees have opportunity to motivation system – in 2011 the select the gym and take the quarterly bonuses were paid for the sports at the most favourable achieved results. terms. The Bank is close and friendly to its The Bank's employees employees and their family participated in various skill members. Summer Sports Holidays, improving trainings, from 2011 Christmas parties are organized the visual trainings for the staff annually, in 2011 the karting race of are started in order to save the the Bank's employees was arranged Bank's funds, employees' time, for the first time. The employees of to improve the access to the Bank also participated in the important information and interbank tournaments “The Banks' foster self-improvement. Tennis Racket' 2011” and “Interbank Volleyball Tournament' 2011” as well as in karting championship of SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Clients In 2011 the Bank actively worked region, where the situation of with small and medium-sized small and medium-sized business granting preferential credits business, new opportunities to business people, farmers, and initiatives had been rendering micro-credits to very small discussed. A renovation enterprises, individual undertakings, programme of multi-apartment individual entrepreneurs, to business dwelling houses had been women at especially favourable introduces alongside with the conditions, also, credits to presentation of the credits form partnerships of multi-apartment the Open Credit Fund (OCF) and houses according to the JESSICA LAAIF programme. One of the programmes. Cooperating with the Bank's propagated values is initiators of “Judus jaunimas” in taking care of its clients, the Lithuania, the Bank presented the quality of their servicing, which financing possibilities for young is influenced by the Bank's inner businesses under the “Progress” and culture at the large extend, as JEREMIE programmes and fostered well as by friendly relations the youth to contribute to among the employees allowing improvement of the economy seeking for the set goals. situation in the country by implementing their business ideas. The Bank together with its partners conducted a seminar for the business entrepreneurs in Varena SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Prevention of corruption The Bank seeking to prevent any possible unfair, illegal practices and in cooperation with the Financial Crime Investigation Service has arranged trainings of “Legal regulations and practical examples of Anti-money laundering and counter terrorism financing “for the Bank's employees. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Environment The Bank is not indifferent to Special attention is paid to the environment, responsible responsible usage of electric consumption, saving of nature appliances – if there is no resources. The employees and necessity the light is turned off, clients are encouraged to reduce the appliances are turned off the usage of paper due to the power outlet after the possibilities of electronic document business hours. handling. The Bank and its In April 2011 marking the subsidiaries is fostering to refuse “Noise Awareness Day”, the printing of not very important Bank's employees joined the documents, using double side public campaign “Stay off the printing where possible and noise, listen to the silence!” recovering already used paper for organized by the Public Health the “second life” by printing on the Office under the Municipality of clean side. Siauliai city, thus, paying the The Bank's clients are encouraged attention to responsible usage to take advantage of electronic of gadgets, their possible impact applications and to perform a on the employees' health and number of typical services via the well-being. Internet, thus, saving not only printing costs but time and money as well. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Society Siauliu bankas is an active promoter undertaking “Encourage the and participant of the country's social Future”, KTU Panevezys Institute and cultural life. For many years the and other initiatives. Bank and Siauliai University have The Bank has joined the telebeen collaborating successfully marathon “Kindness Day” fostering the most talented students. arranged for the ninth time by the The seven years in turn the Bank LNK television channel to collect grants bonuses and incentive awards the funds for fighting the cancer. to the best authors/students for ”The A non-remunerated blood best project for Siauliai City and donation has become a usual Business” arranged by Siauliai City phenomenon – civic duty to the Municipality, Siauliai Chamber of employees of the Bank. The Commerce, Industry and Crafts. participants of the campaigned In 2011 the Bank provided support to arranged within the Bank for such city festivals as “The Sea Festival seven years already have become 2011”, “Siauliai days 2011”. the regular non-remunerable Moreover, the Bank traditionally blood donors who donating blood supported events organized by the and thus, saving lives, encouraged Lithuanian Musician Foundation and to become blood donors their the concert “Breaking Dawn with family members and friends as Ciurlionis…” commemorating the well. beginning of the new school year and the day of Liberty. The financial support was also granted to “Klaipeda Jazz Festival”, Public SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Awards Už Šiaulių miesto garsinimą Šiaulių pramonininkų asociacija Šiaulių banką apdovanojo garbės diplomu. The Association of Šiauliai Industrialists awarded Šiauliu bankas with the diploma of honour for the prominence of the city. On the annual general assembly Šiauliai Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Crafts honored and awarded the most successful companies Šiaulių bankas was recognized as the “Successful Business Company 2011” in the group of big companies. The Faculty of Social Sciences of Šiauliai University awarded Šiauliu bankas as „The Most Patriotic Employer of Šiauliai“ and „The safest working place“. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Contacts Šiaulių bankas AB www.sb.lt The Head Office – Tilžės str. 149 LT-76348 Šiauliai, Lithuania Tel. +370 41 595 607, fax +370 41 430 774 E-mail: info@sb.lt
