SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 1 About Our Report 2 Message from the CEO 4 CCI At a Glance 7 CCI 2020 Vision & Strategic Framework 8 CCI’s Journey of Sustainability 10 Performance Highlights in 2012 12 Integrating Sustainability 18 Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 22 me People 24 Product Safety & Quality 28 Our Suppliers 28 Our Distributors 30 Our Consumers 31 Responsible Advertising & Marketing 34 Active Healthy Living 36 we Communities 37 Our Workplace 43 Employee Rights 44 Equality & Diversity 45 Employee Engagement 48 Occupational Health & Safety 52 Our Community 58 world Environment 59 Our Environmental Approach 62 Energy Management & Climate Protection 70 Water Management 76 Sustainable Packaging 80 Performance Indicators 92 Glossary 97 CCI Reporting Guidance 101 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 102 GRI Indicators Table 111 Independant Assurance Letter 112 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 115 GRI Approval 116 Legal Disclaimer ABOUT OUR REPORT PQRS This report marks the fifth year of social, of assurance was agreed as “reasonable” environmental and ethical reporting by and materiality required of the verification Coca-Cola ‹çecek (CCI). In preparing this rewas considered to be below 5% by SGS. port, we were guided by the three principles of the AA 1000 Assurance Standard: materiIn addition to this verification, the Selected ality, inclusiveness and responsiveness. We Information as defined in the Independent measure and report our performance using Limited Assurance Report on page 111 of leading standards and methodologies such this report received limited assurance from as those adopted by the Global Reporting EY. In 2012, we obtained for the first time Initiative (GRI) G3.1, Carbon Disclosure Projlimited assurance on Selected Information* ect (CDP), International Labor Organization from three of our international operations: (ILO), United Nations Convention Against Azerbaijan, Jordan, and Kazakhstan. The Corruption (UNCAC), and Greenhouse Gas Selected Information covered total energy (GHG) Protocol. data, per-product energy use, total water data, per-product water use, per-product The content of this report includes impletotal waste produced, and total waste rementations and performance results obcycling rate (in Turkey) as described in the tained from 1 January 2012 to 31 December “Assurance Engagements Other Than Au2012 for four of the ten countries where we dits or Reviews of Historical Financial Inoperate: Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan formation” (ISAE 3000). Within the context and Turkey. In addition, we have included of this audit, 2012 data from CCI’s Turkey, a section on good practices from our PakiJordan, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan plants stan operations. was assessed to reach a limited assurance conclusion. For the second consecutive year, certain data in this report has been independently This report, which was reviewed by GRI audited. The 2012 greenhouse gas emisfor its fulfillment of GRI Application Level sions of CCI’s manufacturing, sales and A+, also serves as our Communication on distribution operations were audited by Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global the market-leading inspection, verification, Compact (UNGC). testing and certification organization, SGS, and verified in accordance with the InterCollecting stakeholder feedback is vital for national Organization for Standardization’s helping us improve both our practices and ISO 14064-3 2006 Standard as meeting the reporting processes. We closely examine requirements of ISO 14064-1. CCI’s Turkey every issue that comes to our attention, and operation has successfully passed the auwe use any feedback from our stakeholddits. Both GHG Protocol’s Scope 1 (direct ers to continuously improve our practices. GHG emissions from stationary combustion, mobile combustion, process emisWe invite our stakeholders to forward any sions, fugitive emissions), and Scope 2 opinions, suggestions or complaints to (indirect emissions such as those arising corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr from purchased electricity) emissions were verified as a result of this process. The level * The Selected Information is covered on page 111 of this report. 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Companies around the world continued to face ecoselected for inclusion in the new UN Global Compact nomic challenges in 2012, and CCI was no exception. 100 stock index. We are very delighted that both CCI’s Political and financial instability in many places comfinancial performance as well as its commitment to bined with natural disasters to place strong downsustainability are recognized by the UNGC and interward pressure on most of the world’s markets, and national investor community. many companies struggled to keep pace with the Acknowledging our impact – both positive and negprevious year. Even though global growth slowed to ative – on our local communities and our region at nearly 3% in 2012, CCI managed to continue its uplarge, we willfully continue our journey with a comtrend. We grew our revenue by 20%, and we grew mitment to sustainability. Three broad areas encapEBITDA by more than 40%. Our consolidated sales sulate all of CCI’s sustainability-related efforts: volume was up 11.7% over 2011 to reach 850 million unit cases in 2012. me/People With that level of production and growth, we know CCI’s commitment to product safety and quality dicwe have responsibilities to support our people, serve tates that we adhere to TCCC’s core operating safeour communities, and protect the environment, to ty and quality requirements known as KORE, as well name a few. As a clear indication of our commitment as continue to pursue other international standards. to transparency and sustainability, we attained an Our efforts have been recognized by our stakeholdA+ GRI approval for the second consecutive year. The ers as evidenced by our Ankara plant being awarded combined performance of our Azerbaijan, Jordan, EFQM’s “Taking Responsibility for a Sustainable FuKazakhstan, and Turkey operations – representing ture” prize in October 2012. This is intrinsically linked 85% of our total business volume – is included in the to our all-encompassing EFQM Model implementascope of our 2012 report. Additionally, best practiction project, “Change for Excellence (C4E),” which we es and efforts of our Pakistan operation were also began implementing in 2012. included. This year we covered all four countries in CCI is actively engaged in supporting efforts throughthe scope of assurance of our main environmental out our operating region that encourage active performance indicators. healthy living. The CCI Grassroots Project in AzerbaiAs a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact jan and Kazakhstan sponsors sports activities that (UNGC), we have summarized our achievements and attract hundreds of thousands of young people each practices in sustainability in line with UNGC principles year. Cricket and football tournaments and even in this report. We are committed to integrating the Olympics-related events highlighted our 2012 calenpact’s ten principles into our strategy and continuing dar, and we will continue to support all these efforts to implement them in our business. Recently, CCI was and more in 2013 and beyond. 2 we/Communities distribution operations in Turkey gained compliance CCI’s key sustainability priorities include continuously with ISO 14064-1 as a result of successful GHG Emisincorporating workplace rights, employee engagesions verification audits. Moreover, CCI Turkey was ment, and occupational health and safety (OHS) into recognized as one of the top carbon performance our overall strategy. We formed our “12 OHS Golden leaders of 2012 by the Turkey Carbon Disclosure ProjRules” in 2012, and 2,900 employees attended OHS ect. awareness training in Turkey. We will continue along We continued our efforts to reduce our water footprint this path and expect to comprehensively bring all our with innovations initiated at plant level, achieving multi-country OHS policies and procedures togetha water usage ratio of 1.39 in Turkey. However, we er in 2013. In 2012, we continued rolling out the CCI were unable to achieve our water use goals in other Workplace Rights Policy (WRP) to all operations. countries due to new investments in our internationIn 2012, we launched the “CCI Female Leadership Proal manufacturing operations. As a consequence, we gram” to recruit and retain more women executives will focus more on water efficiency projects and work and to assist us in achieving our goal of doubling our harder to achieve our reduction goals in 2013. number of female employees by 2020. Building a sustainable business model is a big chalCCI remains actively engaged in and resolutely comlenge, and a business clearly must work with governmitted to assisting our external communities as well. ments and civil society organizations to succeed in In Turkey, we donated 7.5 million Turkish Liras to the meeting that challenge. We value our stakeholders’ Anadolu Foundation in 2012 to be utilized in numerexpectations and insights in our journey to define our ous social programs related to health and education. roadmap for a sustainable business model. In February 2013, we established a formal stakeholder panel To acknowledge and celebrate those CCI employees with the participation of key thought leaders in the who actively participate in social projects aimed at supfield of sustainability. Integrating stakeholder insights porting local communities, and to encourage others to into our strategy is the next big challenge for CCI, and participate, we hold our annual Community Champions doing so will guide us as we strive for even better Award Program. Our 2012 program included projects performance results in coming reporting periods. focused on helping to educate schoolgirls, entertaining and giving hope to sick children in hospital, mentoring The markets where we operate offer enormous opand teaching students in under-resourced areas, and portunities for growth, but with that growth comes helping orphans. Other CCI community support initiachallenges which we must face. We will continue tives focus on youth empowerment, assisting those to support local communities with a focus on youth with disabilities, raising awareness of local health isempowerment and active healthy living, and we are sues and improving our environment, such as cleaning determined to reduce our environmental impacts. I polluted rivers and improving drinking water hygiene am proud to say that CCI is committed to pursuing standards in Kazakhstan, and planting trees and proany and every feasible path that will better allow us viding environmental awareness training to students in to serve all our stakeholders by helping to protect our Turkey. environment and to improve the quality of life for everyone in every corner of our world. world/Environment In closing, I would like to thank our employees for all In every business process, CCI makes every effort to their hard work and contribution to our performance. reduce both our usage of resources and any adverse And I also would like to thank all our other stakeholdimpact on the environment that might arise as a coners for guiding us in our sustainability journey and sequence of our activities. Our environmental policy helping us to achieve more. Our corporate social focuses on energy efficiency, climate protection, waresponsibility report continues to be the most signifiter usage and sustainable packaging in particular. cant driver of our performance in reporting and sustainability. As always, we value and welcome your With regard to climate protection and improving enfeedback on it. ergy efficiency, we also work with international initiatives and NGOs to fulfill our responsibilities while implementing innovative projects to reduce our GHG Sincerely, emissions. In 2012, CCI’s Izmir plant became the Damian Gammell, CEO first Coca-Cola bottling plant globally to successfully complete the Top 10 Energy-Saving Challenge, a joint initiative of the Coca-Cola Company and World Wildlife Fund; other CCI plants followed by completing this program. In addition, our manufacturing, sales, and 3 CCI AT A GLANCE CCI is the sixth-largest botCCI has a total of 23 plants tler within the Coca-Cola and offers a wide range of system in terms of sales volbeverages to a consumer CCI’s shares are traded ume. CCI’s core business is base of more than 360 on the Borsa Istanbul to produce, sell and distribmillion people. In addition exchange under the ute sparkling and still bevto sparkling beverages, the CCOLA.IS ticker. erages of The Coca-Cola product portfolio includes Company (TCCC). CCI emjuices, waters, sports and ploys more than 10,000 energy drinks, teas, and people and has operations iced teas. in 10 countries. COUNTRIES 10 FACTORIES 23 EMPLOYEES >10,000 CONSUMERS >360,000,000 PRODUCTION CAPACITY >1,198,000,000 Unit Case SALES POINTS >720,000 4 Pe ) ] r-c ) [5] Pe sp api ar ta 12 rc kli ng com 20 be enta be sum low ge [2 ve 12 ) the of p 12 (20 ra ptio ge n (20 ag opu CC s ( of e 3 la I's L) 0 ( tion sp ma ar (20 ion 20 r kli et k 1 2 [4 ) ] GD 1 2 [3 ) ] ng sh lat s ) [2] Pc be are pu on ap ve ra in illi ita ge Po (m ($) s( TURKEY 75.6[1] 51% 15,029 45 67% PAKISTAN 181.1 64% 2,876 15 29% KAZAKHSTAN 16.6 51% 13,921 34 42% AZERBAIJAN 9.5 49% 10,685 25 59% IRAQ 33.9 70% 4,620 43 JORDAN 6.5 66% 6,044 46 Source TURKMENISTAN 5.2 58% 8,469 43 TUIK, [2] IMF, [1] KYRGYZSTAN 5.5 60% 2,411 24 [3] UN, [4] CCI and SYRIA 21.3 64% 4,824 [6] 12 TCCC Estimation, [5] Neilsen, [6] CCI TAJIKISTAN 7.1 68% 2,211 11 Estimation Turkey (million unit cases) 4.0% INTERNATIONAL 546.8 SALES VOLUME GROWTH 568.5 CONSOLIDATED SALES VOLUME GROWTH 31.2% International (million unit cases) 31.2% 215.0 11.7% 282.0 Consolidated (million unit cases) 11.7% 761.7 850.5 TURKEY 2011 2012 SALES VOLUME GROWTH 4.0 % MARKET SHARES TURKEY 2012 SPARKLING BEVERAGES MARKET SHARES 2012 Sparkling Beverages 67% #1 KAZAKHSTAN 42% #1 AZERBAIJAN 59% #1 Water 7% #3 PAKISTAN 29% #2 Fruit Juices & Nectars 25% #1 KYRGYZSTAN 1* Source TURKMENISTAN 1* Nielsen, *CCI Estimate Detailed information about our brands, operations, and the countries in which we operate is available at: http://CCI.com.tr/en/our-company/about-us/ 5 A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI A BCDEFGHI 6 CCI 2020 Vision & Strategic Framework PQRS Vision Be the outstanding Beverage Company leading the market, inspiring people, adding value through excellence Build a sustainable and profitable business through refreshing consumers, Mission partnering with customers, delivering superior value to shareholders and being trusted by communities Values Passion We put our hearts and mind The Building Blocks of into what we do our Culture Accountability HTrust in each other We act with a high sense of HFocus on the customer responsibility and hold ourselves accountable HEmbrace your work HInspire innovation Integrity HCollaborate for success We are open, honest, ethical and we HBe agile trust and respect each other HBe participative Teamwork HEnjoy working We collaborate for our collective success CCI Target People and Organizational Leadership Build a highly capable organization and be the employer of choice. Fields Commercial Leadership Profitably deliver superior value to consumers and customers at the optimal cost to serve. Operational Excellence Create a culture of Operational Excellence to support continuous improvement of our business process and systems. Supply Chain Be the best in-class consumer demand fulfillment organization that exceeds customer expectations highest in quality, lowest in cost, in a sustainable, socially responsible manner. Sustainability Ensure the long-term viability of our business by being proactive and innovative in protecting the environment and be recognized as one of the most responsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders Embed sustainability in our culture to achieve our commitments Environment Minimize our carbon footprint and water usage by reducing packaging, water and energy. Marketplace Consistently provide the highest quality and food safety compliant beverages. Workplace Ensure a safe place to work, respecting human rights and be fully compliant with workplace rights. Community Make a difference in our local communities by encouraging employee volunteerism and by corporate involvement. Develop all employees and business partners to become proud ambassadors of our products and company. 7 CCI JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY 1994 • TCCC water usage savings commitment • First ISO 9001 Quality Certificate and 1997 Certificate of Compliance TCCQS (The Coca-Cola Quality System) Mersin Plant • TCCC Eurasia & Africa Group Environment Award for Best Country Bottling Operations 2002 • First Environmental Policy CCI • Coca-Cola Eurasia Africa Group Presidency • KalDer National Quality Achievement Award 2003 Quality Award Ankara Plant Ankara Plant • First OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health • Second CSR Report: Turkey’s first B-Level and Safety Management System report (also included Jordan and Certificate Ankara Plant Kazakhstan) • First HACCP TS 13001 Food Safety Quality • Signing of the Cancun Communiqué against 2004 Management System Izmir Plant climate change • ISO 22000 Food Safety Quality • Corporate Governance Rating 8.43/10 2006 Management System Ankara Plant • KalDer National Quality Award • 6 Sigma Projects 2011 Ankara Plant 2007 • Fifth place in Accountability Rating in • First FSSC 22000 Certificate Izmir Plant Turkey • First ISO 50001 Energy Management • Establishment of CCI’s Corporate System Certification Çorlu Plant 2008 Governance Committee • CCI won third place in the Stevie Awards’ • CCI’s was the first GRI-approved CSR “Most Innovative Company of the Year” report in Turkey category • First place in Accountability Rating in • CCI won WorldStar 2011-2011 Award and the 2009 Turkey 24th TSE Golden Package Award • Corporate Governance Rating 8.3/10 • Occupational Health and safety Management Award CCI Jordan • Establishment of Sustainability Council and Work group • Corporate Governance Rating 8.5/10 • Sustainability Management Approach • Third CSR Report: Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, and Azerbaijan were included in the • Signing of the United Nations Global scope of the report Compact • Climate Platform Membership • Signing of the Copenhagen Communiqué with regard to combating climate change • CCI, Climate Platform Charter Member of the Climate Change Leaders Group • First PAS 220: 2008 Food Safety prerequisite program document Çorlu Plant • CCI became Turkey’s first food company to participate in the Carbon Disclosure • Defining 2020 Vision and Strategic Project and one of the country’s five Carbon 2010 Framework Disclosure Leaders • TCCC Eurasia & Africa Group President's • Signing of the 2° Communiqué against Environmental Award Izmir Plant climate change 8 • Recognized as one of the two top carbon performance leaders of 2012 in Turkey by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • CCI Izmir and Mersin plants completed the Top 10 Energy-Saving Challenge of TCCC and WWF (All plants in Turkey completed the challenge as of 2013) • Innovation Competition entered among the best sustainable development practices that represented Turkey in Rio+20 • CCI won two gold, two silver, and one bronze Stevie in 2012 International Business Awards • Finalist award in the Fourth European Business Awards for the Environment – Turkey Program in the “Management” category • Corporate Governance Rating 8.88/10 • EFQM’s “Taking Responsibility for a Sustainable Future” prize Ankara Plant • CCI’s fourth CSR Report was approved by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as an A+ report • CCI’s 2011 CSR Report was shortlisted as a finalist at the “2013 Corporate Register Awards” in 2 categories: “Relevance & Materiality” and “Credibility through Assurance”. • CCI’s Izmir plant won runner-up in the EBSO Environmental Implementation Silver Award Category. • CCI’s Çorlu plant has become finalist in two categories in 2011 ISO Environment Awards • Turkey, Azerbaijan and Jordan operations were among the finalists in TCCC Eurasia and Africa Group President’s Sustainability Awards. Turkey won the Best Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize. The Ankara plant was recognized as the Best Performing Plant for Quality and the Izmir plant as the Best Performing Plant for the Environment. 9 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2012 Energy Management and Climate Protection CCI Turkey was awarded the Platinum Energy Efficiency and Climate Leadership and became the first country CCI was recognized as one of the top carbon performance leaders of 2012 in Turkey by the Carbon Disclosure operation in the Coca-Cola system to complete Project (CDP). CCI achieved a reduction of the Global Top 10 Energy Saving Program in all approximately 117,600 tons of CO2 gas plants. Our Izmir plant was the first plant in CCI emissions as a result of cooler improvements in to complete this initiative in 2012. 2012 and OE and energy efficiency programs at manufacturing plants and at CCI headquarters. I n 2012, CCI’s Turkey operations achieved an energy savings of 250 million kWh and more than 111,474 tons of CO2 gas reduction This figure corresponds to 16 x annual CO2 gas emissions of a manufacturing facility with the capacity of CCI’s Izmir plant.* with eco-friendly coolers. CCI Turkey manufacturing and sales operations achieved GHG Verification in line with ISO 14064-3. * This figure is theoretically calculated based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of CO2 gas produced as a result of manufacturing operations, heating-cooling of the buildings, etc. Water Management W e reduced our water consumption ratio to 1.39 L/L as a result of OE water minimization S ource Vulnerability Assessment Studies at plants in Ankara, Çorlu, Izmir, Mersin, Elazı¤, Bursa, Mahmudiye, Köyce¤iz, Baku, Lahore, projects undertaken in all Turkey plants. RYK, Karachi, Faisalabad, Multan, Gujranwala, Almaty and Amman have been completed. O ur Izmir plant reached a monthly average water usage ratio of 1.01 L/L in August 2012. Sustainable Packaging W e increased our waste recycling rate to 96% in Turkey, 99% in Jordan, 89.5% in W e increased the recycling rate of postconsumer packaging waste to 40% in Turkey. Kazakhstan and 93% in Azerbaijan. W e reused 87 tons of waste in our Bursa plant as a part of the pallet reuse project. 10 Our Workplace W e began our “Female Leadership Program” in order to gradually increase the recruitment of women and to double the O ur “Safety Awareness Campaign: 12 Golden Rules” was implemented to increase health and safety number of our female employees by 2020. awareness amongst employees. W e initiated “International Talent Pool” to help our employees gain international W e reduced our lost time incident rate (LTIR) from 1.42 to 0.90 in Turkey and from 4.8 to 2.28 in Jordan. experience. Product Responsibility CCI Ankara plant has been awarded the “Taking Responsibility for a Sustainable Future” prize by the EFQM for its CCI ’s operations in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Turkey’s Çorlu plant obtained the superior performance in the implementation of FSSC 22000 Food Safety Management the EFQM Excellence Model. System Certificate. W e established a Sales Point Information Center which serves our customers and distributors. Community W e donated 3% of our Turkey pre-tax profits (7.5 million TL) to the Anadolu Education and Social Aid Foundation. T wenty CCI employees participated in the 2012 Community Champions Award Program. W e signed a strategic partnership protocol with Turkish Kızılay and International Red Crescent to bring immediate aid to victims of W e reached 540,000 people as a part of our “Kazakhstan & Azerbaijan Grassroots” project. natural disasters in our operating countries. 11 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Corporate was constructed with input provided from all CCI departments and units CCI groups its risks according Governance and to five pillars: people and organizational leadership, supply chain, sustainability, operational excellence Risk Management and commercial leadership. 2020 Vision and CCI’s sustainability governance structure is accompanied by a robust corporate governance structure. CCI Strategic Framework conducts all of its operations within the framework of all existing regulations and the “Corporate GoverIn 2013, a Corporate Risk Department will be estabnance Principles” as prepared by The Capital Markets lished to further review corporate policies and proceBoard of Turkey. Our annual Corporate Governance dures with a risk management perspective and also to Compliance Report includes information regarding bring about increased risk awareness in CCI countries the application of each item of the Corporate Govervia trainings and workshops. The department will also nance Principles by our company. share the best risk-related practices in CCI and The The Company is managed and represented by a Coca Cola System. For detailed information please visit Board of Directors comprised of twelve members, www.cci.com.tr/userfiles/en/committees/Risk_Defour of whom are independent. The Board of CCI is tection_Committee_Charter_ENG.pdf. responsible for overseeing company performance on economic as well as social and environmental matters. The Audit Committee, operating under the Board to help it fulfill its functions, assists the Board IDENTIFY & HCCI Risk of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for ANALYZE Management Process the integrity of the company's financial statements, RISKS the company's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the external auditor's qualifications and independence, and the performance of the comCOMMUNICATE RISK IMPLEMENT RISK REGISTERS TREATMENT pany's internal and external auditors. INFORMATION FOR RISKS The CCI Internal Audit Department oversees internal control systems in all process audits. While evaluatMONITOR ing not only the risks that may result in bribery or RISKS AND corruption and affect the company's reputation but TREATMENT also all other operational and financial risks during ACTIONS these audits, this department determines the controls intended to eliminate such risks and audits the effectiveness and appropriateness. CCI’s Risk DetecINCORPORATE ONGOING RISK tion Committee was established under the Board of INFORMATION Directors in 2012, and a comprehensive risk management system was also established the same year. We have aligned TCCS's Risk Management (RM) TRANSFER STRATEGIC PLANNING process to ISO 31000:2009 Risk management PrinNEW RISKS TO IDENTIFY RISKS ONGOING RISK & TO OBJECTIVES ciples and Guidelines. RM is integrated with CCI’s MANAGEMENT BUSINESS business planning process as well. In 2012, all the PLANNING operating countries conducted their risk analyses and determined their top-priority risks. Taking the DEVELOP analysis into account, a consolidated risk map for HCCI Business STRATEGIES TO Planning Process ADDRESS RISKS CCI, including the mitigation plans for the top risks, 12 Sustainability level of the organization. The CCI Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance Committee has the ultimate Management responsibility for the determination and implementation of the sustainability strategy. This responsibility is undertaken by the CCI Executive Committee, headed by the CEO, and comprised of senior management. Sustainability is one of the five main pillars that our The fundamental role of the Executive Committee is company is built on. Our sustainability approach is to identify the long-term sustainability targets and “to ensure the long-term viability of our business by monitor the performance against those targets. The being proactive and innovative in environmental profunction heads of CCI integrate sustainability targets tection and to be recognized as one of the most re(set by CCI Executive Committee) into their respective sponsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders.” In functional objectives. All CCI function heads play a tandem with this approach, CCI’s sustainability stratcritical role in making sure that sustainability manegy focuses on material issues determined both by agement is connected to field operations. The straexternal and internal stakeholders. In order to keep tegic orientation and objectives that emerge from material issues up to date, CCI organizes regular upper level management processes are conveyed to meetings, workshops, surveys and interviews. functional management in order to be transformed As an integral part of CCI’s operational framework, into field applications. The Corporate Affairs function sustainability is managed together with our core is responsible for the reporting and communication business strategy, thereby effectively deploying the of sustainability targets and performance results. sustainability concept throughout every layer and Sustainability is an integral part of our business practices, and we pay utmost importance to reducing our environmental impacts. We believe that achieving Integral Part of Our Sustainability success in operational efficiency is possible only by maintaining high environmental performance. Since 2004, we have been setting ambitious key performance indicators (KPI) to improve our environmental performance and achieve positive results in our plants. Our employees are key enablers allowing CCI to integrate sustainability into its business practices. Management: Our Employees Our technical operators, in particular, play a significant role in achieving these targets with improvements they make in production processes by maintaining maximum levels of operational efficiency, maintenance, and quality while maintaining minimum levels of waste, energy and resource consumption, and environmental impact. We work to embed a sustainability culture throughout CCI operations by recognizing our employees through awarding programs such as Innovation Competition and Community Champions. 13 alth lace onal He Em an plo Occupati ty orkpd I ye ts nte e E red W rn nga igh al and Safe eR Co gem ye Prefer m m ent plo un ent Em ica tio g em tion a c an n ote Ec g y M te Pr Deve onomic r Ene Clim a lopm ent and Water Management l Socia t Sus me n Pac taina elop kag ble Dev ing Pro rs Pro duc me ain Suppli u ce tion ns lue Ch sse er Au s Co Our Va dits Priorities identified by TCCC play an important role in and civil society, an external stakeholder panel was identifying material issues at CCI. As we incorporate organized with the aim of measuring expectations of both external and internal stakeholders’ opinions into our main external stakeholders on our sustainability our sustainability approach, TCCC’s global sustainreporting, environmental performance in 2011 (More ability framework provides an integrated vision of information is available in page 18-19) Panel particsustainability. Corporate sustainability priorities are ipants reviewed CCI’s 2011 Corporate Social Respondefined under Environment, Product Responsibility, sibility Report and carried out the self-assessment of Workplace and Community pillars. the material issues. Following the panel discussion, short-term, mid-term and long-term goals were set In 2010, using TCCC’s global sustainability framework for related sustainability issues. We aim to form an as guidance, CCI conducted a materiality analysis in external review committee to review CCI's Sustainorder to determine the key sustainability pillars. In ability Report and content, and we aim to extend our 2011, various studies were employed to update matereporting scope in terms of geographical operations rial issues. In February 2013, with the participation of starting with our 2013 report. key opinion leaders and participants from academia CCI’s Roadmap for Sustainability Reporting Materiality Analysis Update Stakeholder Stakeholder Review of Extend to determine key of the Panel for Mapping Sustainability reporting sustainability materiality CCI CSR 2011 Workshop & Report by scope in pillars analysis Report Materiality Analysis External terms of in line with GRI G4 Stakeholder operational Committee country 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 14 ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION WORKPLACE We aim to reduce the amount of energy We aim to provide a fair and safe working CORE SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES we consume, to minimize our carbon environment for our employees while footprint, and to be a leading company implementing projects and programs in climate protection while working with that support personal and professional the community, universities and local development. governments. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY WATER MANAGEMENT We aim to form our purchase, production One of our key business strategies is and marketing practices with a sustainable based on establishing a sustainable water corporate governance perception, thereby management model and minimizing our creating surplus value for our entire value water footprint as well as reducing the chain. amount of per-product water we consume in all operations. COMMUNITY We aim to support sustainable development SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING in communities where we operate and to We aim to minimize the environmental contribute to the welfare of the society. impact of packaging and to increase the use of recycled materials. Great Success at TCCC EAG President’s Sustainability Awards TCCC Eurasia and Africa Group President’s This year our Turkey operation won the Best Sustainability Awards were distributed with Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize, and a ceremony held in Istanbul on 28 May 2013. after having won the Grand Prize previously CCI marked the 2012 awards with great in 2009, became the only country operation success, winning three prizes including the to win the Grand Prize twice in the four-year Best Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize. history of the awards. Our Azerbaijan, Jordan and Turkey Turkey’s success was further enhanced by operations were among the 10 finalists the Ankara plant being recognized as the selected from a pool of 92 countries within Best Performing Plant for Quality and the Eurasia and Africa to compete for the Best Izmir plant as the Best Performing Plant for Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize. the Environment. 15 Business Code of Ethics CCI adopted global standards, aligned them with In 2013, CCI aims to publish a revised Code of Ethour internal policies, and set challenging targets. ics which will be implemented in all of our operating Our Business Code of Ethics (Code of Ethics) is parunits. Along with the revised the Code of Ethics, an ticularly important for the continuity of sustainabilEthics Compliance Committee will be formed and ethity management and the proper implementation of ics officers assigned to all units to handle complaints corporate governance principles across our operaand misconducts and report them to the committee. tions. In the Code of Ethics, our values, responsiCode of Ethics awareness meetings will be held in bilities and actions to be taken in the event of posall operations during 2013 and in subsequent years. sible conflicts of interests, and our responsibilities Also, a grievance procedure and a hotline about ethito our employees are meticulously defined. All CCI cal issues will be established within the context of the employees are regularly informed about the Code “Code of Ethics Information Program” in 2013. of Ethics which highlights four main principles: In order to achieve higher ethical standards, all CCI employees are informed about the Code of Ethics 1. Act with integrity and honesty. and must sign and attest that they have read and 2. Safeguard business and financial records and agreed to the related rules. The CCI Code of Ethics is keep them accurate, complete and correct. available at http://cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations/ corporate-governance/code-of-ethics/ 3. Safeguard interests of CCI and avoid any conflicts of interest. 4. Deal with everyone we encounter fairly and in accordance with laws. In February 2012, CCI signed the 2012 Ethics illustration of the increasing awareness of ethics Declaration of the Turkish Ethics and Reputation within Turkey’s private sector. Some of the major Society (TEID) along with 47 other members in a principles in the declaration include respect for signing ceremony held at Rahmi M. Koç Museum national and international laws, endorsement in Istanbul. Despite having no binding effect on of the ten Global Compact principles, honesty, the signatories, the declaration is an important transparency, accountability and fair competition. 16 Standards and Policies Issue External Standards Internal Policies Environmental ISO 14001 CCI Health, Safety & Environment Management (HSE) Policy, TCCC HSE Policy Water Management ISO 14001 KORE – EOSH requirements Energy Management & ISO 14001, ISO 50001, KORE – EOSH requirements Carbon Emissions ISO 14064-1, GHG Protocol Sustainable Packaging & ISO 14001, PAS 223 KORE – EOSH requirements Waste Management Occupational Health & Safety OHSAS 18001 KORE – EOSH requirements Community Involvement UNGC, GRI TCCC’s policy Supplier Engagement UNGC Supplier Guiding Principles Anti-corruption UNGC Code of Ethics, Workplace Rights Policy Quality Management ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC KORE, Operational Excellence 22000, EFQM Business Excellence Model, 6 Sigma Consumer Health ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC KORE 22000, GFSI Overall UN Global Compact, GRI Code of Business Conduct, KORE Regular reviews ensure our compliance with all apno significant* fines for non-compliance with laws plicable laws and regulations. In 2012, CCI received and regulations. At CCI, we give utmost importance to business continuity and disaster recovery. In 2012, file servers and terminal servers were transferred to the data center in Dudullu, Istanbul. Additionally, CCI’s DiBusiness saster Recovery Center was restructured in line with international standards in order to take action in case of an emergency and to ensure business continuity. In case of an emergency, the Disaster Recovery Center will ensure that the BASIS and SAP systems Continuity in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Turkey are operational within 24 hours using at CCI backup data available 72 hours immediately prior to the onset of emergency conditions. Additionally, functions such as e-mailing, instant messaging, videoconferencing and corporate portal applications are to be provided by the Disaster Recovery Center via Internet in case of an emergency. Supplier Guiding mitment to respecting human rights across our business system and global supply chain. Principles (SGP) The SGP are components of all agreements between CCI and its direct and authorized suppliers. We expect our suppliers to develop and implement appropriate internal business processes to ensure compliance with the SGP, and we routinely utilize independent third As we continue to embed sustainability into our busiparties to assess supplier compliance (assessments ness, our recent focus is to expand our efforts into include confidential interviews with employees and the value chain and ensure that sustainability is every on-site contract workers). Any supplier who fails to upemployee’s responsibility. hold any aspect of the SGP requirements is expected to Our SGP communicate our values and expectations implement corrective actions. CCI reserves the right to of suppliers and emphasize the importance of reterminate an agreement with any supplier who cannot sponsible workplace practices that respect human demonstrate that they uphold the SGP requirements. rights and comply, at a minimum, with applicable Detailed information about our principles is available at: environmental and local labor laws as well as core www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/supplier-guidinternational conventions. The SGP reflect our coming-principles *Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by the company. 17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AT CCI At CCI, we believe in the importance of stakeholder ability, and doing so will move us toward even better participation in running our business. We aim to deperformance results in coming reporting periods. velop long-term relationships with our stakeholders. By holding open dialogues and maintaining transparency in all our dealings, we foster a participative environment where our stakeholders are able to engage in the management of our business. We conduct our stakeholder engagement efforts within the framework of international principles and standards such as international standard AA1000SES. We aim to collect stakeholder opinions regularly and explain our activities to our stakeholders in detail. We measured our reporting and environmental perMulti-Stakeholder formance at the end of the panel via a survey based on the requirements of the EFQM Business Excellence Panel on Model. Our goal was to achieve 3.5/5 expectation level (blue line), yet the overall score was 4.18/5. ReSustainability sults are as follows: Performance Overall With an aim of including our stakeholders’expecScore 4.18 tations and feedback in our sustainability roadmap, CCI’s Corporate Affairs team conducted a “Multi-Stakeholder Panel” with the participation of key opinion leaders in the field of sustainability. PanReporting el participants included academicians from top-tier 4.04 & Communication universities (Bo¤aziçi University, Middle East Technical University, Istanbul Technical University, Yıldız Technical University, Sabancı University), representatives from NGOs and semi-governmental bodies Community (WWF, Carbon Disclosure Project, ILO, Corporate Gov4.11 Engagement ernance Association, Regional Environmental Center, UNDP, UN Global Compact, UNICEF), and Turkish government representatives. This was one of the very first multi-stakeholder diCCI's 4.45 alogue panels in Turkey, and all the participants General Image agreed that the panel demonstrated CCI’s commitment to transparency and stakeholder dialogue. The panel was organized by taking the requirements of the AA1000SES into account. Feedback was collected Environmental 4.13 on CCI’s environmental performance and CCI’s CSR Performance reporting performance, and the panel offered valuable output on stakeholders’ expectations and on CCI’s sustainability issues as well. Implementing 0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5 stakeholders’ expectations and feedback are the next big challenges for CCI with respect to sustainGOAL 3.75 18 According to our stakeholders’ expectations, opportunities for improvement include: Stakeholders’ Comments Our Response We added a detailed section to our sustainability Elaborate on materiality process. management process to include governance structure, systems used, and issues managed. In this report, we used GRI G3.1 methodology which requires us to report on data with Include more data with gender breakdown. Our data collection system gender breakdown. improvements still continue for the areas where we are unable to report gender breakdowns. Improve the communication of the report and We tried to use clear language, easy-todesign with better storytelling and easy-tounderstand graphics and alternative performance understand expressions. measures where possible. Climate risk management is the new overarching concept in the climate change discussion. It is not limited to carbon reduction and energy efficiency; In this report, we summarized our strategies, risks it also covers corporate risk management and opportunities on climate protection. practices regarding the impacts of climate change (drought, ingredient safety, floods). Start LCA & Water footprint analysis in the report We are investigating methods to collect supplier data and methodologies to calculate our carbon footprint & water footprint. CCI’s Innovation Competition Represented Turkey at the Rio+20 Sustainable Development Conference The CCI Corporate Affairs team, with the participation of key business functions, is responsible for identifying key stakeholders and devising engageProudly representing Turkey at the Rio+20 ment plans. In this capacity, a stakeholder mapConference on Sustainable Development, ping workshop was held with the participation of CCI’s Innovation Competition was selected as all CCI business units, HQ, plants, and the Comone of Turkey’s five best practices out of 69 mercial team. Standard AA1000SES and the EFQM applications in the private sector category. Business Excellence Model were utilized in mapCCI’s Innovation Competition is presented at ping and prioritizing our stakeholders. In this workthe Rio+20 Conference which took place in Rio shop, the priority analysis of our stakeholders was de Janeiro, Brazil 0n 20-22th June 2012. made together with the participants and engageFor more information about Rio +20 Conference, ment methods and the frequency of engagement please visit http://www.undp.org.tr with our primary stakeholders were updated. 19 Our Stakeholder and other related departments on their production processes in 2013. Engagement Employees Practices CCI is engaged with numerous stakeholder engagement practices. These may involve our suppliers, distributors, customers, shareholders, employees, community or NGOs. SUPPLIERS We work with our suppliers to address the indirect impacts of our business. Following are some examples of our 2012 accomplishments and our 2013 goals: Our workplace is one of the fundamental drivers of our sustainability strategy. Employee participation is • In 2012, we conducted benchmark studies on proutilized in every aspect of our business process. curement processes with pioneer organizations in their sectors. As a result of these studies, we have • We hold meetings in International Operations to started to employ cleansheet cost analyses in stand share best practices, and we biannually conduct purchasing. “Employee Engagement Surveys.” (Results of the 2012 survey are available on page 47). • A Supplier Summit was held in 2012 in conjunction with TCCC. We announced the Green Supplier • Employee suggestion systems are widespread Awards Program of 2013, and we determined four throughout our plants. categories for Green Supplier Awards. Additionally, • Coke Port and The World of CCI magazine are used we will carry out a Supplier Innovation Competition in all our operations as means of internal communifor the first time in 2013. cations. • In 2012, we organized “Supplier Days” with the par• 2020 Vision is a special corporate publication disticipation of 19 direct material suppliers in our Dudultributed in the Turkish operations to all employees in lu office. Each supplier presented presentations and order to share company news. shared previous year commercial, environmental and quality dimensions of cooperation. • Focus Group Workshops are held after Employee Engagement Surveys to determine employee en• Audit schedules were prepared based on the risk gagement plans in all operating countries. assessment systems and one-on-one meetings. • Employer Branding Program began in 2012 to im• Various training sessions on SGP and CCI informaprove CCI awareness amongst current and potential tion systems were completed. employees. • In 2013, within the scope of Change4Excellence, a “Supplier Collaborations Assessment Survey” will Distributors be held where our suppliers will evaluate CCI perCCI strives to help its distributors conduct sustainable formance and improvement plans and materialize business practices. Distributor Diagnostic Meetings improvement plans. The survey will be conducted are held on a yearly basis. In these meetings, distribannually, and its results will serve as benchmarks for utors communicate their business ideas and suggest best practices. potential areas for improvement. To solve problems • We also plan to carry out Green Supplier Awards indicated by distributors, work groups are formed program on four categories before the end of 2013. with the participation of distributors, and the prog• Two Supplier Summits will be held in 2013. ress of these is reported to distributors at large. As of 2013, every sales district will hold its own diagnos• In 2013, our selected suppliers will train CCI on protic sessions to improve the frequency of meetings. A duction processes. Our stand, glass, print, organizathird-party company conducts annual Distributor Sattion, textile and promotion material suppliers plan to isfaction Surveys in Turkey. A Distributor Portal was share information with our Procurement Department activated for interaction between our distributors and 20 CCI. Under the programs of Preseller College and Additionally, CCI became a board member of UNGC Sales Academy, CCI gives trainings to its distributors Türkiye in 2012 and was selected as the first and only on various issues such as competition law and prodTurkish company to be included in the GC100 Index. uct quality. This index is comprised of companies that adhere to the Global Compact’s Ten Principles and that illusSHAREHOLDERS trate executive leadership commitment and consistent base-line profitability. CCI gives utmost importance to creating shareholder value. To this end, we are in continuous communiThe dialogue platforms with our stakeholders are cation with investors and shareholders. Details of summarized on page 46 of CCI’s 2012 Annual Report our shareholder relations can be found in our annuand can be found here: http://cci.com.tr/UserFiles/ al reports and on our website. Annual_Reports/CCI_2012_Annual_Report.pdf Customers CCI Turkey conducts customer satisfaction surveys Our Corporate every year. In 2012, Customer Satisfaction Surveys were conducted for the first time in Azerbaijan, JorMemberships dan, and Kazakhstan. We intend to conduct these surveys annually and plan to include Pakistan in 2013. Joint business plans conducted with key customers Turkish Climate Platform – Turkish Climate in Kazakhstan are prepared in order to improve our Change Leaders Group relationship with our customers as well as to improve our customers’ relations with their customers. The United Nations Global Compact The CCI Turkey Customer Interaction Center became operational in Turkey on 1 May 2012. This new call The 2 Degree Communiqué center helps us increase customer and distributor ÇEVKO satisfaction through faster solutions while at the same time allowing us to measure the performance TÜS‹AD of our processes. YASED Community We continued our investments in community projects TABA in 2012. We donated 3% of CCI Turkey’s pre-tax profits to charitable causes. Stakeholder dialogue, plant visKALDER its, conferences, seminars, training sessions, CCI web DE‹K site, e-mails, and community projects are some examples for the significant methods we use to engage SUDER with our community. Additionally, we have decided to conduct a survey in 2013 to measure community perMEYED ceptions. The results of this first-of-its-kind survey will help us to monitor general perceptions of our comTE‹D pany image, social responsibility and environmental protection initiatives, and community programs. TÜY‹D NGOs TOBB CCI values the experience and expertise of NGOs, MEDER and we collaborate with various NGOs in our efforts to minimize any adverse impacts of our business. TGDF During 2012, we formed a partnership with the Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey to promote Marka Koruma Grubu (Brand Protection Group) female leadership in the country. We also continued our partnership with UNDP for social projects. 21 People me D Product Safety & Quality D Our Suppliers D Our Distributors D Our Customers D Our Consumers D Responsible Advertising & Marketing D Active Healthy Living 22 All plants in our Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkey operations obtained FSSC Food Safety System Certificate With our healty living program With our customer program CCI Grassroot Project, we reached Roadshow, we provided trainings 540,000 people and sales point support to in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan 2,520 customers in 17 cities and 82 towns FGHI In our business “me” implies communication with and engagement by our stakeholders. While we strive to inform our stakeholders about our products and operations, we create the channels whereby they can engage with and direct our activities. The conscious choice of our customers is crucial to us. In this regard, we conduct awareness-raising studies and communication practices related to active healthy living and well-being, listening to our stakeholders in order to pursue a more sustainable business. Every CCI product meets global standards for product quality and safety as set by TCCC. We bring our safe, top-quality and great-tasting beverages to the attention of our stakeholders through responsible marketing operations. Meeting the expectations of our stakeholders at every Distributors are another important part of our value level of our business is our top priority. With this unchain. We pay the highest attention to developing derstanding, we give great importance to quality in their capacity and satisfying their needs. We establish every stage of our business – from procuring raw mavarious dialogue platforms to receive their feedback terials to marketing finished products. Therefore, we and increase efficiency. work in compliance with universal rules of the TCCC Understanding our consumers’ needs and satisfysystem and consider regional characteristics of the ing their expectations lay the foundations of the susgeographic areas in which we operate. tainability of our business. To this end, we serve our At CCI, we expect our business partners to comply products in the healthiest and most hygienic condiwith TCCC standards and engage only in those protions with preferred packaging alternatives and sales cesses which display the best environmental, social points at appropriate prices. and economic performances. We also monitor our suppliers’ performance and create effective dialogue platforms to increase mutual performance. 23 • Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Turkey (Çorlu plant) operations obtained the FSSC 22000 Food Safety Management System Certificate. 2012 Goals • We aim to audit all of our 37 direct suppliers within the context of our SGP. We aim to increase the suc2013 Goals cess rate from 75% to 90% after these audits. • We aim to establish a Sales Point Information Line. • We plan to launch the C4E Project in Turkey aimed • We aim to launch the “Everything You Wanted to at reviewing, redefining and improving our processes Know About Coca-Cola” program in all country to better align our management system with EFQM operations in 2012-2013 by organizing training for all Model and prepare for external assessments of the CCI country representatives. Turkey Supply Chain. • We aim to improve the quality of our service to our • We aim to conduct a “Supplier Collaborations distributors by changing the functions of our tradiAssessment Survey.” tional channel distribution and pre-sellers who currently work under the sales function. • We aim to again attain a success rate of 84%. • We expect that our Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan operations, along with our Çorlu, Turkey, plant will have obtained the FSSC 22000 Food Safety System Certificate. Product Safety and Quality The nature of our business requires working with the Progress highest standards and processes to ensure quality all the way through from production to product delivery. Accordingly, maintaining the safety and quality requirements of our products is one of our priorities. To this end, CCI operates in accordance with • In 2012, 31 out of 36 direct suppliers were audited the universal rules of the TCCC system while considwith SGP in Turkey with a success rate of 84%. ering regional characteristics of our individual operating geographies. • We established a “Customer Interaction Center” which serves our customers and distributors Monday to Saturday between the hours of 08:00 and 22:00. In the Coca-Cola System, the set of Coca-Cola Requests and complaints of distributors collected by Operating Requirements known as KORE governs the Center are recorded and followed by agents. all quality processes. KORE guarantees the highest • We conducted our most recent annual diagnosstandards not only in the quality management of tic study to improve our service quality towards our products, but also in the environment, food health distributors. Following on from the study, distribuand safety areas. The system is consistent with ISO tion satisfaction surveys were conducted on a per9001, ISO 14001, ISO 18001 and ISO 22000. All of our distributor and regional basis to take corrective production processes are operated in accordance measures to increase their levels of satisfaction and with the requirements of these systems, and necdegrees of collaboration. essary audits are conducted during each operating • Within the scope of “Everything You Wanted to year. Know about Coca-Cola” program, training sessions began in 2012. 24 CCI Plant Certification Status 2012 ISO Certifications TCCC Compliance (KORE) 1 00 1 0 41 18 0 00 06 00 00 14 14 AS 22 22 23 1 SO 01 SO HS SC 00 -E 90 ISO FS S2 50 -I -I -O PA ion nt SO nt yySO -Q me S -I me ISO fet fet ing -I iss ty on yty on ySa Sa ag gy Em ali vir fet ali vir fet od od ck er G Qu En Sa Qu En Sa Fo Fo Pa En GH Almaty KZ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Baku AZ 2013 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Amman JO √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ N/A Ankara TR √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Bursa TR √ 2013 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Çorlu TR √ 2013 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Izmir TR √ 2013 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Mersin TR √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Mahmudiye TR √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Köyce⁄iz TR 2013 2013 2013 √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 Elazı⁄ TR 2013 2013 2013 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2013 CCI is Among Europe’s Leaders in Business Excellence and Sustainability In October 2012, CCI’s Ankara plant was awarded with the “Taking Responsibility for a Sustainable Future” prize by EFQM for exhibiting excellent approaches to sustainability and for its performance in the implementation of the EFQM Business Excellence Model throughout the entire organization. 25 Product and packaging quality index scores show that final products are produced according to the quality standards specified. The samples are collected from the market by TCCC and analyses are done in a TCCC Laboratory. 2012 scores for each index category are summarized below. Product Quality Package Quality Index (out of 100) Index (out of 100) 2012 Goal 2012 Actual 2012 Goal 2012 Actual 100 96.64 Jordan Jordan 98 97 92.13 97.82 Kazakhstan Kazakhstan 99 98 98.39 99.09 Azerbaijan Azerbaijan 97 98 99.04 98.57 Turkey Turkey 99 99 Coca-Cola System 2011 95 Coca-Cola System 2011 92.4 0 50 100 0 50 100 will mark a year of implementation, and 2015 will CCI's Journey to Excellence see CCI deploy its culture of excellence to external stakeholders. We aligned our practices with internationally recEnablers Results ognized management systems. In 2012, our Turkey operations began an all-encompassing EFQM ModPeople Custormer el implementation project under the title “Change Results L eadersh ip K EY RES UL TS for Excellence (C4E).” The EFQM Model helps comProcesses, panies achieve and sustain outstanding levels of Products Strategy and People performance that meet or exceed the expectations Results Services of all their stakeholders. The EFQM Excellence Model is a tool that brings together all different comPartnerships Society ponents of management systems. In 2012, CCI & Resources Results conducted the first C4E Assessment and determined its action plans. Accordingly, 2013 will mark Learning, Creativity and Innovation CCI’s alignment year with the EFQM models, 2014 26 CCI Turkey's Quality Award Journey 2008 2009 2011 2012 Bursa Plant: Ankara Plant: HQ and Çorlu plant: Ankara plant: 4-Star National Recognition for EFQM prize Recognition Quality Prize Excellence 5-Star for Excellence Ankara plant: National Quality Award Operational Excellence All employees received basic OE training via e-learning platforms. In 2012, 105 OE projects out of 114 were successfully Operational Excellence (OE) is the name of our model implemented, and more than 300 employees particithat we have integrated into our quality systems and pated. Moreover, we realized an opportunity to save applied to all of our functions. The OE model aims to 8.3 million TL. As a result of the completed projects, meet the demands of our customers and consumers we expect to save 7 million TL. with minimal loss and maximum efficiency by: Simplifying and accelerating work processes. Distribution of OE Projects Increasing efficiency by minimizing bureaucracy. implemented in 2012 Increasing customer and employee satisfaction by m Tra ber ine reducing failure ratios. Nu es of mb NuPr er oje The main aim of 2012 OE studies was to take the orof cts ganization to a level of self-capability in terms of exeKazakhstan 4th Wave 4 9 cution of OE projects. Within this scope, CCI achieved the necessary number of competent employees. In Azerbaijan 3rd Wave 5 10 2012, 132 employees were trained and 168 projects Jordan 2nd Wave 9 15 were initiated. In Turkey, we increased the number of projects to 114 from 59. Two Black Belt certifications Pakistan 2nd Wave 16 20 were achieved at the director level in Turkey while 36 Green Belt certifications were achieved in Azerbaijan, Turkey 6th Wave 95 114 Jordan, and Kazakhstan. Total 129 168 Training materials were revised to be more effective. 2008 2013 2020 6 projects 362 projects 1,200 projects 42 certifications 321 certifications 1,320 certifications 1.2 M $/Year 34.3 M $/Year 110 M $/Year saving saving saving 27 Plant Visits out our operations. Accordingly, in 2012, the proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers for raw materials was 96% in Turkey, 41% in Azerbaijan, 20% in Jordan, and 12.04% in Kazakhstan. The percentage of local procurement in some country operations is low due to local unavailability, therefore necessitating purchases of sugar and resin elsewhere. Our Distributors We place great importance on informing our stakeholders about our products, production processes, and the company, in general. Correspondingly, we organize plant visits throughout the year in accordance with demands from various stakeholder groups. During such plant visits, guests are informed about the company and its sustainability practices Distributors are our main business partners and, as and performance results. In 2012, a total of 5,410 such, they play a critical role in our sales operations. visitors participated in plant visits in Turkey, Jordan, Consequently, we focus on developing their capabilKazakhstan and Azerbaijan. ities and satisfying their needs. Building the capabilities of our distributors not only helps us achieve our Our Suppliers business goals but also helps our distributors develop a lean and more sustainable business model for themselves. We provide Basic of Coca-Cola System (BOCCS) training to all our new entrants. These trainAt CCI, as at all Coca-Cola System bottlers, we expect ing modules provide information about products and our suppliers to operate in compliance with the set of quality as well as CCI’s 2020 Vision and corporate rules constructed to evaluate the integrity of suppliers responsibility issues. During the last three years, a to ensure that the raw materials they provide are of total of 1,689 entrants received BOCCS over 119 sesthe highest quality. In addition, we expect our supsions. While these training sessions focus mainly on pliers to operate in compliance with TCCC standards commercial issues, environmental and social issues as well as the standards and legal requirements of are also discussed. In 2012, we provided 16,859 the relevant operating country. We believe that such man*hours of training to 5,031 participants. practices and requirements are fundamental to improving our suppliers’ environmental, social and We pr o v i d e more than broad economic performance. Additionally, our raw material suppliers are rejust in-house trainings quired to have the authorization of the TCCC. to our distributors. For example, All raw material suppliers should meet all the governmental requirements, Company requirements, in Turkey, our 84 distributors environmental protection, safety and labor protection attended a 10-day training given requirements, quality certificate, certificate of conforby university faculty members mance, necessary technical documentation, test ceron strategic management at tificate, certificate of safety, letter of guarantee which confirms quality of product, and contract in which Boğaziçi University Lifelong delivery terms, terms of payment, indemnity commitLearning Center. ments on quality assurance are stipulated. At CCI, we are committed to making direct and indiEach year, we hold Diagnostics Meetings with the rect contributions to local economies where we carry participation of our distributors. In these meetings, 28 matters related to the quality of service we provide service problems they encounter. They can also conto our distributors are evaluated. After these evaluvey their suggestions and demands to the relevant ations, work groups that are formed to make further departments. As a result of this implementation, we improvements inform other distributors about the aim to better measure the performances of our prostudies they conducted. The results of these studcesses and to enhance customer satisfaction with ies are consolidated at HQ and improvements are faster solutions. deployed to the whole system. With the aim of attracting greater participation of distributors in these workshops, each sales center will begin to carry out Distibutors Satisfaction this work on-site in 2013. Additionally, we will come Survey Results (%) together with our distributors at the regular regional or general meetings. 2012 2011 Satisfaction Score 76 83.8 Company Image 81.6 89.2 * In addition to satisfaction scores and company image dimensions, the 2012 survey also includes Turkey sales, distribution, customer service, call center, finance, BSG, At CCI, we also support our distributors by implementtechnical service, production service, production and overing programs such as the Voyage Office Program (for all satisfaction. basic accounting, invoicing, inventory tracking and cooler movements) and Roadnet (for route optimization and fuel and time savings). As a company that seeks to spread its To render the sustainable development of our disdevelopment throughout its value chain, tributors, we perform audits during the operating we have always devoted significant year. Sales support specialists audit Type-A and financial and human resources to Type-B distributors twice a year and Type-C distribtraining our customers and distributors. utors once a year, while sales process improvement One example of our commitment to managers perform spot checks. In 2012, one dealer training is the CCI Road Show, initiated CCI Road Show was assessed and audited by an external company to help our customers develop more contracted by TCCC. All of our distributors have been profitable and sustainable business deemed compliant with the requirements of The processes. We continue to provide these Coca-Cola Company Management System (TCCMS). trainings and sales point support to our customers throughout Turkey. In 2012, we established a Distributor Portal through which we share best practices along with CCI’s exThe trainings we have provided pectations of distributors. Additionally, we distributincluded topics such as effective store ed our “Distributors’ Warehouse Best Practice Handmanagement, teamwork, service book” to all CCI distributors. excellence and social styles. The CCI Road Show reached 2,520 customers Also in 2012, we established a Customer Interaction in 17 cities and 82 towns and realized Center which serves our customers and distribucustomer trainings totaling 3,780 tors in Turkey. With this center, our distributors and man*hours in 2012. customers anywhere in Turkey can, by using only a single telephone number, register complaints about 29 Our Customers International Operations Satisfaction Survey We aim to develop strategies that focus on Results (out of 10) maximizing customer satisfaction. Increasing customer satisfaction is among our strategic goals toward achieving our 2020 Vision objectives. Company image Satifaction Score Every year we conduct Customer Satisfaction Surveys to assess the level of satisfaction customers have with our services. The surveys are conducted Kazakhstan 9.1 by an independent company of business partners 9.4 served by CCI’s in-house and off-premise consumpKazakhstan tion channels. According to the results of the 2012 survey which canvassed the opinions of 1,941 customers, CCI’s Turkey operation increased satisfaction levels by one point compared to 2011. In an ongoing Azerbaijan 8.2 effort to increase this satisfaction level, we routinely conduct different engagement studies involving our 8.2 Azerbaijan customers. In Turkey in 2012, we conducted special studies with approximately 20 customers and made nearly 60 presentations to develop joint business plans with customers. Also in 2012, our Azerbaijan, Jordan, and Kazakhstan operations conducted cusJordan 7.9 tomer satisfaction surveys for the first time. 7.9 Jordan Turkey Operations Satisfaction Survey Our Consumers Results (%) 2011 2012 We work hard to understand and satisfy our consumers’ expectations because we believe that the sustainability of our business depends on Overall Performance understanding of our consumers clearly. 79 As we pursue our commercial activities, we apply 80 TCCC’s global labeling standards and comply with all relevant local laws and regulations in all 10 countries where we operate. Providing our more than 360 Company Image million consumers with clear, understandable and scientific information regarding our products not only 82 addresses our principle of complying with laws and 82 regulations, but it also represents our commitment to maintaining a healthy, transparent working relationship with our stakeholders. Producing and distributing beverages of various kinds, * In our 2012 Customer Satisfaction Survey, dimensions such as along with our commitment to properly informing sales team, customer promotion, commercial support, order and our consumers, require us to include nutritional delivery, product specifications and financial services were also information on all of our labels. In addition to the included. 30 minimum, basic nutritional information we provide In addition to our labeling practices, we pursue various such as calories, protein, fat and carbohydrate other practices including seminars and trainings that content, we also indicate the amount of energy (per aim to inform our stakeholders about our belief that serving) as kilocalories, calories or kilojoules on the with appropriate consumption and physical exercise front of almost all packages. A “Contains Caffeine” all of our products can be healthy components of warning is placed on products with caffeine while the an active lifestyle. We even offer our stakeholders a use of sweeteners and phenylalanine is addressed on booklet called “Straight Facts About Our Beverages,” a diet products. In addition to the information required compilation of frequently asked questions regarding by local labeling regulations, we display information calories, vitamin index, caffeine, aspartame, regarding the name of the producer, expiration date, food additives and obesity with. An Englishthe toll-free number of The Coca-Cola Information language version of the booklet may be found at: Center, online plant tour, and our recycling logo. www.coca-colacompany.com/contact-us/faqs New Products in 2012 Coca-Cola, Fanta Pet Coca-Cola PET 1 L Coca-Cola OWB Coca-Cola, Fanta, Coca-Cola PET and slim can 200 ml Pakistan 250 ml Sprite Pet 300ml and 1, 1.5, 2.5 L Turkey Pakistan Coca-Cola PET 2.5 L Azerbaijan Azerbaijan Fuse Tea Cappy Prremium Cappy PET 1 L Piko Mors Burn Fresh Damla HOD GLass Glass OWB Turkey, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Turkey Azerbaijan and Turkey Kyrgyzstan where we operate. In addition to the various commuResponsible nication mediums we employ to this end, we create Advertising and the channels whereby our stakeholders can actively participate in our advertising and presentation proMarketing cesses with their valuable suggestions, requests, and complaints. In addition to the legal requirements and the expecIn line with our principle of complying with legal regtations of our stakeholders, TCCC’s standards serve ulations, we realize responsible and law-abiding adas our fundamental guide in our marketing practicvertising and promotional practices in all countries es. The Global School Beverage Guidelines, as set by 31 TCCC, grounds our approach to responsible marketdren, we do not engage in advertising or marketing ing. Beginning in the 2010-2011 academic year, we activities targeting children under 12 years old. chose to cease conducting sales operations for sparNo lawsuits filed against CCI for failure to comply with kling beverages in any elementary schools in our oplaws related to marketing communications, advertiserating geography. We made this decision with the ing, promotions or sponsorships in 2012. Likewise, no cooperation of our business partners. Moreover, in lawsuits filed against CCI for failure to comply with line with our belief that parents should be the ones to laws related to unfair competition, monopolist pracmake decisions regarding the nutrition of their chiltices, and similar implementations in 2012. CCI’s Product Calorie Profile kcal per 200 ml The second Coke’n Design stand design competition was held by CCI in collaboration with Istanbul Technical University (‹TÜ) in 2012. Launched in 2010, the competition seeks to project the dynamism and Young Designers excitement of the Coca-Cola brand by giving young designers the opportunity to freely exercise their creativity while at the same time gaining real world experience. Design for CCI The 2012 competition, focusing on Interior, Exterior, Environment-Friendly and Vision 2020 designs, began in February and encouraged the young designers to produce highly stylish and creative designs. Winners were announced in July, with winning students being offered internships at CCI and winning designs being used in real CCI campaigns. 32 The Coca-Cola Information Center: 0800 261 19 20 To help us continuously improve, we rely on suggestions, requests, complaints and questions from Everything You Want To all our stakeholders. Our call center, The Coca-Cola Information Center, exists to resolve stakeholder isKnow About Coca-Cola sues and is another example of how CCI is committed to listening to and learning from our customers and consumers. The Center can be reached in Turkey by dialing 0800 261 19 20. All CCI country operations now use call centers which perform different tasks and routines. The call center receives calls from customers,and in addition, Tellsell accepts customer-related complaints. Additionally a separate, dedicated phone number is assigned for consumer and other related complaints. In 2012, we answered 101,800 calls. Of these, 69,937 complaints/requests were recorded. The helpdesk’s average complaint resolution performance is illustrated below: Avg. Resolution Time (hrs) 3.00 2.00 The program’s curriculum was prepared so as 1.00 to enable CCI to communicate its main health, product safety and quality policies through 0.00 its employees while simultaneously helping JAN 12 FEB 12 MAR 12 APR 12 MAY 12 JUN 12 JUL 12 AUG 12 SEP 12 OCT 12 NOV 12 DEC 12 JAN 13 employees improve their communication skills and deliver better customer service. The training program, which began in the city On-site support average complaint resolution perforof Trabzon in April 2011, included as many mance is illustrated below: as 1,500 employees in a total of 63 training sessions organized in various cities across Avg. Resolution Time (hrs) Turkey. Following the successful pilot implementation 3.00 in Turkey, the program was shared with 2.00 other CCI countries through a “Train the 1.00 Trainers” workshop held in Istanbul in April 2012. Following their training, participants 0.00 began working to implement the program in JAN 12 FEB 12 MAR 12 APR 12 MAY 12 JUN 12 JUL 12 AUG 12 SEP 12 OCT 12 NOV 12 DEC 12 JAN 13 their respective countries. Training programs started in 2012 in some countries and more are scheduled to start in 2013. No significant penalties were charged against CCI for failure to comply with laws or regulations regarding the supply or use of products and services during 2012. 33 Active Healthy activity projects and programs run by the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation in Turkey for the benefit of our Living stakeholders. Through healthy nutrition trainings, we support our mission of helping them to develop healthy lifestyles. Through our marketing operations, social responsiSpecifically devoted to promoting healthy and active bility projects, and other practices involving our conlifestyles, we continue to participate in sports by hostsumers, we address the fact that all our products can ing several tournaments in football, tennis, bowling, be a part of an active healthy lifestyle. To this end, cycling, cricket, and more. Jordan’s “Right To Play,” we provide our consumers with a wide range of bevwhich focuses on building the capacity of local comerages to suit their taste and calorie need. With nomunities to offer more sport and play activities for and low-calorie beverages, as well as with our reguchildren in Palestinian refugee camps and surroundlar beverages in smaller sizes, our consumers enjoy ing communities, is one example of the many good beverage options from our continuously expanding programs to which CCI employees devote their time portfolio. Through various channels, we aim to inform and energy. All across our region, there are numerand empower them in making sensible beverage ous opportunities to promote healthy living. choices. With our Grassroots Project in Azerbaijan, which is In line with TCCC, we strive to raise the standards for planned to last for at least five years, we have unphysical activity throughout our operating geogradertaken the sponsorship of the under-13 league phy. As it is essential to maintain energy balance (the and School Boys Cup. Within the scope of the project, balance between “calories in” and “calories out”) for 200,000 students take part in sport activities annually. overall fitness and health, we support the physical Coca-Cola’s Global Commitments to Help Fight Obesity As part of the Coca-Cola System we submit to The Coca-Cola Company’s commitments to contribute to healthier, happier, and more active communities. In so doing, we commit to: 1. Offering low-or no-calorie beverage options in every market; 2. Providing transparent nutrition information, featuring calories on the front of all of our packages; 3. Helping get people moving by supporting physical activity programs in every country where we do business; 4. Marketing responsibly, including no advertising to children under 12 anywhere in the world. 34 Again in Azerbaijan, within the scope of “Keep Your a “Spring Hike” which included various interesting Physical Activity Up for Healthy Future” project, caoutdoor activities organized around the themes of pacity development studies with trainings, textbooks team building, adventure and team spirit. and learning materials are provided to 250 school staff/instructors and 400 parents. With the implementation of the project, 4,000 school children and 200 office workers will be informed regarding the importance of being physically active in daily life. We promote active healthy lifestyle by participating in and promoting several activities. In 2012, our Pakistan operation organized a Tape Ball Cricket Tournament with the theme of “Collaborate for Success” as a continuation of its efforts to inculcate CCI’s values and cultural elements into the organization. On 24 June 2012, the Olympic Run Day in Baku was jointly organized by the National Olympic and Paralympics Committees, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Education, and TCCC, the global partner of the Olympic Games all over the world. The event’s main purpose is to promote the Olympics as well as healthy living in Azerbaijan. “Let’s Play” Project CCI Turkey hosted for the fifth time a portion of “The Dragon Festival,” the world’s most-attended water sports event. CCI Turkey, one of 64 participants in the event, ranked 39th in the competition from a total of 100 teams participating. In line with our active living approach, CCI Turkey's Social Activity Club organize sporting events throughout 2012 that included a football league consisting of 13 teams with 90 players in total. In addition, ongoing tango courses were held and table tennis facilities were established in all locations. A joint effort between the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, the Active Life Association and the Turkish Ministry of Education, the “Let's Play Project” aims to increase the physical activity levels of elementary school students by using creative play. Since its implementation three years ago, the program has benefited 200,000 students and 4,600 teachers in 200 primary schools across 45 cities. As part of their Engagement & Satisfaction Activity Day, the HR department in our Jordan operation held 35 Communities we D Our Workplace D Employee Rights D Equality & Diversity D Employee Engagement D Occupational Health & Safety D Our Community F Economic Development F Social Development F Supported Social Projects 36 We donated 7.5 million TL to the Anadolu Foundation We provided 58,310 2,900 employees hours of training attended our 12 Golden OHS Rules to our employees and Safety Awareness Training FGHI At CCI we aim to contribute to the well-being of communities around us. An essential ingredient in every one of our products is our profound commitment to human rights and workplace rights. Respecting human rights and protecting workplace rights are fundamental to our company culture and crucial for a sustainable business. In our company, we focus on making sure all of our team members are treated with dignity and respect. Inside every bottle of Coca-Cola is the story of a business that is a driving force in the ongoing effort to strengthen communities. We are proud to be good neighbors in various cities, towns and villages around our geography by sharing our resources, our time and our unique expertise. OUR WORKPLACE workplace that meets the standards of national and international workplace rights policies. • To protect the rights of employees to unionize. The business success of CCI depends on our • To become a leading company which employs only employees. Incorporating the best talents, developing the best practices in occupational health and safety in and retaining them, CCI’s priority is to provide a happy, all our workplaces. safe and motivating workplace where our employees are able to showcase their true potential. • To provide a fair and pleasant place for our employees to work, enabling them to feel free to Our main goals within the workplace are: be innovative and improve themselves in order to • To provide our employees with a non-discriminatory become the most qualified workforce. 37 2012 Goals 2013 Goals • To perform “Incident Management and Crisis Reso• To establish Leadership Development Programs for lution Validation” in eight countries. employees at various levels. • To fortify our OHS system, make annual work plans • To launch “Equality at Work” commitment as part of in the field of OHS, and improve the qualifications of the “Women Leadership Program.” OHS Specialists. • To launch CCI EOSH Policy, Procedures along with • To conduct our “Employee Engagement Survey” bi“12 Golden Rules” and a communication campaign annually. on “12 Golden Rules” in order to strengthen the health • To integrate performance evaluation, talent manand safety culture and to deploy safe behavior & agement and employee development systems and to habits at all levels. include all employees in our 360-degree evaluation • To implement “IMCR Validation Program” in Kasystem in Turkey. zakhstan and Jordan and deliver IMCR training in • To gradually implement the CCI Workplace Rights Azerbaijan. Policy (WRP) throughout all our operations between 2012 and 2013. • To complete the implementation of the Workplace Rights Policy throughout all CCI operations. • To hold the first Women Leadership Meeting in Istanbul with TCCC in order to raise awareness of the Progress importance of women in the workplace. • To launch our revised Code of Ethics which will be implemented in all of our operating units • CCI’s Incident Management and Crisis Resolution Successful companies need talented people. In line (IMCR) Validation & Training Program, which covers with our principle of “building a highly capable orgaseven countries (including all the countries within the nization and being the employer of choice,” we pay scope of this report), began with training in Turkey. utmost attention to the personal and occupational • We reviewed and updated our OHS system, updatdevelopment of our employees and implement inied Occupational Health, Safety & Environment (OHSE) tiatives accordingly. In this manner, we create an atPolicy and issued new standards, formed 12 OHS tractive business environment for our new employees Golden Rules and started preparations for a commuwhile simultaneously uncovering the potential of our nications campaign to raise employee awareness of existing employees. health and safety issues. • Certified safety specialists were assigned at every plant. At CCI, we always strive to balance work demands with the social lives of our employees. Our “Sweet Home • We conducted “Employee Satisfaction & Loyalty SurProject,” which was launched for the CCI Sales Team veys” and achieved a 59% satisfaction level. in Ankara, allows team members to shorten their office • Our 360-degree evaluation system in Turkey includhours and work directly in the field. The project will be ed 150 managers for development purposes. Perforrolled out to sales teams across Turkey in 2013. mance reviews of 2,856 employees were completed using “Success Factors” in Turkey, Jordan, AzerbaiIn order to reduce overtime and to create a corporate jan. A new 360-degree evaluation evaluation system culture that relies more on regular time efficiency and will be performed every two years in Turkey for white less on overtime hours, CCI encourages employees collar employees. not to exceed regular working hours by including overtime hours in performance evaluation system. • We integrated performance evaluation, talent management and employee development systems. • We began implementing our WRP in all CCI international operations. 38 2012 Overtime Hours per Benefits Provided to Headcount* CCI Employees ours un Pe t eH coOv r-pe ert rso To ad im n n Ov tal ert He eH ou n ija sta im rs y an ba kh rke rd er za Tu Jo Az Ka Turkey 185,715 3,021 61 Jordan 4,798 436 11 Health √ √ √ √ Insurance Kazakhstan 18,506 771 24 Life √ √ √ Azerbaijan 9,054 361 25 Insurance Individual √ * In 2012 overtime hours based on number of employees. Pension Funds Maternity √ √ √ √ Leave Compensation & Benefits Company Products √ √ √ √ Service Although there are employees who receive minimum Awards √ wages as determined by applicable laws, CCI’s mean salary levels are above the legal minimum wages Retirement Provision √ √ in all our markets. Every year prior to any salary increases, we conduct salary and benefit surveys in all CCI operations. While defining our compensation policy, salary surveys are also taken into consideration. In order to help our employees with their retirement planning, we contribute to employee pension plans in our Turkey operation. Talent Management at CCI CCI provides employee benefits such as private health insurance, life insurance, paid annual leave, comPeople and Organizational Leadership is one of the passionate leave, severance pay, and training supmain pillars of CCI’s 2020 Vision and Strategic Manport. In addition, there are other benefits including agement Framework. Talent management is about company car and fuel compensation, mobile phone building capabilities that CCI needs for the future – and company lines which are available to employees hiring best talent, developing our talents with conin certain positions or working in certain functions. structive feedback and clarifying expectations for business targets and behavior. CCI's HR team's key priority is to retain and develop a talented workforce and therefore create a shared corporate culture that meets the needs of a growing organization. CCI is committed to attracting the most qualified talents, retaining them and contributing to the sustainable success of the company by continuously developing its workforce in line with the knowledge, skills and competencies required by ever-changing business conditions. Another objective with regard to talent management is developing effective succession plans for key positions and critical roles and effectively preparing key employees for those positions. To this end, we focus 39 on talent/capability development, which implies a and the increased role of managers is the essence of shift in thinking away from performance and business our talent management approach. results and toward employee behavior and developCCI established a new initiative called “International ment. Part of this process is the “Talent Review ProTalent Pool” whereby we invite talents to CCI corpogram” whereby each country within CCI carries out rate headquarters for one year to learn management its own talent reviews which are then collected and concepts in different functions such as Finance, Supply reviewed to facilitate personnel-related management Chain or Human Resources before assuming respondecisions. The “Talent Review Program” systematically sibilities in their home countries. This is an important reviews individual employee performance and potentool that helps us better attract and retain the best tial in key positions each year and develops appropriavailable talent in our operating countries while at the ate succession plans. The program supports the desame time providing employees with the opportunity velopment of career plans, thus providing employees to gain international experience, acquire know-how with the opportunity to experience working in different from CCI headquarters, and develop in-depth knowlcountries and in different business functions. edge about CCI and the Coca-Cola System. In 2012, CCI’s HR Technology Platform was renewed and rebranded as “Success Factors.” Success Factors Employees Receiving includes performance management, objective management, 360-degree evaluations, succession plans, Regular Performance and and learning and development plans. With Success Career Development Reviews Factors, employees will be able to see their performance reviews and follow their development plans on a single platform, allowing CCI to increase its awareness about its existing talents. At CCI, we seek n n to attain “one version of the truth,” by eliminating disija sta y an ba kh crepancies, centralizing information, and making all rke za Tu Jo rd er Az Ka information and data easily accessible. We establish systems that enable us to transfer work to mobile apTotal plications as much as possible in order to eliminate Number Of 1,928 365 309 254 our dependency on desktop computers and to allow Employees information and data to be accessed easily from anyNumber Of where. With the help of Success Factors, CCI’s perforFemale 396 15 37 66 mance management system will be disseminated to Employees all our territories in 2013. % Female 21 4 12 26 Number Of male Employee Development 1,532 350 272 188 Employees % male 79 96 88 74 Assisting our employees’ personal and professional development is a fundamental building block of our corporate growth and the sustainability of our business. We appreciate the skills of every single We initiated new systems in order to capture managemployee, and we routinely implement initiatives to ers’ development needs. We implemented 360-deencourage their development and to improve their gree (a tool that is also available to non-managers) abilities. We use management instruments such as in order to make them aware of their own strengths the 360-degree evaluation to provide feedback to our and development needs. We try to encourage and employees. support a consultative approach between employees In 2012, when personal development became a fundaand their managers. In 2013, CCI employees will be mental pillar of CCI’s HR system, each employee was asked to prepare their own individual development asked to choose two to four development areas and program. This shift toward individual responsibility then given development targets in their chosen areas 40 of development. These goals are tied to the values and We conduct 360-degree assessments which provide culture elements within the 2020 Vision framework. multi-source feedback that focuses on developing an Self-development is also included as a pillar in manindividual’s specific behaviors. These assessments agement remuneration. All of our operating countries then serve as instruments in the preparation of Indiwill begin operating within this context in 2013. vidual Development Plans. Additionally, our “Young Talents” development program in Turkey seeks to build a managerial and personal development infrastructure for high-potential employees, and our “Manager On Board” development program supports and broadens management skills of new managers. At CCI, we actively evaluate the effectiveness of our Training and Development Program, and one tool for evaluation is our “One Direction (1D)” module. With the 1D training reporting tool, all CCI trainings are coded, shared via CokePort and reported to ensure reliable and sharable training data. “Ticket” is another reporting system for training. TrainAt CCI, we believe in “active learning.” Reflecting this, ees receive e-tickets which enable them to join trainour training methodology consists of facilitation sesing sessions. In this way, we are able to accurately sions, workshops, team building activities, videos, measure the total amount of training, including the role plays, case studies, games, simulations, and number of training hours, provided to our employees. “Train the Trainer” modules. In addition to formal To ensure the quality of our trainings, the CCI Traintrainings, we create additional learning opportunities ing and Development Team conducts one-to-one with project-based initiatives and by inviting employmeetings with managers before and after training ees onto job rotation programs. sessions to make sure that any relevant and needed For CCI mid-level managers, the Leadership Developinformation is passed on to employees. “Top 2 Top” ment Program is available in order to develop skills meetings are held in conjunction with representatives such as coaching and strategic thinking. In addition, from TCCC and other bottlers in order to share best the Mentorship Program is also active for future compractices. CCI also utilizes web-based technologies pany leaders. Trainings are offered to employees at to measure the effectiveness of its trainings via moall levels depending on their needs. bile and PC applications. Training at CCI Turkey Kazakhstan Jordan Azerbaijan t y t y t y t y en ar t en ar t en ar t en ar t an or ac an or ac an or ac an or ac rm mp ntr rm mp ntr rm mp ntr rm mp ntr Pe Te Co Pe Te Co Pe Te Co Pe Te Co Total Training 32,550 NA NA 13,113 558 10 9,251 NA NA 2,838 NA 2,736 Hours Number of 1,938 NA NA 376 31 10 680 NA NA 320 NA 228 Employees Trained Per-employee 16.8 NA NA 34.88 18 1 13.6 NA NA 8.87 NA 12 Training Hours 41 unit. The program aims to provide training to retailers and traditional channel outlets throughout Pakistan. Special Training Facility in Pakistan The inauguration of the Pakistan operation’s Sales Academy Capability Development Centre (CDC) took place The “Sales Academy” training program, specifically on 10 September 2012 at the Lahore plant. The for new Account Executive-level recruits, is joined by event was attended by CCI’s Chairman Tuncay employees from marketing departments in Turkey. In Özilhan and CEO Damian Gammell. The CDC is 2012, we conducted a total of three Sales Academy designed as a fully functional teaching facility programs in which 70 employees participated. Each with state-of-the-art equipment and materials. program lasted five days and included in-branch training on principals of commercial finance, competition law, RED, and sales techniques. Pakistan’s “KO Management Trainee Program” The Pakistan operation’s “KO Management Mini MBA Program Trainee Program” is an initiative to create career opportunities that will attract and retain young people, ensure a talent pipeline of highperforming managers for critical business roles, and guarantee a long-term approach to building and nurturing a high-quality workforce. The main focus of the program is on-the-job functional development. Training on Wheels CCI’s “Mini MBA Program,” designed for Account Executives with at least two years of experience, aims to build capacities for strategic customer relations, finance, negotiation techniques and creative thinking. In 2012, 50 employees participated in the nine-day program. Marketing Summit “Training on Wheels” is a new program developed by Our “Marketing Summit Program” is specifically designed the Pakistan operation’s HR Capability Development for Product Managers and Assistant Product Managers Wing in collaboration with CCI’s Training and Develin Turkey. The three-day program aims to update our opment Department that provides just-in-time trainmarketing team with the newest developments in the ing for system employees in Pakistan. As part of the field. The content of the training was determined via a program, Train the Trainer sessions are organized for poll conducted within the marketing team. sales managers who then train retailers and small grocery store owners across Pakistan. For the purposes of the program, a regular delivery truck is converted into a modern, state-of-the-art mobile training 42 Employee Rights be implemented in other CCI countries by the end of 2013. Notices of change (e.g., change of duty, dismissal) are made to employees in accordance with employment law, relevant local legislation, and proRespect for human rights is a vital component of our gressive disciplinary procedures. commitment to working in a responsible way. The Workplace Rights Program (WRP) of TCCC is based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UNHR), United Nation’s Global Compact (UNGC) and serves Security Personnel Trained as the fundamental guideline for our HR activities. With On Aspects Of Human Rights this strong basis of support, we fully integrate human and workplace rights into our practices (one of the key Human rights-related training is given to security priorities of CCI’s 2020 Vision), our corporate values, staff. In 2012, 90% of employees received training on and our sustainability strategy. We are committed to human rights. deploying this message continually and consistently throughout our supply chain. In so doing, we diligently Nu uphold human rights and are pleased to boast that we Em mbe plo r O ye f S remain free of any human rights violations. es ec Tra uri ine ty To t a d Se l N We initiated our WRP Program back in 2011 and aim cu u rity mb Em er O to fully implement it in all CCI operations by the end (%) plo f ye es of 2013. An independent audit company audits our compliance with SGP and WRP every three years. The Turkey 135 135 100 Jordan and Kazakhstan operations were audited in 2012 and passed the audits without any adverse Jordan 17 17 100 findings. In 2013, Azerbaijan, Pakistan (all plants), Kazakhstan 25 38 66 and Turkey (Ankara, Bursa, Elaz¤, and Mahmudiye plants only) will be audited. Azerbaijan 0 15 0 All employees working in Turkey are subject to the same progressive disciplinary procedures that will Workplace Rights Policy Respect for human rights, an important part of CCI’s sustainability understanding, is guaranteed under the Workplace Rights Policy which aims to establish workplaces that are transparent and inclusive regarding human rights. This policy regulates CCI activities in eight main areas: • Child Labor • Community and Stakeholder Engagement • Discrimination • Forced Labor • Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining • Safe and Healthy Working Place • Working Hours and Wages • Workplace Safety 43 Equality and Diversity The number of female employees is regrettably lower than the number of male employees at CCI. To remedy this gap, we implemented our “Female Leadership Program” in 2012 which aims to gradually increase the number of women recruits. We aim to double the number of female employees by 2020. In a related development, the CCI Female Leadership Committee was established in 2012 to undertake gender equality initiatives in our workplaces. Also in 2012, CCI signed an “Equality at Work” commitment as an outcome of the 2012 World Economic Forum Gender Parity Studies, and the Company participated in the Turkish platform of this initiative. Other initiatives CCI joined in 2012 include KAGIDER (Women Entrepreneur Association of Turkey) and the World Bank’s joint initiative, “Equal Opportunity Model” which assesses corporate HR systems and practices and reports their female friendliness in terms of In addition to health, safety, and employee develcareer advancement opportunities. opment, diversity is one of the top priorities for CCI. Building a diverse workforce (in Azerbaijan, alone, there are employees representing 17 nationalities) CCI ’s Pakistan operation helps us connect with consumers and customers across our territories. CCI does not discriminate among its employees based on religion, race, genorganizes quarterly der or physical disability in any way. Cultural Element Celebrations to strengthen and promote Percentage of Female cultural diversity. To celebrate Executives in Senior the multi-cultural workplace, Management the HR Department organized a (Reporting to CEO) company-wide tape ball cricket Nu tournament, “Game On Hai!!!,” m Fe ber under CCI’s “Collaborate for ma ole f Ex ec uti To tal ve s Success” initiative. of Ex Nu ec mbe uti r ve s % Fema le Ex ec uti ves Turkey 2011 3 10 30 In addition to ensuring equality in our workforce, we 2012 3 10 30 extend our efforts to society at large. Together with Jordan TCCC, we launched “Female Entrepreneurship Train2011 0 5 0 ing” and a grant program in Turkey to increase female 2012 0 5 0 employment and promote female entrepreneurship Kazakhstan by encouraging innovation amongst women. 2011 2 7 29 2012 2 7 29 Because CCI is a global organization, we respect local cultures and customs and make every effort to Azerbaijan accommodate employees in this regard. We also 2011 2 5 40 2012 2 5 40 promote employee mobility between CCI countries. 44 Prior to assignments abroad, CCI expats attend cultural orientation programs aimed at familiarizing them with the culture of their host country. In 2012, twelve short-term and eight long-term expat moveUnion Rights at CCI ments – from Turkey, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan to all CCI countries – were realized within the At CCI, we respect the rights of our scope of this program. In addition, local offices hold employees to join (or not join) unions and events to foster cultural diversity and enhance corporate culture. At CCI, we are also implementing the to establish a union without the fear of “temporary secondment” initiative in order to support retaliation, threat, or harassment. CCI is the development of our employees and to facilitate committed to constructive dialogue with their acquisition of good practices and experience by employees who are members of legallyworking in a different country. recognized trade unions. Mahmudiye Plant employees in Turkey are covered by an ongoing collective bargaining agreement. Employee The collective bargaining agreement covering all seven plants in Turkey ended Engagement on 31 March 2012. The jurisdiction dispute of two different unions was carried to court, hence disrupting the collective bargaining Ensuring the continuity and enhancing the knowledge process. As a result, the percentage of pool of the CCI system is only possible by measuring, employees covered by collective bargaining understanding and responding to the needs of our employees throughout all work processes. agreements in 2012 is lower than the percentage in 2011 at Turkey operation.* At CCI, we enjoy various methods of listening to employees and informing them about company developments. We actively evaluate the innovative ideas of our employees regarding work processes. We help our employees to establish innovative, creative, and environmentally-friendly work models. With such dyPercentage of namic initiatives in place, we launched in 2009 the Employees Covered by “Innovation Competition” in the Supply Chain in TurCollective Bargaining key. The goal of our project was to encourage a culture of innovation and sustainability among our emAgreements ployees and to assist them in their efforts to generate more efficient projects with fewer resources. mb er Nu The flow of operational information is a vital compo% nent of our internal communications system. CCI’s Turkey corporate communications portal, CokePort, serving 2011 328 30.0 users simultaneously in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Jor2012 31 3.4 dan, Pakistan and Turkey is a common working platJordan form as it is safe, user friendly and compatible with 2011 0 0 work flows. The total number of portal users reached 2012 0 0 3,561 as of December 2012. Kazakhstan With new additions to the system, we created a virtu2011 0 0 2012 679 99.9 al workplace for our employees while facilitating their work-life balance and providing a common space for Azerbaijan 2011 0 0 interactions. Here, employees can share both pro2012 0 0 fessional and personal information and exchange ideas. In 2013, we are planning to launch a new web page as part of CokePort specifically for the C4E proj45 CCI Innovation Competition CCI was represented by its Innovation Competition at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development held 20-22 June 2012 in Rio de Janeiro (RIO+20). CCI Corporate Affairs Manager Aykan Gülten presented the Innovation Competition as part of the Corporate Sustainability Forum moderated by CCI Board Member Dr. Yılmaz Argüden. The Innovation Competition was selected earlier in 2012 to represent Turkey at RIO+20 as one of the best sustainability practices in the private sector. Winners of the Fourth CCI Innovation Competition were announced at a ceremony organized on 10 May 2012 at CCI headquarters in Istanbul. Numerous projects competed this year, with 22 qualifying as finalists. The finalists were evaluated by a jury consisting of CCI Turkey department directors and plant managers on the criteria of creativity, benefit, cost and feasibility. One “innovation” project and two “replication” projects were selected as winners. First prize in the Innovation category went to Ahmet Murat for his project, “Tetrapak Packing Line Glue Throwing System.” First prize in the Replication category was shared by Serkan Ersoy, Murat Arslan, ‹rfan Bulut and Nadir ık from the Mahmudiye factory for their “Alteration of Bottom Design” project and Erkan Toros and Muhammed Karaka from Elazı¤ Plant for their “Increasing CO2 Efficiency” project. ect. We aim to inform our employees about the latest 2012 Employee Engagement developments with regard to this project and share the best practices through a database on the system. Survey Result We use various means of internal communication to share information with our employees. In-house publications such as the quarterly magazine The World CCI’s 2020 Vision is the catalyst for building a winof Coca-Cola ‹çecek, monthly CCI News Line, CCI ning culture, being a great place to work, and generNewsletter and 2020 magazine issued specifically for ating extraordinary business results year after year. Employee insights play an important role in our ability our Turkey location every two months, are important to measure our progress toward reaching our 2020 components in strengthening communications with Vision of sustainable growth. our employees. More specifically, employee engagement surveys CCI also devotes significant attention to grievance offer international and local perspectives to identify procedures. Any CCI employee who experiences any strengths and opportunities, reveal common themes sort of discrepancy in corporate policies or practices in employee feedback, and create synergies in acting or who wishes to make his or her position known on upon the feedback that ultimately impact our ability any subject is welcome to notify Human Resources, to drive sustainable growth together. In 2012, we perLegal or Internal Audit Departments as well as to relformed our biannual Employee Engagement Survey. evant management teams. After the surveys were conducted in every country, 46 workshops and focus groups were held to implement Since this is a long journey for all of us, CCI decided suggestions from our employees. Rewarding mechto conduct the engagement survey once every two anisms, career opportunities, and training and deyears in order to allow more time for the business velopment processes were assessed as the areas of to identify development areas, create robust acfocus after the 2011-2012 survey. tion plans, and follow up on these actions to track Our 2012 employee engagement survey highlighted the return on this huge investment. Annual engagethe following: ment action plans will be a part of country reviews, and their progress will be discussed at the Executive Our Strengths Committee level in relevant platforms to ensure that • Company Reputation the necessary prioritization and focus are given to • Sense of Accomplishment this very important area. • Line Managers • Work Activities CCI Best Practice Sharing Opportunities for Improvement • Compensation & Benefits CCI strives to be a learning organization. An import(including recognition, pay and benefits) ant part of this goal is sharing our system-wide best practices. Best practices are great opportunities for us • Valuing People to continuously improve ourselves, learn from others, and come up with new ideas and new methods of 2011-2012 Employee doing things – both within CCI and TCCC system and from outside the Coca-Cola world as well. We believe Engagement Survey Results that it is crucial for each employee to be aware of 2011 2012 Participation Rate each stage of the system in order to function best in his or her individual department. Jordan We share best practices through CokePort, work67 shops, and one-to-one meetings. Occasionally the 100 process is coupled with visits to the best practice 72 owner operation. In addition to the benchmark visits realized within the TCCC system, we accept visits from certain organizations in cooperation with KalDer Kazakhstan and EFQM. 72 86 68 Internal Best Practice Sharing Methods Azerbaijan 66 • All country General Managers come together to 100 share their best practices at annual Leadership Meet66 ings. • By adopting the OE model, CCI spreads best pracTurkey tices across all operations. 59 • In The Top-To-Top Group meetings of CEOs, TCCC’s 84 top bottlers share their best practices. 54 • HR Community meetings held every six months are venues for HR teams to share best practices. CCI de0 50 100 partments share best practices via the Commercial Team which has developed a weekly sharing mechaTARGET %65 nism via e-mails and CokePort. 47 • During 2012 we shared more than 30 best practices • With the Pakistan team’s initiation, a new and simcovering all aspects of commercial excellence. plified RED platform and new My RED concepts were created and then deployed to the rest of the interna• Best practices are shared with all sales and markettional operations together with the corporate Routeing departments via weekly e-mails. To-Market (RTM) team • The launch of Fuse Tea was realized in Turkey, External Best Practice Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. Launches in all countries Sharing Methods have been very successful, with Azerbaijan reaching more than 80% market share in the ice tea category • Award competitions such as the EFQM recently won over a three-month period. Additionally, Fuse's marby the Ankara plant are forms of sharing best practices. ket share in Kazakhstan reached 21.2% in May 2013, making it the number two brand overall in the ice tea • HR shares CCI best practices through its involvecategory and number one brand in the single serve ment with PERYÖN People Management Association market. of Turkey. • CCI’s “Innovation Competition” at the RIO+20 Con• CCI holds regular visits from other organizations such ference in 2012 helped to share our best practices as the Bottler Investment Group (BIG) from Atlanta. with an international audience. • CCI accepts best practice site visits in cooperation with KalDer &EFQM. • CCI’s Supply Chain regularly hosts external teams. Occupational Health • The Chief Information Officers of the ten largest Coca-Cola bottlers in the system come together twice and Safety (OHS) a year in a meeting to share best practices. • The BSG Department organizes best practice sharIn order to reach our 700,000 customers, we use ing meetings with other companies such as General 14,000 vehicles to cover approximately 40,000 kiloElectric and Migros. meters every day, and more than 10,000 employees are working at our 23 production plants and numer• The Global Supply Chain Council of big bottler repous administration offices spread across 10 countries. resentatives come together each year. Since it is our main responsibility to ensure a healthy • We share our good initiatives implemented at our and safe working environment for all of our employplants, selected KPIs, and performance results with ees and our visitors, we focus on reducing job-related our stakeholders as much as we can through our CSR incidents and creating an OHS awareness to lower Reports. risks at the workplace and amongst fleet operations. • We use every opportunity to share our good pracCCI’s ultimate goal with respect to OHS is to achieve tices through national or international conferences, “zero OHS incidents” in all operations. seminars and platforms. At CCI, our Environment, Health & Safety Policy specifically seeks to: Shared Best Practices in CCI • Protect the most valuable and important resource of our company – our human capital – from any occupational health and safety risks or hazards. • Turkey Supply Chain’s Cold Drink Equipment Tracking system, which uses radio-frequency identification • Protect the environment and minimize the impacts tags to track cooler’s location by handheld devices, is of CCI’s operations on the environment while ensurscheduled to be rolled out system-wide. ing a sustainable business. • In 2012, Pakistan’s commercial team visited Ka• Ensure that OHS is an integral part of our business zakhstan for in-depth marketing best practice visit for and is actively supported through management leadone week. We plan to conduct such weekly visits for ership and commitment. all international countries in 2013. 48 • Protect the Company from any legal challenges by grams at the plant level. As many as 310 employees complying with (at a minimum) local legal requirework in these committees, including 52 employee ments as well as applying industry best practices to representatives. set higher standards than such legal requirements. n n sta ija • Protect all other resources and assets from any y an ba kh rke rd er za losses that may be caused by work-related risks and Tu Jo Az Ka hazards. Number of OHS 17 1 1 1 Committees Number of Members 208 29 68 5 Number of Legal Worker 52 0 23 2 Representatives Total Employees 2,822 407 319 680 Percentage of Employees 7.37 7.13 21.3 0.74 Represented in OHS Throughout our operations, we review and improve Committees our OHS standards as we follow the guidelines of the Coca-Cola Occupational Health and Safety SysReducing LTIs was a top priority for CCI senior mantem (TCCOHSS). In addition, implementations as part agement in 2012. Conducting root cause analysis, of OHSAS 18001 Management System and occupaforming 12 OHS Golden Rules and appointing a safetional OHS requirements are periodically reviewed ty specialist at each plant in every CCI country, along and evaluated by the Health and Safety Committee. with a specialized country manager who will report Along with these implementations, occupational OHS to HR, were significant goals regarding OHS at CCI. issues are handled within the context of collective Several positions at the country level have been filled bargaining agreements signed with labor unions. As and plants have begun to implement the tailored of the end of 2012, there were 20 active occupational safety action plans. In 2013, the Company will focus OHS committees in our operations in Turkey, Jordan, on implementing common elements of its OHS policy Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan advising on related prowithin the totality of the international network. cesses and helping to monitor occupational OHS proA total of 327 accidents involving CCI-owned vehicles occurred in 2012. Recognizing that this number was unacceptably high, we took every measure to analyze the contributing factors to all incidents. Among the FLEET SAFETY 250 accidents which occurred in Turkey, seven of them were lost time incidents (LTIs). According to root cause analyses conducted after the accidents, the reasons for the incidents were found to be unsafe behavior while driving. As a result, “Safety on the Road” safe driving courses were organized for both manufacturing and sales employees who drive company vehicles. A total of 1,063 employees attended these training courses in 2012 which will be a priority in 2013 as well. 49 CCI’s 12 Golden Rules Launched in Turkey in 2012 After creating a uniform policy and training for managers, emphasis will be given to changing the behaviors and habits of our non-managerial employees. One important step in shifting awareness toward this way of thinking is the newly formed 12 Golden Rules, which have been prepared as a result of analyses of the Company’s most common accidents. 2,900 employees attended 12 Golden OHS Rules and Safety Awareness Training. CCI’s 12 Golden Rules Always make safety a priority. Never take shortcuts, and always ask for assistance if you have questions or concerns. Always learn emergency procedures and participate in safety trainings. Either as a driver or a passenger, always fasten your seat belt in all vehicles. S When driving always drive at speeds appropriate for the road or facility conditions and within legal limits. Never use a phone while driving or operating machinery. Never drive a vehicle, operate a machine or come to the workplace under the influence of alcohol, drugs or fatigue. When working with electrical power systems, always use caution, make sure you are competent and properly trained, and obtain a work permit. When working at dangerous heights, always make sure to have the appropriate training beforehand, and always wear a safety harness. Always obtain a work permit for hazardous works. Always use appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Always work with competent contractors, and manage, control and monitor them strictly, continuously and effectively. l Always manage change and design processes effectively and by assessing risks. 50 While the rules will rely on managers to make sure CCI wants to work toward zero incidents with lost that they are properly applied, taking responsibility time by 2020. Our 2020 Vision is about developing for OHS in the workplace applies to all positions at standards and creating a health and safety culture every level of the Company. Every employee has the by communicating and involving managers and suobligation and right to stop an operation where he/ pervisors. OHS questions, which already exist at the she sees potential risk and can report such threats to managerial level, will soon feature in the annual perimmediate supervisors, HR, a OHS manager, or even formance reviews of all employees. to the CEO – hierarchy does not apply. Examples of Good OHS Practices in CCI Countries Azerbaijan implemented comprehensive emergency training including fire practice and use of protective gear. Jordan began an initiative called Take 10 in which a health and safety representative visits employees to enhance awareness of different OHS topics related to work spaces, including third party employees, contractors and CCBCJ employees. Kazakhstan implemented daily breathalyzer tests for alcohol resulting in two years of zero instances of on-the-job alcohol impairment. Pakistan instituted Emergency Safety Signs & Markings Campaign concerning reflective emergency signage, safety and security signs in the local language, and road safety. Turkey initiated a recognition system which acknowledges employees who display high performance and safe behavior with regard to OHS. In CCI workplaces, emergency response teams are formed and trained periodically. Safeguarding, Rescue, Extinguishing and First Aid Teams were established, and training sessions were completed. Currently, emergency and fire drills are held annually for all CCI Emergency personnel, contractors and visitors. After training sessions were completed in 2012, the Preparedness first evacuation drill was conducted at the HQ Office. In natural disasters and crisis situations, CCI’s Incident Management and Crisis Resolution (IMCR) Program, a part of TCCC’s Global Asset Protection Strategy, is administered throughout our entire system from senior management while the IMCR team determines emergency plans. In the near term, all CCI at CCI facilities will be assessed for any natural disaster risks. 51 Our Community CCI is a global company that strives to remain in line Progress with local needs and expectations. Doing business in ten countries across a consumer base of more than 360 million people requires us to understand and • We signed a strategic partnership protocol with respect local outlooks. Our continuous dialogue with Turkish Kızılay and International Red Crescent to bring immediate aid to victims of natural disasters in our stakeholders is the main driver of our community our operating countries. investments. • We donated 3% of our Turkish pre-tax profit (7.5 Coca-Cola products are manufactured locally, theremillion TL) to the Anadolu Foundation. by creating thousands of jobs directly and indirectly for local communities. As such, our business has a • 20 CCI employees participated in the 2012 Commusignificant and positive economic impact on the local nity Champions Award Program. economies and communities where we operate. In • We reached 190,000 people as a part of our ”Azeraddition, we are concerned with, and driven to act baijan Grassroots Project.” on, other local community issues such as social and ecological concerns. Following are some of the actions we take to support our local communities: • We directly contribute to the economic growth of the markets where we operate by contracting with 2013 Goals local suppliers and vendors and through our local hiring practices. • We will continue to donate 3% of our Turkish pre• We establish platforms for dialogue with members tax profits to The Anadolu Foundation. and representatives of our local communities. • Throughout our operating geography, we will launch • We support the welfare of local communities and Active Lifestyle Legacy Programs to promote a more national societies at large by contributing to proactive and healthy lifestyle amongst young people. grams that focus on environmental and resource • We will launch Employee and Families Volunteering protection, health, active lifestyle, education, youth Clubs in Turkey. development and disaster relief. • We will conduct Community Reputation Surveys in line • We support our employees in community contribuwith 2013 Business Excellence Model requirements. tion programs by encouraging employee volunteerism. Economic Development 2012 Goals By manufacturing locally, CCI generates economic benefits for our communities. We directly employ • We aim to sign a strategic partnership protocol with 10,893 people, and our tax payments to governments Turkish Kızılay (Turkish Red Cross) according to our amounted to approximately 205 million TL in 2012. solution studies on natural disasters. At CCI, we aim to create value for our customers. The • We aim to increase the participation rates of our majority of our customer base consists of small busiCommunity Champions Award Program and enness owners, and we have helped to establish hunhance support awarded employees in improving dreds of small distribution outlets in areas not easily their projects. serviced by conventional distribution channels. • We aim to continue the Azerbaijan Grassroots ProjWe help transfer technology. We train local people ect initiated to support active healthy lifestyles and in management systems standards, energy efficient increase the appeal of sports among young people. technologies and wastewater treatment. In addition, 52 Social Development we share our experiences with local businesses, governments, academic bodies and NGOs. CCI donates a portion of its pre-tax profits derived from operations in Turkey to charitable organizations We care about the needs of local communities everyas specified in our Articles of Association. Accordingwhere we operate. Our goal is to be a reliable partner ly, in 2012, we donated 3% of our pre-tax profits, or in finding common solutions for common problems, 7.5 million TL, to The Anadolu Education and Social and we encourage our employees and stakeholders Aid Foundations. In addition, 175,000 TL was donated to take part in our social development projects. to other NGOs while another 100,000 TL was allocated for our Employee Donations Project. Because CCI is a global organization, we respect local cultures and customs and make every effort to accommodate employees in this regard. We also CCI’s Economic Impact promote and facilitate employee mobility between CCI countries. Research Prior to assignments abroad, CCI expats attend cultural orientation programs aimed at familiarizing In the context of the global economic crisis still onthem with the culture of their host country. In 2012, going as of 2010, CCI aimed to measure the impact twelve short-term and eight long-term expat moveof the Coca-Cola System on Turkey’s economy. A ments – from Turkey, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Kyrworking group consisting of faculty members from gyzstan to all CCI countries – were realized within the Bo¤aziçi University and Middle East Technical Universcope of this program. In addition, local offices hold sity as well as executives of CCI concluded that the events to foster cultural diversity and enhance cormultiplier effect of CCI on employment is 10. In othporate culture. At CCI, we are also implementing the er words, for every job created by CCI, ten more are “temporary secondment” initiative in order to support created as a result. In 2013, similar research will be the development of our employees and to facilitate conducted in Jordan. their acquisition of good practices and experience by working in a different country. “My Idea Is Now My Work” CCI’s Community Champions Project Awards Coca-Cola has made the economic empowerment of women a priority among its sustainability efforts. Unleashing the entrepreneurial potential of women is one of the best ways we can make our business sustainable and one of the most effective and lasting ways we can help families and communities prosper. Empowering women provides more choices for women and creates female role models and mentors. By investing in the success of women, we invest in our Since 2010, CCI’s Community Champions Awards own success as well as in the success of communiProgram has been rewarding employees who unties around the world. dertake initiatives that contribute to society and the In Turkey, female participation in the labor force is reenvironment as well as those who encourage other grettably lower than that of males. The Istanbul Chamemployees and stakeholders to this end. ber of Commerce (ITO), The Union of Chambers and Employees from Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey and Coca-Cola colTurkey participate in the competition with projects laborated for “My Idea Is Now My Work,” a project that aimed at resolving social issues. As many as 1,149 aims to put forward a model to attract women into the voters from eight countries participated in online votworkforce as strong entrepreneurs and to report their ing. The most successful 10 projects of 2012 among success stories in order to encourage more female 20 applications were chosen to compete in a final entrepreneurs. Within the scope of the project, female round. Seher Boyrazo¤lu from Azerbaijan won first entrepreneurs will be trained and mentored in order to prize, Aslıhan Baarık of Turkey won second prize help them prepare to run a successful business. and Arsalan Rauf of Pakistan won the third prize. 53 Life Plus Foundation and Life chemical pollution in the Gediz River by introducing a technique known as vermin compost to local farmers. Plus Youth Program The Vermin Compost Producers Network was estabThe Life Plus Youth Program, carried out in collabolished to support farmers who are willing to use this ration with Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, The Unitenvironmentally friendly farming technique. ed Nations Development Program, and The Origin of Living Foundation (YADA) provided support to six projects in six cities in 2012. The projects are carried Songbirds in Halep Pine Forests out by young people between the ages of 18 and 30 and implemented under umbrella topics such as the Adana/Yumurtalık promotion of renewable energy sources, protection The project aims to protect the Halep Pine Forest by of water resources, waste management and sustainintroducing biological measures such as encouragable use of forests. The program is the first and only ing the reproduction of songbirds – which are natcivil society initiative in Turkey which supports young ural consumers of the Halep pine trees – to combat people who contribute to solving social problems destructive pine processionary caterpillars. with their own projects. Let the Tortum Cascade; Let Breath to Country, Wealth to Nature be Restored Farmers Kırklareli/Demirköy Erzurum/Tortum, Uzundere This project aims to increase forest villagers’ capacThe project aims to promote the region's ecological ity to collect, transport, preserve and market natural sustainability by initiating ecological tourism activities, mushrooms, consequently creating an alternative mobilizing organizations (local administrations, pubsource of livelihood and ensuring that forests are lic, and non-governmental), and raising public awareprotected. ness of the issue both locally and internationally. Sweetgums Revival Tarsus Protects its Water Mu¤la/Köyce¤iz Mersin/Tarsus The project aims to ensure the ecological integrity of In collaboration with the Tarsus Development, Solithe Köyce¤iz Sweetgum Forest by creating forest cordarity and Beautification Association, this project ridors between dispersed forest segments. Additionaims to find a solution to the problem of waste oil ally, the project seeks to strengthen the local commixing with sewage systems. Various stakeholder munity’s willingness to protect forests by introducing groups have been informed by volunteers about the more eco-friendly alternatives of livelihood such as importance of the problem, and conscious collection eco-tourism. and recycling habits have been initiated. Environment-Friendly Water to Tohma, Life to Darende Earthworms Izmir/Menemen Malatya/Darende Gediz Valley is one of the most fertile lands in the In Darende, agriculture is an important source of liveworld, yet it is threatened by water depletion and exlihood. The main source of water for the region, the cessive use of chemicals. The project aims to reduce Tohma River, is losing its reserves due to over-irri54 Supported Social gation. The project aims to increase the use of drip irrigation in the region to reduce the amount of water used for agriculture. With training programs and pilot projects, the project informs farmers in the region Projects about the benefits of modern irrigation methods. Empowering Youth CCI believes in the educating and empowering young people as much as it believes in the social and economic development of nations. This is why youth empowerment is one of the key areas of focus for CCI’s community involvement projects. Various projects were held during 2012 regarding this issue. Injaz Project Jordan Four Seasons of Water to Considering the fact that 45% of the Jordanian popGölcihan ulation is under the age of 20, CCI is more than deOne of the most significant wetlands of Yumurtalık, lighted to participate in any project that seeks to emAdana, Gölcihan Lake is in jeopardy of drying up as power young Jordanians. evaporization has increased while the number of water sources filling the lake has decreased in recent years. It is estimated that the project, which is conducted by the Nature Research Society in collaboration with the Deveciua¤ı Natural Protection and Development Association and Yeilköy Municipality, will allow 687,500m3 of water to enter the lake with the help of a 500-meter channel connecting the lake to the Ceyhan River. As a result, it is hoped that the lake will regain its wetland status, increase biodiversity in the region, meet the water needs of local farmers, and provide the region with new income opportunities via the increased fish population in the lake. For example, CCI supported one school in the goverCaper is the Love of Forests norate of Madabato seeking to improve the quality of Turkey’s Artvin region, with its rich forestlands, is one education by developing a modern curriculum. With of the country’s most important ecological regions, Injaz, CCI’s Jordan operation teaches the youth of the but it has been losing its fertile soils due to erosion. local community by sharing stories of success that This project, organized with the Artvin Association for can be easily achieved. Supporting Higher Education, Artvin Çoruh University Faculty of Forestry and Artvin Çoruh University Forestry Application and Research Center, aims to protect Supporting Distinguished the region’s fertile soils and forestlands ravaged by erosion. In this regard, planting caper bushes has Students Jordan been put forward as an objective since that the caper In March 2012, CCI organized an event for the celis both effective in combating erosion and economiebration of the distinguished students of Amman’s cally valuable for the local community. Bent Adi School for Girls. Within the scope of the project, a seed collection practice was realized with the participation of Artvin Supporting Youth Institutions Çoruh University students. The collected caper seeds Jordan were then stratified at the Artvin Çoruh University In line with its continuous involvement in the local Faculty of Forestry Laboratory and later planted in the community, our Jordan operations supported efforts faculty’s nursery garden. 55 to rehabilitate Amman’s Islamic Schools for Girls. The rehabilitation consisted of both students and employSupporting Education Turkey ees painting and cleaning the school. CCI employees restored a school in Mu¤la, Köyce¤iz, hosting 18 teachers and 155 students. CCI employees also volunteered to help restore a school in Izmir KeSupport for Academia and malpaa and in Yulaflı Village of Çorlu. Civil Society Azerbaijan Environmental education was provided to 200 elCCI’s Azerbaijan operation supported the Annual Naementary schools as well as teachers in Derekızık, tional NGOs Forum of Azerbaijan and collaborated Barakfaki, Narlıdere and Çataltepe. with Baku State University, Azerbaijan State University of Architecture and Construction, Azerbaijan State University of Foreign Languages, and Baku Slavic University on various projects. Supporting People with Disabilities Turkey CCI contributed to The Spinal Cord Paralytics AssoSupport for Children ciation of Turkey by donating 10 containers to collect Kazakhstan PET caps in Elazı¤. This project helped 23 people gain access to wheelchairs. Every year on New Year’s Day and Children's Day, June 1st, employees in Kazakhstan collect funds in Another project, aimed at helping disabled people the Scientific Center of Pediatrics and Surgery for chilgain employment as well as helping underprivileged dren with oncology diseases. children, involved Elazı¤ CCI employees purchasing shoes manufactured by employees of the Association of the Hearing Impaired and distributing them to Multan Development Projects underprivileged children. Pakistan Employees in Pakistan operation collaborated with Multan District Coordination Office on several social Blood Donations Turkey development projects. Alamdar Islamia College, one CCI employees in various plants donated more than of Multan’s oldest educational institutions, was ren300 units of blood in 2012. ovated. CCI helped preserve 5,000 year-old artifacts by investing in the refurbishment of the Multan History Museum and by sponsoring a documentary highlighting the culture of Multan. My Health Project Turkey Classes on breast cancer and family planning were Career Counseling Pakistan given to women in the village of Derekızık in a project conducted jointly with the Provincial Health Directorate. Cold Winter Days Project Turkey Winter boots, socks and textbooks were donated to students at the Orhaneli Elementary School. Employees in Pakistan also actively participated in activities sponsored by “The Citizens Foundation (TCF),” Spouses ClubTurkey working with young underprivileged students in the A volunteer social club that welcomes employees’ TCF Career Counseling Program and spending seven spouses established at the CCI plant in Bursa contindays with TCF students during TCF’s Rahbar Program. ued to support local people in need. 56 Supporting Disabled Children sustainable development skills and competences of teachers and students is one of the key undertakings Jordan to promote environmental education in Kazakhstan. In this sense, “Caspian Green Pack” is an instrument of public awareness and environmental education on water and water-related issues in the Caspian Sea region of Kazakhstan. Every Drop Matters for Human Health Kazakhstan Lack of access to safe drinking water and sanitation in rural areas of Arshaly, Kazakhstan, is a serious On the International Day for the Disabled, employees problem for the region. Due to lack of sterile water, in Jordan sponsored a ceremony for disabled chil90% of the region’s adult population suffers from dren at The Higher Council for Affairs for Persons with dental diseases. This project is aimed at improving Disabilities in July 2012. human health through access to clean drinking water and sanitation services in pilot areas, increasing awareness of health & hygiene at local levels, and Visiting the Local Community supporting the exchange of information regarding Jordan this issue. In 2012, the project resulted in the testing of 35 drinking water resources in 16 rural districts During 2012 employees in Jordan also visited orand the training of 64 volunteers in 16 rural districts phanages. “The CCI Jordan Women’s Club” visited a of the Arshaly region. home for elderly women on Mother’s Day. Every Drop Matters Supporting a Cleaner Kazakhstan Environment Clean-up Event This project aims to protect land and water resourcKazakhstan es from contamination, to increase awareness in efficient water use and to initiate composting. In 2012, A mass clean-up event was organized along the rivconstruction of water distributors in Alga village was erbanks of Kazakhstan’s Esentay, Malaya Almatincompleted, sites for compost clamps were identified, ka and Baskarasu Rivers. A total of 1,200 volunteers and three sites were established to prevent pollution from local university representatives, NGO represenof surface waters. tatives and local residents participated in the event to rid the rivers of domestic waste. As a result, a 16.14 km2-area of river channels and banks of minor rivers Reforestation in Ankara in the water protection zone was cleaned, and 97.2 m3 of garbage (solid domestic waste) was removed. Turkey CCI employees in Ankara continue to plant saplings in the Karaköy Atatürk Forest. The project’s target is 100 trees planted per employee. Caspian Green Pack Kazakhstan Access to drinking water, water management, water Environmental Training supply and sanitation are at the top of the agenda in Bursa Turkey for Kazakhstan. Development of up-to-date eduEnvironmental awareness training was provided cational resources that target not mere knowledge to 200 elementary school students and teachers in transmission but also development of education for Derekızık, Barakfaki, Narlıdere and Çataltepe. 57 Environment world D Our Environmental Approach D Energy Management & Climate Protection D Water Management D Sustainable Packaging 58 In 2012, we achieved a reduction of approximately 117,200 tons of CO2 emissions (an amount equivalent to the amount of CO2 that 9,700 trees extract from the environment) with our eco-friendly coolers in our Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan operations. 172,282 m3 of water recycled and With pet bottle blowing pressure reused in our Turkey, optimization studies in Turkey in 2012, Jordan, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan we saved energy equivalent to operations is almost equivalent to annual water consumption of CCI the annual electricity use of 241 houses Köyce¤iz plant. FGHI Our priority is to minimize our company's environmental impact and protect natural resources while refreshing consumers with the highest quality beverages of The Coca-Cola Company. This approach is essential for the sustainability of our business as well as the sustainability and welfare of the communities in which we operate. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL and inspire others by setting an example with our performance in our industry. In line with our APPROACH environmental impact management approach we’ve determined our three main focus areas: With our continuous efforts to minimize water • Water Stewardship consumption in our operations, to reduce our total • Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection carbon footprint, and to preserve natural resources, we aim to deliver on our sustainability commitments • Sustainable Packaging 59 In all of our operations, • We establish environmental management systems in order to monitor and improve Our Environmental our environmental performance. • We conduct operations by minimizing our impact on the environment and considering the value of the resources that future generations will need. • We place the issue of water usage, which is fundamental to our business, at the heart Commitments of our environmental policy and aim to be an exemplary company in this regard. • We prioritize energy efficiency in every area of our operations, from supply to production and from distribution to sale. • We measure our carbon footprint and take the necessary measures to reduce it. • We implement recycling programs and therefore reduce our consumption of resources. • We reduce pollution by safe disposal of waste generated from our operations. • We develop environmental awareness in our workplace and we aim to create the same awareness in all stakeholders through joint projects and initiatives. In managing environmental impacts, we are guided Water, energy and total waste recycling rates form by our activities, legal requirements, TCCC standards the basis of our environmental approach. Our and industrial practices. Additionally, we do our performance goals regarding our 2013 and 2020 best to satisfy our stakeholders and give serious goals are illustrated below. consideration to their expectations. Turkey Azerbaijan Jordan Kazakhstan et l et et et l et et et l et et et l et et rg tua rg rg rg tua rg rg rg tua rg rg rg tua rg rg Ta Ac Ta Ta Ta Ac Ta Ta Ta Ac Ta Ta Ta Ac Ta Ta 12 12 13 20 12 12 13 20 12 12 13 20 12 12 13 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Solid Waste Recycling 95 96 96 98 89 99 90 95 94 93 93 98 90 89.5 90 96 Ratio (%) Water Use 1.40 1.39 1.39 1.2 1.85 2.06 1.85 1.5 1.78 1.90 1.90 1.40 1.65 1.76 1.70 1.25 Ratio (L/L) Energy Use 0.24 0.257 0.24 0.23 0.39 0.470 0.39 0.35 0.34 0.388 0.37 0.30 0.32 0.278 0.32 0.24 Ratio (MJ/L)* * Energy Use Ratio refers to only bottling (filling) operations in all plants. We provided 896 hours of environmental training to our employees in Turkey in 2012. 60 Energy management and climate protection, per• Our Lightweight project implementation began in ceived by us as inseparable elements of our enviour International operations. ronmental policy and practices, are a priority for our • Ankara, Mersin, Mahmudiye, Bursa and Köyce¤iz sustainability strategy. As we increase the energy efplants obtained the ISO 50001 Energy Management ficiency in our operations every year, we reduce our System Certificate. As a result, 100% of the CCI Turkey environmental impact and pursue more profitable operation now possesses the energy management business processes. While our continuous improvesystem certificate. ment objective in this field results in reduced emission values, we adopt a proactive approach in climate protection and spread it throughout our value chain. 2013 Goals 2012 Goals • LEED certification will be a minimum standard for all CCI plants. We aim to reduce CO2 g/L from 29.15 to 28.75 in Turkey. • To achieve a 2012 energy consumption per liter of product of 0.24 MJ/L in Turkey, 0.39 MJ/L in Jordan, • Our target energy use ratios (EUR) are 0.24 MJ/L for 0.32 MJ/L in Kazakhstan, and 0.34 MJ/L in Azerbaijan. Turkey, 0.39 MJ/L for Jordan, 0.37 MJ/L for Azerbaijan, and 0.32 MJ/L for Kazakhstan. • To reduce our energy consumption by implementing the “Lightweight” (packaging weight reduction) • We aim to supply energy to the Izmir plant’s Postproject in our international operations during the mix line by using solar photovoltaic panels and wind 2012-2013 period. turbines. • To assure that 100% of the CCI Turkey operation possesses the energy management system certifTCCC launched icate when the Ankara, Mersin, Mahmudiye, Bursa and Köyce¤iz plants obtain the ISO 50001 Energy Management System Certificate. “Reduce CO2 emissions embedded in the drink in your hand,” initiative in 2013 to reduce the greenhouse gas Progress emissions across its entire value chain. We are going to integrate CCI’s Climate Protection targets • We were unable to achieve our energy consumption goal in Turkey. This is due to the increase in natwith this initiative in order to ural gas and electricity consumption as a result of hot achieve comprehensive carbon filling processes and to the increase in aseptic production at the Bursa and Çorlu plants. The installation footprint reductions across of the new hot-fill line with lower energy efficiency compared with PET lines in Azerbaijan increased enthe manufacturing processes, ergy usage ratio and the country operation missed packaging formats, delivery fleet, the target. Nevertheless, we did implement numerous energy efficiency projects in 2012 in our Turkey, refrigeration equipment and Azerbaijan and Jordan operations to reduce our eningredient sourcing. ergy consumption. 61 An increase in global temperatures will increase Climate Protection pressures on natural resources, including water, necand Emission essary for agricultural production. We have identified climate protection as a top priManagement ority in our sustainability agenda. We are transparent in sharing our energy performance and carbon footprint statistics which are verified by independent The consensus on climate science is increasingly unorganizations according to internationally recognized equivocal; global climate change is happening and standards. We realize that we have a role to play in man-made GHG emissions are a crucial factor. The ensuring that we use the best possible mix of energy implications of climate change for our planet are prosources, improve the energy efficiency of our manufound and wide ranging, with expected adverse imfacturing processes, and reduce the potential climate pacts on biodiversity, water resources, public health, impact of the products we sell. and agriculture. At CCI, we consider the risks and Detailed evaluations of our Carbon Disclosure Project opportunities climate change exerts on our business. (CDP) report is available at www.cdpproject.net CCI Takes the Lead in Carbon Performance in Turkey CCI was recognized as one of the top carbon performance leaders of 2012 in Turkey by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) according to the “Turkey 100 Climate Change Report 2012” released by CDP Turkey. According to the report, CCI is one of only two Turkish companies whose performance score falls within Band B (>60%). CCI’s Band B score indicates that the company has successfully integrated sustainability principles and measures to tackle climate change as a priority within its overall strategy, though some initiatives are still waiting to be implemented. CCI was also cited among the top five carbon disclosure leaders in Turkey in the CDP’s first Turkey report, “CDP 2011 Turkey-100 Report,” published in 2012. GHG Emissions of CCI’s Turkey operation have been verified according to ISO 14064-1 CCI Turkey Manufacturing, Sales & Distribution operations have successfully passed the verification audits conducted by SGS; an international independent audit & assurance organization and achieved certification in compliance with ISO 14064-1 Standard an internationally-recognized standard which specifies measurement of, accounting for, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. SGS conducted independent third party verification on-site audits in CCI’s Istanbul headquarters and Çorlu and Bursa Plants, and remote reviews of all plants and sales offices in Turkey. Greenhouse gas (GHG) sources, sinks and/or reservoirs, stationary combustion, mobile combustion, process emissions, fugitive emissions (scope 1) and purchased electricity (scope 2) were included in the scope of verification process. 2012 GHG emissions of 113,656 tons of CO2 equivalent (CO2e) were verified as a result of this process. By our climate protection approach, which we believe • Reducing logistics-based emissions with effective minimizes climate change risks, we aim to be proacfleet and fuel management. tive and innovative in related processes. Our strategy • Reducing indirect emissions by focusing on our clifocuses on the following: mate-friendly refrigeration applications. • Increasing the energy efficiency of our plants and • Increasing awareness of climate protection by coloffices. laborating with stakeholders. 62 2011 and 2012 GHG Emissions in Turkey CO2e (tons) 2012 18,310 64,212 11,661 19,473 113,656 2011 16,764 64,923 32,319* 114,006 Scope 1 Stationary combustion emissions Scope 2 emission Scope 1 Fleet emissions Scope 1 Fugitive emissions from coolers & cooling system * In 2012, CCI verified its greenhouse gas emissions for all its operational facilities in Turkey according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. As a result, CCI has been able to quantify its Scope 1 fugitive emissions from its coolers, production processes, and fleet of sales operations for the first time in 2012. 2011 Fleet emissions include scope 1 and scope 3 CO 2e emissions while 2012 fleet emissions include only scope 1 GHG emissions. Scope 3 emissions are not included in 2012 GHG emissions since they were not verified. CCI has not restated prior year emissions which excluded these emission sources since it is not possible to accurately estimate the prior year emissions data from these sources on a retrospective basis. Hence, in comparing the emissions data in the chart above, one should bear in mind that prior year emissions omit these sources. As CCI, with our ever-developing approach to energy Energy Efficiency efficiency, we commit to taking a leadership role for our industry and the Coca-Cola System. Improving energy efficiency in our production processes and Our efforts for a successful emission management other operations is not only a part of our corporate and climate protection strategy are backed up with culture, but it is also a fundamental pillar in our larger a smart strategy and a focus on implementation of sustainability strategy. innovative practices in the energy management field. 2005-2012 Energy Consumption Ratio (MJ/L) 1.69 0.47 0.39 0.4 0.388 0.37 0.28 0.278 0.32 0.274 0.257 0.24 Turkey Kazakhstan Jordan Azerbaijan 63 2012 Energy Use Ratio • At our Bursa plant we began installing new low-pressure air compressors. This has been comBenchmark (MJ/L) pleted, and new compressors are driven via frequency converters according to required pressure. With this implementation, we achieved a total energy savJordan 0.470 ings of 1,290,813 kWh. Kazakhstan 0.278 Azerbaijan 0.388 Turkey 0.257 Coca Cola System 2012 0.43 Bursa Plant • In our Çorlu plant, by reducing the number of process fans in resin dryer unit, a savings of 585,000 0 0.5 1 kWh was achieved. Within the scope of Operational Excellence, Innova• In our Ankara plant, air blowers were replaced by air tion Competition, Cooler Improvement Program, enknives and, consequently, 295,902 kWh was saved. ergy efficiency projects at our workplaces and many • In our Mersin plant, in order to provide efficient other implementations, CCI achieved an annual recooling, the central cooling systems were utilized duction of approximately 117,600 tons of CO2 emisinstead of keeping local cooling chillers. In addition, sions in 2012 in Turkey operation. Within the scope of OE’s 6th Wave, 105 projects were Energy Consumption successfully implemented in Turkey with the particiImprovements between pation of more than 300 employees. As a result, CCI achieved a reduction of 3,707,903 kWh, 24,749 kg of 2005-2012 (MJ/L) NG and 1,281 kg of LPG which translated into a re2005 2012 duction in CO2 emissions of approximately 1,730 tons. Jordan -72.19% Turkey PET Bottle Blowing 1.690 Pressure Optimization Savings 0.470 rb Sa Em on is vi (kW ngs Re sion du s (to ction Kazakhstan -30.5% h) Ca ns ) 2008 4,348,728 1,906 0.400 2009 0.278 668,886 320 2010 2,911,061 1,442 Azerbaijan +38.57% 2011 1,455,107 698 0.280 2012 3,930,683 1,749 0.388 TOTAL 13,314,465 6,115 Turkey -6.2% Within the context of OE, energy efficiency projects similar to those in Turkey were employed in all country operations. As a result of these projects, we 0.274 achieved an annual energy savings of 3,363,470 0.257 kWh electricity in Kazakhstan, 993,268 kWh in Jordan, and 167,059 kWh in Azerbaijan. Major energy 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 efficiency projects throughout 2012 included: 64 R22 was replaced by Ammonia. As a result, a savings • In our Brundai plant, energy savings of 175,500 kWh of 1,450,000 kWh was achieved. was achieved by decreasing compressed air con• In our Faisalabad plant, a total energy savings of sumption for HF blown bottle cooling. 153,270.6 kWh was achieved by installing an econoAs a result of 46 energy efficiency projects implemizer in the boiler. mented in CCI Turkey plants, approximately 3,065 • In our Amman Plant, we achieved an energy savings tons of CO2 emission reduction was achieved. of 810,000 kWh by installing a sky light in the wet area. CCI’s Innovation Competition, which we have been implementing in the Supply Chain in Turkey since 2009 to help ensure the sustainability of our system, helps our employees develop innovative and sustainable projects. By rewarding those projects that provide energy Innovation Competition efficiency while consuming fewer resources, the project aims to spread a culture of innovation and sustainability throughout the workforce. Since the beginning of the competition, 579 projects have been developed by our employees. In 2012, 22 projects were entitled to run in the competition. As a result of the achievements of the projects that were implemented in 2012, we achieved total energy savings of 1,148.31 tons of CO2 emissions. Winning projects in 2012 included • Bursa plant’s “Tetrapak Packing Line Glue Throwing System” reduces the use of glue in 1 L packing material. The project won first prize for “Innovation.” • CCI’s IT Department’s “Cooler Finder,” which helps employees to detect inappropriate cooling equipment at the points of sale. The project won second prize in the ”Innovation” category. • Mersin plant’s “Pallet Separator Cost Reduction” resulted in radius pallet separators being replaced with low-cost 90-degree separators. The project won third prize in the “Innovation” category. • Mahmudiye plant’s “Alteration of Bottom Design” aims to reduce consumer complaints to zero. The project shared first prize for “Replication.” • Elazı¤ plant’s “Increase in CO2 Efficiency” uses sterilized air in the carbonizer systems of PET and RGB lines instead of CO2.The project shared first prize in the “Replication” category. Top 10 Energy-Saving Challenge Coca-Cola and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) launched the Energy-Saving Challenge in January 2011 to assist the Company’s 1,000 bottling partners in improving plant performance. The Challenge encourages bottling companies to implement energy-saving practices that reduce environmental impacts while increasing cost savings. Through the Energy-Saving Challenge, Coca-Cola and WWF indicated 10 practices that, if implemented across every bottling plant, will enable Coca‐Cola to meet between 60-70% of its carbon reduction goal. The partners previously announced a larger climate goal in 2008 for Coca-Cola to stabilize carbon emissions system-wide in its manufacturing operations and to achieve a five percent carbon reduction in developed countries by 2015. CCI Turkey Operations became the first country operation in the Coca-Cola System to complete the Global Top 10 Energy Saving Program in all of its plants. Moreover, our Izmir plant marked an important success by becoming the first bottling plant within the overall Coca-Cola system to complete the challenge. As of the end of 2012, all country operations in the reporting region completed Global Top 10 Energy Saving Program. 65 Izmir Plant’s Achievement in EBSO Awards Our Izmir plant initiated an energy minimization-themed Lean 6 Sigma project in the beginning of 2007. In order to create and spread awareness, the plant put forward a challenging objective in energy minimization and declared it throughout the Coca-Cola System. With this project, the Izmir plant won the runner-up award in Aegean Region Chamber of Industry (EBSO)’s Environmental Implementation Silver Award Category. Çorlu Plant Becomes Energy Efficiency in Finalist in ISO Awards With Low Weight Preform and Reducing Office Design PET Blowing Pressure projects, the Çorlu plant became a finalist in the Environment Friendly Practices and Energy Efficiency In line with our energy reduction goals and sustainPractices categories in the 2011 ISO Environability policy, we have already begun complying ment Awards held for the 13th time in 2012 with Energy Performance of Buildings regulations by Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO). for new buildings at our Turkey operation. In 2012, we built our Elazı¤ plant in line with LEED certification standards. In line with our policy, LEED certification will be a minimum standard for all future CCI plants constructed as of 2013. Moreover, CCI has voluntarily standardized programs for isolation of buildings and Energy Efficiency efficient lighting initiatives (for example, replacing exImprovements at isting lighting with T5 fluorescent bulbs). We achieved Headquarter Office 10% saving in energy use as a result of green lighting investments in 2012. In addition to our energy efficiency awareness-raising activities promoting environmentally responsible behavior amongst our employees and stakeholders, we realized several physical energy efficiency practices in 2012 at our Headquarter Office. For instance, we replaced 250 LED and energy saving armatures in offices, installed 400 electronic ballasts in the warehouse, replaced single phase pumps with fan coil units, and installed photocell lighting systems in the car park and rest rooms in our Istanbul headquarters. These actions resulted in an annualized savings of 445,680 kWh. Elazı¤ Plant 66 2011-2012 Fleet Emissions* ** Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan 11 12 11 12 11 12 20 20 20 20 20 20 CO2 (g/l) *Fleet emissions (g) produced by 21.09 12.76 7.05 6.24 13.37 8.91 the amount of diesel equivalent NOx (g/l) 342.69 207.89 114.81 101.71 143.19 124.67 fuel consumed per distribution of products (L). PM (g/l) 13.24 8.03 4.44 3.93 6.01 5.17 **Turkey data is not included. HC (g/l) 14.02 8.50 4.7 4.16 12.21 5.55 Managing the Impact of ation we calculate carbon emissions using a different calculation method. Therefore, only Scope 1 fleet Transportation and Logistics emissions were verified during the project. In the calculations of fleet emissions for Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, both Scope 1 and Scope 3 fleet emisTransportation and logistics operations have a great sions are included. impact on our environmental and business perforIn 2012, we introduced five trucks with Euro 5-type mance. With approximately 245,000 vehicle movemotors for our distribution operations and abandoned ments a year, we transport thousands of goods and the seven trucks with Euro 3-type motors. Additionalproducts – transferring goods bought from suppliers ly, we rented vehicles from suppliers with Euro 5-type to our plants, and transferring products to points of motors for our fleet vehicles. With these implementaour customers and distributors. tions, we contributed to the overall decrease of apTo achieve our objectives in reducing energy conproximately 211 tons of CO2 emissions. In addition, we sumption and CO2 emissions, we aim to consume completed the test drives of the vehicles used by our less fuel and minimize the number of daily vehicle sales team, and having achieved successful results, movements. In accordance with these objectives, we we have decided to focus on electric vehicles in 2013. continually optimize our routes with computer techAnother implementation realized in 2012 was the renologies and renew our vehicles for better fuel mileplacement of delivery trucks with panel van type veage and lower emissions. hicles. Beginning with four vehicles, we’ve obtained As a result of ISO 14064-1 (GHG emissions inventory positive results and decided to increase the usage of calculation and verification) project in Turkey operthese vehicles in 2013. Improvements in Fuel Consumption We reduced our fuel consumption rate from 6.81 L/KL to 4.72 L/KL in Jordan, from 5.21 L/KL to 3.42 L/KL in Azerbaijan, and from 2.61 L/KL to 2.31 L/KL in Kazakhstan in 2012. Fuel consumption rate = total fuel use (diesel equivalent liters) / total volume of distributed product (kiloliters) In 2012, the amount of fuel consumed per CCI leased fleet vehicle in Turkey was reduced to 4,114 liters from 5,093 liters in 2011. Additionally, we also reduced the total amount of fuel used in product distribution by 6.4% compared to 2011. 67 Cooling Practices Percentage of HFC Coolers In Turkey It is important that the majority of our products be kept and served cold in order to provide consumers 2012 Q4 40% with the unique flavor they have come to expect. For that reason, we have thousands of coolers and vending machines with coolers at our sales points. Since 2011 27% coolers are the most significant component of our carbon footprint; carbon emissions due to electricity consumption of coolers are higher than the sum of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, and energy con2010 11% sumption reduction strategy, we give great importance selecting eco-friendly coolers. With this understanding and related implications, we aim to reduce our environmental impact. 2009 0% Reducing per-cooler energy consumption is an important part of our 2020 Vision. For that reason, we began replacing the coolers that we use in our Turkey operation with coolers custom designed for Coca-Cola System and equipped with energy management devices (EMD). Additionally, we bring coolers without EMDs to our maintenance-repair centers, install EMDs and then send them back to our customers. After four consecutive years, the ratio of EMDequipped coolers has increased from 2% to 59%. Thus, we have become one of the fastest implementing operations among all TCCC bottlers. Additionally, the ratio of non-HFC-containing coolers to all coolers increased from 27% to 40% in 2012. As a result of our investments in climate friendly In coolers at our Turkey, Azerbaijan, Jordan and KaTurkey, we realized energy zakhstan operations in 2012, we achieved reductions of approximately 265,000,000 kWh of energy savings of 398,110,672 kWh consumption and approximately 121,041 tons of CO2 and achieved emission reductions of emissions. 182,830 tons CO2 with eco-friendly Percentage of EMD Equipped coolers between 2009 and 2012. In Coolers in Turkey 2012, alone, we achieved energy savings of 250,489,349 kWh (an 2012 59% amount equivalent to the annual energy needs of 45,000 households) 35% and a reduction of 111,474 tons of CO2 2011 emissions (an amount equivalent to the amount of CO2 that 9,500 trees 2010 13% extract from the environment). Every year, we will continue our efforts to 2009 2% reduce CO2 emissions from our coolers. 68 Green IT Video Conference We are aware of the need to optimize resources by In 2012, we established 15 new video conferencing using them effectively and efficiently. In this regard, rooms (one in Azerbaijan, two in Kazakhstan, one in we give great importance to reducing our environJordan, seven in Pakistan and four in Turkey). In this mental impact by practices in informatics that we call way, we have reduced business travel. Hypothetical“Green IT”. This includes several practices such as ly, 100 video conferences will eliminate the need for effective use of computers, servers, associated subup to 20 business trips. Furthermore, assuming 20 systems and recycling of electronic wastes. business trips could be eliminated, we would save a minimum of 27.2 tons of CO2e. Within the scope of our Green IT practices, we choose to purchase electronic devices and systems that are more efficient in terms of energy while at the same time opting for electronic media implementations Energy Management of and teleconference meetings to minimize business Computers and Printers travel and optimizing product transportation and recycling electronic equipment that have reached the end of their economic life cycle – all in order to miniLeaving inactive computers and printers switched on mize our environmental footprint. results in unnecessary energy use. With the implementation of a project actualized in the second half of the 2012, all printers and computers connected to Server Virtualization and the corporate network were centralized so as to consume the minimum amount of electricity when they Server Consolidation are inactive. Saving amounts for six months in 2012 are summarized below: Within the context of the server virtualization project in Turkey in 2011, 40 virtual servers were established by Data of 6 Months of Application using four physical servers. This virtual infrastructure application is expected to provide an approximate )2 energy savings of 90%. Within the first four months of Sa Sa (To ving application, a savings of 67,200 kWh of energy was ns s (kW ving of CO recorded. The project's annualized energy savings h) s for 2012 were: Computers 15,312 6.81 Ye ar 20 12 Printers 22,572 10.05 Energy Consumption (kW) 201,600 kW Total 37,884 16.86 Carbon Emission (kg) 89,717 kg Additionally, 24 rack servers were replaced by 10 In addition to these applications, we moved the Pablade-type servers in 2012. With this application, we kistan SAP program to servers in the Turkey data achieved a total energy savings of 39,902 kWh in six center, saving energy from the now-defunct active months while ensuring ease of administration and functioning and cooling processes of the transferred increased data security. As a result of this project, program. we achieved 39,902 kWh of total energy savings and eliminated 17.76 tons of CO2. As a result of implementing our Green IT projects, we achieved 279,386 kWh reduction in energy consumption and 151.53 tons CO2 reduction in 2012. 69 Water Management Water is one of the most essential resources for life Progress and is the main ingredient of our beverages. Establishing a water sustainable operation is key to the • We reduced the water consumption rate to 1.39 L/L success of our business and to the welfare of the as a result of water minimization projects performed communities in which we operate. in all the plants in Turkey. We did not achieve our Given the many risk factors such as population targets in Azerbaijan due to the installation of new growth, increasing per-capita consumption of natuhot lines. In Kazakhstan; we could not achieve the ral resources, and global warming-related threats, target due to the installation of new non-returnable we work especially hard to become more efficient in glass bottle line. our water use by reducing the amount of water used • We achieved 25,000 m3 of water saving as of midto produce our products. While increasing our busiyear in our Izmir plant. For the following years we are ness volume, our goal is to produce more beverages expecting 50,000 m3 of annual water saving. by consuming less water. • We drew 3,150 m 3 less water from underground As a part of the Coca-Cola System, we support the wells by reusing very low concentration-peroxide ultimate goal of replenishing every drop of water water that results from Tetrapak filling processes in used” and are assisted by global water management the Mersin plant. studies. Supporting this ultimate goal, we focus on the following areas: 1. Reducing water consumption/reusing water. 2. Reclamation/safe discharge of water. 3. Replenishing water. 4. Supporting studies devoted to preserving and improving water basins. 5. Supporting studies that raise the awareness of consumers, public institutions and non-governmenAzerbaijan Plant tal organizations. • We saved a total of 22,504 m3 of water in our Kazakhstan, Jordan, and Azerbaijan plants with the application of a dry belt slider, use of sampling water analyzed in garden irrigation, optimization projects 2012 Goals of water used in reverse osmosis in Azerbaijan, and rinsing water in our Jordan plant. • We aim to reduce per-product water consumption rate to 1.40 L/L in Turkey, to 1.85 L/L in Jordan, 1.78 L/L in Azerbaijan, and 1.65 L/L in Kazakhstan. 2013 Goals • We aim to achieve a savings of 70,000 tons of water by reclaiming cleaning water in the Izmir plant. • We aim to save 12,000 m3 of water with the use • We aim to reduce 3,150 m3 of water by using perof wastewater discharge after treatment as non-conoxide water discharged from tetra lines for cleaning tact water in cooling towers of HP compressors and in the Mersin plant. preform injection machine in the Ankara plant. • We aim for a total reduction of 25,000 m3 water • We aim to save 30,000 m3 of water with the reuse of consumption in our Kazakhstan, Jordan, and Azerreverse osmosis reject and sanitation final rinse water baijan plants with the application of a dry belt slider, after treatment by reverse osmosis in the Ankara plant. with the use of sampling water analyzed in garden irrigation, with optimization projects of water used in • We aim to achieve a water consumption ratio of reverse osmosis in Azerbaijan and with rinsing water 1.39 L/L in Turkey, 1.85 L/L in Jordan, 1.90 L/L in Azerin our Jordan plant. baijan and 1.70 L/L in Kazakhstan. 70 Reducing Water Consumption In Turkey, the amount of annual total usable water is 112 billion m3, where agricultural use for irrigation is 32 billion m3, drinking and usage is 7 billion m3 and Our efforts for reducing water consumption go hand industrial usage is 5 billion m3. CCI’s Turkey operin hand with our practices towards OE. As our busiations account for 0.078% of total industrial water ness grows bigger, our production volume increases. usage. In order to set measurable objectives, we attempt to reduce the amount of water used for every one liter of product and to develop practices in line with this Water Use Ratio aim. We monitor our water consumption ratio in each Benchmark by 2012 (L/L) country where we operate and aim to spread successful practices throughout our production chain. How Much Water Do We Use? Jordan 2.06 Because water is the main ingredient in our beverages, we use water resources significantly in the regions where our plants are located. Kazakhstan 1.76 CCI Turkey Operation Water Use Comparison (billion m3/year) Azerbaijan 1.90 Total Usable Water Turkey 1.39 112 Beverage Industry* 2.16 Agrıcultural usage Coca Cola System 2012 2.12 32 Drınkıng usage 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 7 ındustrıal usage * From Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable; “Water Use 5 Benchmarking in the Beverage Industry Trends and Observations 2012” CCI usage 0.0039 71 Water Use Ratio (L/L) 3.44 2.10 2.06 1.90 2.10 1.90 1.85 1.74 1.76 1.70 1.39 1.39 Turkey Kazakhstan Jordan Azerbaijan Water consumption performance and improvements In achieved in the water use ratios (L/L) between 2006 Turkey, we reduced the and 2012 according to our operational sources are indicated in the chart below. average amount of water used to produce one liter of product to 1.39 L/L in 2012. We have reduced this ratio 2006-2012 Trend of by 20.11% over the past seven years Water Use Ratio (L/L) as a result of our efficiency projects. 2006 2012 Moreover, in August 2012, the Izmir plant reached a monthly average Jordan water usage ratio of 1.01 L/L, the lowest ever recorded among all sparkling 3.44 beverage production plants within the 2.06 Coca-Cola system. For all of 2012, the Kazakhstan Izmir plant’s average water usage ratio was recorded as 1.19 L/L. In line 2.10 1.76 with TCCC’s 2020 goal to improve water efficiency by 25%, we will continue to improve our water use Azerbaijan efficiency per liter of product produced 2.10 through operational advancements 1.90 throughout all CCI operations. Turkey 1.74 In 2012, we continued to reduce water consump1.39 tion with several projects. In our Mersin Plant, we achieved an annual saving of 30,350 m3 of water by implementing a returnable bottle (RB) line filling vacuum pump, Ammonia cooling tower and RB Line Wa72 ter Minimization projects. In our Köyce¤iz plant, an Total Water Consumption (m3) annual water savings of 405 m3 was achieved with a line water minimization project. In our Multan plant, 20 20 11 12 we achieved 20,990 m3 annual savings of water by using spray jets in bottle washers and variable speed drives on both washers and CIP optimization projTurkey 3,850,537 3,914,531 ects. With the water reduction project employed in Azerbaijan 306,059 412,162 our Faisalabad plant, we achieved an annual water savings of 1,359 m3. Kazakhstan 510,591 706,955 The following projects were implemented within the Jordan 137,847 160,240 scope of OE to result in a total savings of 22,504 m3 of water: Wastewater Management • Kazakhstan’s “Activated Backwash Water Use in Cooling Towers,” “Sand Filters Backwash Water Used and Reclamation in Cooling Towers,” “Hot Fill Rinser Water in Cooling Towers,” “Sampling Water Used For Gardening, “Dry “Zero wastewater generation” and “reclamation” are Conveyor Lubrication at Line 1-3” concepts that define our wastewater management • Azerbaijan’s “Optimization of Water Usage During approach. In addition to complying with the local laws that regulate wastewater treatment and discharge in Reverse Osmosis System Work” all the countries in which we operate, we also act • Jordan’s “Use of Backwash Rinse Water,” “Caustic in accordance with TCCC’s standards that determine Soda Collecting Tank,” ”Reuse of CIP Final Rinse Water” the wastewater limits for bottler operations. We monitor our wastewater parameters with periodical analysis and reduce our environmental impact via treatTotal Water Use by Sources (%)* ing wastewater before discharge. Wastewater Treatment Channels 0.1 0.62 8.6 36.38 91.3 63 Well Water Use KL Wastewater Discharged to Natural Body Water m3 Municipality Water Use KL Wastewater Discharged to On Site WWTP m3 Surface Water Use KL Wastewater Discharged to Local WWTP m3 *A total of 5,193,888 m3 water was used in the Turkey, Azerbaijan, * During 2012 a total of 1,590,281 m3 of water was treated and Kazakhstan and Jordan operations in 2012. discharged in our Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Jordan operations. 73 Water Discharge between 2006 and 2012 (L/L) 2.43 1.16 1.02 0.87 0.95 0.52 0.39 0.39 Turkey Kazakhstan Jordan Azerbaijan 2012 Turkey Wastewater • In the Mersin plant, by reusing low concentration peroxide water for non-potable purposes and recovCOD Values in the WWTP ering water from inline turbidity and chlorine meaEffluent* (mg/L) surement devices, we reclaimed a total of 8,680 m3 of water. • In the Çorlu plant, by reusing discharge water from reverse osmosis and active carbon after filtration, we 65 Sapanca reclaimed 30,000 m3 of water. By reusing rinse water for PET and HOD lines we reclaimed 1,700 m3 of water. 22 Köyce¤iz • In the Ankara plant, reusing reverse osmosis reject and sanitation final rinse water after treatment resulted in 3,872 m3 of water reclaimed in 2012. 90 ‹zmir • In the Multan plant, reusing final rinse water for floor washing and reusing raw water from heat exchangers to the main reservoir resulted in an annual 60 Çorlu saving of 4,324 m3 of water. • In the Faisalabad Plant, by the automation of water 25 Mersin jet in washers we reclaimed 1,820 m3 of water. • In the Gujranwala Plant, reusing treated wastewater as irrigation water and reusing carbon fil47 Ankara tered-backwash water we reclaimed a total 1,500 m3 of water in 2012. 0 50 • Finally, in the Burundai plant, with activated carbon 100 150 200 filters, backwash water usage and dry conveyor lubrication implementations, we reclaimed 11,648 m3 LEGAL COD LIMIT: 160 mg/L of water. * Wastewater in our Bursa and Elazı¤ plants is treated in central wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) in industrial zones. Preserving Water Resources In line with our OE objectives, we develop projects for our production chain that will reduce the wastewater generated as a result of our activities. Moreover, As we support TCCC’s ultimate goal of expanding we aim to increase our water use efficiency as well our water conservation efforts and help ensuring as our wastewater reclamation rates. Following are healthy, resilient freshwater systems,” we make evalsome examples of energy efficiency projects impleuations on the impacts of our operations on water mented during 2012: resources, take necessary precautions and actions, 74 support these evaluations with our environmental SVA studies include processes such as field surveys, management practices, and act in line with the exinterviews with plant authorities or site representapectations of our stakeholders. tives, local and national authorities as well as desktop studies. We evaluate the results of these studies To make evaluations on preserving water resources, with “Source Water Protection Plan” and take action we employ Source Vulnerability Assessment (SVA) on a plant basis. Studies as a major tool. The aim of the SVA Study is to determine present and future risks on the waAs of 31 December 2012, SVA Studies were completed ter resources of all CCI plants. Within the scope of at Ankara, Çorlu, Izmir, Mersin, Elazı¤, Bursa, MahSVA studies, basins and sub-basins were analyzed mudiye and Köyce¤iz plants in Turkey, at the Baku in 5 km-areas surrounding our plants. These studies plant in Azerbaijan, at the Lahore, RYK, Karachi, Faisare also crucial for us as natural life and bio-diversity alabad, Multan and Gujranwala plants in Pakistan, at around water resources become affected. the Almaty plant in Kazakhstan, and at the Amman plant in Jordan. Comprehensive studies have been carried out which include the topographical, geological, hydro geologIn line with the information gathered as a result of the ical and hydrological assessment of the study areas assessment studies, various practices were conductas well as identification of any risks to the sustained to avoid contamination, to prevent water qualiability of water resources within the areas of study. ty decrease arising out of pesticides contamination, With SVA studies, we also aim to disseminate inforand to foster water usage minimization and recymation on water resources, ensure future needs for cling. Other studies held in the light of assessments resource management, employ sensitivity assesswere searching for alternative water resources, enments and develop remediation plans to take necessuring business continuity, improving the knowledge sary precautions. level of employees, and explaining water policy and facts of Coca-Cola system to the community. We conduct SVA studies to understand 0.769 Source Vulnerability the primary water risks we face in the communities we operate. We implement source water protection plans which address critical water Industrial challenges at a watershed level, Water Usage from hydrological vulnerabilities to Assessment Studies local authority management. As an example, our Çorlu Plant’s 2012 CCI Çorlu water consumption is 769,540 m3 232 Plant's Usage which corresponds to 0.33% of 232 2012 million m3, the annual industrial water consumption in the Ergene watershed. In line with its strategy to replenish every drop of water used, TCCC has set a goal for 2020: Replenish 100% Using global water management studies as a guide, the company aims to return treated water from its manufacturing processes back to the environment at a level that supports aquatic life, and it aims to replenish the water used in its finished beverage products by continuing its community water projects with partners in more than 100 countries. of Water Used To date, Coca-Cola’s replenishment work has balanced an estimated 52 percent of product volume, with a total of 653 million liters of water being replenished as a result of these projects. Of the 468 projects, six were realized in Turkey. 75 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING 2012 Goals Packaging is an essential part of our business. At the same time, it forms a significant part of our environ• We aimed to increase total waste recycling rate to: mental footprint. Continuously reducing the materials used in packaging and the energy consumed in the • 95% in the Turkey operation process makes good business sense and is crucial • 89% in the Jordan operation for establishing a sustainable operation. While the safety and quality of our products remain as the most significant aspects of our packaging operations, we develop practices that will reduce our environmental impact arising from these operations. Three fundamental principles define our approach to sustainable packaging: • Continuously reducing the material amount and energy used in package manufacturing and using recycled materials as much as food safety principles and technology allow. • Reducing material use and increasing reuse and Jordan Plant recycle rates in our operations. • 90% in the Kazakhstan operation • Working together with stakeholders in order to establish an environmentally friendly and economically • 94% in the Azerbaijan operation sustainable infrastructure for post-consumer pack• We aimed to increase the recycling rate of packagaging recovery and recycling. ing waste to 40% in the Turkey operation. • We aimed to spread ‘’Lightweight’’ implementaNRPET Sustainability tions throughout our all country operations. Strategies • We aimed to use 24.5 g of material instead of 29.9 g in 1.5 L PET bottles, 10.5 g of material instead of 14.9 g in 500 ml PET bottles, and 10.5 g of material instead of 12.5 g in 330 ml PET bottles. REDUCE PET Lightweight • We aimed to reuse 87 tons of waste in our Bursa plant as part of the pallet reuse project. REUSE Bottle to Bottle Progress Post Consumed RECYCLE Material Collection • We managed to achieve a total waste recycling rate of 96% in Turkey, 99% in Jordan, 89.5% in KazakhRENEW Plant Bottle stan and 93% in Azerbaijan. In Jordan, an unexpected amount of scrap returnable bottles was disposed of in 2012, and since these bottles are very heavy, the total 76 waste recycling rate increased to 99%. This situation Reducing Material Usage in was unusual so we did not change our 2013 target. • We managed to increase the recycling rate of packProduct Packaging aging waste to 40% in Turkey. • We deployed ‘’Lightweight’’ implementations in KaIn line with our strategy of reducing the amount of zakhstan. We began implementations in Azerbaijan raw materials used in packaging, we continued our and planned implementations for Jordan in 2015. studies of usage of “Lightweight” PET bottles. We saved 2,289 tons of resin by implementing this proj• We achieved 24.5 g of material usage instead of ect in the Turkey operation. 29.9 g in 1.5 L PET bottles, 10.5 g of material instead of 14.9 g in 500 ml PET bottles, and 10.5 g of material In 2012, we achieved a resin savings in PET bottles instead of 12.5 g in 330 ml PET bottles. by reducing the material content from 54.1 to 52.88 g and 48 to 46 g in Ankara, from 52.8 g to 51.5 g in Çor• We managed to reuse 87 tons of waste in Bursa lu and from 29.9 g to 24.5 g in Mahmudiye plants. In plant as a part of the pallet reuse project. the Ankara and Çorlu plants we reduced the weight of the body and base of the bottle, while we implemented bottle design change and short neck in Mahmudiye. We also recycled 430 tons of resin in Çorlu and Mahmudiye. 2013 Goals Sa (Tt ving on s PET BOTTLE s) • We aim to reduce cap weight from 3.25 g to 2.45 From 48 to 46 gr Ankara 85 g by short neck bottle cap replacement incarbonated From 48 to 46 gr Çorlu 113 drinks in Turkey and in carbonated drinks, carbonated water and still water in Kazakhstan. With these From 14,9 to 10,5 gr Çorlu 1,469 projects, we aim to save 785 tons of resin in Turkey From 29.9 to 24.5 gr Çorlu 261 and 270 tons in Kazakhstan. From 54.1 to 52.8 gr Ankara 95 From 52.8 to 51.5 gr Çorlu 97 Recycle Çorlu 169 TOTAL 2,289 In addition to the above savings, in our Turkey operaKazakhstan Plant tion we plan to save 1,915 tons of material in 2013 by implementing “Lightweight” and “Short neck” projects. • We aim to start a short neck project in Pakistan and Azerbaijan in 2013 and in Jordan in 2015. • We aim to use 9.4 g of material instead of 10.5 g in Damla330 ml bottles. With this project we aim to save 20 tons of material. • We plan to deploy returnable bottle implementations (for example, RB 300ml) and we aim to change consumer and customer behavior to prefer returnable products. 77 Short Neck Project From January 2013 until December 2013, we aim to achieve an average savings of resin of 1,445 tons in Kazakhstan and 1,975 tons in Turkey by reducing the weight of lids from 3.25 g to 2.45 g. In adWithin the scope of short neck projects, we aim to dition toshort neck projects, further improvements decrease the pitch and height of PET bottles in order are planned to minimize our environmental impacts. to in such a way that enhances product quality and These include reducing the thickness of crown lids in shelf life while simultaneously minimizing resin use. Turkey and Pakistan, using Euro pallets, and reducOur first short neck test project was actualized in ing the resin weight from 1,800 g to 1,565 g with the 2008. In our Izmir plant, we tested the short neck design change of the glass bottles pallets. project with our bulkiest product. Following the trial process, we began production with some different bottle types. At the end of 2012, we implemented short neck in Kazakhstan. In 2013, we aim to implement short neck operations in other CCI countries. With short neck production of “Bonaqua” in Kazakhstan, we reduced the amount of resin used in the production process from 24.5 g to 20.5 g, from 34.5 g to 30 g and from 48.8 g to 40 g and we achieved a total reduction of 136.2 tons of resin used in PET in 2012. Total Waste Recycling Rate Between 2005 and 2012 (%) 99 94.4 96 96 91.26 93 93 90 89.5 90 76 74.3 Turkey Kazakhstan Jordan Azerbaijan Total Waste Ratio 2006 to 2012 (g/L)* 63.43 15.72 13 4.14 3.74 3.82 3.75 1.75 1.75 0.65 1.08 1.10 Turkey Kazakhstan Jordan Azerbaijan *Our Jordan plant sold a large amount of glass and plastic crates in 2012 (4,180 tons of glass and 0.487 tonsof plastic). The selling of such high amounts for recycling lead to the recycle ratio being above target; instead of 89%, it was 99%, and at the same time it affected the amount of total solid waste generated, which was 63.43 g/L instead of the 11 g/L planned. 78 Glass Bottle Implementations Currently, PlantBottle production is at trial phase in Turkey operation. Our vision is to eliminate petrochemical-based materials in our product packaging in line with TCCC’s goal. For more information on PlantBottle you can refer to The Coca-Cola Company’s Sustainability Report: www.coca-colacompany.com/sustainabilityreport Recycling of Product Packages CCI’s efforts to minimize its environmental impact in terms of packaging processes include several implementations such as increasing material recycling ra250 ml 250 ml tio, encouraging the use of bottles with a refundable Coca-Cola Schweppes deposit, and helping authorized business partners In 2012, we continued the ”Ultra Bottle” project that collect packaging waste. Since packaging waste is was initiated in 2010 with the purpose of reducing one of the key components of the general waste perthe consumption of glass materials and achieved a formance at CCI, we give particular importance to retotal savings of 822 tons of glass in our Turkey operlated implementations. ations. We reduced the weight of 250 ml Coca-Cola In Turkey, there is legislation mandating packaging and Schweppes glass bottles from 180 g to 165 g. In recycling. The system in Turkey is based on a concept 2013, we will continue improvements by implementof extended producer's liability. During the reporting ing these projects in all of our operations. period, the recycling rate in Turkey for plastics, glass, metal and aluminum packaging waste was 40%. We achieved this rate with the help of our authorized Packaging Innovation business partner, Çevko Foundation. In 2013, we formed a cross-functional CCI Recycling Task Force with an aim of identifying CCI’s long-term In addition to our lightweight and short neck pracrecycling strategy especially for the international tices, we continue to implement new design and operations where there is no organized recycling development projects in partnership with TCCC to schemes. reduce environmental impacts of our product packaging. One such example of alternative sustainable packaging is the PlantBottle,TM the first ever recyclable PET plastic beverage bottle made partially from plants, now in production in our Turkey operations. The key difference between plant bottle packaging and traditional PET plastic bottles is that instead of using petroleum and other fossil fuels to produce a key ingredient in the plastic, PlantBottle packaging uses materials that are up to 30% plant-based. 79 Performance Indicators ECONOMIC AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sales Volume (million unit cases) 533.4 586.5 665.4 761.7 850.5 Net Sales (million TL) 2,258.10 2,407.50 2,753.20 3,408.60 4,132.40 EBIT (million TL) 259.6 236.5 271.8 328.3 474.2 EBIT Margin 11.5 9.8 9.9 9.6 11.5 EBITDA (million TL) 375.3 368.7 435 486.9 685.5 EBITDA Margin 16.6 15.3 15.8 14.3 16.6 Net Income (million TL) 81.4 169.6 197.7 140.3 380.1 Net Income Margin (%) 3.6 7 7.2 4.1 9.2 Earnings per Share (TL) 0.0032 0.0067 0.0078 0.0055 0.0149 Total Equity (million TL) 1,108.20 1,269.90 1,435.00 1,670.10 1,914.10 Total Assets (million TL) 2,447.30 2,863.60 3,014.00 3,787.60 4,266.40 Net Debt (million TL) 774.6 704.1 646.8 1,108.00 1,069.00 Corporate Governance Rating 8.3 8.43 8.5 8.88 Foreign Currency Senior Unsecured BB, Stable BBB(-), Stable BBB(-), Stable BBB(-), Stable BBB, Stable Rating and IDR Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook Local Currency Senior Unsecured BBB, Negative BBB, Stable BBB, Stable BBB, Stable BBB, Stable Rating and IDR Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook *As the economic section is from the financial accounts, it is based on consolidation of all operating countries. SOCIAL INDICATORS Lost Time 2012 2013 Incident Rate (LTIR**) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 2012 Target Turkey 2.42 0.9 1.01 1.42 1.16 0.90 0.73 Jordan 39 24 11 4.8 2.41 2.28 2 Kazakhstan 2 0 0.3 0 0.60 0.49 0.35 Azerbaijan 2 0 1 0 0.58 0.39 0.4 Lost Time Incident 2012 2013 Severity Rate (LTISR)** 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 2012 Target Turkey 15.49 6.61 9.62 17.64 8.00 7.84 6.06 Jordan 25.68 31.82 18.37 74.24 33.67 44.9 33.64 Kazakhstan 58.58 0 5.37 8.34 6.26 Azerbaijan 4.97 2.13 0 5.26 4.05 3.60 **2008-2011 indicators were calculated based on employees working in the plants. 2012 indicators cover all employees. 80 Number of Days Lost 2012 Due to Accident** 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 2012 Turkey 250 264 391 823 400 444 Jordan 190 197 67 340 168 276 Kazakhstan 136 0 0 0 36 25 Azerbaijan 14 0 9 0 27 43 Total Hours Worked 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 3,228,118 8,181,012 10,324,726 9,405,144 11,324,725 Jordan 1,479,616 1,238,040 971,008 915,899 1,229,530 Kazakhstan 951,810 596,192 1,363,127 1,231,340 1,235,658 Azerbaijan 562,880 543,360 843,520 929,920 1,030,720 2012 Health & Safety Data Number of Crashes Total Days Lost Rate per Hours Due to Absent Absentee Crashes 100 Worked LTI Accident LTIR LTISR Days Rate Vehicles Turkey 11,324,725 51 444 0.9 7.84 6,529 0.43% 250 15.33 Jordan 1,229,530 14 276 2.28 44.9 2,350 1.43% 50 28.6 Kazakhstan 1,235,658 3 25 0.49 4.05 1,348 0.82% 5 1.47 Azerbaijan 1,030,720 2 43 0.39 8.34 1,116 0.81% 22 13.7 Employees Covered Under Collective Bargaining Agreement 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 508 482 525 328 31 Jordan 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 679 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 Ratio of Employees Covered Under Collective Bargaining Agreement to All Employees (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 47.61 41.33 40.57 30 3.4 Jordan 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 99.9 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 81 Total Training Hours 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 76,851 39,237 97,896 32,550 Jordan 15,665 9,468 4,685 13,681 Kazakhstan 2,674 8,816 7,959 9,251 Azerbaijan 581 722 2,799 5,574 Training at Employment Type Total Training Number of Per-employee CCI in 2012 Hours Employees Trained Training Hours Permanent 32,550 1,938 16.8 Turkey Temporary NA NA NA Contractor NA NA NA Permanent 13,113 376 34.88 Jordan Temporary 558 31 18 Contractor 10 10 1 Permanent 9,251 680 13.6 Kazakhstan Temporary NA NA NA Contractor NA NA NA Permanent 2,838 320 8.87 Azerbaijan Temporary NA NA NA Contractor 2,736 228 12 EMPLOYEE INDICATORS Employee Turnover Percentage (%) and (Number) by Gender 2011 2012 Male 11.4% (275) 11.2% (269) Turkey Female 14.1% (52) 14.8% (56) Male 31.7% (113) 21.5% (84) Jordan Female 13.3% (2) 17.7% (3) Male 16.9% (85) 9.3% (54) Kazakhstan Female 10.3% (10) 14.9% (16) Male 8.1% (19) 8.5% (24) Azerbaijan Female 12.1% (4) 18.9% (7) 82 Employee Turnover 61 and Total Percentage by Age (%) 20-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 older Number 2011 57.8 36.7 4.9 0.6 0 327 Turkey 2012 45.2 34.2 17.2 3.1 0.3 325 2011 62.6 27 10.4 0 0 115 Jordan 2012 77 14.95 8.05 0 0 87 2011 54.25 32.98 7.45 4.26 1.06 95 Kazakhstan 2012 63 27 6 0 4 70 2011 65 31 4 0 0 23 Azerbaijan 2012 77.4 12.9 9.7 0 0 31 Employee Turnover Percentage (%) and Number by Region 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 11.5% (306) 11.7% (327) 11.6% (325) Jordan 32.7% (125) 30% (115) 21.4% (87) Kazakhstan 21.4% (149) 15.9% (95) 10. 3% (70) Azerbaijan 5.9% (24) 8.6% (23) 9.7% (31) Employee Breakdown Employee Total Number in 2012 Category Male Female Male (%) Female (%) of Employees Blue Collar 883 11 98.77 1.23 894 Turkey White Collar 1,532 396 79.46 20.54 1,928 Permanent 2,390 404 85.54 14.46 2,794 Temporary 25 3 89.29 10.71 28 Blue Collar 191 0 100 0 191 Jordan White Collar 199 17 92.13 7.87 216 Permanent 384 17 95.76 4.24 401 Temporary 6 0 100 0 6 Blue Collar 261 3 98.86 1.14 264 Kazakhstan White Collar 312 104 75 25 416 Permanent 573 107 84.26 15.74 680 Temporary 9 0 100 0 9 Blue Collar 172 4 97.73 2.27 176 Azerbaijan White Collar 110 33 76.92 23.08 143 Permanent 282 37 88.4 11.6 319 Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 83 Local Senior Management Local White Collar Employment Local Blue Collar Employment Rate Rate o (including senior management) Employment Rate Local Employment in International Number Number Number Number Number of Local Number of of Local of Total of Local of Total Operations (%) Employees in Employees in White White Blue Blue Management Management % Collar Collar % Collar Collar % 2011 9 10 90 1,957 1,957 100 863 863 100 Turkey 2012 9 10 90 1,924 1,928 99.8 894 894 100 2011 4 6 67 193 195 99 173 173 100 Jordan 2012 4 6 67 210 216 97.2 189 191 98.9 2011 3 8 38 361 365 99 234 234 100 Kazakhstan 2012 3 8 38 411 416 98.8 264 264 100 2011 2 5 40 111 116 96 153 153 100 Azerbaijan 2012 2 5 40 140 143 97 176 176 100 Number of Years in Employment Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) 0-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 25+ 2011 59 17.1 16.5 6.2 1.1 0.1 Turkey 2012 56.84 21.29 13.43 6.84 1.56 0.04 2011 56 14 22 8 0 0 Jordan 2012 59.21 13.27 19.66 7.86 0 0 2011 68 21 8 3 0 0 Kazakhstan 2012 60.59 27.94 5.735 5.735 0 0 2011 68 13 18 1 0 0 Azerbaijan 2012 57.05 27.27 6.58 9.1 0 0 Distribution of Executive Employees in Governance Bodies by Age Group (%) Under 30 30-50 Above 50 2011 0 60 40 Turkey 2012 0 80 20 2011 0 0 0 Jordan 2012 0 100 0 2011 0 84 16 Kazakhstan 2012 4.35 78.26 17.39 2011 10 82 8 Azerbaijan 2012 8.51 82.98 8.51 84 Percentage of Female Executives in Total Number % Female Senior Management (Reporting to CEO) of Executives Executives 2011 10 30 Turkey 2012 10 30 2011 5 0 Jordan 2012 5 0 2011 7 29 Kazakhstan 2012 7 29 2011 5 40 Azerbaijan 2012 5 40 2012 Overtime Hours Total Per-person per Headcount* Overtime Hours Headcount Overtime Hours Turkey 185,715 3,021 61 Jordan 4,798 436 11 Kazakhstan 18,506 771 24 Azerbaijan 9,054 361 25 *Headcount includes temporary employees. Employees Receiving Total Number Number Regular Performance and Number Of Of Female Of Male Career Development Reviews Employees Employees % Female Employees % Male Turkey 1,928 396 21 1,532 79 Jordan 365 15 4 350 96 Kazakhstan 254 66 26 188 74 Azerbaijan 309 37 12 272 88 85 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2012 Materials Used (tons) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Concentrate 43,252 235 2,755.14 1,649 Sugar 292,123 7,265 37,926 16,360 CO2 25,373 993 3,494 2,527 Crown 857 65 77.815 none Closure 4,964 104 1,305.71 720 Bottles, PET 51,085 1,175 13,245 7,278 Glass 24,349 6,850.53 2,169.05 none Tetrapak 4,436 None 712.252 none Carton (slip sheet & separator) 8,308 123.17 1,414.80 713 Wood (pallet) 7,020 2,270 248 120 Aluminium cans 9,339 1,006.37 289.759 none Shrink & stretch 6,626 383.5 1,387.09 905 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials (%) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Bottles, PET 10% 12% Glass 30% 85% 82% Tetrapak 90% Carton (slip sheet & seperator) 100% 90% Wood (pallet) 100% 80% Aluminium cans 50% 33.3% Shrink & stretch 40% Method of Disposal Recycle Reuse Landfill Incineration Other Total g 9,821,663,800 84,979,000 474,469,180 338,474,000 0 10,719,585,980* Turkey g/L 3.50 0.03 0.17 0.12 0.00 3.82* * These numbers have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 86 2012 Amount of Waste (gr) and Total Waste Ratio (g/L) g 10,719,585,980* Turkey g/L 3.82* g 4,933,270,000* Jordan g/L 63.43* g 705,342,000* Kazakhstan g/L 1.75* g 233,849,000* Azerbaijan g/L 1.08* Water Consumption (m3) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Ankara 584,978 565,119 469,378 508,865 505,700 531,408 Çorlu 895,729 739,249 657,401 675,480 752,059 769,540 Mahmudiye 78,943 301,460 288,171 285,313 325,179 343,885 Mersin 608,172 545,796 496,171 560,964 528,157 500,958 ‹zmir 509,275 521,647 484,356 481,424 520,208 453,647 Bursa 568,837 704,806 795,202 729,862 777,493 806,628 Köyce¤iz 0 0 16,654 61,477 131,451 176,829 Elazı¤ 0 0 208,558 255,064 310,290 331,636 Turkey 3,245,934 3,378,077 3,415,891 3,558,449 3,850,537 3,914,531* Jordan 257,077 231,106 155,040 140,904 137,847 160,240* Kazakhstan 211,975 384,835 344,497 422,064 510,591 706,955* Azerbaijan 346,623 344,830 302,263 305,164 306,059 412,162* TOTAL 4,061,609 4,338,848 4,217,691 4,426,581 4,805,034 5,193,888* Water Use Ratio (L/L) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 1.55 1.46 1.50 1.42 1.42 1.39* Jordan 2.38 1.89 1.82 1.97 2.00 2.06* Kazakhstan 1.71 2.34 1.86 1.75 1.70 1.76* Azerbaijan 1.66 1.97 2.03 1.73 1.74 1.90* Total Water Recycled and Reused in 2012 (m3) Turkey 114,582 Jordan 10,942 Kazakhstan 0 Azerbaijan 6,758 TOTAL 132,282 * These numbers have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 87 Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 0.258 0.233 0.234 0.223 0.255 0.257*** Jordan 0.620 0.570 0.517 0.505 0.455 0.470*** Kazakhstan 1.030 0.520 0.330 0.309 0.333 0.278*** Azerbaijan 0.280 0.280 0.270 0.228 0.222 0.388*** CO2 Emission Ratio (g/L) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 25.55 27.53 28.97 28.95 30.10 28.52 Jordan 80.29 57.24 64.06 72.44 56.03 55.31 Kazakhstan 116.29 89.85 68.15 56.90 49.46 41.07 Azerbaijan 51.81 62.13 60.51 53.54 49.44 62.55 Amount of Direct Energy Consumed by Primary Energy Sources (Million MJ)*,** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Heavy Fuel Oil 36.41 8.63 6.40 8.29 1.30 Diesel 156.28 142.02 58.48 69.84 14.79 16.97 LPG 80.98 69.22 71.4 73.21 79.61 80.74 Natural Gas 246.47 286.79 210.62 186.31 232.73 284.57 Steam 49.48 46.56 TOTAL 483.73 534.44 349.13 335.76 384.9 430.14*** Turkey Heavy Fuel Oil 0.00 17.23 0.28 0.00 0.00 0.00 Diesel 4.38 5.55 20.75 4.24 5.36 5.57 LPG 58.09 76.37 58.6 53.87 57.55 62.91 Natural Gas 254.51 161.8 167.48 153.38 141.05 232.73 TOTAL 316.98*** 260.95 247.11 211.49 203.96 301.21 Jordan Heavy Fuel Oil 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Diesel 34.87 30.42 16.87 23.56 7.81 12.59 LPG 0.00 0.01 10.24 7.56 4.74 3.53 Natural Gas 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 TOTAL 34.87 30.43 27.11 31.12 12.55 16.12*** *Preform injection, CO2 production (and electricity manufacturing process only in Kazakhstan) are excluded in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. ** Total energy consumption balances that received Limited Assurance from EY are 839,026,805 MJ in Turkey, 278,062,764 MJ in Kazakhstan, 161,148,226 MJ in Azerbaijan and 36,516,916 MJ in Jordan. *** These numbers have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 88 Amount of Direct Energy Consumed by Primary Energy Sources (Million MJ)*,*** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Kazakhstan Heavy Fuel Oil 0.00 25.32 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Diesel 73.82 48.84 1.84 1.71 0.00 0.00 LPG 4.61 7.72 5.64 6.48 10.07 13.33 Natural Gas 84.67 119.31 57.24 45.26 0.00 0.00 Steam 49.48 46.56 TOTAL 163.1 201.19 64.72 53.45 59.55 59.89**** Azerbaijan Heavy Fuel Oil 8.08 10.81 8.63 6.4 8.29 1.30 Diesel 42.04 42.01 35.53 39.21 1.41 0.00 LPG 0.00 2.89 1.65 1.62 1.89 5.79 Natural Gas 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 30.06 TOTAL 50.12 55.71 45.81 47.23 11.59 37.15**** Indirect Energy Consumption (Purchased Power) (Million MJ)*,*** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 324.51 413.81 403.28 353.97 390.93 403.93**** Jordan 31.75 28.3 22.4 18.79 18.77 20.39**** Kazakhstan 34.77 57.39 38.7 46.44 40.61 52.16**** Azerbaijan 51.86 52.72 47.8 52.02 27.4 46.79**** TOTAL 442.89 552.22 512.18 471.22 477.71 523.27**** *: Preform injection, CO2 production (and electricity manufacturing process in Kazakhstan) are excluded. Direct (Scope 1) Emissions due to Stationary Combustion (Tons equivalent CO2)** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 14,363 13,418 11,242 10,918 16,764 18,309* Jordan 2,455 2,142 1,796 2,108 832 1,099 Kazakhstan 9,745 11,781 3,355 2,790 6,478 7,598 Azerbaijan 3,553 3,924 3,234 3,327 3,020 5,319 TOTAL 30,116 31,265 19,627 19,143 27,094 32,325 * 2012 Turkey Figure includes greenhouse gas emissions (CO2e) of stationary combustion of manufacturing, sales and operations. 2007-2011 figures include CO2 gas emissions of stationary combustion only manufacturing operations. 2012 figure was verified by SGS according to ISO 14064-3 standard. **:CO2 emissions of all production processed are included. ***Total energy consumption balances that received Limited Assurance from EY are 839,026,805 MJ in Turkey, 278,062,764 MJ in Kazakhstan, 161,148,226 MJ in Azerbaijan and 36,516,916 MJ in Jordan. **** These numbers have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 89 Indirect Emissions (Tons equivalent CO2)** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 39,017 50,372 53,570 61,557 64,923 64,212 Jordan 6,201 4,824 3,656 3,074 3,027 3,203 Kazakhstan 10,980 8,290 5,149 8,114 8,384 8,929 Azerbaijan 7,273 6,934 5,791 6,136 5,671 8,319 TOTAL 63,471 70,420 68,166 78,881 82,005 84,663 * 2007-2011 figures include only manufacturing operations. 2012 Turkey figure was verified by SGS according to ISO 14064-3 standard and includes manufacturing, sales and distribution operations. **: CO2 emissions of all production processed are included. Direct (Scope 1) Emissions due to Mobile Combustion (Fuel Used) (Tons equivalent CO2)** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 33,109 41,522 34,528 38,205 32,319 11,661* Jordan N/A N/A 382 1,959 1,875 774 Kazakhstan 1,938 1,954 1,241 1,486 1,095 678 Azerbaijan 799 445 1,074 1,092 1,400 1,135 TOTAL 35,846 43,921 37,225 42,742 36,689 14,248 * 2012 Turkey figure includes greenhouse gas emissions (CO2e) of mobile combustion distribution, transportation and fleet of CCI Turkey manufacturing and sales operations. 2007-2011 figures of country operations include 3rd party fleet CO2 emissions additionally. **: CO2 emissions of all production processed are included. Direct (Scope1) and Indirect (Scope2) Emissions of Turkey Operations* (ton CO2e) Scope1 (ton CO2e) Scope2 (ton CO2e) Stationary Combustion 18,309 Mobile Combustion (Fleet and transportation) 11,661 Electricity 64,212 Leaks of CO2 Manufacturing Processes 8,935 Leaks of Coolers and Heating/Cooling Systems 10,538 Leaks of CO2 Fire Extinguishers 0.734 TOTAL 49,443.7 64,212 TOTAL 113,655.7 * Above figures include greenhouse gas emissions (CO2e) of CCI Turkey manufacturing, sales and distribution operations, which were verified by SGS according to ISO 14064-3 standard. 90 Cooler Emissions (Electricity Used) (Tons equivalent CO2) 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 263,997 288,559 304,379 338,381 Jordan 21,446 22,572 22,820 20,511 Kazakhstan 29,928 29,611 35,069 31,417 Azerbaijan 7,163 9,121 8,950 9,627 TOTAL 322,534 349,863 371,218 399,936 Electricity Cooler Emissions (Electricity Used) (kWh) 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turkey 552,052,501 582,619,602 634,217,549 760,363,551 Jordan 36,500,000 38,325,000 39,306,850 36,269,503 Kazakhstan 62,478,875 67,470,250 73,051,992 81,536,529 Azerbaijan 16,425,000 21,900,000 20,184,500 24,509,750 TOTAL 667,456,376 710,314,852 766,760,891 902,679,333 CO2 Conversion Factors (kg CO2) emissions produced by 1 kWh electricity 2011 2012 Change % Turkey 0.4799290 0.445025* -7.27 Jordan 0.580548 0.5655062* -2.59 Kazakhstan 0.4800584 0.3853109* -19.74 Azerbaijan 0.4434248 0.3927976* -11.42 * Data taken from International Energy Agency 2010 CO2 emissions from fossil fuels consumed for electricity, combined heat and power and main activity heat plants divided by the output of electricity and heat generated. Environmental Expenditures/Investments (USD) 2012 Ankara 125,000 Çorlu 90,000 Mahmudiye 1,900 Mersin 22,500 ‹zmir 303,261 Bursa 84,241 Köyce¤iz 10,945 Elazı¤ 14,278 Turkey 652,125 Jordan 9,155 Kazakhstan 31,722 Azerbaijan 4,000 TOTAL 697,002 91 GLOSSARY 2020 Vision: The structure for the Coca-Cola SysTurkey and whose aim it is to uphold brand protectem’s sustainability targets and approach. tion and anti-counterfeit measures. AA1000 Standards: A series that was developed Business Unit: Units responsible of the managein 1999 by AccountAbility, a global, not-for-profit ment of Coca-Cola operations in more than one self-managed partnership which provides a framecountry (e.g.,. the Eurasia and Africa Business Unit). work to help organizations build their accountabilCancun Communiqué on Climate Change: ity and social responsibility through quality social Based on the continuity of progress achieved by the and ethical accounting, auditing, and reporting. Copenhagen Communiqué, this “ambitious, robust http://www.accountability21.net and equitable global action on climate change” was AA1000SES AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Stansigned in 2010 by 403 companies based in 36 coundard: A principles-based, open source framework tries to urge governments to do more to tackle clistakeholder engagement standard developed by Acmate change. countAbility for designing, implementing, evaluating, Capability Development Centre (CDC): A fully and assuring the quality of stakeholder engagement. functional teaching facility designed for CCI’s PakiAbsent Days: Number of days of absence. stan operation in 2012. Accountability Rating: Established by the CSR Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): An initiaConsulting Network and AccountAbility, this is a tive begun in 2000 to collect and share information measurement tool companies use to calculate their amongst companies, investors and governments ineconomic, social, and environmental impact and volved in the fight against climate change, it was the how responsibly they maintain their activities. Aegefirst and remains the only institution reporting globalan Region Chamber of Industry (EBSO): Established ly how companies manage risks pertaining to climate in 1954, EBSO is the first and the only regional chamchange. ber in its region and is active in 67 different industriCarbonated Soft Drinks (CSD): Soft drinks in al branches with a total active membership of 4,800 which water is infused with carbon dioxide. companies. CCI Corporate: Coca-Cola ‹çecek’s division reAnadolu Vakfı Anatolian Foundation: An organizasponsible for the overall corporate performance of all tion that invests in areas related to community health International and Turkey operations. and education. The foundation was established 25 years ago in Turkey and has completed more than 40 CCI Turkey: Coca-Cola ‹çecek’s division responsible projects to date including hospitals, health centers, for operations in Turkey. schools, student dormitories, and sports complexes. CCI: Coca-Cola ‹çecek A. . BASIS Beverage Advanced Standard Information SysChange for Excellence (C4E): An all-encompasstem: A sales accounting software used by a great ing EFQM Model implementation project initiated by number of Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world. CCI in 2012. Bottler: A business that buys concentrates, bevClimate Platform: Turkey Climate Change Leaderage bases, or syrups made available by The ers Group: An organization founded as a result of Coca-Cola Company and then manufactures, packcollaboration by TÜS‹AD and REC Turkey, and with ages, merchandises and distributes the final brandthe participation of leading companies from differed beverages to customers and vending partners ent sectors, working to combat climate change while who then sell those products to consumers. supporting a low carbon economy. Bottler Investment Group (BIG): One of the three CO2: Carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas which is major operating groups of The Coca-Cola Company widely believed to exacerbate global warming. and one of the largest and most geographically diverse bottlers in the Coca-Cola system. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers (CCAB): CCI’s affiliate in Kazakhstan. Brand Protection Group: An organization of national and international companies that operate in CokePort: CCI’s intranet portal. 92 Communication on Progress (COP): A public are designed for planning and operation of enerdisclosure to stakeholders on progress made in imgy-related production and consumption units. plementing the ten principles of the United Nations Environmental and Occupational Safety Global Compact and which supports broader United and Health (EOSH): A category of programs and Nations development goals. concepts concerned with safeguarding the safety, Concentrate: A product manufactured by The health and welfare of employees as well as with proCoca-Cola Company or other beverage company tecting the environment. and sold to bottlers to prepare finished beverages by Equivalent carbon dioxide (CO2e): Using the adding sweeteners and/or water. functionally equivalent amount or concentration of Copenhagen Communiqué on Climate carbon dioxide (CO2) as the reference, a measure Change: “A call from business for an ambitious, rothat describes how much global warming a given bust and equitable global deal on climate change” type and amount of greenhouse gas may cause. signed in 2009 by 957 companies from 60 countries ERP: Corporate Resource Planning. to determine grounds for compromise and the steps to be taken by the world’s leading economic and poEuro-3: A European emission standard that came into litical players to combat climate change. effect in 2000 to define acceptable limits for exhaust emissions of new vehicles sold in EU member states. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): A busiEuro-5: A European emission standard which came ness concept whereby corporations and institutions into effect in 2008/9 to define acceptable limits for exvoluntarily integrate social, environmental and ecohaust emissions of new vehicles sold in EU member nomic concerns into their activities, decision-making states. processes, and relations with stakeholders, thereby acting in an ethical and responsible manner towards Fitch Ratings: One of the world’s three leading all of their stakeholders and society, in general. credit rating agencies. Crash: Any collision in which a Company vehicle is FSSC 22000: Food Safety Systems Certification involved (whether in motion, temporarily stopped or Scheme. parked) that results in personal injury and/or mateG3.1 Guidelines: The reporting guidelines pubrial property damage, regardless of who was hurt, lished by the Global Reporting Initiative in 2011. what property was damaged, who was responsible, http://www.globalreporting.org whether the incident was preventable or whether the incident was legally required to be reported. GDP: Gross Domestic Product. Customer: An individual store, retail outlet, restauGHG: Greenhouse gas; a gas that contributes to the rant, or a chain of stores or businesses that sells or natural greenhouse effect. The GHGs covered by the serves our products directly to consumers. UNFCCC/Kyoto Protocol are currently: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydro fluorocarbons, perfluoroÇEVKO: Environmental Protection and Packaging carbons, sulphur-hexafluoride and nitrogen triflouride. Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Founded in DE‹K: Foreign Economic Relations Board. 1997 and partner of the United Nations Environment EBITDA Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Program since 1999, the world's most widely used Amortization: A business entity’s income obtained by online, open-source platform for multinational comadding interest, tax, and depreciation and amortizapanies, SMEs, public corporations, municipalities, tion expenses back in to net income; generally reNGOs and universities to report their social, environgarded as a more objective measure of profitability. mental and economic performances in accordance with GRI guidelines. http://www.globalreporting.org EFQM Excellence Model: Management system founded by European Foundation of Quality ManageHACCP TS 13001: Hazard Analysis & Critical Control ment (EFQM) to achieve sustainable excellence. Points TS 13001 Energy Management Devices (EMD): Devices that HC: Hydrocarbon. 93 Health, Safety & Environment (HSE): A category Istanbul Technical University (‹TÜ): An internaof programs and concepts concerned not only with tional technical university located in Istanbul, Turkey, preventing incidents or accidents that might result dedicated to engineering and social sciences. from abnormal conditions, but also with reducing KalDer: Turkish Quality Association. adverse effects that could result from normal conditions. Key Performance Indicator (KPI): A type of performance measurement. HFC: Hydro fluorocarbon, has a profound impact on the depletion of ozone layer which contribute to globKO: TCCC al warming. KORE: The set of Coca-Cola Operating Requirements IMCR Incident Management and Crisis Resolution: that enables the Coca-Cola system to address the A sustainable program applied throughout the changing business landscape while supporting the Coca-Cola System designed to manage incidents Company's strategic growth plans by creating an inand resolve crises. tegrated quality management program. International Labor Organization; ILO: HeadLCA: Life Cycle Assessment quartered in Geneva, ILO is a global organization Lean 6 Sigma: Lean production integrated with 6 founded to develop labor laws, relevant implementaSigma. tions, and standards in member countries. Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design ISAE 3000: The International Standard on Assurance (LEED): A green building tool that addresses the enEngagements developed by the International Federatire building lifecycle recognizing best-in-class buildtion of Accountants. ing strategies. ISO: International Standardization Organization. Leased Vehicles: Distribution or “all other” vehicles ISO 9001: Quality Management System Standard released by the Company. Rental cars for business leased by ISO. travel would only be included here if the rental period coincided with the entire reporting period. ISO 14001: Environment Management Standard released by ISO. LTI: Lost Time Incident (Work incident or occupational illness with 1 or more day loss including incidents ISO 14064-3: Standard that specifies principles and involving death) requirements and provides guidance for those conducting or managing the validation and/or verificaLTIR: Lost time incident rate. (Number of lost time intion of greenhouse gas (GHG) assertions. cidents / occupational illnesses) x 200,000 / (Total Worked Hours During Report Period) ISO 14064: Part of the ISO 14000 series of International Standards for environmental management that LTISR: Lost Time Incident Severity Rate (Number of provides organizations with a complimentary set of days lost due to occupational incidents) x 200,000 / tools for programs to quantify, monitor, report and (Total Worked Hours During Report Period) verify greenhouse gas emissions. LPG: Liquefied petroleum gas. ISO 22000: Standard developed by ISO dealing with MEDER: Beverage Industry Association. food safety. MEYED: Fruit Juice Industry Association. ISO 50001: Standard developed by ISO that supports organizations in all sectors seeking to improve enerNOx: Nitrogen oxide. gy efficiency through the development of an energy OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health & Safety Manmanagement system. agement System Standard. Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (ITO): One of PAS 220 (Publicly Available Specification 220): An the largest and most prominent Chambers in the open public specification standard prepared for deworld with 98 Profession Committees and more than tailing the precise implementation of the require325,000 members. 94 ments of the ISO 22000 standard and pertaining to Sparkling Beverage: Non-alcoholic beverage conpre-requisite programs. taining flavorings and sweeteners. Excludes, among other beverages, waters and flavored waters, juices Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Garments and juice drinks, sports drinks, and teas and coffees. or equipment designed to protect the wearer's body from injury. Stakeholder engagement: Mechanisms that enable stakeholder expectations and suggestions to be PET (Polyethylene Terephthalate): The material from represented in the management structure of a comwhich CCI’s plastic bottles are manufactured. pany. PET Blowing process : Manufacturing process by Stakeholder: Persons or groups who directly or inwhich PET bottles are formed from preforms. directly affect or are affected by the activities of corPM: Particulate matter. porations and institutions. Preform: Intermediate product used in the producStill Beverage: Non-alcoholic non-sparkling bevertion of PET bottles. age including, but not limited to, waters and flavored waters, juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, and Preform injection process: Manufacturing proteas and coffees. cess of preform SUDER: Packed Water Manufacturers Association. Preseller (Sales Representative): A Sales Department employee who takes sales orders. Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP): A set of principles designed by CCI in order to communicate Program for the Endorsement of Forest company values and expectations of suppliers and Certification (PEFC): An international, non-profemphasize the importance of responsible workplace it, non-governmental organization which promotes practices that respect human rights and comply with sustainable forest management through indepenenvironmental and labor laws. dent third-party certifications. Sustainability: The ability to render development Risk Management (RM): Identification, assesssustainable by meeting the needs of the present withment, and prioritization of risks; the effect of uncerout compromising the ability of future generations to tainty on objectives, whether positive or negative. respond to their own needs. (United Nations ComRight Execution Daily (RED): The sales and marmission on Environment and Development 1987) keting tool that monitors a large field of applications, Sustainable Development: Sustainable developfrom the arrangement of coolers and stands to the ment is the actualization of economic growth and positioning of posters at sales points. welfare increasing efforts while protecting the enviRTM: Route-to-Market ronment and the quality of life of all human beings living on earth. (United Nations Commission on EnviSAP Systems: Systems, Applications, Products in ronment and Development 1987) data processing; an Integrated Enterprise Resource Planner. TABA: Turkish American Business Association. SGS S.A.: A multinational company headquartered in TCCF: The Coca-Cola Company Foundation. Geneva, Switzerland, which provides inspection, verTCCMS: The Coca-Cola Company Management System. ification, testing and certification services. TCCQS: The Coca-Cola Quality System. Shrink: Raw material used in product packaging. TE‹D: Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society. SKU: Stock keeping unit, product or product group that has different brand code/codes but counted as TGDF: Federation of Food and Drink Industry Associone sales unit. ations of Turkey. Source Vulnerability Assessment (SVA): A set The 2ºC Challenge Communiqué: A framework of studies aimed at determining present and future that, while expressing the advantages of sustainrisks to the water resources of all CCI plants. able progress and green economy perceptions, aims 95 to share with the business world the necessity of UNCAC (United Nations Convention Against promptly limiting global warming to 2ºC by underlinCorruption): The first international convention ing the importance of international collaboration and against corruption, UNCAC is a communiqué that effective market mechanisms. obliges member countries to apply certain measures pertaining to the related laws, institutions, and imThe Coca-Cola Company (TCCC): Founded in plementations. 1886 and headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, USA, with local operations in nearly 200 countries around UNGC (United Nations Global Compact): A the world, the world’s leading manufacturer, marketprogram aimed at supporting the socio-economic er and distributor of non-alcoholic beverage concendevelopment of the private sector by adopting the 10 trates and syrups that are used to produce more than universal principles in the contract. 230 beverage brands. United Nations Development Program (UNDP): The Coca-Cola System (TCCS): The term used to The United Nations' global development network describe the corporate network consisting of TCCC which advocates for change and connects countries and more than 300 bottling partners around the to knowledge, experience and resources to help peoworld. ple build a better life. The Coca-Cola Turkey System: The system inUnit Case: A unit of measurement equal to 5.678 cluding TCCC Turkey and CCI Turkey operations. liters, or 24 servings of 8 US fluid ounces each. The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan Unit Case Volume: Number of unit cases that the (CCBCJ): CCI’s affiliate in Jordan. Company sells to its customers; considered to be an excellent indicator of the underlying strength of The Stevie Awards: The world’s leading annual soft drink sales in a particular market. (1 Unit Case = business awards program. 5.6789 liter) The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF): The Volume: The number of physical cases of products world's largest independent, non-governmental ordirectly or indirectly sold to our customers. ganization working on conservation, research, restoration issues related to the environment. Voyage: A solution package consisting of office and mobile applications used by CCI’s distributors to track Third-party fleet: Distribution vehicles owned or their sales and distribution operations and by CCI’s leased by a third party contract carrier, regardless of direct distribution sales teams for collecting orders whether the carrier is within the scope of the Fleet and other field sales activities. Management Requirements. Women Entrepreneur Association of Turkey TOBB: The Union of Chambers and Commodity Ex(KAGIDER): A non-profit NGO founded in 2002 in orchanges of Turkey. der to promote and encourage entrepreneurship and TSE: Turkish Standards Institution. leadership amongst women. Turkish Personnel Management Association Workplace Rights Policy (WRP) A TCCC policy (PERYÖN): The first personnel management NGO based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights founded in Turkey. Turkmenistan Coca-Cola Bottlers that serves as the fundamental guideline for CCI’s HR (TCCB): CCI’s affiliate in Turkmenistan. activities. TÜS‹AD: Turkish Industry and Business Association. YADA (The Origin of Living Foundation): A civil society foundation that aims to first produce intelliTÜY‹D: Investor Relations Association. gence regarding different aspects of social life and Universal Declaration of Human Rights then convert this intelligence into application. (UDHR): Adopted by the United Nations General AsYASED: International Investors Association. sembly on 10 December 1948 at Palais de Chaillot, Paris, a declaration representing the first global expression of rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. 96 CCI REPORTING Reporting GUIDANCE Guidance CCI Reporting Guidance Key Definitions for Environmental For the purpose of this report, the following definiIndicators That Were tions apply: Externally Verified or Plant: All on-site facilities including production buildings, water treatment units wastewater treatAssured in 2012 ment units, warehouses, laboratories, administration buildings and technical service operations. The GHG Reporting Guidance (RG) document covers Energy: Electricity, natural gas, diesel/gasoline, fuel the data gathering and reporting obligations for the oil, LPG and/or steam. For the purpose of this report, following indicators:, energy consumption, energy energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, use ratio, water consumption, water use ratio and such as bio-waste, bio-mass, bio-diesel, or renewsolid waste generation for CCI’s operations in Turkey, able sources of energy such as wind or solar energy Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan (the “Compawhich collectively represent an insignificant share of ny”) and GHG emissions and solid waste recycling total energy consumption and carbon emissions. for CCI’s operations in Turkey. It is the responsibility of Company management to ensure that approEnergy ConsumptioN: The energy consumed priate procedures are in place to prepare its energy during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December). consumption, GHGs, water consumption, total solid Energy consumption data includes energy used in waste and waste recycling data in line with the RG in the operation of on-site industrial facility and manall material respects. ufacturing processes, including electrical systems, The data within the scope of this guidance document heating, lighting, on-site transportation, air circuis for the financial year ending 31 December 2012 and lation, and air conditioning (HVAC system). Energy comprises the relevant operations in Turkey, Kazakhconsumption also includes pre-injection for those stan, Azerbaijan and Jordan only. The data reported plants with this energy-intensive process. Manufacfor 2012, therefore, does not represent all CCI operaturing processes refer to the energy consumed in the tions at this stage. core bottling operation. GHG Emissions: Emissions during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December). The GHGs reportGeneral Reporting ed are those currently required by the UNFCCC/Kyoto Protocol. These GHGs are currently: carbon dioxide Principles (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). OthIn preparing this guidance document, consideration er greenhouse gases including those regulated by has been given to the following principles: the Montreal Protocol are excluded from GHGs but • Information Preparation – to highlight the primary analyzed separately. GHG emissions refer to all proprinciples of relevance and reliability of information; and duction processes such as bottling and pre-form injection processes from CCI’s plants in Turkey • Information Reporting to highlight the primary principles of comparability and/or consistency with Where the plant has on-site generated energy, the other data (including the prior year) and understandrelated energy consumption is defined as the enerability and/or transparency providing clarity to users. gy of the generation fuel (e.g. for on-site diesel fired electricity generator, the energy consumption will be 97 the diesel used rather than the electricity output of Water Use Ratio: (Liters of water per liter of prodthe generator). uct produced) = Total Water Use (Liters) / Production Volume (Liters) Energy Use Ratio (EUR): (MJ of energy consumed per liter of product produced) = sum of all individuWaste: Waste generated at the site includes waste al energy sources from the core (filling) production due to production, construction, food service or any processes (MJ) / Production volume (liters). To allow other activities. Examples of the types of solid waste comparability between different CCI plants, energy generated by the Company include paper, plastic, consumption during pre-injection, an energy-intencorrugated cardboard, metal, glass, sludge from wasive process, is excluded from the EUR since only a ter, waste oils, fleet wastes (tires, batteries, coolants, few sites employ this process. Of those CCI operaoils, etc.), damaged ingredients or products, plus tions within the scope of this reporting guidance, only all hazardous wastes, such as solvents, inks and the Turkish bottling facilities in Ankara and Çorlu as lab wastes. Liquid wastes disposed of through the well as the international operations in Kazakhstan wastewater system are not included in the calculaand Azerbaijan employed an operational pre-form tions as these wastes are accounted for in wastewainjection process in 2012. However, energy consumpter discharge volume and wastewater sludge. tion from pre-injection is included in total energy conTotal Waste Ratio (g/l): Grams of total waste sumption as explained in the paragraph on ‘energy generated per liter of product produced consumption’ in this Guidance document. Waste recycling rate (%): Tons of waste recovWater: Includes water from all sources, including well, ered or recycled divided by total waste generated spring water, municipality and collected rain water. (tons). Tons of waste in Turkey was collected by acWater Consumption: All water used during the credited waste contractors for recycling and re-use. reporting year (1 January to 31 December). Water consumption data includes water used for production, water-treatment, boiler makeup, cooling (conScope of Reporting tact and non-contact), cleaning and sanitation, backwashing filters, irrigation, washing trucks and other The following tables summarize the activities that are trucks, kitchen or canteen, toilets and sinks and fire currently reported within the scope of this Sustaincontrol. Water consumption reported is adjusted for ability Report for energy consumption, GHG emisany changes in the amount of water held in on-site sions, water consumption and solid waste. buffer tanks, a minor quantity on an annual basis. Energy Use Ratio (MJ/l) n n sta ija y an ba kh rke rd er za Tu Jo Az Ka Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as pre-form x x x x *As explained in manufacturing, bottle blowing and lift truck operations the guidance, an adjustment is made Technical service operations x x x x to the EUR for energy consumption from Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x Turkey’s Ankara and Çorlu plants as Own transportation of materials and products within these are the only industrial plant sites (eg forklift operations) x x x x two that employed this energy-intensive Adjustment for pre-injection process * N/A x x process in 2012. 98 GHG emissions as CO2e verification Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as lift truck operations x scope for Turkey Technical service operations x Pre-form manufacturing, bottle blowing processes x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x Administrative buildings located away from industrial x sites and headquarters Own transportation of materials and products within x industrial plant sites (eg forklift operations) Own transportation of materials and products out of x industrial plant sites Employee commuting with CCI owned vehicles and x sales fleet operation Energy used in the cooling of products (off-site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling of products (off-site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling system (on-site) x Fugitive emissions from the fire extinguishers x Fugitive emissions of CO2 filling process x Fugitive emissions from coolers off-site x Fugitive emissions from coolers on-site x Water n n sta ija y an ba kh rke rd er za Tu Jo Az Ka Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities x x x x Technical service operations at the site x x x x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x Waste n n ija sta y an ba kh rke rd er za Tu Jo Az Ka Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities x x x x Technical service operations located at the site x x x x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x 99 Data preparation Tool which is based on GHG Protocol Standards. The Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) used to calculate emissions of different GHGs in terms of CO2-equivalents is the IPCC Second Assessment Report. Energy Consumption Energy consumption data are reported for electricity, and primary fuel sources including natural gas, TCCC Default Factors diesel, LPG, fuel oil and steam. Electricity and natuNatural gas (MJ): 0.05049 kg CO2 ral gas data are obtained from supplier meters and reconciled with internal meters (when available) and/ LPG (MJ): 0.0594 kg CO2 or service provider invoices. Diesel, LPG, steam and Diesel (MJ, light fuel oil): 0.0704 kg CO2 fuel oil consumption data are obtained from supplier Steam (GKAL): 4,186.8 (Kazakhstan operation only) invoices. • For electricity, conversion factors are obtained CCI Operations used the following published converfrom The International Energy Agency (IEA, 2010) and sion factors: shared by TCCC to be used throughout the entire • For electricity, the unit of supply is invoiced in kWh. Coca-Cola System. To calculate energy use ratio, kWh is converted to IEA (2010) combined Electricity and Heat conversion Mega Joule (MJ) at a factor of 3.6. factor for Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan and Azerbaijan: • For natural gas, the unit of supply is invoiced in m 3. Then for the calculation of energy use ratio, cubic meters is converted to Mega Joule (MJ) with a conElectricity (kWh) version factor of 37.3 except for Kazakhstan where a factor of 33.7 is used based on analysis from an accredited local laboratory of the natural gas used Turkey 445.0250 kg CO2 on-site. Jordan 565.5062 kg CO2 • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel, and fuel oil), Kazakhstan 385.3109 kg CO2 energy conversion factors (from liters or kilograms to Azerbaijan 392.7976 kg CO2 Mega Joule) are obtained from the calculation tool provided by TCCC (The Coca-Cola Company) Default Factors. Water Consumption • For LPG (MJ/l) Defra’s conversion factor (net calorific value) of 45.96 was used as part of GHG verification Water consumption data is obtained from internal process as meeting the requirements of ISO 14064-1. meters where ground water is utilized. Moreover, water consumption data is obtained from supplier meters and reconciled with internal meters (when available) and/or service provider invoices where the GHG Emissions water is supplied by the network. GHG emissions are calculated by the Company using published conversion factors. Conversion factors enable an estimate of the amount of GHGs released into Restatements the atmosphere per unit of energy consumed. Different types of energy sources have different conversion The measuring and reporting of assured environmenfactors reflecting their carbon dioxide intensity. In futal data inevitably involves a degree of estimation. In ture periods, conversion factors may be updated to exceptional circumstances restatements of prior year reflect changes to and/or improvements in published reported emissions may be required. Restatements data. The following conversion factors are used: are considered where the data differs by more than 5% at Company level. For fuels (such as natural gas, diesel, LPG) conversion factors are obtained from the calculation tool provided by TCCC Default Factors and Calculation 100 UN GLOBAL Global COMPACT Compact Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally pp. 43-44 proclaimed human rights; and pp. 43-44 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Standarts Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective p. 45 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; pp. 39-44 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and pp. 39-44 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. pp. 39-44 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to pp. 59-79 environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; pp. 59-79 and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally pp. 59-79, pp. 54-57 friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including CCI Code of Ethics extortion and bribery. CCI Code of Ethics: http://cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/code-of-ethics/ 101 GRI Indicators GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE Profile Indicators 1.1 Message from the CEO 2-3 Full 1.2 Message from the CEO 2-3 Full Integrating Sustainability 12 2020 Vision and Strategic 18 Framework Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 18-19 Performance Highlights in 2012 10 Climate Protection and 62-63 Emission Management Inside 2.1 Contact Back Cover Full 2.2 Corporate Web-site http://cci.com.tr/en/our-company/ Full our-geography/ 2.3 CCI at a Glance 4-5 Full 2012 Annual Report 28-35 2.4 Contact Inside Full Back Cover 2.5 About the Reporting 1 Full CCI at a Glance 4-5 2.6 2012 Annual Report 34-35 Full 2.7 CCI at a Glance 4-5 Full 2.8 CCI at a Glance 4-5 Full Performance Indicators 80-91 2012 Annual Report 38-40 2.9 Corporate Web-site Detailed information about significant Full changes in reporting period can be obtained from Announcements section located at http://cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations/announcements/ 2.10 CCI Journey of Sustainability 9 Full 3.1 About Our Report 1 Full 3.2 About Our Report 1 Our last reporting period covers January Full 1st 2011-December 31st 2011 3.3 About Our Report 1 Our reporting cycle is annual Full 3.4 Contact Inside Back Cover Full 3.5 About Our Report 1 Full Sustainability Management 13-15 Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 18-19 3.6 About Our Report 1 Full Message from the CEO 2-3 3.7 About Our Report 1 Full 3.8 About Our Report 1 Full 3.9 About Our Report 1 Full 3.10 About Our Report 1 Full 102 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE 3.11 About Our Report 1 Full 3.12 GRI Indicators Table 102-110 Full UNGC Table 101 3.13 Assurance Statement 111 Full 4.1 Integrating Sustainability 12-13 Full 2012 Annual Report 28-31 4.2 2012 Annual Report 28-31 Full 4.3 2012 Annual Report 30-31 Full 4.4 Integrating Sustainability 12-13 Full Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 18-21 Employee Engagement 45-48 2012 Annual Report 45-46 4.5 2012 Annual Report 51-52 Full 4.6 Code of Ethics 12 CCI Code of Ethics: http://cci.com.tr/ Full en/investor-relations/corporate-gover2012 Annual Report 51-52 nance/code-of-ethics/ 4.7 2012 Annual Report 28-31 Full 4.8 Standards and Policies 17 Full 4.9 Message from the CEO 2-3 Full Integrating Sustainability 12-13 Climate Protection and 62-63 Emission Management 4.10 2012 Annual Report 49-50 Full 4.11 Integrating Sustainability 12-13 Full 2012 Annual Report 51 4.12 CCI Journey of Sustainability 8-9 Signed in 2009, CCIin all counrty opFull Standards and Policies erationsprovide compliance to United 17 Nations Global Compact 4.13 Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 21 Full 4.14 Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 20-21 Full 4.15 Integrating Sustainability 13-14 Full Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 18-19 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 20-21 We employ multiple types of stakeholdFull er engagement practices, frequency of which varies by type. Engagement practices like survey, researches and other implications, which are realized as a part of a certain system or process, are employed at least annually. Public disclosure engagements are realized in quarterly or in annual basis, however we also employ adhoc communication tools in case of a significant situation. Other engagement practices are realized on adhoc basis when a certain need is occured. 103 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE 4.17 Stakeholder Engagement at CCI 19-20 Full 2012 Annual Report 45-46 Management Approach DMA SC Our Environmental Approach pp. 59-61; Full Water Management p.70; Preserving Water Resources pp. 74-75; Product Safety and Quality pp. 24-25; Our Suppliers p. 28; Employee Rights p. 43; Equality and Diversity p. 44 DMA EC Economic and Corporate Governance Full Performance Indicators p.80; Message from the CEO pp. 2-3; Climate Protection and Emission Management pp. 62-63; Compensation and Benefits p. 39; Equality and Diversity pp. 44-45; Our Suppliers pp. 28-29; Employee Indicators p.84; Our Community pp. 53-57; Economic Development pp.52-53; 2012 Annual Report pp. 60-63, 96, 99-100. DMA EN 2012 Environmental Performance IndiFull cators pp. 86, 88-89; Recycling of Product Packages p.79; Energy Efficiency pp. 63-66; Energy Efficiency in Office Design p.66; Green IT p. 69; Cooling Practices p. 68; Water Management p.73; Preserving Water Resources pp. 74-75; Wastewater Management and Reclamation pp. 7374; Social Development pp. 54-57. Message from the CEO pp. 2-3; Life Plus Foundation and Life Plus Youth Program pp.54-55; Managing the Impact of Transportation and Logistic p. 67; Sustainable Packaging pp. 76-79; Standards and Policies p.17; GRI Indicators Table 106-107 DMA LA Employee Indicators pp. 82-83; ComFull pensation and Benefits p. 39; Union Rights at CCI p .45; Employee Rights p. 43; Occupational Health and Safety p.49; 2012 Health and Safety Data pp. 80-81; Supported Social Projects pp. 55-57; Active Healthy Lifestyle pp. 3435; Employee Development pp. 40-41; Talent Management at CCI pp. 39-40; Equality and Diversity p. 44; GRI Indicators Table 107-108 104 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE DMA HR Supplier Guiding Principles p .17; Our Full Suppliers p. 28; Corporate Governance and Risk Management p. 12; Employee Rights p. 43; Business Code of Ethics p. 16; Employee Engagement p. 46; GRI Indicators Table 108 DMA SO Preserving Water Resources pp. 74-75; Full Active Healthy Living pp. 34-35; Corporate Governance and Risk Management p.12; Business Code of Ethics p. 16; Our Suppliers p. 28; GRI Indicators Table 109 DMA PR Me pp. 24-26, 30-33; Sustainable Full Packaging pp. 76-79; Product Safety and Quality pp. 24-26; Our Consumers pp.31-32; The Coca-Cola Information Center p.33; Responsible Advertising and Marketing pp. 31-32; GRI Indicators Table 109-110 DMA AW Not Applicable Not Performance Indicators FP1 GRI Indicators Table 105 Product ingredients and packaging proFull curements in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Jordan and Kazakhstan are substantiated from TCCC authorized suppliers. FP2 GRI Indicators Table 105 Procurement criteria set by TCCC are Full international standards complied by all bottlers in Coca-Cola System. EC1 Economic and Corporate 80 Full Governance Performance Indicators 2012 Annual Report 60-63 EC2 Message from the CEO 2-3 Full Climate Protection and 62-63 Emission Management EC3 Compensation and Benefits 39 Gender is definitely not a criterion for Full 2012 Annual Report determining employee salaries. 99-100 EC4 2012 Annual Report 96 Full EC5 Compensation and Benefits 39 Full Equality and Diversity 44-45 Full EC6 Our Suppliers 28 Full EC7 Equality and Diversity 44-45 Full Employee Indicators 84 105 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE EC8 Our Community 53-57 Full EC9 Economic Development 52-53 Full EN1 2012 Environmental 86 Full Performance Indicators EN2 Recycling of Product Packages 79 Full 2012 Environmental 86 Performance Indicators EN3 2012 Environmental 88-89 Full Performance Indicators EN4 2012 Environmental 89 Full Performance Indicators EN5 Energy Efficiency 63-66 Full Energy Efficiency in 66 Office Design Green IT 69 Cooling Practices 68 EN6 Energy Efficiency 63-66 Full Cooling Practices 68 EN7 Energy 63-66 Full Efficiency EN8 Water Management 73 Full EN9 Preserving Water Resources 74-75 CCI operations do not have any Full facility in RAMSAR areas. EN10 Wastewater Management and 73-74 Full Reclamation 2012 Environmental 87 Performance Indicators EN11 GRI Indicators Table 106 CCI has no production plants in the proFull tected areas. EN12 GRI Indicators Table 106 Altough CCI has no production plants in Full Preserving Water Resources 74-75 the protected areas information about natural resources use and biodiversity Social Development 54-57 protection can be found on related parts. EN13 GRI Indicators Table 106 CCI has no production plants in the proFull tected areas. EN14 Message from the CEO 2-3 Full Life Plus Foundation and Life 54-55 Plus Youth Program Preserving Water Resources 74-75 EN15 Not applicable Not applicable Not EN16 2012 Environmental 89-90 Full Performance Indicators 106 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE EN17 2012 Environmental 89-90 Full Performance Indicators EN18 Energy Efficiency 63-66 Full Managing the Impact of 67 Transportation and Logistic Cooling Practices 68 Green IT 69 EN19 Not EN20 Managing the Impact of 67 Full Transportation and Logistics EN21 Wastewater Management and 73-74 Full Reclamation EN22 2012 Environmental 86 Full Performance Indicators EN23 Wastewater Management and 73-74 There was no leakage resulting from our Full Reclamation operations during the reporting period. EN24 Not applicable Not EN25 GRI Indicators Table 107 Since waste water is discharged only afFull ter the treatment process and reached to the quality level required by legal regulations, biodiversity value of receiving environment is not harmed. EN26 Energy Efficiency 63-66 Full Cooling Practices 68 Water Management 73-74 Sustainable Packaging 76-79 EN27 Recycling of Product Packages 79 Full EN28 Standards and Policies 17 Full EN29 Managing the Impact of 67 Full Transportation and Logistics Recycling of Product Packages 79 2012 Environmental 89-91 Performance Indicators EN30 2012 Environmental 91 Full Performance Indicators LA1 Employee Indicators 83 All employees covered in the employee Full breakdown graphics are fulltime employees LA2 Employee Indicators 82-83 Full LA3 Compensation and Benefits 39 Full LA15 Data is not avaliable Not 107 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE 45 LA4 Union Rights at CCI Full LA5 Employee Rights 43 We follow the legal time periods and Full procedures for dismissal notification. FP3 Union Rights in CCI 45 In reporting period no sectoral disputes, Full strikes and/or lockouts occurred in any of our operations. LA6 Occupational Health and Safety 49 Full LA7 2012 Health and Safety Data 80-81 We can not keep this indicator with Partial gender breakdown LA8 Supported Social Projects 55-57 Full Active Healthy Living 34-35 LA9 GRI Indicators Table 108 Consensus is reached regarding health Full check-ups, sick leaves, work-related accidents and birth / maternity leaves, sick pays, first-aid, protective equipment, work wear and occupational health and safety via collective labor agreements concluded with the union. LA10 Employee Development 40 We keep average hours of training data for Partial all employees. We plan to breakdown the data by employee category as of 2014. LA11 Talent Management at CCI 39-40 Full Employee Development 40-41 LA12 Talent Management at CCI 39-40 Full LA13 Employee Indicators 84-85 Full Equality and Diversity 44 LA14 Compensation and Benefits 39 Gender is definitely not a criterion for Full determining employee salaries. HR1 Supplier Guiding Principles 17 Full Our Suppliers 28 HR2 Supplier Guiding Principles 17 Full Our Suppliers 28 HR3 Corporate Governance and 12 Full Risk Management Employee Rights 43 HR4 GRI Indicators Table 108 There were no incidents of discriminaFull tion within the reporting period. HR5 Supplier Guiding Principles 17 No occasion took place during the reFull Our Suppliers porting period that posed a significant 28 threat to the freedom of association and collective bargaining. HR6 Supplier Guiding Principles 17 In line with our committment to UNGC, Full Our Suppliers 28 our operations do not have risk for incidents of child labor Employee Rights 43 108 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE HR7 Supplier Guiding Principles 17 Full Our Suppliers 28 No occasion took place during the reporting period that posed a significant threat to the freedom of forced or comHR8 Employee Rights 43 pulsory labor. Full HR9 GRI Indicators Table 108 No such occasion took place during the Full reporting period HR10 Supplier Guiding Principles 17 Full Our Suppliers 28 Employee Rights 43 HR11 Business Code of Ethics 16 No such occasion took place during the Full Employee Engagement 46 reporting period SO1 GRI Indicators Table 109 We conduct environmental and financial Full impact analysis with regard to the area that we will operate before we start operation. We restore all natural qualifications and consider related stakeholder expectations. SO9 Preserving Water Resources 74-75 Full SO10 Preserving Water Resources 74-75 Full FP4 Active Healthy Living 34-35 Full SO2 Corporate Governance and Risk 12 Full Management Business Code of Ethics 16 Our Suppliers 28 SO3 Corporate Governance and Risk 12 Full Management Business Code of Ethics 16 Our Suppliers 28 SO4 Corporate Governance and Risk 12 Full Management Business Code of Ethics 16 Our Suppliers 28 SO5 Code of Ethics 12 Full SO6 Code of Ethics 12 Full SO7 GRI Indicators Table 109 Within the reporting period, no violation Full of conduct was determined against CC‹ with regards to uncompetitive behavior, monopolistic or similar practices. No penal sanctions were applied in this regard. SO8 GRI Indicators Table 109 No significant fines charged during reFull porting period for non-compliance with laws and regulations. PR1 Me 24-26 Full Sustainable Packaging 76-79 109 GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE PR2 GRI Indicators Table 110 There are no court rulings against us reFull lated to any failure to comply with regulations on product and service information and labeling. FP5 Product Safety and Quality 24-26 Full FP6 GRI Indicators Table 110 Coca-Cola Light (1.37%), Coca-Cola Zero Full (1.37%), SenSun (0.53%), Damla (18.28%), Damla Minera (0.31%), Damla Minera Sade ( 0.31%) FP7 GRI Indicators Table 110 Products in related catergory are Cappy Partial Karıık Meyve Nektarı, Cappy Turunçgiller, Powerade IceBlast, Powerade Sun Rush and Powerade Citrus Charge. PR3 Our Consumers 30-31 Full FP8 Our Consumers 30-31 Full PR4 GRI Indicators Table 110 There are no court rulings against us reFull lated to any failure to comply with regulations on product and service information and labeling. PR5 Our Customers 30-31 Full The Coca-Cola Information 33 Center PR6 Responsible Advertising and 31-32 Full Marketing The Coca-Cola Information 33 Center PR7 GRI Indicators Table 110 No lawsuits have been filed against CCI Full for failure to comply with laws related to marketing communications, advertising, promotions or sponsorships in 2012. PR8 GRI Indicators Table 110 Within the reporting period, no comFull plaints were received to CCI regarding the violation of customers' personal privacy or the loss of customer data. PR9 GRI Indicators Table 110 No significant penalties were charged Full against CCI for failure to comply with laws or regulations regarding the supply or use of products and services during the reporting period. FP9 Not applicable Not FP10 Not applicable Not FP11 Not applicable Not FP12 Not applicable Not FP13 Not applicable Not 110 Independent External assurance Assurancereport Letter 111 GreenHouse Gas Verification Statement 112 UN Global Compact 113 114 UN Global GRI approval Compact 115 LEGAL DISCLAIMER The Sustainability Report (the Report) has been prepared by Coca-Cola ‹çecek A.. (CCI) within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. 116 Contact Coca-Cola ‹çecek Atilla D. Yerlikaya Corporate Affairs Director Coca-Cola ‹çecek A.. Merkez Ofis Istanbul Esenkent Mah. Deniz Feneri Sok. No: 4, 34776, Ümraniye Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 4000 Fax: +90 216 466 7686 www.cci.com.tr Reporting Consultant www.tutajans.com.tr This report is printed on recycled paper. Istanbul Headquarter Istanbul Esenkent Mah. Deniz Feneri Sok. No: 4, 34776, Ümraniye Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 4000 Fax: +90 216 466 7686 www.cci.com.tr
