2013 Global Citizenship Report ® C content INT R O D U CTION 3 W HAT W E D O 4 CA R T U S CULTU R E 5 O U R PEOPLE 6 ETHI CS AN D COMPLIANCE 10 CA R IN G F OR OU R COMMUNITIES 12 EN V I R ONMENTAL STEWAR D SHIP 14 MANA G ING A GLOBAL SU PPLY C HAIN 16 About this report: For more information on global citizenship at Cartus, please visit our online resource page at http://guidance.cartusrelocation.com/global-citizenship. www.cartus.com | trustedguidance@cartus.com | connect with us © 2013 Cartus Corporation. All rights reserved. Cartus and the Cartus logo are pending or registered trademarks of Cartus Corporation. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 02 INTRODUCTION Statement of Support from CEO To Cartus Stakeholders: The people of Cartus are generous, involved, and committed to changing things for the better. It’s part of our company culture, not only in supporting our clients and customers, but also in a broader spirit of giving. This spirit of contribution shows itself in a breathtaking variety of activities that gives us great pride and inspires us to do even more. It also motivates Cartus to make this a great place for our employees to work. In 2012—our first year of commitment to the United Nations Global Compact—we continued to expand our efforts in several key areas, including people development, support for our communities, environmental stewardship, and supply chain management. In addition, our parent company was named one of the world’s most ethical companies—a designation that Cartus takes seriously. Call it corporate citizenship, social responsibility, or global stewardship, Cartus is doing its part. I encourage you to read about the many ways the people of Cartus are taking responsibility for making a difference, one employee at a time. Kevin Kelleher President and CEO CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 03 WHAT WE DO Providing Trusted Guidance for People on the Move Our expertise stretches back to 1955, when Cartus began offering • Our services cover every aspect of the relocation process—from U.S. domestic home-finding assistance. Since then, we have grown to selling a home and shipping household goods to settling into new become the most trusted guide in the global relocation industry. communities around the world. We provide logistical support as well • Cartus is part of Realogy Holdings Corp. (NYSE: RLGY), a global as international assignment compensation services, intercultural and leader in real estate franchising and provider of real estate brokerage, language training, consulting services, and talent management and relocation, and settlement services. retention. • Cartus is the industry leader in mobility support to organizations • Using our ISO-certified Supply Chain Management department, we worldwide. With 3,000 Cartus employees—more than 800 based in employ the best suppliers in the industry, obtain the best prices, and EMEA and Asia/Pacific—and 22 offices worldwide, our clients trust manage them better than anyone else. us to assist nearly 160,000 transferees, expatriate assignees, and members each year into and out of more than 165 countries. APAC Customer Relationship of the Year – 2012/2013: Cartus and P&G Relocation Company of the Year Award and Best Vendor Partnership – 2012: Cartus and Cisco Realogy was named one of the world’s most ethical (WME) companies by the Ethisphere® Institute in both 2012 and 2013. The WME designation recognizes companies that truly go beyond making statements about doing business “ethically” and translate those words into action. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 04 CARTUS CULTURE Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both collectively UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS as an organization and individually as members of the Cartus Human Rights Because Cartus is a service-based business, family. As part of that culture, our focus on global citizenship the services we offer are only as good as our Principle 1: Support and respect the reflects our commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN protection of internationally proclaimed people. Our mission is to provide trusted human rights. guidance so our clients and customers Global Compact. Specifically, this commitment shows not only succeed—that is our focus. As part of this in how we provide service to our clients and their relocating Principle 2: Ensure that the company is not mission, we follow the UN Global Compact complicit in human rights abuses. human rights principles according to the employees, but also in what our company and employees give nature of our business. back to our communities and our planet. Labor We are an extremely diverse global Mission Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of organization, including age, gender, religion, We come to work every day to help our customers and clients association and the effective recognition heritage, family, interests, experiences, and succeed, fulfilling the needs and earning the trust of those whose lives of the right to collective bargaining. style. This diversity helps everyone—from employees to suppliers worldwide—expand we touch. Principle 4: Work to eliminate all forms of their understanding of the world, and these forced or compulsory labor. differences foster richly varying perspectives. Vision Principle 5: Work to effectively abolish We will provide trusted guidance by sharing and leveraging our vast child labor. body of knowledge and experience to create superior solutions, build Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination with relationships, and bring more value to all our stakeholders. We will respect to employment and occupation. work together each day to achieve excellence in all we do, fostering Environment As a corporate citizen of the earth, we are trust and confirming our leadership position in the markets we serve. Principle 7: Businesses should support a committed to reducing the environmental Values precautionary approach to environmental impact of our company and continually Service: We are defined by our service. challenges. look at multiple ways to reduce our carbon footprint and to educate our employees Financial Responsibility: We manage all resources as if they were our own. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives on conservation activities. Through these to promote greater environmental efforts, we show our commitment to the Respect: We respect others and treat people well. responsibility. Environmental Principles of the UN Global Collaboration: We are better when we work together. Principle 9: Encourage the development Compact. and diffusion of environmentally friendly Ethical Behavior: We do the right thing. technologies. Anti-corruption We know that how we carry ourselves and As a business participant in the UN Global Compact, Cartus has treat others affects how our stakeholders Principle 10: Work against corruption in all made a commitment to integrate the Ten Principles into our forms, including extortion and bribery. ultimately view our company. In support of this goal, we maintain a Compliance and strategic planning and day-to-day operations. The following Ethics Program that includes specific antiCommunication on Progress (COP) details our efforts to fulfill corruption policies and procedures; key this mission. components include our Code of Ethics and Key Policies, the two cornerstone documents of our corporate culture. The result: our parent company has been named one of the world’s most ethical companies. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 05 OUR PEOPLE We Respect Others and Treat People Well We show respect to everyone we interact with, inside and outside of Previously a winner of a Bronze Award (2008) and a Silver Award (2010), our Cartus, earning both their confidence and their respect in return. Being Workplace Health Promotion Committee in Singapore arranges events like both global and diverse, we are attuned to the nuances of culture and complimentary health screening, health and wellness bazaars, health talks, diversity. We foster and sustain an environment that is inclusive and and weekly fruit day. supportive; we consider this essential to both the excellence of our –– In the UK, our teams enjoy comprehensive private medical insurance and work and to the company we strive to be. We create opportunities for also benefit from a discreet Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which is our employees to get involved, build satisfying careers, balance life and a confidential, 24/7 counseling service offering advice and support on a wide range of both work-related and personal issues. work, and grow personally and professionally. We extend this internal culture of respect to all those we touch every day—because respect is • Health and Safety Policy. In 2012, Cartus expanded our health and essential to every healthy relationship. safety policy for the Americas, Asia/Pacific, and the United Kingdom. We are currently updating the policy for our facilities in continental Health and Safety Europe for rollout this year. Our employees’ health and safety remains of the utmost importance to • iThrive Program. iThrive is our parent company’s wellness program Cartus. We have a duty to provide a safe working environment for our designed to help keep employees healthy all year and into future employees, but we go far beyond this responsibility to encourage and years as well. iThrive incorporates, consolidates, support the overall health and safety of all employees. and supplements the many preventive care and • The Cartus Health and Safety wellness benefits already in place at the company. Program. Through this program, we THE CARTUS H E A LT H & S A F E T Y P R O G R A M Activities include stress reduction programs, online ensure that the health and safety of U.S.-BASED EMPLOYEES health tools, fitness/weight management, and our employees is not compromised. regular wellness seminars. –– Cartus has been recognized for our THE CARTUS • Pandemic and Infectious Disease Planning. As part of our rigorous wellness initiatives, including Wellness HEALTH & SAFETY Crisis Management program, Fairs, health screenings and services, PROGRAM Cartus has prepared a PA N D E M I C A N D I N F E C T I O U S D I S E A S E P L A N N I N G and regular information sessions on pandemic and infectious CArTUS CrISIS MANAGEMENT health and safety issues. One of the disease planning policy that highlights of this effort is our annual serves as a guideline in the Danbury, CT, health fair, featuring event of an infectious disease PANDEMIC & dozens of exhibits and local health practitioners. SM outbreak. INFECTIOUS DISEASE PLANNING –– Our onsite Wellness Center in the • Preventing Workplace Violence. Danbury headquarters gets 4,000+ visits every year, has had 38,000+ visits We continue to offer an online SM since opening, and has saved our employees hundreds of thousands of workplace violence program dollars in health insurance fees. for all employees. In 2013, we are supplementing this training with –– In 2012, our Singapore office was honored with a Gold Award in the additional onsite classes in our larger facilities. Singapore HEALTH (Helping Employees Achieve Life Time Health) Awards. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 06 OUR PEOPLE Inclusion is a Tangible Global Commitment We All Share Diversity and Inclusion The Cartus Global Diversity and Inclusion Council regularly conducts At Cartus, understanding and accepting cultural diversity is a key aspect sessions to help our workforce grow as citizens of the world. These of our core value of Respect. We embrace diversity because it resonates sessions are led by our own employees, our suppliers and our even with our value to respect and embrace differences. Our sensitivity to our clients. They include information on living and working in different each other and to our customers’ unique and individual needs not only cultures throughout the globe. We also regularly share and celebrate makes us a better service provider, but also makes us a richer, more our local customs through role play, skits, and parties. For our annual vibrant company. diversity week celebration, employees held over 50 different events throughout our offices. Events ranged from food tastings, quizzes and Diversity efforts at Cartus build on our ten-year-old Global Diversity and puzzles, music and celebration, and information sharing. Inclusion Council, which coordinates activities across the company. Our executive team strongly believes that having diversity in our workplace For more information about Cartus diversity efforts, please visit our is good for Cartus and is a fundamental part of our overall human YouTube channel and watch the video entitled “Celebrating Diversity: resources strategy. The Cartus Global Diversity and Inclusion Award.” In our hiring and advancement practices, Cartus disregards race, color, CLICK PLAY TO VIEW DIVERSITY VIDEO: religion, national origin, citizenship, age, sex, gender, sexual orientation, sexual preference, veteran status, marital status, disability, or any other characteristic protected under applicable laws and regulations. We make reasonable accommodations for qualified disabled employees and applicants. All Employees Managers and Above 73% Female 67% Female 27% 33% Male Male CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 07 OUR PEOPLE Recognizing People Who Do Great Things Reward and Recognition Cartus holds an annual To acknowledge employee contributions to our success, Cartus offers Wellness Fair in the Danbury our BRAVO! reward and recognition program. This program recognizes headquarters to increase those who come to work every day to help Cartus’ customers and health awareness by clients by providing trusted providing health screenings, guidance through actions that activities, materials, demonstrate the company’s demonstrations, and five values of Service, Financial information, and to motivate Responsibility, Respect, Collaboration, and Ethical Behavior. employees to make positive health behavior changes. We also offer a Bright Ideas program that enables employees to submit recommendations for training, cost savings, process streamlining, incentive programs, etc. Those that are implemented and show significant improvement earn the submitting employee a financial bonus. In 2012, more than 2,000 employees received one-time incentives for excellence over and above their regular compensation packages. In Singapore, Cartus staff celebrated diversity Each year, Cartus names winners of the annual BRAVO! with tea, teatime snacks, pastries, and traditional President’s Awards, which recognize exceptional childhood games. They also supported achievement and consistent demonstration of one or International Food Day by organizing bake sales, more of Cartus company values. For 2012, the Gold raising funds of more than S$1,300 in support of Award winner was Mary Flynn, Director, File Setup/ the Cartus Cares APAC charity initiative. ORC in the Danbury headquarters. Her nomination noted, “She is a much sought-after resource, as her decisions, guidance, and expertise reflect an enterprise-wide vision grounded in the fine details of our systems, processes, and products.” CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 08 OUR PEOPLE Cartus Employees in Action Jenny Castelino, Director of Sales and Account Management Employees in our Shanghai office gathered in the Intercultural and Language Solutions Group in Cartus’ in Hangzhou for a team building experience. Asia-Pacific region, received the 2012 Diversity and Inclusion The group celebrated conquering many Award. As the Asia -Pacific representative on the Cartus competitive challenges, which helped them Diversity Council, Jenny has been instrumental in organizing strengthen ties and foster team spirit. our “Cartus Cares” community involvement in the region integrating community involvement, charity work and volunteer service in Singapore, Hong Kong, and Shanghai. She also coordinated the production of a diversity video for the APAC region entitled “Uniquely Me.” Realogy’s annual Diversity and Inclusion Week is held each May, with events planned at locations companywide, including Cartus offices. These activities celebrate many different cultures and help us become more aware of one another’s backgrounds and perspectives. With the 2012 Olympic Games opening ceremony just hours away, employees in Employees in Cartus’ Danbury Cartus’ London office joined headquarters heard about with their local community the “modern family” from a as the torch was carried past number of their colleagues their office through the final during a Lunch and Learn. leg of the Torch Route. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 09 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE We Do the Right Thing Our core values mandate ethical behavior in all of our business dealings. our commitment to keeping personal information safe and secure We conduct ourselves and our business with the utmost integrity. We via our people, processes, and technology. Our information comply with our internal and external commitments, and we make the security initiatives derive from an integrated strategy developed, ethical choice whenever there is a choice to be made. Our culture of implemented, updated, and controlled by our own staff, which integrity is absolute and non-negotiable. In support of these values, we includes a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) have developed a Compliance and Ethics Program. as well as CCE, ISFCE, and CCSE certifications. The effectiveness • Code of Ethics and Key Policies. For many years, Cartus (through of our approach has been validated by numerous reviews by the its parent company, Realogy) has had a written Code of Ethics and organizations who use our services as well as by external auditors, Key Policies, both of which articulate Cartus’ strong anti-corruption including SSAE 16 certification (formerly SAS 70) and self-certification position. These are provided to all new hires and are immediately for European Union and Swiss Safe Harbor status with the U.S. available to employees on the Cartus intranet. The Code of Ethics Department of Commerce. provides the guiding principles of our organization and addresses fundamental laws and regulations that apply to our business. It also In March 2012, our parent company, Realogy, was named one of the provides a framework that outlines our responsibilities as individuals world’s most ethical (WME) companies by the Ethisphere® Institute. In and employees in ensuring that we not only adhere to the letter 2013, Realogy received this designation for the second consecutive year. and spirit of the law, but also foster and maintain a spirit of ethical conduct. • Ethics Training. To bolster our commitment to ethics, 100 percent of Cartus employees annually: 1) complete Code of Ethics training; and 2) certify that he or she has received, read, understood, complied with and will continue to comply with the Code of Ethics and the Key Policies. These responsibilities cannot be overemphasized. We are all responsible for upholding the principles outlined in these documents. • Ethics Hotline. Cartus continues to maintain an Ethics Hotline that 100% allows employees, suppliers, and others to report any violations of our employees of the Code or Key Policies. This channel offers anonymity to the reporting party, and all reports go directly to the Cartus complete code of ethics Compliance Officer as well as to the Realogy Chief Compliance training every year Officer for investigation and resolution. • Data Security. A major component of our ethical practice is ensuring that the personal data our clients and customers share with us remains secure. We offer the Cartus Privacy Promise as CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 10 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Business Ethics is Key to Our Everyday Activities In 2012, Cartus systems blocked approximately 37 million spam messages and more than 45,000 virus messages. Each year, 100 percent of Cartus employees attended annual training in information security and PII protection. To help managers promote high ethical standards through open Our systems and security are regularly reviewed by clients, external communication and collaboration auditors, and other professional organizations. with their teams, we introduced a new toolkit titled “Fostering Ethical Behavior.” Information Security | The Privacy Promise Meeting Established Selecting and Standards for Training the Effectiveness V. I. Right People Compliance Personal Security People IV. Process II. Protecting Continuing Technology Managing Controlling Against Service Operations Access What People Can Interruption See and Do III. Securing the Infrastructure Controlling Who We Let In CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 11 CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Cartus Cares for the People in the Places We Live and Work To show our commitment to where we live and work, Cartus maintains a Charitable Giving Advisory Board and a Cartus Cares charitable giving foundation to support the work employees do in caring for our communities. Globally, our employees volunteer more than 25,000 hours annually, with charitable efforts and involvement around the world. In 2012 alone, Cartus employees raised more than US$300,000 for charities. Year 2012 regional efforts included: • In North America, we support organizations like the United Way, Community Health Charities, American Cancer Society, Junior Achievement, March of Dimes, Red Cross, and many others. Events where our employees participated included Walk n’ Roll and our inaugural Beards for Bucks campaign for the United Way, Race for the Cure, Food Pantry Support, Back to School drives, National Disaster Relief Campaigns, and support of the U.S. military. • Our European offices organized a series of fundraising events for Charity of the Year, the Alzheimer’s Society, including an auction, a sponsored walk, and a Christmas raffle. Other charitable organizations supported include Breast Cancer Awareness, Comic Relief, and Macmillan Cancer Support. Additionally, male employees supported “Movember” by growing a moustache throughout the month of November, raising money for Prostate Cancer UK and Cancer Research. • In Asia, initiatives included a food drive, and a drive to collect used clothing, hygiene kits, non-food items, and cash for victims of typhoons in the Philippines. Teams partnered with Junior Achievement for educational projects, participated in the annual Pink Walk for Breast Health walkathon, and donated funds to needy families and children in rural areas for purchase of medication, school supplies, and other necessities. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 12 CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Our Employees are Involved and Giving In 2012, the tragedy at Newtown, CT, affected Cartus as a whole as well as many of our Danbury headquarters employees who live in the town. Our employee Jessica Hoyt sold 371 Sandy Hook bracelets to her colleagues to raise benefit funds. This is just one of many ways Cartus reached out to the Sandy Hook community. Executive Vice President Traci Morris received a 2012 Humanitarian Bringing smiles to the people of Award for her work as a board member and treasurer for The Mindanao—Cartus’ Singapore office Denan Project. This grass roots humanitarian project began in recently donated nearly S$4,600 as well Ethiopia with a small clinic and now operates clinics and hospitals as 150 bags of non-food items, such as in Ethiopia, Peru, Burkina Faso, and Mongolia. used clothes, shoes, and toys, to the victims of Typhoon Pablo in Mindanao. The items and donations were sent to Mindanao at no charge by PinoySG. The annual October-throughNovember food drive and A fundraiser in Cartus’ London office aided Jeans Week in Cartus’ Lisle, Sport Relief—a UK-based charity that helps Ill.-based office donated 155 those in poverty in the UK and Africa. Cartus food items and funds to a employees participated in a mile walk, and nearby food pantry to help Peter Stirrup, consultancy services, juggled the homeless. while walking the entire mile! CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 13 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP “Going Green” in Everything We Do Cartus takes a holistic sustainability approach that creates long-term • Country-wide Conservation Initiatives. Cartus has committed to value by not only creating a “green” strategy aimed toward the natural these efforts to conserve energy and resources: environment, but also taking into consideration how our business affects –– All computer monitors are turned off at the end of the business day. the environment. We have made environmental stewardship a priority –– Monitors enter sleep mode after 10 minutes of non-usage. Each monitor through such efforts as recycling, carpooling, energy conservation, and only consumes the same amount of electricity as a 75W light bulb. effective office management practices. –– Computers, printers, and photocopiers are programmed to switch to power-save mode when they have been idle for a specified period of time. Regional efforts included: –– Multi-function printers default to print double sided for all printing and • Environmental Audits. We use independent third-party companies copying jobs. to conduct certification of the various aspects of our sustainability –– Recycling programs are in place at Cartus offices around the world— program. For example, Cartus’ environmental sustainability programs recyclables include white paper, cardboard, and cans and bottles (which were reviewed last year. An outside auditor visited the site, collected represent approximately 25-30 percent of our waste stream). data, toured the facility, and interviewed employees to ascertain the • Supply Chain Environment Efforts. Cartus is also committed to effectiveness of our environmental initiatives. health, safety, and environmental stewardship in its supply chain • Cartus Conservation Committee. For more than a decade, we worldwide. To show this commitment, we have awarded Cartus have maintained an employee-initiated and employee-sponsored suppliers that show innovation in the areas of environmental and Conservation Committee that works closely with our Facilities team. conservation efforts. Recent winners include: This committee has conducted several major initiatives, including –– Budd Van Lines for its ECO-Crate System—an environmentally friendly, roadway pollution reduction, recycling and waste reduction, and safe, and economic alternative to crating (corrugated packing materials). energy conservation. It also sponsors events such as our annual –– Clark & Reid Executive Moving Services for its Scheduling Initiative— Earth Day Fair, which provides employees with environmental and reduces miles driven and the cost of miles to drivers and the company and conservation products and services for both home and office. improves load efficiency. • Carbon Footprint Reduction. As part of our commitment to –– Marriott for Reducing Carbon Footprint—Paperless Invoicing— environmental sustainability, Cartus has begun compiling data to collaborated with over 1,000 hotels in the Cartus program to submit establish a carbon baseline for those offices where we either control invoices electronically, saving paper. building mechanical and utilities systems or where our landlord cooperates with us to compile the data. These locations include our Danbury, CT, headquarters; the Memphis, TN, and Dallas, TX, offices; and our Swindon, UK, regional headquarters. In 2012, these offices produced 6.6 thousand metric tons of carbon. We continue to reduce our footprint in all areas and are working to establish additional baseline measures to set more meaningful goals. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 14 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Our Environmental Activities Include Corporate Giving, Volunteerism, and Outreach Programs Through the efforts of Cartus employees, approximately In 2012, 350 employees were actively involved 30 tons of waste are recycled annually—material that in carpooling, an effort that reduced CO2 does not end up in landfills. Our recycling program also emissions by nearly 335 tons and resulted in saved the company an estimated US$25,000 last year. more than 34,000 gallons of gas being saved. Cycling to Work in our Swindon UK office is encouraged, made easier by the network of local cycle paths running close by the office. The Danbury headquarters is ENERGY STAR rated, an important designation Employees in the Singapore office celebrated Earth because Danbury is the only Cartus facility Hour (a worldwide event organized by the World Wide that is not a multi-tenanted building. Fund for Nature (WWF) and held annually to encourage households and businesses to turn off non-essential lights and power for one hour to raise awareness about the need to take action on climate change) with a series of special activities throughout the week preceding Earth Hour on March 23. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 15 MANAGING A GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN Careful Supplier Management to Ensure Consistency, Security, and Value Our commitments also extend to the suppliers we use globally to Cartus remains a long-standing corporate member of the National serve our clients and customers. We select and manage our highMinority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) and its regional performing suppliers through an ISO 9001:2008 certified sourcing affiliate the Greater New England Minority Supplier Development and management process. Cartus has a dedicated Supply Chain Council (GNEMSDC) of which Cartus is an active board member. Management department, with responsibility for managing the Cartus Global Network suppliers engaged to deliver services. The department The Cartus Broker Network is a metricsis divided into teams that manage each network of third-party providers managed network made up of the top and is responsible for metrics management, contract negotiation, 20 percent of U.S. brokers within the business model development, and continuous improvement strategy. Realogy brands (Better Homes and ® We have more than 100 Supply Chain Management personnel working Gardens® Real Estate, CENTURY 21®, in the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa), and Asia Coldwell Banker®, ERA®, and Sotheby’s Pacific regions. International Realty®). With more than 109,000 agents in 2,930 offices • Supplier Compliance. Cartus holds every member of the supply available to assist your relocation needs, the network offers a wide chain to its same high standards. Each network supplier has signed a selection of brokers and markets to choose from. This network maintains contract agreeing to full compliance with all laws. the same standards for ethics and diversity as Cartus. • Supplier Ethics. Our suppliers are required to complete the Code of In the UK, Cartus manages the Relocation Ethics training as well as a mandatory three-module training and risk Agent Network, a network of around 600 management program. This program covers Personally Identifiable independent estate agency offices that cover Information (PII), Ethical Behavior and Global Compliance, and England, Scotland, and Wales. Many of these Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental issues. Annual supplier businesses are small firms run directly by recertification requires completion of these modules. their owner/partners as distinct from larger, Upon adoption of the UK Bribery Act, Cartus took its anti-corruption corporate chains. message to our suppliers. Cartus’ suppliers (who are located in over 160 countries) are required to attend conferences where the Business Both the U.S. and UK broker networks comply with Cartus’ standards Unit Compliance Officer provides training on Cartus’ compliance and protocols for handling our customers’ personal information. efforts and reinforces these issues with the suppliers. • Supplier Diversity. Cartus is dedicated to promoting diversity and building it into our corporate culture. Since establishing a formal Supplier Diversity Initiative in 1983, Cartus has become a recognized leader in this area and the recipient of numerous awards. Our diversity department conducts outreach, monitoring, and measurement; in 2012, it disbursed nearly $US44 million to minorityand women-owned businesses. CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 16 MANAGING A GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN Dedicated to Promoting Supplier Diversity and Building it into Our Corporate Culture During Cartus’ annual global supplier conference, Global Citizenship Awards were bestowed on two Cartus suppliers for their commitment to making an impact on the health, welfare, and safety of others, and/or for improving a community’s quality of life on a national or international basis. The inaugural winners were CWS Corporate Housing, Austin, TX, and Frank E. Webers of Collins Brothers Moving, Larchmont, NY. Cartus also made a contribution to each company’s designated charity. In 2012, Cartus distributed more than US$44 million in firstand secondtier contracts to minorityand women-owned businesses, bringing our five-year total to more than US$250 million. Tom Davis, Vice President of External Supplier Diversity, serves on the board of directors of the Greater New England Minority Supplier Development Council (GNEMSDC). GNEMSDC CT • MA • ME • NH • RI • VT CARTUS | G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP | 17 cartus Trusted Guidance – For Every Move You Make . SM Cartus guides our clients through thousands of unique and complex programs. Ideally equipped to lead you, Cartus is ready to help—whatever, whenever, wherever your program is moving. To learn more, please email trustedguidance@cartus.com or visit www.cartus.com, www.cartusblog.com.
