E . F . S . A License No. 448 PROFESSIONALS Independent Financial Advisor License No.1718 No. FOR SECURITIES CONSULTANCY Nilex Exchange Nominated Advisor License No.7 No. & UNDERWRITING MERCHANDIZING Of SECURITIES Certified Agent under the Egyptian Stock Exchange No. 180. 3/1/2011 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that professionals for Investment Banking supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals professionals for securities consultancy will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication ication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter fter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Signature Name Mr. Nasr A.Abbas Ahmed Chairman of the Board of Directors of professionals for Investment Banking * The letter must be signed by the highest executive in the company and submitted using the Organization Information Form online ‫ــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــ‬ Commercial Register No. 385698 2,, Ismailia Square. Heliopolis. Tel.: 22915899 – 24192026 Fax: 24199868 Website: www.pib.com.eg E-mail : info@pib.com.eg
