Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Sustainability Report 2013 1 Sustainability through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Welcome Contents At Novelis, 3–7 Overview 8–20 Strategy we have 3 Letter from Our Chief Transforming Our Business made a public Executive Officer 5 Performance Summary 9 Driving Business Growth Through Sustainability commitment 6 About Novelis 15 Our Sustainability Progress to significantly and Performance 17 Stakeholder Engagement improve the 20 Sustainability Management life cycle impact and Governance of our aluminum 21–27 Sourcing 28–57 Manufacturing products and Our Material Inputs Our Operations and People meet an ambitious 22 Our Global Recycling 32 Our Environmental set of targets for Strategy Performance 44 Developing Our People the year 2020. 27 Responsible Sourcing 50 Engaging with Our Communities This sustainability report, our third, reviews our progress and challenges at each life cycle stage of our business: sourcing, manufacturing, customer use Our Life and end of life with consumers. Cycle Approach We have aligned this report to conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the GRI Mining and Metals sector supplement at a GRI-checked 66–71 Consumers 58–65 Customers “A” Application Level. Please see About This Report (p. 72) for an abbreviated GRI index and for Closing the Loop Partnering for more information about the 67 Post-Consumer Recycling Sustainable Growth report’s scope and boundaries. Around the World 59 Collaborating to Meet 68 Promoting Collection and Sustainability Goals Recycling Infrastructure 60 Evolving Design 69 Educating Consumers Specifications 70 Product Safety and Health 65 Closing the Loop with Customers 72 About This Report 2 Sustainability through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Letter from Our Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: In early 2011, Novelis laid out an ambitious vision aimed at strengthening the long-term competitiveness of our business through sustainability and innovation. Our intent was to transcend the incremental approach by radically transforming our company – and, in the process, lead the way in our industry. At the heart of this vision is our unprecedented goal to use 80% recycled aluminum in our products by 2020. When we achieve it, we will cut the embedded carbon in our products in half. Working toward this goal is requiring us to embrace an entirely new way of thinking and operating. We call it the ethos of disruption. This new approach is driving most positive impact. Our new changes in the way we source approach minimizes natural resource inputs, structure our supply inputs – most notably the primary chain, make capital investments, aluminum we use to make our develop our products and engage products, but also the energy, water with our customers. The scale of and other resources we use to these changes is staggering, and run our operations. It also means we recognize that they present reducing – indeed, driving to zero – numerous challenges and risks for the waste we produce. our company. Nonetheless, we are convinced they will ensure the Striving to become a truly sustainable long-term success of our business enterprise also means rethinking the and enable us to offer more value to fundamental design of our products our customers and to society. In the themselves – and reengineering long run, they are less risky than a the processes to make them. And, business-as-usual approach. it requires an unwavering focus on what we see as the foundations In short, we are in the process of of being a sustainable company: shifting our whole business model operating ethically and responsibly, from a traditional linear one to being stewards of the environment, a closed-loop one. Clearly, we protecting the health and safety cannot make this shift alone – and of our people, developing our much of our success will depend employees to ensure they have the on changes that are outside of our skills and expertise we need, and direct control. That is why we are contributing to the communities focused, in particular, on those where we operate. aspects where we can have the Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 3 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report To underscore our commitment to loop with them by taking back their of our company and require us sustainability, we signed on to the production scrap and, in the longer to move even more aggressively United Nations Global Compact in term, end-of-life scrap. toward a closed-loop model across 2012. We remain committed to this all of our operations and products. initiative, and we are working to We are still in the early stages of our For example, as we increase our implement its 10 principles. sustainability journey, with many use of recycled inputs, our waste hurdles yet to overcome, but our generation increases. So, finding new So what does this ethos of efforts are already beginning to bear technologies to process this waste disruption look like in practice? fruit: By the end of FY13, we had will be critical to simultaneously In a word: evercan™. In 2013, achieved 43% recycled inputs, up reaching our 80% recycled content Novelis introduced this first-offrom 33% two years earlier. We have and zero-waste goals. its-kind, independently certified, also improved our energy efficiency high-recycled content aluminum by nearly 20%, and reduced our Our success will also depend on beverage can sheet. The product water intensity by 16% and waste by our ability to leverage the innovative is a packaging breakthrough that 11%, since our baseline. This progress capacity of our employees and delivers sustainability benefits to is being enabled by investments enlist the efforts of our suppliers, our customers and end consumers. of close to $500 million to nearly customers and end consumers. For Nonetheless, evercan will not replace double our recycling capacity by example, finding ways to increase the traditional can overnight. There 2015. In FY13, we began operations post-consumer recycling rates is is still much work to be done to at a new can recycling facility in absolutely essential to enabling us to achieve our goal to bring to market Yeongju, South Korea, the largest secure an adequate supply of scrap. the world’s first up to 100% recycled fully integrated beverage can However, our ability to influence beverage can – pioneering the recycling system in Asia, and broke consumer behavior on our own way to the circular economy. ground on a plant in Nachterstedt, is limited. Germany, that will be the largest In the automotive sector, it’s all about aluminum recycling facility in I am confident that by bringing “lightweighting.” We are positioning the world. our industry-leading research and ourselves to meet dramatically technology capabilities to bear, we increased demand for aluminum, We are proud of the progress we’ve will find the disruptive innovations driven by the need to lightweight made – and the path to 50% recycled required to get there. And, I am more vehicles to improve fuel efficiency. inputs by 2015 is clear. To be candid, firmly convinced than ever that our We are also working closely with however, achieving the remaining commitment to sustainability will be our auto customers to close the 30% is less clear. It will test the limits the key value driver for our company going forward. In the 21st century, there is no business as usual. Thank you for taking time to learn about Novelis’ sustainability efforts. We welcome your feedback and Novelis is the We achieved partnership as we work to make our largest sustainability vision a reality. recycler 43% recycled metal of aluminum inputs in FY13 worldwide Phil Martens President and Chief Executive Officer 4 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Performance Summary In 2011, we established a set of corporate-wide 2020 sustainability targets, using the average of fiscal years 2007–2009 as the baseline where relevant. The arrows in the graphics below represent our progress in FY13 compared to both our baseline and our FY12 performance. Profitability Billion Recycled metal Energy usage GJ/mt Approximately double FY11 adjusted EBITDA by FY16 content % Reduce by 39% per metric ton of sales 80% by 2020 $1.1 $1.1 $0.96 >$2 30 39 43 80 12.4 9.9 10.0 7.6 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY16 FY07–09 FY12 FY13 FY20 FY07–09 FY12 FY13 FY20 Target Average Target Average Target Water usage m /mt 3 GHG emissions M mt Landfill K mt Reduce by 25% per metric ton of sales Halve our absolute amount Zero landfilled waste (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 3.7 3.2 3.1 2.7 21 19 18 11 62.5 49.2 55.6 0 FY07–09 FY12 FY13 FY20 FY07–09 FY12 FY13 FY20 FY07–09 FY12 FY13 FY20 Average Target Average Target Average Target Safety Employees % Community Zero recordable injuries 100% of eligible employees receive 100% of operations have implemented annual performance feedback local community engagement process 1.01 0.59 0.60 0 NA 38 52 100 FY07–09 Average FY12 FY13 FY20 Target FY07–09 Average FY12 FY13 FY20 Target Code of Conduct Employee and supplier codes rolled out, Key process in place for noncompliance World-class leadership development Unchanging, but on track to meet target program, benchmarked in the top Behind schedule 10% of companies Key Improving, and on track to meet target K = thousand M = million mt = metric tons m3 = cubic meters Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 5 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report About Novelis Novelis is the world’s largest manufacturer of rolled aluminum, producing an estimated 14% of the world’s total aluminum rolled products. The company serves customers in sectors including automotive, beverage can, and high-end specialties such as electronics and architecture. Novelis is also the largest recycler of aluminum worldwide. Who We Are... What We Do... How We Do It... Headquartered in Atlanta, Novelis is almost entirely In FY13, 43% of the aluminum Georgia, USA, Novelis is the an aluminum converter, that went into our products global leader in aluminum rather than an aluminum was recycled aluminum; rolled products and producer.1 We are also an our goal for 2020 is 80%. aluminum recycling. aluminum recycler. This recycled aluminum We are a wholly owned We convert aluminum ingots included approximately subsidiary of Hindalco into flat rolled products (FRP). 40 billion used beverage cans, Industries Limited, one of Asia’s Approximately 95% of what in addition to other forms of largest integrated producers we sell is FRP. preand post-consumer scrap. of aluminum and a leading producer of copper. These semi-finished aluminum We shred and de-coat the products are used in the scrap, remelt it (mixing in Hindalco’s stock is publicly manufacture of finished goods primary aluminum as well, traded on the Bombay Stock such as cars and packaging for when necessary) and cast Exchange, the National Stock beverages and food. it into ingots. Aluminum is Exchange of India Limited infinitely recyclable; unlike and the Luxembourg Many of our rolled products are most other materials, the Stock Exchange. given special finishing, coatings quality is not degraded in the or heat treatment. recycling process. Hindalco is the flagship company of the Aditya For some customers, we When we use primary Birla Group, a $40 billion produce more finished aluminum – which is made multinational conglomerate. products, such as blanks or by extracting alumina from flexible tubing used by the the mined substance bauxite automotive industry. – as a raw material, we buy the ingots from aluminum producers and traders. 1 We do operate one small aluminum smelter in Brazil, of which one line of two was shut down in March 2013. 6 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Key Novelis Facts and Figures for FY13 62% Cans $9.8 10,970 2,786 billion employees globally metric FRP shipments by market in net sales (FY12: $11.1 billion) kilotons of FRP shipments 20% 6% Other Automotive 12% High-End Specialties North South Europe Asia America America Headquarters Atlanta, Georgia, São Paulo, Zurich, Seoul, USA (global HQ) Brazil Switzerland South Korea Employees2 3,120 (370 in 1,760 4,320 1,770 global HQ) FY13 Sales $3.4 billion $1.4 billion $3.2 billion $1.8 billion Operations Aluminum sheet Aluminum sheet Aluminum sheet Aluminum sheet for the beverage for the beverage for the automotive, for the beverage can, packaging, can, specialty, beverage and food can, electronics, automotive, industrial and can, architectural, architectural, construction and transportation industrial and industrial and specialties markets; markets; light lithographic automotive light gauge gauge products; markets; light markets; light products aluminum smelting; gauge products gauge products power generation Operating Global Research & 2 rolling plants 9 plants (including 3 plants Facilities3 Technology Center; (1 with recycling 1 fully dedicated (2 with recycling 25 facilities in 10 plants (including operations), 1 recycling facility operations) in 9 countries, 2 fully dedicated primary aluminum and 2 plants South Korea and including recycling recycling facilities smelter and a with recycling Malaysia, plus a operations in and 2 plants hydroelectric operations) in new automotive 10 plants with recycling power system, Germany, Italy, sheet finishing operations) in all in Brazil Switzerland plant under Canada and and the construction the USA United Kingdom in China 2 As of March 31, 2013 3 As of March 31, 2013 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 7 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Strategy Transforming Our Business A few years ago, Novelis embarked on a journey $775 million to radically transform our company – and our in record capital industry. We set out to be the undisputed leader investments in FY13 geared in the aluminum rolled products industry through toward innovation and sustainability. We knew doing so expanding recycling and would require forging the way into uncharted rolling capacity and serving the territory and overcoming numerous challenges. beverage can, It would mean putting our stake in the ground automotive and high-end even amidst many technical, market and regulatory specialties uncertainties. But we are firmly convinced it will markets be the key driver of our long-term success. Our Business Strategy Growing our premium Driving operational Increasing our product portfolio improvements recycling capabilities By focusing on differentiated, Through consistent business By growing global recycling innovative, high-value, lowpractices and manufacturing capacity and scrap procurement carbon products excellence 8 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Driving Business Growth Through Sustainability We started this effort at a pivotal Figure 1 Growing Demand for Aluminum time in our industry: Demand for (2012–2017) – And What’s Driving It our products is expected to grow by more than 30% over the next five years, due in large part to sustainability drivers such as climate change, rising energy demands 2017 and natural resource scarcity, along with economic growth in emerging markets. Aluminum is strong, malleable, conductive, infinitely recyclable and – critically, in an ~32% Growth in energyand carbon-constrained demand for flat world – lightweight. As a result, rolled products aluminum stands poised to play (cumulative growth a central role in the transition to worldwide) the lower-carbon economy of the 2012 future – and to be an increasingly important component of the products consumers around the world are demanding. Novelis is determined to both capitalize on and accelerate this Car manufacturers Electronics Beverage potential – and we know that are turning to producers are companies incremental change is not going aluminum for using aluminum are switching lightweighting because it has to aluminum to get us where we want to go. vehicles, as heat-dissipation, packaging for Rather, we need to use disruptive lightweighting is noncorrosive, ease of transport, innovation and groundbreaking a key enabler of recyclability, recyclability, and technology – which is precisely significant fuel aesthetic and to better preserve what we are doing. To be sure, efficiency increases. low-weight their products, while properties, while economic growth in such a bold approach is not without the architectural emerging markets significant risks. But, in our view, market is also is fueling increased the greater risk would be to using aluminum consumption of continue business as usual. for its unique look canned beverages. and sustainability We truly believe in the long-term qualities. ~25% ~6% ~4–5% trends driving demand for aluminum flat-rolled products. While a slower than expected recovery in the global Growth in Growth in demand Growth in demand economy has put us behind schedule demand for in the specialties in the beverage can in achieving our FY16 profitability aluminum in market (including market the automotive electronics) target, we remain confident that our market three-pronged strategy of increasing recycled content, optimizing our Source: Novelis footprint, and growing our premium estimates for longproduct portfolio will ultimately term compound help us to improve our financial annual growth rate performance in the coming years. (February 2013) Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 9 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Transforming Our Business Model Novelis is firmly convinced that we are fundamentally reengineering At the most basic level, our sustainability will not only be a our business model, processes sustainability strategy is designed to powerful driver for growth in our and products and, in the process, significantly reduce the life cycle industry as a whole, but also a delivering strong financial results, impacts of aluminum products. To do key differentiator and competitive superior value to our customers, this, we are working toward a more advantage for our company in and low-carbon products that circular business model (see Figure 2) particular. To realize this potential, benefit society. that is focused on high recycled content, closed-loop manufacturing and sustainable product development. Figure 2 Waste to The Ultimate Landfill Novelis Aim: A Circular Target: 0% Business Model for Aluminum Novelis Customer Fabrication Production Post-Production Scrap Take-Back Ingot Consumer Casting Use Primary Waste Aluminum Novelis Objective: Inputs To Minimize Novelis Objective: To Minimize Novelis Recycling End-of-Life Operations & Collection Processing Transfer of Materials Product Production & Resource Use (improving operations) Waste to Transfer of Knowledge Landfill Innovation & Technological Novelis Solutions (transforming Target: 0% products & markets) 10 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Embedding Sustainability Across Our Business At the heart of our sustainability sustainable enterprise that enable sustainability into our processes and strategy is our goal to reduce the us to achieve our ambitious targets: decision making across literally every embedded carbon in our products by operating ethically and responsibly; aspect of our company – from our increasing our use of recycled inputs protecting the health and safety of manufacturing and procurement to 80% by 2020, up from 33% in 2011. our people; recruiting, retaining and processes, to our product Recycled aluminum avoids 95% of developing our employees to ensure development and marketing efforts, the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions they have the skills and expertise to our employee hiring and training associated with primary aluminum we need; and contributing to the programs. Implementing our strategy production. This strategic driver has communities where we operate. also means connecting these implications for every aspect of our different groups in new ways, to business (see Sourcing, p. 21). Since Novelis adopted its bring their diverse perspectives and sustainability targets in early 2011, skills to bear to find innovative and Equally critical is our focus on our efforts have shifted from defining collaborative solutions for achieving sustainable manufacturing, where what we want to accomplish to our goals (see Figure 3). our targets for energy, water and focusing on how to achieve it. waste are driving changes across our Because sustainability is integral to operations. Lastly, we are focused our core business strategy, achieving on the foundation elements of a our objectives requires embedding Figure 3 A Team Effort: Developing and Launching evercan™ 2013 Novelis In 2013, Novelis introduced evercan sheet, the first independently certified, highintroduced recycled content aluminum designed Customers evercan™ specifically for the beverage can market. NGOs The product is a breakthrough – and represents a critical step toward Novelis’ Environmental ultimate goal to produce the world’s first Auditor single-alloy, up to 100% recycled beverage Consumers can – fully closing the loop. evercan™ Regulators 1st The development and launch of evercan illustrates the way that sustainability is transforming how people within Novelis External think, act and operate – and requiring us to bring together different groups within independently Groups our company, and outside of it – in new certified, highways to develop innovative solutions. recycled content Internal The graphic at right shows the broad range aluminum Groups of groups involved in developing evercan. sheet designed specifically for For more information on evercan, Recycling Team see p. 61. the beverage can market Commercial Team Strategy Procurement Research & Technology Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 11 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Implementing As part of the effort to develop our sustainability strategy, we conducted a materiality assessment to help us identify and prioritize the issues that are most important to our Our Sustainability business and our stakeholders. The following highlights the key components of our sustainability strategy – focusing on Strategy those issues we assessed to be the highest priority among our universe of material issues – and provides examples of concrete steps we are taking to implement it. Figure 4 Our Sourcing Manufacturing Sustainability Strategy and How We Are Implementing It We aim to: We aim to: Reduce the embedded carbon in Maintain safe, efficient operations that Strategic our products by increasing minimize natural resource use Objectives recycled content Ensure an adequate supply of talent Reengineer and minimize risk Maintain our social license within our supply chain to operate How? How? Increase recycling capacity: Invested Implement best practices in close to $500 million to nearly double sustainable manufacturing: our recycling capacity to approximately Driving improvements and increasing Implementation 2 million metric tons per year by 2015. consistency in environment, health and In FY13, we began operations at a new safety (EHS) management. In FY13, we facility in Yeongju, South Korea, the largest launched a new global safety program fully integrated beverage can recycling and created global EHS committees system in Asia, and broke ground on focused on water and waste. a plant in Nachterstedt, Germany, that Develop world-class talent will be the largest aluminum recycling development programs: Continuing facility in the world. to expand and strengthen our training Expand scrap purchasing system: and development programs. In FY13, we Established a scrap collection network graduated our first class of Engineering in Brazil and, in July 2013, opened a new Development Program participants. one in Vietnam. We also established a Strengthen community programs: new scrap procurement organization Formalized community engagement in North America. programs at all of our sites and held Implement a responsible sourcing our first Novelis Month of Service. program: Developed a Supplier Code of Conduct and, in FY13, launched the first phase of implementation, targeting our largest suppliers. 12 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Material Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers/ Issues Metal and other Profitable growth Quality of customer Society (key sustainability focus resource availability Attracting, developing service Post-consumer areas in bold) Recycled metal inputs and retaining talent Environmental impact recycling Responsible sourcing Environmental impact and carbon emissions Reducing waste and and carbon emissions of our customers’ resource use of our products products Policy engagement Environmental Sustainable product innovation Consumer in-use footprint of our sustainability benefits operations Community Health and safety engagement Ethical behavior and compliance Customers Consumers We aim to: We aim to: Provide value to our customers, Increase our supply of in particular by helping them post-consumer aluminum scrap Strategic meet their sustainability Objectives Help our customers make objectives sustainable products that consumers want How? How? Evolve product design specifications: Promote recycling awareness and Working with our customers on product infrastructure: Supporting a broad design to use more recycled content range of consumer recycling education, and increase recyclability. In FY13, we awareness and policy initiatives to Implementation announced the launch of evercan™, increase recycling rates, such as Every the first certified, high-recycled content Can Counts and the Curbside Value aluminum sheet for beverage cans that Partnership, and helping to develop optimizes closed-loop recycling and infrastructure through our collection manufacturing efficiency. program in Brazil and our recently launched program in Vietnam. Expand capacity to serve high-value, low-carbon markets: Invested $300 million globally to expand finishing capacity to serve the automotive industry, where lightweighting is driving increased demand for aluminum. In FY13, we broke ground on the industry’s first facility dedicated to producing aluminum sheet for the automotive industry in China. Close the loop with our customers: Establishing scrap take-back agreements with our customers, with most new contracts now having these agreements. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 13 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Q&A with Jack Clark, Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer The Link Between Sustainability and Research and Technology It has been nearly a year since Novelis opened its recyclable alloys for use in our products and new Global Research & Technology Center near finding ways to process a wider range of scrap. We the company’s headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. fundamentally believe that sustainability will be a key Why did Novelis create the Center? differentiator and competitive advantage for our company – and that innovation is key to unlocking it. A: The R&T Center reflects the fact that innovation and sustainability are the foundation of Novelis’ From a technology standpoint, what do you strategy and will be critical drivers of our growth. see as the biggest sustainability challenges As such, our research and development efforts facing Novelis? need to be coordinated, business-driven and aligned with our customers’ priorities. To make that a reality, A: On the process side, dross, which forms from we decided to create a global hub where our impurities that float on molten aluminum during metallurgists, materials scientists, engineers and melting or reprocessing, is a big challenge. More other research and development teams can work than 70% of Novelis’ landfilled waste currently results together under one roof – in close proximity to from the production of dross during the recycling and in partnership with our global commercial and process, and as we continue to expand our recycling operational teams, as well as our customers directly operations, we are going to generate more dross. – to create the product and process innovations that In the last year, we’ve made some headway on this will keep Novelis at the forefront of our industry. issue with the development of a new magnetic stirring device that increases melt rates and reduces How do Novelis’ research and dross generation. However, we know this is going to development priorities align with continue to be a big challenge as we work toward Novelis’ sustainability objectives? our zero-waste-to-landfill goal. On the product side, one of the biggest challenges will be finding A: They are inextricably linked. A huge portion of and developing the technology to collect, sort and our research and development efforts are aimed at process more varied and dirtier kinds of scrap – that responding to or capitalizing on sustainability drivers, is, scrap that has been contaminated with food from creating new technologies to increase fuel waste, trash and dirt. This is going to be a growing economy by vehicle lightweighting, to making issue for us as we source more scrap from emerging consumer packaging and electronics products more economies where the recycling infrastructure isn’t environmentally friendly. We also are doing a lot of as well developed. work that will help Novelis reach its 80% recycled inputs goal, including developing new, more 14 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Sustainability Progress and Performance Over the last three years, Novelis has made steady progress toward many of In Action… “Not just aluminum, our sustainability targets. Novelis Aluminum” In FY13, Novelis launched an updated brand identity to By the end of FY13, we had increased In some cases, however, our articulate what sets Novelis our amount of recycled inputs to progress was not what we had apart from other aluminum 43%, up from 39% the year prior expected. We tragically experienced providers: technology, and from our baseline of 30%. We one contractor fatality during the innovation and sustainability. also made progress toward our year. Health and safety continues The brand is designed to reflect water use and GHG reduction to be a key area of focus, discussed the value Novelis delivers and goals, though our energy efficiency on p. 44. In addition, our waste the unique position it holds in performance remained flat. While generation increased during the the marketplace. our energy efficiency projects year. This was primarily due to yielded significant results, they increasing our use of recycled inputs. • N ovelis delivers a material were not enough to overcome Scrap contains more contaminants advantage, through our increased energy demands related compared to primary aluminum, unique combination of to expansion projects, increased so when melted, the contaminants advanced technology, superior recycling operations and other cause increased dross production, expertise and global footprint. challenges stemming from product our primary source of waste. mix changes and lower volumes Finding new technologies, market • Novelis is a catalyst for (see p. 35 for more detail). solutions and partners to process the innovation, working with our increased quantities of dross we will customers to shape Novelis In FY13, we also took a key step generate is a key priority for Novelis aluminum into the most toward our responsible sourcing going forward. sophisticated and innovative objective with the launch of our products in use today. Supplier Code of Conduct, and Our human resources and we held our inaugural Novelis information technology functions • Novelis is re-creating a Month of Service, a focused effort are making significant improvements sustainable future through to undertake employee volunteer in how the company manages and our recycling leadership and efforts at our locations around monitors a range of personnel issues. commitment to sustainable the world. We also significantly Progress toward our employee manufacturing. increased our external engagement evaluation target accelerated in FY13, with a range of organizations and and we expect that once Novelis In short: initiatives to continue to further 2.0, our new enterprise resource Our customers are our sustainability knowledge. planning system, is fully operational, An example of this work is we will experience a further increase purchasing not just the sustainable design of our in performance toward our goal of aluminum, but revolutionary new product, evercan. 100% of eligible employees receiving annual performance feedback by Novelis Aluminum. 2020. In addition, we graduated our first class of Engineering Development Program participants in FY13, and continued to strengthen our suite of other leadership development programs. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 15 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Comments from Our Sustainability Advisory Council In FY12, Novelis formed a Sustainability Advisory Council to provide a formal mechanism for the company to solicit expert advice and critical analysis of our sustainability goals, efforts, performance and reporting. Three years ago Novelis announced Ours is a world of stuff, and demand As a member of Novelis’ Sustainability sustainability goals that were so for raw materials increases every year. Advisory Council, I have seen a ambitious they stretched credibility. As do the mountains of waste that tremendously serious commitment by Today, the company is well on its result. So the pressure is on, as never the company, from the top managers way to achieving or exceeding before, to manage those flows of to employees at the ground level. those goals and, most exciting, it is raw materials as super-efficiently as They have established challenging showing the world that setting your possible. Novelis is at the heart of that goals that put sustainability at the core sights astronomically high is great for revolution – and is going at it with a of the business, and have a clear and business, for the environment and great deal more vigor, purpose and objective plan, combined with regular for everyone engaged in the mission. creativity than any of its competitors. and precise monitoring. They also How are they doing it? What is Being “a little less wasteful” and “a little engage with stakeholders through different from other companies? Most more efficient” doesn’t hack it: one a variety of mechanisms. In a world important, their mission is the top step-change after another is what thirsty for sustainability solutions, priority for their CEO and the entire is required. Novelis is addressing climate change senior management team. They have by cutting its emissions; reducing crystal clear analysis of their goals For Novelis, it starts with the 80% its impact on natural resources by and the obstacles to achieving them. target. That’s what’s known as “a big, offering products that are recycled and And they measure their progress hairy audacious goal.” Bear in mind, recyclable; and contributing to society precisely, comprehensively and often. as you get to grips with both its by respecting, engaging and valuing For Novelis, sustainability is not just successes and its failures, this kind of communities. Novelis knows this is a key part of their business. It IS dramatic transformation is the bare the right way to do things, and also their business. minimum that will be asked of every good business. company in every sector over the Matt Arnold, Head of Environmental next few years. Miguel Milano, Board Member Affairs, JPMorgan Chase Instituto LIFE, Fundação O Boticário de Jonathon Porritt, Founder, Forum for Proteção a Natureza the Future Having had the privilege to serve structure and “leapfrog” toward a become both more environmentally on Novelis’ Sustainability Advisory more sustainable world. Not satisfied sustainable and socially inclusive. Council, I have come to the firm with incremental improvement, And, if successful, this strategy could conclusion that the executive Transformers seek creative destruction. also make them the most dominant leaders at Novelis fall squarely in and profitable player in the sector for what I call the Transformer category. Novelis has staked out a strategy decades to come. This is the epitome Transformers are executives who are that seeks to divorce the production of sustainable enterprise. willing and able to stake out a new of aluminum from greenhouse gas direction for their companies — one intensive bauxite mining and primary Stuart Hart, S.C. Johnson Chair in that will disrupt current industry aluminum production. In so doing, they Sustainable Global Enterprise, aim to reinvent the entire industry to Cornell University 16 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Stakeholder Engagement Effectively engaging stakeholders is an essential part of being a responsible company, and Novelis is committed to working to understand and be responsive to the full range of stakeholders who are impacted across our value chain. Our stakeholders include employees engagement, giving and volunteer Novelis is well along the path of and employee representatives, programs in place at all of our sites. becoming a sustainable growth customers, suppliers, bond holders, We engage with our customers and company. What makes Novelis unique is that it is one of the few our board and investors, regulators suppliers directly on many projects. companies I have seen that has and policy makers, the communities We also engage directly with a range fully comprehended sustainability in which we live and work, and of nongovernmental organizations, in its business strategy, and is now sustainability organizations, such as the World Wildlife Fund, embedding it throughout the including nongovernmental the International Union for company. The key ingredients for their success have been leadership organizations concerned about the Conservation of Nature, As commitment, innovation and the social, environmental and climate You Sow and SustainAbility. courage to step out where other impacts of the production and companies have not gone. While use of aluminum products. Another key mechanism is our great progress has been made, as Sustainability Advisory Council, evidenced by the statistics in this Stakeholder engagement is also a which is made up of worldreport, the job is never finished. The key ingredient for achieving our renowned experts and leaders in future requires full implementation of the current objectives and including sustainability goals. Our life cycle the sustainability field. To ensure new elements to the plan that have approach requires working to the Council has a direct line of yet to be contemplated. shape and shift policies, practices communication to the most senior Jeffrey Keefer, Former Executive and behaviors that take place far decision makers at the company, Vice President, DuPont beyond our own walls – such as the Council also includes Novelis’ post-consumer recycling, consumer CEO, Chief Commercial and Strategy product design and scrap collection Officer, and Chief Sustainability infrastructure. It also requires tapping Officer. The objective of the Council into the expertise of individuals is to provide a regular channel for and organizations with a range of Novelis to solicit external expertise, different perspectives so they can advice and critical analysis for help us develop the innovative our sustainability efforts (see left solutions needed to meet our for comments from the council ambitious targets. In short, we members). We deeply value the simply cannot achieve what we council members’ insight and want if we only focus internally. perspectives, and encourage them As a result, external stakeholder to genuinely challenge and expand engagement is a central component Novelis’ thinking on sustainability. of our approach to sustainability. The Council has two formal meetings per year, and members From left, back: Stuart Hart, We engage with our stakeholders are engaged on an ad hoc basis Jack Clark, John Gardner, on an ongoing basis and through a between meetings. Jonathon Porritt. Front: Matt Arnold, variety of mechanisms. For example, Jeffrey Keefer and Miguel Milano we have formal community Not pictured: Council members Phil Martens and Brad Soultz Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 17 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Industry Engagement Another way we engage with stakeholders is through our involvement in various industry In Action… associations. Key memberships Working to Raise Standards Across the Industry include the Aluminum Association, European Aluminium Association, Launched in 2012, the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) is an Metal Packaging Europe, European industry effort that seeks to foster greater sustainability and transparency Organization for Packaging and across the aluminum value chain. Working with the support of the the Environment (EUROPEN), Can International Union for Conservation of Nature, ASI members include Manufacturers Institute, Automotive companies active across the entire value chain. The diverse membership Industry Action Group, Curbside is designed to promote a holistic and systemic approach, focusing Value Partnership and others. on both the production and use of aluminum. Several of Novelis’ key Participation in these associations customers are also involved in this initiative, including Audi, BMW, Ball, enables Novelis to engage with our Rexam, Amcor and Nespresso. The ASI’s first goal is to develop the ASI customers, suppliers and competitors Standard to define principles and performance criteria in the areas of on issues of mutual interest, as well governance, environmental and social practices. as to advocate on global and national public policy issues (see facing page). Achieving aluminum’s potential to help address many of the world’s sustainability challenges will depend on the aluminum industry maximizing In 2013, Novelis joined the Aluminium the value of its products, while minimizing the adverse environmental Stewardship Initiative, an industry and social impacts. Novelis is proud to be part of this important initiative effort that is seeking to mobilize a working to make that a reality. broad base of stakeholders to establish and promote responsible practices across the aluminum value chain (see box at right). Curbside Value Partnership organization brochure 18 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Public Policy Engagement Q&A The majority of Novelis’ advocacy on global and national public policy with Lorraine Smith, issues is conducted through industry Director, SustainAbility associations, rather than by directly engaging with policy makers. At the An External View local level, Novelis works with public of Novelis officials and government agencies on local issues and policies that affect our business. Climate change is a key policy priority for Novelis, and we support dialogue and action to address climate change and facilitate the Based on SustainAbility’s work with Novelis, what stands out to transition to a low-carbon you about the company’s approach? economy. We support policies that A: Novelis is one of a relatively small group of global companies take a holistic approach by factoring whose sustainability efforts are guided by a truly strategic, businessin overall life cycle impacts and driven approach to their most material issues. The company has benefits, including recycling. In been disciplined in its approach, understanding its operational and 2013, we signed the Climate product impacts and directly tying action on sustainability to the Declaration, a statement from Ceres business. That’s not to say Novelis’ efforts are driven solely on the and the Business for Innovative basis of short-term cost or return; on the contrary, the company’s Climate & Energy Policy (BICEP) sustainability vision is explicitly aimed at positioning the company coalition calling on federal policy to capture value in a lower-carbon economy over the long term. makers in the United States to take action on climate change. We also joined the United Nations Global Where would you like to see Novelis focus its sustainability Compact and United Nations efforts going forward? Environment Programme’s “Caring A: At SustainAbility, we’re increasingly convinced that sustainability for Climate” initiative, which is requires change at the systems level, rather than simply at the aimed at advancing the role of individual company, or even industry level. That’s why we’re business in addressing climate genuinely excited to see what Novelis is doing. With its 80% recycled change, including helping shape inputs goal, Novelis is transforming not only itself as a company, but public policy responses. it has the potential to affect the broader aluminum industry. Further, because Novelis aluminum is in the value chain of so many other End-of-life recycling is another key companies, the dramatic life cycle improvements Novelis is making policy priority for Novelis, and we to its products have a wider impact. Building on this, Novelis has an are committed to collaborating with opportunity to extend its leadership by advocating for bolder action regulators and other stakeholders on the part of policy makers, the broader business community and to support policies that encourage other stakeholders. and enable efficient recycling. Whether through post-consumer recycling programs or facilitating SustainAbility is an independent think tank, strategy consultancy and Certified B customer take-back arrangements, Corp that helps companies create value through the development of innovative our approach is to support recycling solutions to environmental, social and governance challenges. policy efforts of all kinds. Novelis made no political contributions in FY13, either directly as a company or through employee political action committee donations. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 19 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sustainability Management and Governance At Novelis, we take an integrated, cohesive approach to managing sustainability issues alongside, and on par with, our other financial and operational objectives. Corporate Governance Sustainability and Policy Framework Management Management of our company In FY13, we released an updated at Novelis starts with our strict adherence to employee Code of Conduct. The corporate governance principles. Code provides guidelines for Our Vice President and Chief Novelis’ Board of Directors is employees to ensure that they are Sustainability Officer, who reports composed of five directors, all of acting within Novelis’ standard of to our CEO, is responsible for whom were appointed by our sole ethics. The Code covers five key leading implementation of the shareholder, Hindalco Industries areas: acting with integrity and in company’s sustainability strategy. Limited, which is a publicly held Novelis’ best interests; promoting Because our sustainability strategy company whose shares are a desirable work environment; is integrated into our corporate listed for trading on the Mumbai safeguarding the company’s assets; strategy and cuts across all aspects Stock Exchange, the National engaging in ethical interactions of our business, implementation Stock Exchange of India and the with government; and dealing fairly is by necessity cross-functional. Luxembourg Stock Exchange. with third parties (see p. 49 for detail). All of Novelis’ senior executives Our Board oversees and provides Also in FY13, Novelis launched a have responsibility for delivering guidance on the overall direction of new Supplier Code of Conduct on some aspect of the plan, and our company, while our executive that provides guidelines for how sustainability aspects are integrated officers are responsible for the daywe expect our suppliers to conduct into a range of policies and systems to-day management. business in an ethical and responsible we use to manage our company manner (see p. 27 for detail). Novelis has a Code of Ethics for (see p. 30 for more information). Senior Financial Officers, which Our sustainability targets, reflects our commitment to financial alongside financial and operational integrity and to full and accurate ones, essentially form our financial disclosure in compliance company’s scorecard, which we with applicable accounting policies, use to monitor the company’s laws and regulations. performance against our strategic objectives. Sustainability programs and initiatives are also reviewed at monthly leadership meetings. 20 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sourcing Our Key Aims Our Material Inputs Reduce the embedded carbon in our Novelis is one of the largest purchasers of aluminum products by in the world. Our most significant environmental increasing recycled impacts and social risks occur “upstream” in our content value chain through raw materials sourcing. Our Reengineer sustainability strategy is driving profound changes and minimize risk within our in how we source our aluminum inputs – as well supply chain as the other products and services we use to run our business. In the process, we will dramatically Our Key Challenges improve the life cycle footprint of our products, Increasing increase security of supply of essential raw materials, recycling rates to ensure reduce risk and improve sustainability practices in a sufficient our supply chain. supply of scrap Developing the technology to collect, sort and process more varied and less clean kinds of scrap 3 million Our Target Baseline (FY07– FY13 FY20 tons FY09 Average) Performance Target Amount of primary and scrap Recycled 80% by 2020 30% 43% 80% aluminum metal content Novelis buys See p. 5 for our full performance summary. per year Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 21 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Global Recycling Strategy At the heart of Novelis’ sustainability strategy is our goal to reduce the embedded carbon in our products by increasing our use of recycled inputs to 80% by 2020. At the end of FY13, our percentage of recycled inputs was 43%, up from 39% the prior year and up 13% from our baseline. Recycled aluminum avoids 95% see p. 32). Increasing our use At the most basic level, our of the greenhouse gas (GHG) of recycled aluminum also helps recycling target is a sourcing issue. emissions associated with primary ensure security of supply and, However, achieving it in practice aluminum production – and also over the long term, reduces costs. will require taking steps at all uses significantly less energy stages of the product life cycle and water. When Novelis reaches While our 80% target is aggressive, and reengineering our entire 80% recycled inputs, even with it nonetheless recognizes that supply chain. It has implications greater sales, we will eliminate we will continue to require some for nearly every part of our business. 10 million metric tons of GHGs primary aluminum to manufacture from the aluminum production our products. This is due to the chain – cutting our absolute long life aluminum has in use Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in in many products, as well as the half (for more information on overall increasing global demand our approach to GHG emissions, for aluminum (see p. 9). Figure 5 When We Reach 80% Recycled Inputs 80% Why only 80%? 60 days to recycle Reduction in The availability of aluminum cans and return to absolute Scope products for recycling varies the shelf 1, 2 and 3 GHG depending on their lifespan. emissions This is due to the long life 15 to 20 years recycled inputs in aluminum has in use in is the average lifespan Novelis aluminum Reduction in many products. of an automobile costs over the long term There is also an overall increasing global demand for 50 years is the aluminum – using recycled approximate lifespan Reduction in content alone will not satisfy of aluminum in energy and that demand. buildings water use 20% Primary aluminum We will continue to require added to some some primary aluminum to Increased security recycled scrap to of supply manufacture our products. ensure appropriate primary aluminum alloy composition 22 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Getting to 80% Figure 6 90% The Pillars of Our Recycling Strategy Evolve Design 90% minimum recycled Specifications aluminum in first certified Collaborating with our high-recycled content customers to advance research beverage can body sheet and development of products with greater recycled input and that are more easily recycled. Learn more in Customers, p. 58. Increase PostConsumer Recycling Increase Collaborating with a range of stakeholders to provide Recycling Capacity or support expanded postMaking significant investments 43 consumer collection and recycling 2020 target: to increase our global recycling infrastructure and to develop partnerships that facilitate efficient recycling. 80%% recycled recycledcontent inputs capacity by expanding existing facilities and building new ones. Learn more in Learn more in Sourcing, p. 21. atFY13 theperformance: end of FY13, Consumers, p. 66. up from our 43 baseline of %30% 73% recycled inputs 75% Expand Scrap Reshape Our 73% of our scrap 75% increase in inputs were Purchasing System Product Portfolio our recycling made up of Diversifying the kinds of Shifting our product capacity by 2015 post-consumer recycled aluminum we portfolio to be more recycled purchase and process, and also focused on higher-value, aluminum becoming more systematic lower-carbon products that in FY13 about taking back scrap our offer the potential of greater customers produce during their end-of-life recycling and manufacturing processes. recycled input. Learn more in Learn more in Sourcing, p. 21. Strategy, p. 8. 80% of our shipments 50% of our scrap inputs in FY13 went to can, will be from non-can scrap by 2020 – up 50% 80% automotive, high-end specialties – all markets from 33% currently where sustainability adds value Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 23 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action: Creating a Closed-Loop Recycling System in Vietnam The Challenge… Our Response… In July 2013, we opened our first recycling center To achieve our recycled in Vietnam, located near Ho Chi Minh City. Using inputs goal, we need to a model similar to the one we are using in several locations across Brazil and the U.K., the new center dramatically increase the is designed to enable us to increase the supply of used beverage cans (UBCs) we procure by supply of scrap aluminum we connecting us directly with collectors at the purchase. Recycling collection “street level” rather than purchasing only from large dealers. infrastructure varies across The new center in Vietnam handles the different locations, and logistical procurement, cleaning and baling of UBCs. Once processed in Vietnam, the UBCs are sent challenges make it difficult to to the newly commissioned recycling center at access additional and more our Yeongju facility in South Korea to be recycled and re-rolled into can sheet. An equivalent varied sources of scrap. amount of can sheet is then sent back to Vietnam to be remade into beverage cans. We will also work with our can customers in Vietnam 60 billion Number of used beverage to collect process scrap, which is recycled and converted back into can sheet in Yeongju as well. With the new operation, we are creating a closed-loop recycling system for Vietnam. cans Novelis expects to buy annually by 2015 – The recycling center in Vietnam will directly up from 40 billion today employ approximately 20 people – as well as help support the livelihoods of individual collectors and people working in small collection centers. Why It’s Important This new center will help to facilitate and grow closed-loop recycling in Vietnam. It will also provide us with a reliable source of UBCs for our newly commissioned recycling center in Yeongju.” Derek Prichett, Vice President, Global Recycling 24 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Building the World’s Largest Recycling Network Our global recycling strategy calls for Novelis to achieve recycling capacity of more than 4 million metric tons of scrap by 2020, and we are making significant investments to get there. Nachterstedt, Germany During FY13, Novelis broke ground on a Since 2010, we have new recycling center at our rolling facility commissioned or broken in Nachterstedt, Germany. The center is ground on new and enhanced projected to be the largest and most advanced recycling facility in the world. North recycling operations in Brazil, Europe It will be able to process 18 different types America the U.K., Germany, Italy of scrap metal, as well as remove paper, and South Korea. plastic and nonferrous metals from the Latchford, scrap stream. It will begin operating in U.K. 2014, and once fully operational, the facility Nachterstedt, will add 400 kilotons of sheet ingot Germany capacity – and take Novelis to 50% Oswego, NY Norf, recycled inputs in our products globally. Berea, KY Germany Pieve, Greensboro, Italy GA Pieve, Italy Also in FY13, Novelis began operation of a new aluminum recycling and continuous casting line at our plant in Pieve, Italy. The technology included in the new line will Asia allow us to process scrap with paint and South plastic coatings – a type of scrap that has America traditionally been difficult to work with. When the new line is up to full production levels, it will increase capacity at the facility by approximately 20%, adding 15 kilotons Yeongju, of annual recycling capacity. Pinda, Brazil South Korea Ulsan, Yeongju, South Korea South Korea These investments During the year, we also began operations will increase our recycling at our Yeongju, South Korea, recycling and casting center, which has the capacity to capacity to 2.1 million produce 265 kilotons of high-quality sheet metric tons by 2015. ingot for Novelis’ Korean plants. When the facility came online, it made Novelis the largest recycler of used beverage cans in Asia – and of all types of aluminum 75% worldwide. It also helped increase Novelis’ use of recycled inputs in Asia – which hit a Existing facilities record 50% by early 2013. Approximate Existing facilities increase in our Pinda, Brazil adding recycling capacity recycling capacity Also in FY13, we broke ground on a new by 2015 UBC recycling facility at our Pinda mill in Brazil. This expansion is expected to begin commissioning at the end of 2013, and will process approximately 190 kilotons when fully utilized. These projects alone will still not allow us to get to 80% in 2020, so we will add further recycling capacity over the years to come. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 25 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Growing and Diversifying Our Scrap Inputs Hand in hand with increasing our recycling capacity, we are expanding and reshaping how we source scrap to ensure we have an adequate supply to meet our recycled inputs target. We have established new collection we process is from the beverage Figure 7 networks in Brazil, and are beginning can market, but by 2020, we expect to do so in Vietnam, that are enabling that can scrap will account for only us to increase our supply of scrap by about half of our inputs. As a result, developing relationships with small dramatically expanding the types Novelis Metal Purchases collectors and scrap yards, rather than of scrap metal we purchase – while – Looking Ahead purchasing only from commercial at the same time also increasing companies that handle very large the amount of UBCs we buy – will 2011 volumes (see p. 24). be essential to meeting our 80% recycled inputs target. Another tool 1M mt 1M mt 1M mt In FY13, Novelis also established scrap prime* primary sheet we are using to increase our supply ingot** a new organization for the of scrap is establishing closed-loop procurement of used beverage agreements with many of our cans (UBCs) in North America that customers, who send us their will make us the largest UBC buyer aluminum manufacturing scrap in the region. This followed our to be recycled. announcement earlier in the year that 2015 we were withdrawing from Evermore The key to increasing our scrap Recycling, a UBC purchasing joint supply will be having the capability 2M mt 1M mt 1M mt venture between Novelis and Alcoa. to process it all. Processing other, scrap prime* primary sheet We made this move because we more variable types of scrap presents ingot** determined that having the ability technical challenges, as it is difficult to independently manage our UBC to separate out the aluminum for procurement business would provide recycling when it is mixed with a us with more flexibility to execute our range of materials. However, we are global recycling strategy. installing technology in the facility we are constructing in Nachterstedt, 2020 As the leading recycler of UBCs in Germany, and in some of our the world, Novelis currently buys other recycling centers that will >3–4M mt the equivalent of 40 billion cans a scrap enable us to purchase scrap that year, worth an estimated $1 billion. has been available, but that we did ~1M mt We expect our global consumption not previously have the capacity to prime* of UBCs to grow to approximately process. In addition to increasing 60 billion cans by 2015. our purchase of UBCs, we expect to In addition to increasing our supply of also increase scrap from building and UBCs, we are focused on diversifying construction, automobiles and other the kinds of scrap we purchase and transportation, electrical wire and process. Currently, 67% of the scrap cable, and other sources. Can scrap Non-can scrap *Prime: primary metal blocks that we predominantly use in remelting **Primary sheet ingot: rolling ingots made from primary metal 26 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Responsible Sourcing As Novelis works to implement our sustainability strategy, another key area of focus is encouraging transparency, responsibility and sustainable business practices in our supply chain. This allows us to not only better To support the launch of the Code, Conflict Minerals understand and control risks in our we conducted training for our In recent years, governments, the private business, but also to help catalyze internal procurement teams to sector and civil society have become positive change beyond our own ensure they were familiar with the increasingly concerned about the issue of operations. components of the Code and aware conflict minerals. The concern is that of the potential sustainability issues mining for certain minerals – particularly In FY13, Novelis launched a new and challenges facing suppliers in tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold – often Supplier Code of Conduct that various product categories. takes place in environments where armed provides guidelines for how we conflict and human rights abuses are present, and that proceeds from the sale of expect our suppliers to conduct We are conducting a phased the minerals help to finance the conflict. In business in an ethical and responsible rollout of the Code to current 2012, the United States Securities and manner. While many of our suppliers suppliers. In the first phase, we have Exchange Commission issued a rule as part already have robust policies and distributed the Code to our largest of the Dodd-Frank Act that requires public practices in place consistent with the global suppliers, which represent companies to disclose whether they use conflict minerals, and whether the minerals expectations in our Code, we approximately two-thirds of our total originated in the Democratic Republic of nonetheless wanted to ensure all of annual sourcing spend. In the second the Congo or adjoining countries. These our suppliers are aware of, and phase, we will distribute it to our minerals are not required in the adhering to, Novelis’ standards. remaining suppliers. We expect that manufacturing of the products that we during 2014, we will have distributed produce for our customers. Novelis is The Code, available on our website the Code to all current suppliers. In conducting due diligence to confirm that (www.novelis.com/suppliers), no minerals designated as conflict minerals addition, we are building the Code are in our supply chain. is based on externally accepted into our procurement processes, principles, including the United such that the Code will be part of Nations Global Compact, of the standard terms and conditions which Novelis is a signatory. The for all new suppliers. Code outlines expectations for our suppliers in the areas of legal Suppliers will be required to provide compliance, labor and human rights, Novelis with a signed affirmation abolition of child labor, health and that they have read and understand safety, environmental protection, the Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct and promotion of the Code within and agree to adhere to its provisions. their own supply chains. All Novelis We will monitor compliance through suppliers will be expected to agree supplier self-assessments, conducted to the terms of the Code and uphold via questionnaires and surveys. In the Code in all their operations. addition, in instances where we have reason to believe a supplier may not be in compliance with our Code, we will conduct supplier audits and inspections. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 27 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Manufacturing Our Key Aims Our Operations and People Maintain safe, efficient operations Our sustainability strategy calls for driving improvements that minimize in our manufacturing operations – from our natural natural resource use resource use, to developing our people, to strengthening Ensure an engagement with our communities. This section adequate discusses how we are making this happen through our supply of talent One Novelis culture, our management systems and the Maintain our expansion of our operations. It also covers our FY13 social license to operate performance and initiatives in the manufacturingrelated areas of environment, people and community. Our Key Challenges Our Targets Baseline (FY07– FY13 FY20 Driving energy FY09 Average) Performance Target efficiencies even as we 2020 Operational Targets expand our Energy usage Reduce by 39% per metric ton 12.4 GJ/mt 10.0 GJ/mt 7.6 GJ/mt operations of sales and evolve Water usage Reduce by 25% per metric ton 3.7 m3/mt 3.1 m3/mt 2.7 m3/mt our product of sales mix GHG Halve our absolute amount 21M mt 18M mt 11M mt (Scope 1, 2 and 3) Finding new emissions ways to Landfill Zero landfilled waste 62.5K mt 55.6K mt 0K mt process the 2020 People Targets increased Safety Zero recordable injuries 1.01 0.60 0 dross we will generate as Employees 100% of eligible employees NA 52% 100% our recycled receive annual performance feedback content increases World-class leadership NA In progress Benchmarked development program, in top 10% Reducing our benchmarked in the top 10% safety case of companies rate all the Community 100% of operations have NA In progress, but 100% way to zero implemented local community all operations engagement process have Novelis Attracting Neighbor enough programs qualified Code of Employee and Supplier Codes NA In progress 100% engineers Conduct rolled out, process in place for to meet our noncompliance needs See p. 5 for our full performance summary. 28 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Novelis’ Global Expansion To promote Novelis’ long-term profitability and economic sustainability, we are aggressively expanding our operations around the globe. These expansion plans align with our aluminum automotive sheet in that sustainability strategy, as many of country. The Changzhou facility will the investments will help us to meet feature a continuous heat treatment our goal of 80% recycled aluminum line for annealing, pre-treating and inputs. The Sourcing section (see finishing automotive sheet, which p. 21) describes these recycling will then be ready to be stamped capacity expansions in more detail. into vehicle body parts. With global automakers aggressively ramping Since the start of FY11, Our investments are also focused up their production in China – which we have announced approximately on expanding our capacity to provide in 2009 became the world’s largest differentiated, high-value, low$1.4 billion automotive market – this new facility carbon products in our core markets positions us well for growth in the of beverage cans, automotive and automotive sector. The facility is in investments to expand our high-end specialties. For example, expected to be completed in 2014. recycling, casting, rolling and we broke ground in Changzhou, (See the Customers section p. 58 finishing operations China, in late 2012 on what will be for more on our automotive the first production facility for product offerings.) North South Europe Asia America America Latchford, U.K. Nachterstedt, Pinda, Germany Yeongju, Oswego, NY Brazil South Korea Pieve, Italy Changzhou, China Ulsan, South Korea Oswego, New York, USA: Pinda, Brazil: Nachterstedt, Germany: Ulsan and Yeongju, South ~240 kt automotive ~200 kt rolling expansion, New recycling plant to Korea: Casting, ~350 kt sheet finishing plant, completed July 2013 reach ~400 kt capacity, to rolling expansion, mid mid CY2013 open mid CY2014 CY2013 ~100 kt can coating line, April 2014 Pieve, Italy: ~15 kt Yeongju, South Korea: recycling capacity ~265 kt recycling capacity Automotive sheet ~190 kt recycling expansion, finishing plant expansion and ability to expansion, completed April 2014 take wider variety of scrap, October 2012 Can coating line completed May 2013 Changzhou, China: Latchford, U.K.: ~65 kt Automotive finishing line Recycling expansion used beverage can and with ~120 kt capacity, mid auto recycling, CY2014 CY2014 Rolling expansion Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 29 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Building “One Novelis” for Manufacturing Excellence Through both people and processes, safety practices and environmental Novelis 2.0 will improve tracking of our One Novelis approach is helping management and developing new our environment, health and safety to drive manufacturing excellence in ways to maximize use of our plants, data and allow us to retrieve human our operations. On the people side, increasing both productivity and resources, financial, manufacturing, we have been working to transform customer service. commercial and other business data and align our talent management at the global level. While rollout of practices at our sites across the A key aspect of our One Novelis the program has been progressing at globe, to eliminate regional and effort is our investment in a new a slightly slower pace than originally departmental differences and integrated enterprise resource planned, we have implemented the operate as a single, integrated planning system called Novelis new system in three locations thus company. On the process side, we 2.0. This system will allow us to far in North America, with a rollout are working to continuously improve operate as a truly globally integrated schedule for the remainder of the our operations by initiating lean company with consistent business company set for the next few years. principles, strengthening health and processes and information systems. Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Management Systems Achieving EHS and quality These certifications are one element by senior line managers with the excellence requires rigorous, of our push to standardize our support of EHS, Human Resources consistent management systems. business systems, processes and and Communication partners. The All Novelis manufacturing sites4 procedures across all our operations teams provide leadership, direction are certified by the following to achieve consistent, high levels and strategy to effectively implement internationally recognized of performance. programs and initiatives. Our Global management systems: Energy Team sets our energy Novelis’ Chief Technical Officer efficiency strategy, facilitates best The ISO 14001 environmental oversees our operations, practice sharing and reviews our management standard, which engineering, research and energy usage on a granular level. provides a framework for development, and EHS functions. continuous improvement of our The global EHS team develops We report on our EHS performance environmental performance. standards, provides expertise and through this sustainability report and facilitates best-practice sharing to various regulatory agencies as The OHSAS 18001 Occupational across Novelis, while local line required. We also report our carbon Health and Safety Specification, managers and plant EHS staff dioxide emissions and energy use to which serves as the foundation throughout our many manufacturing the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). of our management approach to sites together are accountable for employee health and safety. EHS performance at the plant level. Either the ISO 9001 or ISO/ Our CEO leads our EHS Steering TS16949 quality management Committee, which oversees EHS system standards, which provide strategy and performance at the a framework to improve system global level. Similar cross-functional and process quality to increase teams operate at the regional and 4 E  xcept our Toronto packaging plant, which efficiencies, reduce risks and plant levels and are championed is not ISO9001/TS16949 avoid errors. 30 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action: Our New Network of Environmental Committees The Challenge… Our Response… At Novelis, our aggressive To help do this, we have created a network of new committees at the global and site levels focused energy, water and waste goals on energy use, water use and waste sent to landfill. In addition, the global landfill committee has two have created the need for new subcommittees focused on two important types of thinking and new systems landfill waste: dross/baghouse dust and filter media. for driving progress in our The global committees are charged with developing a strategy for achieving their respective operations. To reach our goals, environmental goal, recommending annual targets for plants and regions, developing mechanisms it will not be enough for each of for sharing best practices, and reporting out our manufacturing sites to make successes, roadblocks and needs. The site-level committees will conduct surveys, develop action incremental progress on their plans, and coordinate and implement specific activities at their location. own; we also need to take a The energy committees have been in operation high-level look at our operations since FY12. The water and waste committees as a whole, identify large-return were created in FY13 and are now finalizing their membership and action plans. projects at key sites, and better This network of committees is helping us to share best practices among all align our EHS strategy across the entire Novelis organization worldwide, better assess risks our facilities. and big-return opportunities at a global level, identify specific resource needs and availability, and share best practices. In short, it will play an important role in helping us to achieve our Why It’s environmental goals. Important The new global waste and water committees have already shown to be a great benefit to our sites. They provide an outlet for them to share best practices, discuss issues and make connections with their counterparts at plants across the globe.” Jim Brown, Global Environmental Manager Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 31 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Environmental Performance At Novelis, we look at the environmental Since our baseline (an average of FY07–09 performance) we impacts of our products across their entire have achieved: life cycle. Taking that view, our most This section describes our efforts significant environmental issues are the use of energy and the emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Other to reduce the impacts of our manufacturing facilities in each of these areas. While progress toward 14% reduction in our key issues include water use and our four environmental goals was absolute Scope waste sent to landfill. We also mixed in FY13, we have made good 1, 2 and 3 GHG measure and manage non-GHG headway since our baseline, as emissions air emissions and our impacts on shown at right. biodiversity, though these are not among our most material issues. 19% Climate Change Risks reduction in our energy intensity and Opportunities We take the threat of climate change And, we expect the public interest in seriously, and both our business strategy and our GHG-reduction goal (see p. 5 and p. 8) are predicated climate change to grow and carbon legislation to be enacted in more countries and regions (e.g., beyond 16% reduction in on the assumption that society must the Emission Trading Scheme in our water use transition to a more sustainable, Europe as well as South Korea). This intensity lower-carbon economy. We have will impact Novelis in a number of developed our strategy based on a ways, from our energy procurement review of the risks and opportunities operations to our key markets. associated with GHG emissions and The recognition of these risks and climate change. For example, we opportunities has been a significant 11% recognize that the costs associated driver of our business strategy. We with energy use and the purchase of see supplying sustainable lowenergy-intensive raw materials will carbon products that benefit society, undoubtedly increase in the long and using energy-efficient processes reduction in our run, as we anticipate a continual in our operations, as fundamental to absolute waste increase in global energy demand. our long-term growth. sent to landfill 32 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Greenhouse Gas Emissions: An Absolute Target for an Absolute Challenge Society’s Challenge Many scientists and climate change experts believe there is an upper safe limit for absolute concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the Earth’s atmosphere. That’s why our company is taking a life Direct cycle approach to GHG emissions, aimed at reducing absolute (Scope 1 and 2) emissions by 50% across our entire value chain. We know this will be more beneficial for combatting climate change than focusing GHG emissions on emissions from our own operations alone. increased Our Target Our Target 50% Novelis’ Challenge reduction in absolute Scope 1, 2 and 35 Our key strategy for achieving our GHG reduction target is to increase our recycled inputs to 80%. However, achieving this goal will increase our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, 80% recycled inputs into due to the additional energy required to our aluminum GHG emissions de-coat, shred and remelt recycled by 2020 aluminum scrap. The Outcome The Outcome 10M metric tons of GHG 95% reduction in emissions avoided Our Aim embedded carbon per year in recycled An absolute GHG reduction, even while growing our aluminum production and recycling operations Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions GHG emissions decreased So, How Will We Achieve decreased across the life Our 50% GHG Target? cycle Fortunately, using recycled – instead of primary – aluminum will significantly decrease Scope 3 emissions. In addition, we are working hard to improve the energy efficiency of our operations, so we go beyond offsetting the additional energy needs related to using recycled inputs – and achieve our 50% absolute reduction target. 5 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are those that result from our own operations, either from burning fuels ourselves (Scope 1) or from our purchase of power (e.g., electricity) from other entities (Scope 2). Scope 3 emissions are those outside of Novelis’ direct operations but within our products’ life cycles, e.g., emissions related to our purchase of primary aluminum, which is made using energy-intensive processes, and emissions related to transportation to Novelis customers. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 33 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Carbon Footprint Greenhouse Across the Life Cycle Gas Emissions The graphic below shows our greenhouse As noted on p. 5, we have set a goal to reduce our absolute Scope gas footprint for FY13, including the amount 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 50% by 2020, compared to our baseline of GHGs emitted and the amount avoided (which is an average of FY07–09 through the use of recycled inputs and emissions). So far, we have reduced these absolute GHG emissions by energy-efficiency projects. 14% since the baseline (see Figure 9). In FY13 alone, we achieved a 7% reduction in absolute emissions. Essentially all of this decrease is attributable to a reduction in Scope 3 emissions resulting from our Figure 8 increased use of recycled aluminum Novelis Greenhouse Gas Footprint FY13 – (and reduced purchases of primary Metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) aluminum). Moving forward, we expect continued reductions to be Primary largely due to the reduction in our Raw Materials Scope 3 emissions, as we increase our recycled inputs. Our GHG emissions per metric ton of sales (i.e., our emissions intensity) Primary aluminum 15,821,256 have decreased by 10% since our baseline, and by about 6% in FY13 (see Figure 10).6 GHG emissions Ingot Avoided GHG Casting emissions Manufacture of flat rolled products 1,995,258 Novelis Avoided Recycling Fabrication due to energy Avoided due efficiency to recycling NOVELIS 31,419 10,632,793 Reduced Life Cycle Impacts of Aluminum Products Transportation 216,740 End-of-Life Customer 6 The process for Novelis’ calculation of GHG Collection Production emissions and energy use was developed in cooperation with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders Program. Consumer Novelis, along with the global aluminum Use industry, uses the IAI Aluminum Sector Greenhouse Gas Protocol formula, as well as the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol stationary combustion calculation tool, for calculating GHG emissions. 34 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Energy Use Figure 9 Scope 1, 2 FY13 vs. We use several sources of energy in Figure 11 Direct and Indirect Energy and 3 GHG Emissions Base the production and delivery of our Use, FY13 (metric tons CO2e) -12% aluminum products (see Figures 11, -21% 12 and 13). The majority of energy Indirect Direct usage in our facilities occurs at our 31% 69% -28% recycling casting centers, during the Total process of rolling hot and cold -14% aluminum, and at our small Ouro Preto smelter in South America. 20,981,391 (At the end of FY13, we shut down 18,033,254 one pot line at the smelter.) Natural gas used directly at our facilities Total (particularly for melting) and 27,835,162 GJ purchased electricity (particularly for rolling) are the most significant types of energy use for Novelis, supplying 94% of our total energy Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 needs by cost. We also use fuel oil, (FY07–09 average) transport fuel and other energy sources. Our South American Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 segment has its own hydroelectric facilities providing power to the Figure 12 Types of Direct Energy Use, Ouro Preto smelter, which meet FY13 Figure 10 Scope 1, 2 and approximately 66% of its electricity 3 GHG Emissions Intensity FY13 vs. requirements and account for 19% Other Liquid Fuels (metric tons CO2e/metric Base 2% of the company’s overall direct Heavy tons FRP sales) -9% electricity usage. Outside of South Fuel Oil 6% Other Gases -22% America, we purchase electricity 1% from third-party suppliers. Of the Total energy we purchase, 39% comes -10% from renewable sources and 19% from nuclear power (see Figure 13). 7.2 6.5 We have set a goal to decrease our energy intensity by 39% by 2020 Total from our FY07–09 average baseline. 19,315,790 GJ As of FY13, our energy intensity has decreased 19% from the baseline, though it was essentially flat in FY13 alone (see Figure 15). Our total energy use has followed a similar path – decreasing 23% since our Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Hydro Natural Gas (FY07–09 baseline, but down only 1% in FY13 10% 81% average) (see Figure 14). Scope 1 & 2 Scope 3 Complete performance data can be found at www.novelis.com/sustainability Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 35 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 13 Types of Indirect Energy Use, FY13 Coal Hydro 28% 34% Total 8,519,372 GJ Nuclear 19% Biomass 3% Natural Gas Others 11% 2% Refined Petroleum Products Total Total Non2% Renewable Renewable 39% 61% Others 1% Figure 14 Total Direct and Indirect Figure 15 Energy Intensity Progress toward our energy intensity Energy Use (GJ) (GJ/metric ton FRP sales) goal is affected by a variety of competing factors. Energy-efficiency FY13 vs. FY13 vs. Base projects drive our results in the Base right direction, while increases -38% -35% in recycling and changes in -13% -10% product mix and sales offset those Total improvements. For example, our Total -23% -19% manufacturing processes tend to run most efficiently when they operate 35,981,870 at close to capacity; in times of lower 12.4 output, then, our energy intensity 27,835,162 performance may fall off. In FY13, 10.0 our energy-efficiency projects, along 7.7 with the closure of one of the two 6.9 smelting pot lines in South America, 4.7 resulted in energy reductions – but not enough to offset other 3.1 challenges. Factors driving up our Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 energy use in FY13 included our (FY07–09 average) increased recycling, the expansion of our operations around the globe Direct Indirect Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 (which take time to get to full (FY07–09 average) capacity due to start-up procedures and trial runs), our changing product Indirect Direct Total mix (including products that require more finishing and harder alloys, Complete performance data can be found at which take more energy to roll) and www.novelis.com/sustainability unplanned operational outages. With our expansions across the globe reaching full capacity over the next year or so, we expect that efficiency improvements will follow. 36 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report How We Are Managing How We Are Optimizing Our Energy Use Our Operations After aluminum is rolled, heat is sometimes used to alter its We are taking a variety of actions In FY13, our plants undertook a physical properties, a practice to help reduce our energy use variety of specific initiatives, described called annealing. Heat may also and improve our energy efficiency. below, to drive down energy use and be used to dry paint lacquer. For example, our plants are working GHG emissions. We estimate that We have increasingly planned to improve the metering and initiatives like these resulted in production such that processes monitoring of their energy use. energy savings of 420,000 gigajoules with similar temperature The largest energy users have (GJ), which is equivalent to about requirements are conducted in begun monthly energy reporting 1.5% of our total energy use in FY13. succession, limiting the energy by major process operations associated with raising and (i.e., remelt, casting, rolling and We are looking to improve efficiency lowering temperatures. finishing). Enhanced monitoring at every step and to evaluate our operations as a whole to improve We make every effort to maintain and reporting allows us to compare performance. For example: and optimize our existing equipment, and benchmark in detail the but as new technology is discovered performance of similar operations. In our operations, large furnaces we seek to implement the most In FY13 we established energy melt aluminum and alloying energy-efficient upgrades. The largest specifications for capital projects agents with heat generated use of natural gas in our operations and conducted energy assessments by burning fuel. During fuel is for melting aluminum scrap and at seven plants. All other Novelis combustion, an optimal air-toproducing specific alloys. Consistently plants in North America and Europe fuel ratio ensures that all the advancing our furnace burner will conduct assessments in FY14. fuel is completely burned. We technology is therefore a priority, And, we are nearing completion have learned to adjust the fuel and we have undertaken several of our first formal energy training supply with increasing levels of large-scale projects to upgrade and program, which will cover a variety precision in order to ensure that replace burners in the past year. We of issues relating to energy efficiency burners do not release more fuel are also working to upgrade the and management. than can be optimally burned. wide variety of motors in use in our operations. Motors with variableWe have also been working to We have also improved the speed drives allow for more-efficient increase the sharing of best practices way we add alloys to molten aluminum, such that we reduce use of electrical energy and enable across the company in the areas us to respond quickly to ever-shifting of remelt, lighting and compressed the number of times the furnace is opened and minimize the heat energy demands. air, in particular. In FY13 we documented, published and shared that escapes. 30 best practices. Our Global Energy Molten aluminum must Team is responsible for addressing be maintained at a certain and implementing the projects with temperature to be transferred the greatest amount of return at to the next step in the process. each plant to ensure that we are Limiting upstream operations taking steps to increase efficiency until downstream capacity is and meet our annual energy targets, available has resulted in reduced as well as stay on track to meet our holding times during which the 2020 target. aluminum must be maintained in a molten state. A lighting upgrade improved efficiency and quality at our plant in Berea, USA Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 37 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action… Water Energy-Efficiency Projects Use We have implemented an array of innovative solutions at specific plants: Ulsan (South Korea) Relative to companies in other In our Ulsan plant, we are in the midst of converting from oil to natural industries, our operations are not gas, which has several benefits: reduced costs, less exposure to oil price very water-intensive. However, fluctuations, higher energy efficiency due to using regenerative burners, we are mindful of the increasing and 36% fewer GHG emissions. This change in fuel, along with an scarcity of water globally, and we upgrade in the burners, resulted in a reduction of more than 7,000 metric are working hard to make our tons of CO2e in FY13 alone, nearly 30% of our total global savings for all operations more water-efficient. energy-efficiency projects. The process in our operations that Sierre (Switzerland) uses the most water is the casting In most of our facilities, of ingots after remelting recycled conventional chiller systems materials. As we increase our are used to air-condition recycling of scrap aluminum (in line electrical rooms, offices and with our goal to use more recycled control rooms. At our Sierre inputs), we will do more ingot plant, another solution has been casting, which has the potential to implemented; it uses fresh air push up our water use. We thus have and cold underground water been working to use water in this to maintain a comfortable process more efficiently (primarily ambient temperature. by maximizing cooling water re-use), and we have set a goal to reduce our Logan (USA) water use intensity by 25% by 2020. Nitrogen gas is used for various process-related operations in our plants. Our Logan facility had an onsite nitrogen plant to support this The smelting process by which need. But we recently realized that delivery of liquid nitrogen was more primary aluminum is made is more efficient than onsite production. Elimination of the nitrogen plant will water-intensive than the recycling reduce electrical load requirements during peak demand. process, so even if Novelis’ absolute water use rises the more we recycle, Yeongju (South Korea) the overall life cycle water use for At the end of our manufacturing processes, aluminum is rolled into coils our products will decrease. for shipment to customers. When the coils are rolled, the aluminum is hot and must be cooled using fans. Typically, the temperature of the coils Our primary focus for water in FY13 is measured manually at periodic intervals. At our Yeongju plant, sensors was to establish a global water team have been installed to automatically shut off the fans immediately when to develop a global water strategy, the coils are sufficiently cooled. Figure 16 Water Use Nachterstedt (Germany) Intensity (cubic meters/ FY13 vs. metric ton FRP sales) Base At our Nachterstedt plant, we installed a network of temperature sensors to control and optimize the infrared heating system throughout the -16% plant; this system was intended to ensure appropriate temperature control in different areas. We found that the system was not working 3.7 properly, however, and by optimizing the location of the sensors for it to 3.1 work correctly, the plant’s natural gas consumption was reduced by half compared to similar winter months in past years. Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 (FY07–09 average) Complete performance data can be found at www.novelis.com/sustainability 38 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report enhance best practice sharing and ensure resource availability. We aim to establish a contact at each site In Action… to conduct water surveys at the Water Conservation Projects plant level, identify opportunities to reduce water use and develop In FY13, our manufacturing plants implemented a range of water strategic action plans to help meet conservation improvements: our global target. We are continuing to improve our understanding of ALCOM (Malaysia) our water requirements and how to Our ALCOM facility treats water monitor water flow into and out of coming into the plant using our plants, as well as throughout our advanced filtration methods, operations. We currently measure including reverse osmosis. These our water withdrawal down to the methods generate a stream of plant level at all locations globally, wastewater that is not suitable for but we are working to enhance the use in production operations, and way we account for internal water past practice was to discharge it. recirculation, recycling, and the In FY13, the facility began to resubsequent volume and quality of use this stream of water for other the water discharged by each plant. purposes at the site, including in a cooling tower and in storage for Compared to our baseline, we have emergency use in the plant’s fire reduced our water use intensity by protection system. This project 16%, which puts us on track to achieve is estimated to reduce the site’s our 25% reduction by 2020. In FY13 water use by more than 5,500 alone, we decreased our water use cubic meters per year. intensity by 5% (see Figure 16). These improvements are due largely to Pinda (Brazil) water-efficiency projects in our Our Pinda plant thoroughly facilities around the globe. From cleaned the cooling towers FY12 to FY13, our total water usage associated with several aluminum decreased about 7%; it is down 20% melting and casting processes. The since our baseline (see Figure 17). cleaning significantly improved the quality of the cooling water, Figure 17 Water FY13 vs. allowing it to be recirculated more Base Withdrawals (cubic meters) often prior to discharge. The plant -32% also installed an automatic water -42% monitoring system to improve 20% the water quality and reduce the amount of water discharged. The Total estimated water saving from these -20% projects is 120,000 cubic meters 10,632,801 per year. 8,537,928 Berea (USA) Our Berea facility instituted a number of water-saving projects, including repairs to leaky piping, installation of water metering, and a change in the conductivity of the cooling tower water that Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 will result in less water use. These (FY07–09 improvements are estimated average) to save more than 4,000 cubic Ground Surface Water from Water Water Public Net meters of water per year. Complete performance data can be found at www.novelis.com/sustainability Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 39 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Waste We have a goal of sending zero waste to landfill by 2020, and already three-quarters of the operational waste we generate is recycled (see Figure 18). We produce several kinds of the refractory material was used Our primary waste focus for FY13 waste. More than 70% of our as inputs into the production of was the establishment of a global landfilled waste is generated from steel and cement. Our plants waste team. The global waste the processing of dross. Dross outside North America also re-use reduction committee, as well as the forms from impurities that float refractory material as input for subcommittees for specific types of on molten aluminum during steel and cement. landfill waste (discussed on p. 31), melting or recycling. Most dross meet at least monthly to develop generated by Novelis is sent offsite Since our baseline, our total waste a global waste reduction strategy, to be processed by companies that has increased as our company has enhance best practice sharing and specialize in recovering aluminum grown and as we have increased ensure resource availability. The from it. (Dross typically contains our use of recycled inputs (which focus moving forward will be to have 50% aluminum.) The remaining increases the production of dross). the contacts at each site conduct waste is either further recycled or At the same time, we have made detailed waste surveys and develop landfilled. In some regions, this good long-term progress increasing strategic plans to meet regional and waste is used in road construction, the amount of waste being recycled global goals. Also, we will be focusing cement manufacturing and other and decreasing the amount going our efforts on new technologies, applications. Our zero landfill to landfill. In fact, compared to our operational best practices and target includes dross-related waste baseline, our absolute waste to establishing new end markets for managed by third-party recyclers, landfill has decreased by 11% and dross-related and refractory brick which we track and account for our waste-to-landfill intensity has waste materials. to be as transparent as possible decreased 7%. about the waste produced by In FY13, however, our waste Figure 18 Waste by Process our operations. numbers trended upward, with Method, FY13 Another key type of waste for absolute waste to landfill increasing Novelis is refractory material by 13% and waste-to-landfill Incinerated (i.e., insulating bricks), which intensity rising by 15% (see Figures Landfilled 1% we use in furnaces to maximize 19 and 20). These increases were 24% energy efficiency during melting. due in large part to the start-up Periodically, the refractory material of our new recycling facility in deteriorates to the point that it Yeongju, Korea. While this facility must be replaced. Traditionally, substantially increased our capability our facilities in North America to recycle aluminum scrap, it also increased our volume of waste Total have disposed of this material in (especially dross-related waste) sent 235,191 nonhazardous landfills. But over to landfill. And at the same time, metric tons the last few years, Novelis North America has worked with specialized we saw no comparable increase companies to recycle our refractory in production volume. In FY14, we material waste. In FY13, Novelis will be looking to reduce the landfill North America, working with several waste associated with the Yeongju processing companies, was able to expansion, in addition to that from recycle 1.75 million kg of refractory any other expansion projects as they Recycled material, an increase of 75% from come online. 75% the previous year. After processing, 40 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action… Waste-Reduction Initiatives In FY13, our plants implemented a variety of projects to help reduce the amount of waste we send to landfill: Figure 19 Waste to Landfill (metric tons) FY13 vs. Pinda (Brazil) Base Our Pinda plant uses several processors to handle the recycling -11% of dross. In FY13, the plant shifted their business away from the processor that sent the most 62,508 dross-related waste to landfill, and 55,639 instead provided the dross to the remaining processors, who recycle a higher percentage. With this change, the plant was able to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill by an estimated 1,000 metric tons per year. Through these and other efforts, the Pinda Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 (FY07–09 plant has reduced their waste to average) landfill from 13% to landfill in FY12 to 8% for all of FY13, with a further step change to less than 1% in the fourth quarter of FY13. Figure 20 Waste-toPieve (Italy) Landfill Intensity (metric FY13 vs. tons/metric tons FRP Sales) Base Our Pieve facility was able to reduce the amount of rolling -7% filter waste by 27% per metric ton of aluminum production. To achieve this, Pieve used advanced process controls such 21.5 as continuous filter injection rates 20.0 based on required production rates. They also reduced the amount of raw materials use in the filtration process. Nachterstedt (Germany) Our Nachterstedt facility successfully reduced the amount Baseline FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 of filter cake waste (associated (FY07–09 with its wastewater treatment average) processes) that is sent to landfill. The material is now being sold to a Complete performance data can be found at fertilizer company that will use it as www.novelis.com/sustainability an ingredient in their products. This will reduce the amount of waste Nachterstedt sends to landfill by approximately 4,500 kg per year. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 41 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Non-GHG In Action… Air Emissions Air Emission Reduction Projects In FY13, a number of our manufacturing plants implemented projects to reduce their non-GHG air emissions: Novelis’ total air emissions have generally declined over the past few Logan (USA) years (see Figure 21) as we have Our Logan joint venture partially shuttered our smelter completed upgrades to the airoperations and improved air pollution-control equipment emission capture systems. Total air associated with one of its cold emissions increased slightly in FY13, mills. The upgrades resulted in primarily due to increased recycling an 85% reduction in particulate efforts in our plants. And, the startemissions and an 82% reduction up of our recycling operation in in VOC emissions. The system Yeongju significantly increased upgrades also allow for the emissions. At the same time, recovery and re-use of tens of emission reductions were achieved thousands of gallons of aluminum through the sale of several Novelis rolling coolants per year. foil plants and the closure of the Ulsan (South Korea) Saguenay facility. During FY13, we also completed several sizeable Similarly, our Ulsan facility upgrades to our air-emissionsimproved the filtration system control equipment. These upgrades associated with the air-pollutionwill result in significant reductions in control system for one of its cold volatile organic compound (VOC) mills. The filtration improvements and particulate emissions in future reduced air emissions by more years. Several of these upgrade than 80% and dramatically projects are described at right. reduced rolling coolant usage. Ouro Preto (Brazil) Figure 21 Total Estimated Air Emissions (metric tons) Our Ouro Preto plant initiated an effort to reduce particulate 10,005 emissions from pollution-control equipment at the site. The plant uses a dry scrubber to reduce emissions from its smelting. 5,647 The facility tested a variety of new filter types before arriving at a type that reduced particulate emissions by more than 50%. Also in FY13, we closed the older, FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 less environmentally efficient pot line, leaving the newer pot Note: Figures represent estimates of pollutants line in operation. tracked from stack emissions only. Novelis has not developed emission estimates for persistent organic pollutants. Complete performance data can be found at www.novelis.com/sustainability 42 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Biodiversity In Action… Oswego Remediation Project Completed In 2012, the Novelis plant in Oswego, New York, USA, completed the remediation and restoration of a 24-acre constructed wetland complex Novelis operates in many locations in the northern portion of the facility commonly referred to as the North across the globe and is keenly aware Ponds. The North Ponds are classified as a Class 2A inactive hazardous that conserving diverse ecosystems waste disposal site due to the presence of polychlorinated biphenyls is important to the communities in (PCBs) in the sediment associated with historical operations. which we operate and to our overall mission to reduce our impact on the The North Ponds are a series of ponds and marshes that once served as environment. The most significant process and stormwater treatment for the facility’s operations. That use and recognized biodiversity impacts of the North Ponds was replaced in 2001 by a recirculating cooling water in the life cycle of our products system, which significantly reduced the amount of raw water withdrawn occur during the primary aluminum by the Oswego facility. production phase. Bauxite mining During the remediation, more than 57,000 cubic yards of sediment results in land disturbances, and were excavated, stabilized and removed from the site. Following alumina refining may require the remedial activities, more than 1,700 plantings were installed to restore construction of red mud lakes. In the vegetation in the wetland complex. In addition, several features addition, the use of hydroelectric were added to provide habitat for local wildlife. Novelis is currently power plants to provide electricity developing an environmental easement with the U.S. Environmental for the energy-intensive process Protection Agency, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the New York State of making primary aluminum can Department of Environmental Conservation that will afford long-term impact ecosystem biodiversity. preservation of the site. None of our currently operational or newly announced sites exist within the boundaries of a United Nations Biosphere Reserve, Ramsar Wetland or UNESCO World Heritage Site. Thus, at this time, none of our facilities have been identified as within the boundaries of protected or high-biodiversity areas. However, we currently operate eight small hydro power plants and also have a 50% stake in a hydro power Oswego site before remediation During remediation plant joint venture in Brazil. Our strategy of maximizing recycling is to reduce demand on primary aluminum, minimizing the need for new hydroelectric power and bauxite mining. And, as we look to broaden our understanding and characterization of areas with high biodiversity value, our assessment could evolve. After remediation Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 43 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Developing Our People Our first and most fundamental priority as a company is to protect the health and safety of our employees, contractors and visitors. In addition, we are focused on aligning our corporate culture to support our company’s growth. These efforts include bolstering our employee engagement, employee evaluation and talent management processes and implementing our new Employee Code of Conduct. Health and Safety Performance Aluminum manufacturing presents FY13. Our recordable case rate for We Are Safe includes training for an array of safety risks. With mobile FY13 was 0.60 cases per 200,000 all plant employees and better equipment, aluminum scrap with hours worked, up from 0.59 in FY12 quality and consistency in our EHS sharp edges and materials at (see Figure 22). Our ultimate goal for communications across all facilities. extremely high temperatures, the this metric is zero. opportunity for injury is ever-present. Figure 22 NIRS Recordable Case Rate That’s why Novelis makes every To help prevent accidents – such as effort to keep our employees safe – the tragic fatality that occurred at our 1.03 by “engineering out” safety hazards Ulsan plant in FY13 (see next page) whenever possible, implementing – we are working to implement a more risk-based approach that 0.60 first-rate safety programs, training on safety procedures and behaviors focuses on effectively identifying and and requiring the use of personal controlling the potential hazards that protective equipment and machine pose the greatest risk of a serious safeguarding instruments. injury. And, we are seeking out new FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 and innovative safety technologies. We manage the safety of people at In our Warren, USA, and Yeongju, FY13 target: 0.5 Novelis in a way that is integrated South Korea, plants, for instance, we Complete performance data can be found at into our overall Environment, Health are testing various technologies for www.novelis.com/sustainability and Safety (EHS) management forklifts, such as radar devices that system (see p. 30). We have safety alert the forklift driver when a person processes in place at all of our is nearby, as well as sensors and operations, and we collect and track speed detectors that help to avoid global safety data for our employees high speeds and blind spots. and contractors using the Novelis Injury and Illness Recordkeeping Also, as part of our One Novelis System (NIRS). effort, we launched Together We Are Safe, a global safety program Over the last few years, we have that is building on the best practices improved our recordable case rate already in place in many of our (an aggregate measure of injuries, operations and working to make illnesses and fatalities), though we those programs and processes the did not meet our internal target for global Novelis standard. Together Cameras installed on forklifts 44 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 23 Top Safety Performers Terre Haute (USA) Santo Andre (Brazil) Bresso (Italy) Ohle (Germany), Kingston (Canada), Many of our plants Until February 2013, our Our plant in Bresso has Yeongju (South Korea) regularly achieve Santo Andre plant had also long been a model outstanding safety operated for more than three for employee safety. The In FY13, three plants received performance, giving years with no recordable plant has earned six of our internal Global EHS us confidence that our cases and four years with no Novelis’ annual, internal Awards, which recognize ultimate goal of zero lost time injuries or illnesses. Global EHS Awards – the sites that meet rigorous incidents is attainable. The Santo Andre employees have most of any Novelis facility. safety criteria. Our plants Novelis facility in Terre worked hard to make safety Bresso’s leaders say their in Ohle and Kingston each Haute, for example, has a top priority, including record is due to unrelenting earned a Platinum award, gone more than six years conducting weekly safety vigilance about safety and while our plant in Yeongju without a lost time injury inspections, implementing a high level of involvement earned a Gold award. or illness. a “stop and think” program, of all employees. The Local celebrations are held and putting a strong focus plant holds frequent to recognize each site’s on training employees to department meetings on award achievement. In improve their skills. safety, conducts analysis of addition, the plants receive near misses, runs regular funding from Novelis for safety training sessions community grants to drive and conducts planned safety awareness in their inspections and both communities. Platinum Fatality at Our Ulsan Plant internal and external audits. winners are awarded $5,000, A minor safety incident while Gold winners receive Very regrettably, during FY13 a Novelis contractor lost his life doing occurred at the plant in work for our company. In March 2013, Gab-hee Han died after $2,500. This money can May 2012; prior to that, the be used to support any being hit by a forklift at the Ulsan plant in South Korea. Mr. Han had plant had gone seven years worked at the plant as an independent contractor for seven years. safety-related organization without an accident. of the plant’s choosing. In The tragic accident took place in the finishing line area as Mr. Han was walking through the plant and stepped off the designated the past, beneficiaries have pedestrian walkway. included fire departments, nonprofit organizations The incident is under investigation by the Novelis EHS team as well for accident victims and as the Korean Ministry of Labor. And, we are taking corrective action their families, and safety steps at all of our plants to help prevent these types of accidents in education programs. the future – steps such as increasing barriers between forklift and pedestrian areas, increasing designation of walkway areas and installing reverse-direction cameras on forklifts. Tragic accidents like this serve as an important reminder of the need to be continually vigilant about keeping safety the top priority for those who run and work in our plants. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 45 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Employee In Action… Engagement Novelis World Cup Raises $80,000 for Charity While Helping to Build a One Novelis Culture At Novelis, we take “team-building” seriously – and sometimes literally. In Employee engagement is a key part the Novelis World Cup, for example, teams of employees compete against of our One Novelis vision, in which each other in a friendly soccer and volleyball tournament that also raises we align our people and processes funds for charity. across the globe to achieve our sustainability goals and growth plans More than 600 Novelis employees from across the globe participated and operate as a single, integrated in our most recent Novelis World Cup, which was held in June 2013 in company. Over the past several Dortmund, Germany. The two-day event offered a great opportunity years, we have significantly bolstered for employees to get to know each other and work together in teams our efforts to communicate with outside of the normal work environment, building employee morale and our employees and engage them in bolstering engagement among colleagues who might not otherwise get building the Novelis of the future. to interact. For example, we have conducted Employees participated in the tournament via three separate leagues: regular interactive webcasts for employees with our CEO; had senior A Soccer Premier A Soccer Fun A Volleyball League, leaders visit plants and conduct League, won by the League, won by the won by the Göttingen town hall meetings more often; Novelis South America Norf II team (from (Germany) team. and rolled out an enhanced, more team (with players the AluNorf facility, interactive intranet that enables from several facilities). Germany). employees to make comments and raise questions. We also develop and distribute a variety of publications for employees, as well as encourage plant managers and site leaders to increase engagement at their sites. In 2013 in North America, we switched from a quarterly newsletter to monthly e-newsletters to communicate important information more regularly and in a more environmentally friendly format. We are committed to maintaining The event also created an opportunity for our good record of open employees to give back to their communities, communication and dialogue as each of the teams raised funds for a charity with both our unionized and nonof their choice. All told, employees donated unionized employees. In FY13, $80,000 to 16 outstanding causes. The teams approximately 63% of our employees also competed to be the top fundraiser and were represented by labor unions, winner of the Novelis Commitment Cup. This and their employment conditions year’s winner of the Commitment Cup was were governed by collective Novelis Asia, which raised $12,000 for Safe bargaining agreements. Kids Korea. The boxes at right describe two The June tournament was the fourth Novelis World Cup held by the of our most recent employee company; the previous events took place in 2010, 2008 and 2007. This engagement initiatives – the year was the first that employees from every region took part – making it Novelis World Cup and our Culture a truly One Novelis event. in Action program. 46 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action… Employee Talent “Culture in Action” Recognition Program Launched Evaluations Management We are seeking to build a One Novelis corporate culture based To create a growth culture, We know that developing a strong on a shared set of values and employees must understand how pool of talent for our leadership attributes – attributes that they can best contribute to the pipeline is critical to Novelis’ longinclude, for example, being company’s success. This means term success. To better accomplish proactive, safe, aligned, forwardemployees need regular feedback this, we have overhauled our talent looking, people-focused and about their performance and an management function. We aim to sustainable, among many opportunity to discuss with their line develop a world-class leadership others. Novelis teams around managers how they can advance development program that is global the globe have demonstrated their careers. That’s why, in FY11, in scope, with consistent, highmany of these attributes as they we established a corporate-wide quality offerings across regions and work together to transform sustainability target regarding departments. Our specific goal is the way we do business. From employee evaluations. Our goal that our program be benchmarked, the innovative products under for 2020 is that 100% of eligible by a qualified external expert, development at our research employees will be receiving annual by 2020 within the top 10% of and technology centers, to performance feedback. world-class companies that the world-class processes have development programs. At present, we have a consistent, our people are proactively centralized performance The graphic on p. 48 illustrates establishing on the shopfloor, management system for our the six leadership development Novelis teams around the globe managers. At the plant level, programs we currently offer. Notably, are energetically defining our however, performance management several of the programs engage company’s future. is somewhat decentralized and participants in solving real-world To recognize these outstanding variable in terms of the processes challenges our company is accomplishments, in 2012 we used and how many employees facing, and they have developed announced a new internal, receive regular evaluations. actionable results that are now team-based recognition contributing to our business success. In FY13, the percentage of eligible For example, past leadership program called Culture in Action. employees receiving annual This program will honor teams development program participants feedback reached 52%, up from 38% worked on projects related to issues of Novelis employees that have the previous year. This improvement made important contributions to such as global safety standards, was due in part to an increase employee engagement, branding the company in four categories: in the collection of data and safety, sustainability, customer and innovation. communication about what is being focus and results orientation. done at the local level, as well as Awards will be presented in each initiatives conducted by our global category at the regional and Human Resources department to global levels. increase the number of employees, Nominations for the first round both salaried and hourly, receiving of recognitions were due in performance reviews. Going forward, May 2013. Award winners were our new integrated enterprise announced in August 2013, just resource planning system, Novelis as this report was going to press. 2.0, will help us to better centralize We look forward to highlighting and track performance reviews for some of the winners in our next our plant employees. sustainability report. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 47 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 24 Our Leadership Development Programs Number of Employees Trained to Date Engineering Leadership Leadership Development Essentials Essentials Program (EDP) I (LE1) II (LE2) 135 387 45 Two-year structured development Four-day course on foundational Three-day course on foundational program tailored to engineering leadership skills for new managers leadership skills for newer site/ graduates and early-career engineers function leaders Leadership is all about achieving The EDP is designed to develop results through others. The LE1 I work with a global team on companyyoung engineers to become program prepares young leaders critical development projects in the engineering leaders and to grow to enhance their natural abilities to automotive area. The LE2 program themselves personally. Through this approach their employees, creating provided me with an exciting chance program, you create and maintain a a positive environment for effective to refresh my knowledge of the global network with both your peers team development and achievement competencies needed to lead and Novelis leaders.” of results.” change and deliver results with a global perspective.” Kristen Fraczek, Francisco Carvalho, Dewei Zhu, Continuous Cold Rolling & Director, Global Improvement Finishing Process Technology, Auto Specialist Leader (Pinda, Brazil) (Kennesaw, (Oswego, Georgia, USA) NY, USA) Leadership Accelerated Global Launch Leadership Leadership Program (LLP) Program (ALP) Program (GLP) 82 83 44 Two-week course for first-line Three-week program for managers Four-week program for executives managers focused on leadership skills of managers, focused on leadership focused on leadership for developing for building One Novelis skills for driving profitable growth and implementing global strategy and operational excellence The LLP offered a great opportunity The ALP provides an excellent for me to review my own leadership opportunity to learn about not just skills The GLP to me is like a ‘closed-loop’ behaviors, learn more about leadership but, more importantly, how to work as a recycling journey: ‘remelt and casted’ styles and especially develop my own global team within the Novelis system. with the right ‘alloys,’ with resources clear way to become the leader I You might be surprised to see how that help us manage our business want to be. The program also enabled effectively people can work and learn in a challenging and ever-changing participants to create a global and crossfrom each other by shifting to a global environment; ‘rolled’ toward one functional network, which is extremely mindset and a One Novelis culture.” longitudinal direction, with a strong One useful for creating One Novelis.” Novelis culture in mind; and ‘finished’ in the ‘gauge, width and temper’ necessary to contribute to Novelis and satisfy the market, as a true global leader.” Corinna Baehr, Hwi Hwang, James Liu, Manufacturing Unit Director, Business Managing Director, Leader, Can End Development, Novelis China, and Stock Line, & Manager, Novelis Asia Director, Sales & Lean/Continuous (Seoul, South Marketing, Improvement Korea) Automotive (Nachterstedt, (Shanghai, China) Germany) 48 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Employee Code of Q&A Conduct with Kihoon Lee, Vice and Human President, Internal Audit Our New Employee Rights Code of Conduct At Novelis, we are committed to acting with integrity, in good faith and in accordance with good corporate governance. We are also committed to human Tell us about the new all employees on the content rights, nondiscrimination and Code of Conduct. What of the Code and have each sustainability. In FY13, to ensure does it cover? person certify that he or she has that our employees act in accord A: The updated Code is an read it and understands it. Our with these commitments, we important part of helping us office-based employees will take updated our Employee Code of to operate as One Novelis, the training online and do an Conduct and distributed it to all even as we work in multiple online certification. For our plant employees (see box at right). locations around the globe. It locations, training will take place covers five key areas: acting in person, and we will certify Also, we remain a signatory to the with integrity and in Novelis’ that employees have attended United Nations Global Compact. best interests; promoting a the sessions. No matter their As such, we commit to align our desirable work environment; location, all employees will be operations and strategies with safeguarding the company’s required to take part in this kind universally accepted principles in assets; engaging in ethical of training and certification on the areas of human and labor rights, interactions with government; the Code annually. including child and forced labor, and dealing fairly with third as well as the environment and parties. At the same time anticorruption (see p. 80). You set up an Ethics Hotline we released the Code, we at the same time the Code of issued new global employee Conduct was rolled out. Tell us standards as well. The how that will work. standards complement the A: The Ethics Hotline provides Code and provide consistency employees with an avenue for for how the company handles raising concerns about behavior things such as training and inconsistent with the Code of development, internal posting Conduct. It is accessible via of open jobs, use of social the internet or telephone. It media, diversity and so forth. has been used already, and has been well received by How is the company employees. Cases are reviewed implementing the new Code by our Chief Legal Officer to and ensuring that employees ensure appropriate oversight of understand it? these issues. A: We rolled out the new Code in 2012. In 2013, we will train Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 49 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Engaging with Our Communities In dozens of cities and towns on four continents, our Novelis Neighbor program helps us build strong relationships with members of the communities that host our facilities and society as a whole. These relationships enable Novelis to understand and help address community needs, and ensure that our company maintains its “social license to operate.” We connect with our communities through formal engagement processes that encourage two-way dialogue with local stakeholders, which in turn influences our charitable investments and employee volunteering for community causes. Novelis Neighbor Over the past two years, we All Novelis operating sites have put a human face on our company. have sought to better align our community initiatives in place, Novelis Neighbor “site champions” community engagement and managed through Novelis at each location are responsible charitable investment strategy with Neighbor. Through this program, for managing and tracking the our business and sustainability our employees are able to connect community outreach at their facility strategy. In so doing, we defined with the people who live in the – both the community engagement three areas of focus for a program we communities where Novelis initiatives and our charitable call Novelis Neighbor: safety, math operates and, in the process, investment and volunteering. and science education, and recycling. Math and Science Safety Recycling Education Extends our “safety first” Aims to address the global need Supports aluminum recycling value beyond our facilities by for more scientists, engineers and education in communities supporting organizations that and technologists through the around the world. help keep our neighbors and support of math and science communities safe. education at all school levels. 50 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Dialogue with Community Members We have engaged with local local government officials, other so that our plant leaders and site stakeholders in a variety of ways companies and community champions can identify the most for as long as we have been in stakeholders. Our objective is to pressing issues when determining operation, but the process was receive input that enables us to where our charitable investments largely informal and varied across better identify, understand and can have the most impact. our different locations. That’s why, address the most important issues in as part of setting new sustainability the communities where we operate. Moving forward, we hope to increase goals two years ago, we adopted a the breadth of our relationships with corporate-wide target to implement We have also been conducting organizations at the global level formal community engagement training for all of our Novelis (such as FIRST® Robotics, discussed processes at 100% of our operations. Neighbor site champions, to on p. 55), as well as the depth of our formalize their roles and provide relationships with organizations at Building on the Novelis Neighbor a framework to help inform their the local level. In addition, we plan community investment programs decision making and effectively to increase knowledge-sharing already in place at all of our major execute the new strategy for and the transfer of best practices locations, we are now implementing charitable investments and throughout the Novelis Neighbor a more formalized process for volunteering. In addition, we network through professional routinely and proactively engaging instituted a formal process of development opportunities and in dialogue with neighbors, documenting dialogue with formalized communications such nongovernmental organizations, community stakeholders, as newsletters. Charitable Contributions and Employee Volunteering Employee Novelis Donations Contributions In FY13, Novelis’ charitable giving 32 company facilities completing $226,063 $2,533,589 through the Novelis Neighbor 54 projects. We estimate that 55,000 program totaled more than people were positively impacted by $2.5 million, including company our Month of Service projects, with matches to employee donations. approximately $234,000 invested in Our employees donated more our communities. than 18,000 hours to community projects, which far surpassed our Total Amount internal goal of 10,000 volunteer Donated hours worked for the fiscal year. $2,759,652 Our volunteer hours increased Figure 25 Novelis Neighbor in FY13 largely due to the launch Charitable Giving in October 2012 of our inaugural All donations are in U.S. dollars. The total Novelis Month of Service, a focused amount donated includes tax redirects effort to fund and execute largein Brazil. (Novelis South America has the scale employee volunteer projects at opportunity, at the encouragement of the Brazilian government, to earmark a portion our locations around the world. The of our corporate taxes each year to benefit Number of initiative was a rousing success, with nongovernmental organizations. These are Volunteer Hours more than 1,600 volunteers from known as “tax redirects.”) 18,594 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 51 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report The map below shows where Novelis Month of Service projects took place in FY13 and highlights examples in each region that note the organization(s) benefited. We plan to hold a Novelis Month of Service every October going forward. Figure 26 Novelis Month of Service: Safety Math and Science Recycling Unite Globally, Impact Locally Oswego, NY, USA: Lüdenscheid, Ohle, Germany: Göttingen, Germany: Fitzhugh Park Germany: CVJM Albert-SchweitzerLocal schools and Elementary School Lüdenscheid-West Gymnasium, Operation Christmas Youth Center, Plettenberg College Child Theodor-HeussRealschule School, and Richard-SchirrmannNovi, Mich., USA: Realschule School Harmon Elementary Club Scout Pack 1468 Bresso & Pieve, Italy: Koine (environmental Terre Haute, Ind., education nonprofit) USA: Girl Scouts of and Segnie Parole Central Indiana, Terre (nonprofit benefiting Haute Children’s the hearing impaired) Museum and Vigo County School Corporation Yeongju, Korea: Bethany House and 55,000 Sunshine House Berea, Ky., USA: people (facilities for the Habitat for Humanity positively developmentally and Helping Hands São Paulo, Brazil: impacted disabled) The Casulo Project (an educational organization) Pinda, Brazil: Ulsan, Korea: Reception and Nam-Gu community Support for Teens Ouro Preto, Brazil: Institute (IA3) Child Pastoral House 52 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Also in FY13, our company partnered with and supported a broad range of causes, including the following: Safety Habitat for Humanity Renovating Facilities for the Disabled in South Korea Novelis has been involved with Habitat for Humanity for more In South Korea, more than 50 than 10 years, providing financial employees from our Ulsan and support and involving employees Yeongju plants, together with their as volunteers on home builds so families, volunteered at two local that families in our communities facilities that serve people with have a safe place to call home. As developmental disabilities. The an international partner, Novelis has Novelis volunteers participated pledged $500,000 to Habitat in a in renovating both of the houses multi-year agreement (2011–2015). and helped to lead horticultural In addition to this corporate-level therapy for autistic children at one funding, many of our operating Childhood and Adolescence of the homes (pictured below). facilities and offices around the world Fund in Brazil partner with local Habitat affiliates. In late 2012, for example, more than Our Ouro Preto and Pinda 60 Novelis employees in South facilities have donated more than Korea assisted Habitat for Humanity $200,000 to the Childhood and in the building of 16 homes in Adolescence Fund, which distributes the city of Cheonan (pictured those contributions to nonprofit below). Also, in 2013 Novelis was organizations that promote child the “Aluminum Hammer” sponsor well-being through the provision of of the organization’s 2013 North education, food, shelter and other America Affiliate Conference in resources (pictured above). Atlanta, Georgia. Over the next three years, we will expand our corporate support of Habitat for Humanity in conjunction with a new initiative that the India-based Aditya Birla Group (our parent company) is launching in partnership with Habitat. Called IndiaBUILDS North America, the initiative has a goal of raising enough funds from the Indian diaspora in the U.S. to build 55,000 homes in India by 2015. Renovation of a Youth Shelter in Ontario More than 50 Novelis employees in Kingston, Ontario, helped to renovate and remodel a local shelter that gives youth in need, who are also attending school, a safe place to live and study. The employees renovated rooms in the facility, repaired the patio and installed new appliances (pictured above). Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 53 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Math and Science Göttingen Bridge Competition U.K. Aluminum Design Competition In 2013, the Novelis plant in In early 2013, more than 1,000 U.K. Göttingen, Germany, hosted a schoolchildren took part in the competition for students to see first-ever Alu Design & Technology who could build the best scaleChallenge – a competition to design model bridge made entirely from the best sustainable item using aluminum. More than 200 ninth and aluminum. Teams from more than tenth graders from nine schools took 75 schools participated, submitting a part. Winners were chosen in three total of 670 entries in the categories categories, and each received a grant of transportation, buildings, packaging from Novelis. The winning team and technology (pictured below). in the weight category designed a The competition was developed by bridge that weighed only 3.5 pounds the Aluminium Packaging Recycling but could support 275 pounds of Working with Students in Germany Organisation and the Aluminium weight (pictured below). Federation; Novelis is a member of Novelis employees in Nachterstedt, both organizations. Germany, sponsored “Science Week” at a high school in nearby Aschersleben. Nachterstedt employees gave students a tour of the Novelis plant and explained how recycled aluminum can be used to create new products (pictured above). Students also visited museums and the University of Clausthal to learn more about manufacturing and metallurgy. Science Week capped off an entire year in which Novelis worked with Making a Difference in Oswego the high school to promote math In Oswego, New York, USA, Novelis and science education. Also in employees have worked with Germany, Novelis employees from the local Museum of Science and our Ohle plant taught classes in Technology to offer workshops robotics at the local college and about aluminum and recycling to worked with students to construct elementary-aged schoolchildren school equipment out of aluminum. (pictured right). Novelis Oswego has also forged a relationship with a local community college to develop and deliver coursework for a certification program for qualified Novelis employees who are interested in becoming electrical and mechanical technicians. And, at Oswego State University, a Novelis employee sits on the school’s Engineering Advisory Board, providing technical expertise and business savvy to help strengthen the real-world applicability of the school’s engineering curriculum. 54 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action… Novelis’ Sponsorship of Novelis is proud to be a FIRST FIRST® Helps to Inspire the sponsor at the international Engineers of the Future level, having invested $75,000 in FY13 alone to support robotics FIRST (For Inspiration and teams and competitions in every Recognition in Science and region in which we operate. Technology) encourages math and science education In addition, Novelis employees for kids from the elementary are taking part in FIRST’s grades through high school, mentoring program, which using the appeal of robots to pairs professionals with student At Novelis, we estimate we provide hands-on experience teams to support them in will need to recruit 1,000 new and competition. FIRST is building robots, raising funds engineers by 2020. So we see best known for its annual and competing in technical our sponsorship of FIRST as international robotics challenges and competitions. not only in alignment with competition for high school Three of the teams Novelis the math and science focus of students, which gives students sponsors – two from Marietta, our corporate giving, but an only six weeks to design and Georgia, and one from Gravataí, investment in developing the build a robot that can compete Brazil – made it to the FIRST engineers of the future – some on a playing field with other World Championship of which we hope will end up in teams’ robots. in St. Louis in April 2013. our own workforce. As a FIRST alum and now an engineer, I realize I learned things in FIRST that not every kid in school did. The program instills both creativity and a passion for engineering; it also makes finding solutions to problems that seemed impossible, possible.” Andy Preston, FIRST alum, now an R&D engineer at Novelis’ Global R&T Center in Kennesaw, Georgia Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 55 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Recycling Education About Recycling in Italy At our Bresso and Pieve plants in Italy, Novelis partnered with Koiné, a nonprofit environmental education organization, to organize a day-long event in each location to educate the community about the importance of aluminum recycling. Young visitors at the events created art using aluminum cans, caps and capsules. And, Novelis volunteers shared how Novelis’ sustainability efforts, largely focused on recycling, are Society of Tomorrow Program helping to create a more sustainable in Brazil 2012 Novelis Recycling Challenge world. About 50 Novelis employees The annual Novelis Recycling volunteered at the events, and For the past seven years, Novelis has Challenge pits our U.S. facilities approximately 900 people from been the sole sponsor of an initiative in a competition to see which can the local communities took part in Brazil, called Society for Tomorrow, collect the most aluminum cans (pictured below). which provides environmental for recycling. The value of the cans education to elementary school is then donated to local charities. children (pictured above). Novelis Our facilities often partner with has invested more than $500,000 local organizations to encourage in the program in that time and can donation and collection has succeeded in reaching more (pictured above). During the 2012 than 64,000 students. In 2012, the Challenge, nine sites participated program was updated and refreshed and approximately 500,000 cans to include more than just awareness were collected. The 10-person and recycling; it now promotes Novelis office in LaGrange, Georgia, sustainable practices and attitudes won the “most cans collected” among students and teachers as award; the proceeds from their win well as encouraging improvement in were donated to the local Habitat measurable sustainability indicators for Humanity affiliate. Our Warren, at each school – for example, energy Ohio, plant won for “best internal use, water use and waste. campaign,” and our Oswego, New York, plant won for “best external campaign.” The Oswego effort involved, among other things, educating racing fans at the Oswego Speedway about recycling and encouraging them to bring cans from home to recycle. 56 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action… Novelis Continues to Support 2004, required the flooding to help develop strategies to Efforts of the Candonga of a river valley and the foster economic development Consortium relocation of 137 families. and raise awareness about Those affected were consulted environmental issues. The In 2013, the Candonga regarding resettlement and, program focuses on projects Consortium (a joint in collaboration with the state that facilitate community small venture between Novelis government, the Consortium businesses, vocational training and Vale) continued its committed to a variety of and initiatives to facilitate efforts to implement social, actions to compensate and the inclusion of the affected environmental and economic provide future support to those individuals in the labor market. development programs affected. Nonetheless, the For example, the Consortium in Ouro Preto, Brazil. The resettlement agreement was trained individuals to work on Consortium was formed challenged by some members reforestation, slope stabilization in 2003 to construct a of the community and is the and lake cleanup. Currently hydroelectric power plant subject of an ongoing lawsuit. 77% of the economically to supply energy to Novelis’ active population that was primary aluminum smelter in During the year, the resettled participates in the Ouro Preto. The power plant, Consortium held workshops Consortium’s economic which became operational in with community members development programs. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 57 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Customers Our Key Aim Partnering for Sustainable Growth Provide value to our Novelis is working closely with our customers to customers, in particular by imagine, design and produce the next generation helping them meet their of innovative aluminum products. The inherent sustainability properties of aluminum – lightweight, recyclable and objectives versatile – mean it is increasingly the go-to solution for improving product sustainability in our core Our Key Challenges markets of beverage can, automotive and high-end Developing specialties. And with our industry-leading research new alloy compositions and technology capabilities and commitment to that make it easier sustainability, Novelis is the go-to partner to recycle for our customers. aluminum at the end of product life Working with our customers to evolve product design to increase recycled content and facilitate recycling 80% of our shipments in FY13 went to the can, automotive and high-end specialties markets The Blue Planet Aquarium in Copenhagen, Denmark, constructed using Novelis aluminum 58 Sustainability SustainabilityThrough ThroughDisruptive InnovationNovelis DisruptiveInnovation NovelisSustainability SustainabilityReport Report2013 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Collaborating to Meet Sustainability Goals Our customers include many Q&A of the most well-known and with Mark Marsh, respected brands in the world, Director, Global Can Technology and they are facing the same Working with set of sustainability drivers as Our Can Novelis: Consumer preferences, Customers government regulations and natural resource constraints all What are the key sustainability drivers in the beverage can market? point toward the need to A: While beverage companies are working to reduce the environmental increase the quantities of the beverages they sell, they are also under increased pressure to footprint of the products they improve their sustainability performance in areas make and position their such as energy and water use, GHG emissions and waste. Aluminum cans have lots of companies to succeed in a sustainability advantages over other materials: They are lightweight and easy to stack and low-carbon economy. transport, which cuts down on the energy required to ship them. That, of course, also reduces GHG emissions. Cans are also 100% recyclable – and the aluminum recycling Novelis’ 80% recycled inputs goal has challenges – infrastructure is well developed in many places and benefits – for our customers. As we increase the – so that minimizes waste. Not to mention the recycled content of the aluminum we supply to them, fact that because cans don’t let in light, they are that, in turn, improves the life cycle footprint of the better for maintaining product quality. products they provide to their customers. However, we cannot reach our recycling goal in isolation. Different What are some of the can innovations Novelis alloy compositions can make it more or less difficult to is working on? recycle aluminum, and product design impacts how easily the aluminum can be separated and recycled A: We are particularly excited about our recent at the end of product life. As a result, we are working launch of evercan™ sheet, which represents a closely with our customers to develop innovative real technical breakthrough that will enable our products that meet their needs, while at the same time customers to significantly reduce their advancing our sustainability objectives – and theirs. environmental footprints (see p. 61). We’ve also been collaborating with our customers to improve the sustainability profile of the coatings The bow-tieused inside beverage cans. In addition, we’re shaped can focusing on innovations to secure – and expand – the future success of aluminum beverage packaging. For example, we are working with various packaging manufacturers and brand owners to develop resealable aluminum bottles as a more sustainable alternative to plastic and glass, and we recently partnered with AnheuserBusch on an innovative new bow-tie-shaped can. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 59 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Evolving Design Specifications One of the key ways we are collaborating with our customers is to evolve product design specifications to improve the overall life cycle impacts of their products, including using more recycled-content aluminum and making products that are more easily recycled. By redesigning alloys for specific organic compounds (VOCs). And, it – and sometimes improving – uses, it will be easier for Novelis to provides a potential alternative to the safety performance. We have incorporate them back into products Bisphenol-A-based coatings that are also developed a groundbreaking in a closed loop, separate them or used currently. We have designed technology for creating tailored recycle them with other types of the coating lines in our Pinda welded blanks that enables individual aluminum scrap. In addition, we are facility in Brazil and Yeongju facility aluminum sheets of different grades, collaborating with our customers in South Korea to be capable of thicknesses and coatings to be joined to explore entirely new applications implementing the new technology. to produce customized stamping for aluminum to reduce weight, At our Global Research & Technology blanks that automakers can use increase recyclability and improve Center in Kennesaw, Georgia, for lightweight body parts and the performance of the products we installed a fully functioning structural components. As with our they make. beverage-can-making line, which Novelis Fusion™ multi-alloy sheet, enabled us to work directly with our which provides a single aluminum Our work with our can customers, for customers to develop these types sheet with multiple attributes, we example, to develop a beverage can of innovations and test them, real are constantly seeking solutions to with up to 100% recycled content time, in a simulated manufacturing reduce weight while also increasing illustrates how Novelis is using its environment (see the R&T Center performance for our auto customers. research and technology capabilities case study, p. 14). to fundamentally transform product In addition, we are partnering design to be more sustainable (see We are partnering with our with our automotive customers the evercan™ case study, on the automotive customers to bring about to increase the use of scrap in facing page). We are also working the next generation of aluminum auto specifications. We are with our beverage can customers applications for lightweighting – optimizing our alloys and processes to develop a laminate can-end accelerating the virtuous cycle of to increase recycled content in our coating to replace the liquid coatings reduced weight enabling smaller products, while our customers are typically used. The new laminate engine size and better fuel efficiency. working with us to facilitate the coating uses significantly less energy For example, Novelis has developed take-back of both process and to produce, resulting in reduced a number of new, higher-strength post-consumer scrap. life cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) alloys that are driving vehicle emissions. It also contains no volatile weight down while maintaining 60 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action: Reinventing the Aluminum Can with evercan™ The Challenge… Our Response… Aluminum cans have the potential to become part of the For the past several years, Novelis has been ultimate closed loop. They are already 100% recyclable, working to develop the technology to enable but the challenge is to also transform them to contain up creation of a can that could be made from up to 100% recycled content. to 100% recycled aluminum. In 2013, we took a critical step in that journey with the launch of Achieving this potential will require overcoming several evercan, the first independently certified, highchallenges, including: growing post-consumer collection, recycled content aluminum sheet for the beverage further increasing our reprocessing capacity around the can market. Novelis is initially offering aluminum world, developing technologies for scrap sorting and can body sheet guaranteed to contain at least 90% evolving design specifications of the can. recycled content. This sheet has been certified by SCS Global Services, a trusted leader in thirdparty environmental, sustainability and food quality certification, auditing, testing and standards development. Why It’s When combined with the can end made of a different alloy during the can-making process, Important Minimize the new Novelis evercan will enable beverage companies to market their beverages in standard Primary 12-ounce aluminum cans certified to contain at Ingot Casting Aluminum least 70% recycled content. But Novelis certainly Inputs is not content to stop there. We are continuing to work hard to develop a high-recycled content can that will enable a 100% recyclable can with up to Recycling 100% recycled content. Rolling From increasing end-of-life recycling rates and building closed-loop recycling capacity to Post-Production investing in sorting technology, Novelis is taking Scrap Take-Back many steps to evolve the engineering of both the alloy and the can. Collection Can Making Consumption Filling Retailing Minimize Waste to Landfill Figure 27 evercan™ will help close the loop evercan™ development Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 61 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Q&A with Todd Summe, Director, Global Automotive Technology Working with Our Auto Customers What is driving demand for aluminum in the How are Novelis’ research and technology automotive market? capabilities adding value for your customers? A: Auto is the single fastest-growing market for A: Novelis has really been a pioneer in our work with aluminum flat rolled products (FRP) – and the automotive industry. Working in close sustainability is the single biggest driver. Automakers partnership with our customers to ensure our are facing more demanding fuel economy and CO2 solutions meet their needs, we have developed a emissions standards around the world. In the U.S., complete automotive technology package, including for example, fuel efficiency standards now call alloys, surface treatment systems, and structural for gas mileage in excess of 54 miles per gallon bonding, lubrication, forming and joining (4.36 L/100 km) by 2025. Lightweighting with technologies that are enabling automakers to aluminum is one of the best overall enablers of increase their use of aluminum with existing significant efficiency increases. production techniques. And to serve the growing demand, we are adding two new automotive Which vehicles are using Novelis aluminum? finishing lines at our facility in Oswego, New York, and last year we broke ground on a new plant in A: What’s exciting is that automakers are significantly Changzhou, China – the industry’s first facility expanding the use of aluminum across more vehicle dedicated to producing aluminum sheet for the models, especially higher-volume vehicles, as well as automotive industry in China. expanding the type of components that are made with aluminum. For example, the new Mercedes Benz CLA features Novelis aluminum, including an What are some highlights of your team’s work innovative alloy we created specifically for the over the last year? automotive industry, which marks the first time A: Well, 2013 saw a milestone with the introduction aluminum has been used in the compact car of the new Range Rover – the world’s first allsegment in large-scale production. One of the aluminum, full-sized sport utility vehicle – for which largest expansions of the use of aluminum will be in Novelis is the exclusive aluminum supplier. Novelis the vehicle’s primary structure, Body-in-White, and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) have had a long-time saving weight and fuel while increasing passenger partnership and together have really led the way for safety. All told, Novelis aluminum is in more than 100 the use of aluminum for mass vehicle production. different models – that’s 5 million vehicles on the The new Range Rover model is 420 kg lighter than road that feature Novelis aluminum. the previous model thanks to its all-aluminum body structure. In addition, JLR is targeting to make a Range Rover from 75% recycled content aluminum, and we developed a closed-loop agreement through which Novelis will recover and recycle all of JLR’s aluminum scrap. 62 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report The Impacts of Vehicle Lightweighting with Aluminum 17 Every kg 1 kg 1 kg lightweighting reduction in CO2 emissions over the life (on average) cycle of the of aluminum vehicle7 in a car In 2006: 140 million metric tons of CO2e 110–145 kg 65 million of aluminum contained in passenger cars and light The potential amount of global the average vehicle trucks were emissions saved over the life cycle produced globally of the vehicles due to aluminum lightweighting In 2025: Imagine… 250 kg ~80 million predicted average amount of passenger cars and light The potential CO2 savings that can aluminum contained per vehicle trucks expected to be be achieved through aluminum in North America by 20258 produced globally lightweighting if the global car market follows the expected trajectory of the North American one 7 Source: European Aluminum Association’s “Aluminium in Cars, Unlocking the Light-weighting Potential” (2012). 8 Source: Aluminum in Transportation Group Ducker study (2011). All other data on this page is from the International Aluminum Institute’s “Improving Sustainability in the Transport Sector through Weight Reduction and the Application of Aluminium” report (2007). Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 63 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Q&A with Devesh Mathur, Director, Specialties Technology Working with Our Specialties Customers How is sustainability driving demand for How does Novelis help its specialties customers aluminum in the markets your group serves? achieve their sustainability objectives? A: Our technical group works closely with our A: In the electronics industry, for example, demand specialties customers to design aluminum for aluminum is increasing significantly, driven by components that can be substituted for parts that three major trends: consumer preferences for the were previously made of steel or other materials. aesthetics of aluminum, good heat transfer The resulting weight reductions help our customers properties and, finally, lightweighting. Among realize sustainability benefits in transportation and electronics manufacturers there is also a strong push packaging. And, for some types of parts, substituting for recycled content and recyclability – especially aluminum can also enable our customers to important in places where there are product takeimprove the energy efficiency of the end product. back laws – and aluminum clearly offers those We also work with our customers to design new benefits. In architecture and building, a combination alloys that enable further lightweighting of parts that of aesthetics and sustainability properties are also are already made of aluminum. Finally, Novelis’ driving demand. For example, use of aluminum commitment to increasing our use of recycled helps builders increase recycled content – a content provides benefits to our customers because requirement for achieving many “green building” it improves the sustainability profile of the end certifications and, in some countries, regulatory product. I think this commitment will be an standards – and can improve the energy increasingly important differentiator for us efficiency of buildings. among our specialties customers. Novelis’ Specialties group has a diverse portfolio that includes consumer electronics such as smartphones, tablets, laptops, e-readers and flat-screen TVs; architecture and building materials; transportation for vehicles other than cars; industrial equipment; heating and cooling systems and a variety of other applications. Dalian International Conference Center in Dalian, China, constructed using Novelis aluminum 64 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Closing the Loop with Customers Another way we are working with our customers is by developing closed-loop arrangements in which Novelis buys back our customers’ aluminum manufacturing scrap. This is not a new practice – we have had these types difficult. Novelis is examining how to effectively collect, of arrangements in place with many of our customers dismantle and separate auto scrap to bring more back for several years – but as we work to secure more into the system. And, we are doing trials with a number and different types of scrap aluminum to achieve our of car customers, such as Jaguar Land Rover and others, recycled inputs goal, we are more formally and broadly on products that maintain quality and performance but institutionalizing the process. In 2013, for example, can be more easily recycled. These advancements will LG Electronics introduced a new flat-screen television dramatically increase the recycled content of cars and model using Novelis aluminum. As part of our partnership further our and automakers’ sustainability goals. with LG, we formed a closed-loop recycling agreement in which the aluminum scrap generated in LG’s pressing processes will be sent back to Novelis’ Yeongju facility, where it will be recycled. We are also collaborating with our customers to increase and facilitate post-consumer recycling – one of the key sustainability challenges facing both Novelis and our customers. With automobiles, for example, it can be more than 15 years before they reach the end of their useful lives. In addition, the aluminum in vehicles is mixed with many other materials, making recovery at end of life The LG LA6200 television, constructed using Novelis aluminum Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 65 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Consumers Our Key Aims Closing the Loop Increase our supply of postConsumers play a key role in our efforts to “close consumer the loop” on the aluminum life cycle, since they help aluminum scrap to determine how much aluminum makes it back Help our into the recycling stream – or into the landfill. That’s customers why we work hard to educate consumers about the make sustainable importance of recycling and help make recycling products that consumers easy and convenient. Also, we know it’s essential that want we meet consumers’ expectations regarding product quality, safety and environmental sustainability. Our Key Challenge Influencing consumer behavior and expanding recycling infrastructure to increase postconsumer recycling rates 15 to 20 times per day The average number of times we estimate the average American touches Novelis aluminum 66 Sustainability SustainabilityThrough ThroughDisruptive InnovationNovelis DisruptiveInnovation NovelisSustainability SustainabilityReport Report2013 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Post-Consumer Recycling Around the World Recycling infrastructure and public policies that promote postconsumer recycling vary considerably across the globe. Because of these differences – as well as differences in consumer attitudes and habits – recycling rates are highly variable. In many areas, well-developed Figure 28 systems exist for collecting, sorting Used Beverage and processing used beverage Container containers (UBCs), end-of-life Recycling Rate 64% automobiles and other aluminum scrap. Elsewhere, systems are less by Region (2011) Source: Novelis 67% Europe 88% developed, more fragmented or North Asia estimates America more limited in the type of scrap they can process. Recycling services may be provided by government 93% agencies, by the private sector or by public–private partnerships, South America 85% Middle East depending on location. & North Africa Figure 28 shows the differences in UBC recycling rates in several regions around the world. Variations also exist within regions, of course. In Europe, for example, recycling rates Curbside in Scandinavian countries top 90%, (for cans) Figure 29 Local/municipal Scrap dealers/ drop-off points (for while other countries have much Recycling dismantlers (for cans, computers, lower rates and bring the European Opportunities construction scrap, electronics, average down to 64%. In South for Consumers aluminum siding, appliances, America, Brazil has a recycling rate of appliances, vehicles) construction scrap) 98%, which is higher than the South American average of 93%. Consumer goods E-waste take-back Away from home programs (for (for collecting cans computers and other at sporting events, electronics) concerts, etc.) Can drives/ fundraisers Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 67 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report The Case for PostConsumer Recycling Aluminum cans are However, increasing UBC recycling rates even further is essential to already the world’s our business. We currently buy about 40 billion cans a year, and most-recycled post-consumer recycled aluminum Novelis Korea recycling beverage containers, accounts for approximately 31% of our overall aluminum inputs. But we education program and Novelis is the expect our global consumption of UBCs to grow to more than 60 billion leading recycler of cans by 2015 as we work to meet our large-scale change. That’s why we seek to develop tailored strategies UBCs the world. 80% recycled inputs goal. – in partnership with customers, Given the variability in recycling municipalities and other stakeholders infrastructure, markets, culture and – that address important gaps in key regulations, there is no one-sizelocations. While the specific tactics fits-all approach to developing may vary, our overall objective and expanding the collection is to increase recycling rates and and recycling of post-consumer ultimately expand the supply of postaluminum, and it is challenging for a consumer aluminum scrap that we single company like Novelis to drive can use as an input for our products. Promoting Collection and Recycling Infrastructure Novelis is actively involved in appropriate to local needs. In Curbside Value Partnership promoting the expansion of addition, we are involved in (CVP): In the U.S. we are an active recycling infrastructure – and in several programs that seek to member and funder of the CVP, a some cases directly creating that boost recycling through improved nonprofit organization that seeks infrastructure ourselves. In 2013, for collection and infrastructure, to increase household participation example, we opened a recycling including the following: in curbside recycling programs by center in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, Every Can Counts: This consulting with communities and to handle the procurement, cleaning Novelis-sponsored initiative focuses carrying out education and data and baling of UBCs in that country. on increasing away-from-home analysis. The CVP has worked with In Brazil, we operate five scrap recycling by providing more than more than 30 cities, counties and collection centers to help us increase 6,000 recycling collection points at states since its creation in 2005, and our supply of material for recycling businesses, schools, concerts and these communities have seen an in that country. And in 2012, we sporting events. Since its founding average 23% increase in recycling established a new UBC buying in 2009, Every Can Counts has volume as a result. In 2012, our organization in North America. The worked with more than 1,000 headquarters city of Atlanta Sourcing section (see p. 21) describes organizations at nearly 2,500 sites – selected the CVP to help boost its these operations in detail. initially in the U.K. and now across recycling rates. Novelis’ David Gill Globally we support efficient Europe. In 2011, Every Can Counts served as chair of the CVP board post-consumer recycling policy helped to collect 51 million UBCs until mid 2013. and infrastructure development – cans that otherwise might have ended up in landfill. 68 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Educating In Action… Consumers MetalMatters’ Awareness Campaigns Help to Increase Recycling Rates We organize and support a broad – which awards monetary prizes to In the U.K., a recycling range of recycling-related consumer schools in each U.S. state that collect awareness program called education and awareness efforts in the most beverage cans – educates MetalMatters has reached nearly locations where we operate around students about the importance and 2 million households, helping to the world – particularly in places benefits of recycling cans. In 2012, boost metal recycling rates by that have relatively lower recycling more than 790 schools from all 50 educating consumers about the rates. For example, we have several states competed in the contest. importance of recycling. Funded established programs in the U.S. and and supported by Novelis and a U.K. (see examples below), and have In the U.K., our ThinkCans program has promoted awareness wide array of industry partners, recently launched new programs in recycling rates have risen by South Korea. We also partner with about aluminum can recycling at work, home, school and charities an average of 13% since 2010 customers and other stakeholders in more than 10 cities around in Central Europe on education and over the last eight years. The Cash for Cans aspect of the program the U.K. where MetalMatters awareness programs. operates. provides the recycling bins and We have partnered with a educational leaflets needed for MetalMatters’ awareness unique Atlanta-based environmental schools and charities to run campaigns use direct mail, organization called One More can drives, and then pays the outdoor and indoor advertising, Generation (OMG). Started by organizations for the cans collected. and other outreach methods two pre-teens, OMG developed to educate residents about a week-long curriculum for As the “Official Recycling Partner” of the Atlanta Falcons the benefits of recycling. And elementary-aged children about the campaigns are clearly the importance of recycling. OMG professional football team, Novelis sponsors messaging at Falcons’ making an impression. In a delivers the curriculum itself, and survey completed in Aberdeen, through funding from Novelis has games that educates fans about the importance of recycling. Novelis Scotland, following a recent also developed a guide that allows MetalMatters campaign, more teachers to deliver it. While the also partners with the Falcons to sponsor a Green Team Ambassadors than 50% of the 1,200 residents materials originally focused on surveyed said they remembered plastics recycling, Novelis worked contest with local schools. In April 2012, Fair Oaks Elementary School seeing or hearing advertising with OMG to incorporate information about recycling nearly four about the critical need to recycle in Marietta, Georgia, was awarded the Green Team Ambassador Grand months after the campaign. aluminum as well. So far, OMG has shared the new curriculum Prize (including a $2,500 grant) in MetalMatters continues to (with the aluminum segment) recognition of its recycling program. expand its reach, having with more than 10 schools and Atlanta Falcons’ football players, launched its first campaign in community organizations in metro cheerleaders and team mascots London in early 2013. Atlanta, sometimes to as many as visited the school to celebrate 750 students at once; many more their achievement. Three runnerschools are signed up for this fall. up schools received $500 grants. Since starting the organization, the More than 50 schools participated OMG founders have given their in the three-month Green Team recycling presentation to thousands Ambassadors contest, all agreeing to of students, parents and teachers promote the recycling of aluminum across the country. cans. Novelis and the Falcons provided the schools with a recycling Through our membership in the education packet, posters and an Can Manufacturers Institute, a trade educational video that included association, we help to sponsor the recycling tips from Falcons players. Great American Can Roundup School Challenge. This competition Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 69 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Meeting Demand for Green Products Consumers today are A 2012 Accenture survey of global business executives found that increasingly “thinking “consumer/customer expectation” was the biggest driver of green” when they sustainability initiatives for their go shopping, and companies. A majority of those surveyed said they expect that In fact, we are actively helping our customers create products companies are demand to grow, and more than a for their consumers that are more third said they already couldn’t keep responding with up with the demand for sustainable sustainable – for example, lighterweight vehicles that get better gas more-sustainable products and services.9 mileage. We will continue to listen products. At Novelis, we are well placed to meet the growing consumer to what consumers want and need and work to meet those needs with demand for green products. our aluminum products. Product Safety and Health At Novelis, we work We comply with the rigorous safety requirements of our automotive the absorbed aluminum. Patients with severe kidney problems, to ensure that our customers. And for some food and including those on dialysis treatment, beverage applications, we certify often face problems, including products meet high that we meet demanding regulatory the inability to excrete absorbed standards of safety consumer safety requirements. All scientific evaluations to date aluminum. The use of modern aluminum-free dialysate solutions and quality for our produced by internationally now prevents “dialysis dementia.” respected organizations have found Acute dialysis dementia described customers, and, aluminum to be safe for use in the in the early days of renal dialysis in turn, for the full range of its current applications. has no connection with Alzheimer’s disease. In 1997, a Task Group consumers of their Aluminum is present in various chemical forms in rocks, soil and under the auspices of the World Health Organization and the United end products. vegetation, and is found naturally Nations Environment Programme in most water supplies. As a result, concluded that no evidence exists to humans regularly ingest it. However, support the premise that aluminum the body has highly effective barriers causes, exacerbates or accelerates to exclude aluminum and similar Alzheimer’s disease. metals, and in healthy individuals, the kidneys quickly excrete most of 9 http://www.accenture.com/SiteCollectionDocuments/PDF/Accenture-Long-Term-Growth-Short-Term-Differentiation-and-Profits-fromSustainable-Products-and-Services.pdf 70 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Action: Finding Alternatives to Bisphenol-A (BPA) The Challenge… Our Response… BPA is a basic building block of As a result of consumer concerns and these types of emerging regulations, Novelis has been actively the resins used in epoxy coatings working to develop sustainable alternatives to the current BPA-based epoxy coatings. Because we are that serve as protective linings but one link in the long beverage packaging supply for metal packaging as well as chain, we are collaborating with coating suppliers, can makers and beverage companies to research many plastic products. Coatings and develop solutions, whether new coatings or other potential alternatives to BPA, for our containing BPA are currently customers. Our target is to be capable of beginning found in almost all aluminum the transition to BPA-free coatings by early 2014. and steel beverage cans. CH3 Regulatory agencies in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand have stated that scientific evidence has consistently shown HO C OH that these coatings are safe. In addition, in March 2012 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said CH3 that no compelling scientific evidence exists to justify new restrictions on BPA. The chemical composition of BPA Novelis recognizes, however, that some consumers have become concerned about potential health hazards associated with BPA. And, some governments have begun to regulate Why It’s the use of BPA in certain products (e.g., plastic baby bottles), and they are considering the Important regulation of BPA in other products. In early 2013, for example, the state of California held a consultation on whether to add BPA to a list We are always working to stay ahead of of what it considers to be potentially harmful our customers’ wants and needs. The chemicals. The French government has taken a desire for alternatives to BPA is something more aggressive approach: Beginning in January we’ve seen coming for some time, which is 2015, it will prohibit the manufacture, import, why we have been researching solutions. export and commercialization of all food and I’m happy to say, we’re nearly there.” beverage packaging using BPA. Stefan Erdmann, Vice President, Global Research & Development Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 71 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report About This Report This is Novelis’ third sustainability report, published in the summer of 2013. Our first sustainability report was issued in November 2011, our second in the summer of 2012. Scope and Boundaries Reporting This report was prepared in in Korea and Malaysia, we report Period accordance with the principles operational data at 100%. In Korea, of materiality (see p. 12), as we hold a 99% equity interest in the The primary financial and well as completeness, balance, Ulsan and Yeongju plants, up from environmental data and information comparability, accuracy, reliability, 68% in FY11. We hold a 59% equity contained in this report covers the timeliness and clarity. We applied interest in the Aluminum Company period from April 1, 2012, to March quality principles to its data of Malaysia Berhad, a publicly traded 31, 2013, which is Novelis’ 2013 collection and reporting process, company that operates from Bukit fiscal year (FY13). Additional and used Global Reporting Initiative Raja, Selangor, Malaysia. Unlike our relevant baseline data or context reporting principles (see p. 73) in production-sharing joint ventures from preceding years is included compiling the data. at Norf, Germany, and Logan, USA, where specified. we market 100% of the Korean and The report focuses on our most Malaysian plants’ output. material impacts and opportunities – those that are of most importance The full Global Reporting Initiative to our company and our stakeholders. These issues are either (GRI) content index lists details of organizational changes that Assurance currently affecting, or will affect, could affect the future year-onour business activities, and Novelis year comparability of data, where has some level of indirect or direct applicable. Data measurement We did not seek third-party influence over them (see p. 12). techniques and the bases of assurance of this report; however, we calculations, if relevant, are noted systematically gathered our data with This report covers all Novelis Inc. with the data graphics and tables. future assurance in mind. Some of divisions, subsidiaries and legal In some cases, the data may the data we disclose has undergone entities in the nine countries in have changed slightly since our various forms of internal and thirdwhich we are present.10 It includes last report due to the following: party verification. For example, our joint ventures. We have included improved processes for calculations, some financial data was derived 50% of the Alunorf joint venture estimations, conversion factors, from financial statements included in Germany where we have 50% reporting periods (calendar in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, of plant output, and 55% of the year to fiscal year), or improved and some environmental data was Logan facility in the United States, methodologies (e.g., tracking actual reported to regulatory authorities. where we own 40% of outstanding numbers instead of using estimates). In addition, the third-party common shares, but receive 55% For example, our baseline average environmental and sustainability of plant output due to equipment for our landfilled waste target certifier SCS Global Services, Inc., investments. The financial and changed from 60K to 62K due to an certified the recycled content environmental data results for these improved estimation of the amount for evercan™. operations are included in our of waste from dross processing that companywide data in this report at is ultimately landfilled. these percentages. For the operations 10 As of March 31, 2013 72 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report The Global Reporting Initiative Index We have aligned this report to Status Key: conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability F  ully Reported We have fully Reporting Guidelines and the GRI reported the information required Mining and Metals sector supplement by the GRI indicator. at a GRI-checked “A” Application  artially Reported We have P Level. We are not mining, but prior provided some of the information to August 2013 we did own mining required and, in some instances, rights in the Ouro Preto region of we are working towards fully Brazil that were not being utilized. reporting this information in the These sites have since been divested. future. We have included an abbreviated N  ot Disclosed This information GRI Content Index on the following is either not collected on a pages, to help readers easily locate global basis or is confidential for information on indicators spelled out competitive or other reasons. in the GRI guidelines. Supplemental data and other information on our Not Applicable This indicator  performance against the GRI’s criteria does not apply to our operations can be found in the complete GRI or our reporting. Content Index on our website at novelis.com/sustainability. Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 73 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 3.10 Reporting Period [Pg 72] 1.1 CEO Letter [Pgs 3–4] 3.11 Reporting Period [Pg 72] 1.2 Performance Summary [Pg 5] GRI Content Index Strategy [Pgs 8–20] 3.12 GRI Content Index Novelis FY13 10-K [Pgs 16–24] Assurance ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 3.13 Assurance [Pg 72] 2.1 About Novelis [Pg 6] GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 2.2 About Novelis [Pg 6] Corporate Website: Who We Are Governance 2.3 About Novelis [Pg 6] 4.1 Sustainability Management and Governance Scope and Boundaries [Pg 72] [Pg 20] Corporate Website: Executive Officers 2.4 Atlanta, GA, USA Corporate Website: Board of Directors About Novelis [Pg 6] Novelis FY13 10-K [Pgs 134–138] 2.5 About Novelis [Pg 6] 4.2 Sustainability Management and Governance 2.6 About Novelis [Pg 6] [Pg 20] Sustainability Management and Governance 4.3 Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] [Pg 20] 2.7 About Novelis [Pg 6] Corporate Website: Corporate Governance Customers [Pgs 58–65] Novelis FY13 10-K [Pgs 134–138] 2.8 Corporate Website: Investors 4.4 Full GRI Content Index Novelis FY13 10-K 4.5 Full GRI Content Index 2.9 Novelis FY13 10-K [Pgs 9–12] 4.6 Corporate Website: Code of Ethics for Senior Building the World’s Largest Recycling Network Financial Officers [Pg 25] 4.7 Full GRI Content Index Novelis’ Global Expansion [Pg 25] 4.8 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] 2.10 Awards and Recognitions [Pg 81] Sustainability Management and Governance REPORT PARAMETERS [Pg 20] Our New Employee Code of Conduct [Pg 49] 3.1 Reporting Period [Pg 72] Corporate Website: Code of Ethics for Senior 3.2 Scope and Boundaries [Pg 72] Financial Officers 3.3 Reporting Period [Pg 72] 4.9 Full GRI Content Index 3.4 Contact [Outside Back Cover] 4.10 Full GRI Content Index Report Scope and Boundary Commitments to External Initiatives 3.5 Transforming Our Business Model [Pg 10] 4.11 Full GRI Content Index Embedding Sustainability Across Our Business 4.12 Our Environmental Health & Safety [Pg 11] Management Systems [Pg 30] Implementing Our Sustainability Strategy Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] [Pgs 12–13] Our New Employee Code of Conduct [Pg 49] About This Report [Pg 72] Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and 3.6 Scope and Boundaries [Pg 72] Senior Managers 3.7 Scope and Boundaries [Pg 72] Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers Reporting Period [Pg 72] 4.13 Full GRI Content Index 3.8 Scope and Boundaries [Pg 72] Stakeholder Engagement Reporting Period [Pg 72] 4.14 Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 17–19] Novelis FY13 10-K [Pg 27] 4.15 Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 18–20] 3.9 Scope and Boundaries [Pg 72] Reporting Period [Pg 72] 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 18–20] NVL Environmental Metrics Reporting and 4.17 Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 18–20] Management Guidelines 74 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References Disclosure on Management Approach Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance: Economic LA Our Senior Vice President and Chief People EC Our economic performance is reviewed Officer is responsible for managing the aspects quarterly with the Board. We do not have formal noted except for occupational health and safety, policies related to indirect economic impacts. which is managed by Novelis’ Vice President However, through our Novelis Neighbor of Environment, Health and Safety. (See program and other activities, we strive to Environmental DMA, at left) make positive contributions to local, national Employment [Pg 7] and global communities in which we operate. Labor/Management Relations [Pgs 46–47] Our direct and indirect contributions to those Occupational Health and Safety [Pgs 30, 44–45] communities are significant and bring social Training and Education [Pgs 11, 47–49] and economic benefit to these communities. Full GRI Index LA8, 10, 11, HR3, SO1, 3 Economic Performance [Pgs 5–7, 20] Diversity and Equal Opportunity Market Presence [Pgs 6–10] Corporate Governance Website Indirect Economic Impacts [Pgs 6–7, 50–57] Novelis Code of Conduct [Pgs 20, 49] Full GRI Index SO1, EC8 and EC9 Full GRI Index LA13 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Performance: Environmental Corporate Governance Website EN Our standards and protocols for environmental Novelis Code of Conduct [Pgs 20, 49] protection and health and safety management are based on relevant government requirements Performance: Human Rights and Novelis policies, which may exceed HR We set targets to roll out both a new employee them. Our global performance standards are and a supplier code of conduct, as well as put implemented following site-specific evaluation processes in place for compliance. In FY13 of issues and hazards. we initially rolled out both of them. These Plants are responsible for training employees codes will further strengthen our practices, on the requirements backed up by EHS management and accountability in these areas. specialists. Training is tailored to the employee’s Investment and Procurement Practices job requirements and carried out in a variety [Pgs 15, 20–27, 29] of methods including online and hands-on Non-Discrimination, Freedom of Association training. All training is tracked to completion and Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, and results are analyzed annually. Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor Novelis has a Global Supply Chain framework, [Pgs 7, 27, 46, 49] including a head of logistics, whose goal is to UNGC Index minimize our costs and our footprint while Full GRI Index HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7 we deliver our products. We additionally use Security Practices lightweight materials like aluminum where We have a Global Security Team and Global possible to lighten our load. Along with our Security Policies, which include IT security procurement department, in FY13 we began to policies and oversight. roll out a Supplier Code of Conduct. Indigenous Rights [Pg 57] Full GRI Index responses to MM5 and HR9 Materials [Pgs 11–13, 20–27] Assessment [Pgs 27, 43–45] Energy, Water, Emissions/Effluents/Waste Remediation [Pg 43] [Pgs 5, 11–13, 30–31] Biodiversity [Pgs 16–18, 43] Products and Services [Pgs 8–11, 13, 58–65] Full GRI Index EN26, 27 Compliance Full GRI Index EN28 Overall [Pgs 12–13, 20, 28, 30–32] Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 75 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References Performance: Society Economic SO Community [Pgs 50–57, 68–69] Aspect: Economic Performance Index response to SO1 EC1 Novelis FY13 10-K [Pgs 10, 65, 90–92, 94, Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining 110–113] Full GRI Index MM8 About Novelis [Pg 6] Resettlement Charitable Contributions and Employee Full GRI Index MM9 Volunteering [Pg 51] Closure planning EC2 CEO Letter [Pgs 3–4] Full GRI Index MM10 Transforming Our Business Model [Pg 10] Grievance Mechanisms and Procedures Implementing Our Sustainability Strategy Our Senior Vice President of General Counsel [Pgs 12–13] and Compliance Officer oversees management Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 17–18] of any grievance-related issues. Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Full GRI Index HR11, MM7. Our Global Recycling Strategy [Pgs 22–26] Emergency Preparedness Novelis’ Global Expansion [Pg 29] Our Vice President of Environment, Health & Climate Change and Opportunities [Pgs 32–33] Safety and EHS Steering Committee, which our Our Carbon Footprint across the Life Cycle [Pg 34] CEO leads, oversee any emergency-related Greenhouse Gas Emissions & Energy Use issues related to our business. [Pgs 34–38] Corruption [Pgs 20, 49] Customers: Partnering for Sustainable Growth Full GRI Index SO2, SO3, SO4 [Pgs 58–65] Public Policy [Pg 19] EC3 Full GRI Index Anti-Competitive Behavior [Pg 49] Full GRI Index SO7 EC4 Full GRI Index Compliance [Pg 49] Aspect: Market Presence We do not have formal targets but always strive EC5 for 100% compliance with legal and Novelis requirements. EC6 Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] EC7 Full GRI Index Performance: Product Responsibility Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts PR Our Chief Sustainability Officer has overall responsibility for considering sustainability EC8 Engaging with Our Communities [Pgs 50–57] issues throughout the product life cycle. Promoting Collection and Recycling Infrastructure [Pg 68] Materials Stewardship [Pgs 10–11, 20–27, Educating Consumers [Pg 69] 66–69] Full GRI Index PR1 EC9 About Novelis [Pgs 6–7] Customer Health & Safety [Pgs 70–71] Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] Full GRI Index PR3 Charitable Contributions and Employee Product and Service Labeling Volunteering [Pg 51] Full GRI Index PR3–5 Marketing Communications Full GRI Index PR 6–7 Customer Privacy Full GRI Index PR8 Compliance [Pg 27] Full GRI Index PR9 76 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References environmental Aspect: Products and Services Aspect: Materials EN26 Performance Summary [Pg 5] EN1 Sourcing: Our Material Inputs [Pgs 21–27] Customers: Partnering for Sustainable Growth [Pgs 58–65] EN2 Sourcing: Our Material Inputs [Pgs 21–27] EN27 Full GRI Index Aspect: Energy Aspect: Compliance EN3 Energy Use [Pgs 35–38] EN28 Full GRI Index EN4 Energy Use [Pgs 35–38] Aspect: Transport EN5 Energy Use [Pgs 35–38] EN29 EN6 Customers: Partnering for Sustainable Growth Aspect: Overall [Pgs 58–65] EN7 Energy Use [Pgs 35–38] EN30 Aspect: Water Labor Practices and Decent Work EN8 Water Use [Pgs 38–39] Aspect: Employment EN9 LA1 About Novelis [Pg 7] EN10 Water Use [Pgs 38–39] LA2 Full GRI Index Aspect: Biodiversity LA3 Full GRI Index EN11 Biodiversity [Pg 43] L15 Full GRI Index EN12 Biodiversity [Pg 43] Aspect: Labor/Management Relations MM1 Biodiversity [Pg 43] LA4 Employee Engagement [Pg 46] EN13 Full GRI Index LA5 Full GRI Index EN14 MM4 Full GRI Index MM2 Biodiversity [Pg 43] Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety EN15 LA6 Environment, Health and Management Systems and Our New Network of Environmental Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and Waste Committees [Pgs 30–31] EN16 Our Carbon Footprint Across the Life Cycle [Pg 34] LA7 Our Health and Safety Performance [Pgs 44–45] Greenhouse Gas Emissions [Pgs 35–36] EN17 Our Carbon Footprint Across the Life Cycle [Pg 34] LA8 Engaging with Our Communities [Pgs 50–57] Greenhouse Gas Emissions [Pgs 34–35] LA9 Employee Engagement [Pg 46] EN18 Our Carbon Footprint Across the Life Cycle [Pg 34] Aspect: Training and Education Greenhouse Gas Emissions [Pgs 34–35] LA10 Talent Management [Pgs 47–48] EN19 Full GRI Index LA11 Talent Management [Pgs 47–48] EN20 Non-GHG Air Emissions [Pg 42] LA12 About Novelis [Pg 6] EN21 Water Use [Pgs 38–39] Employee Evaluations [Pg 47] EN22 Waste [Pgs 40–41] Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity MM3 Full GRI Index LA13 Corporate Website: Executive Officers EN23 Full GRI Index Corporate Website: Board of Directors Novelis FY13 10-K [Pgs 134–138] EN24 Sustainability Management and Governance EN25 [Pg 20] LA14 Full GRI Index Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 77 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References Human Rights Society Aspect: Investment and Procurement Activities Aspect: Community HR1 Novelis’ Global Expansion [Pg 29] SO1 Engaging with Our Communities [Pgs 50–57] Employee Code of Conduct & Human Rights Educating Consumers [Pg 69] [Pg 49] MM6 Candonga Consortium [Pg 57] HR2 Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] MM7 Candonga Consortium [Pg 57] HR3 Employee Code of Conduct & Human Rights Aspect: Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining [Pg 49] MM8 Full GRI Index Aspect: Non-Discrimination Aspect: Resettlement HR4 Full GRI Index MM9 Candonga Consortium [Pg 57] Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Aspect: Closure Planning HR5 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] MM10 Full GRI Index Employee Engagement [Pg 46] SO9 GHG Emissions: An Absolute Target for an Aspect: Child Labor Absolute Challenge [Pg 33] GHG Emissions [Pg 34] HR6 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Energy Use [Pgs 35–38] Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] Water Use [Pgs 38–39] Employee Engagement [Pg 46] Waste [Pgs 40–41] Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Non-GHG Air Emissions [Pg 42] HR7 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Biodiversity [Pg 43] Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] Candonga Consortium [Pg 57] Employee Engagement [Pg 46] Product Safety & Health [Pgs 70–71] Aspect: Security Practices SO10 Transforming Our Business Model [Pg 10] Embedding Sustainability Across our Business HR8 [Pg 11] Aspect: Indigenous Rights Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 17–19] MM5 Full GRI Index Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] HR9 Full GRI Index GHG Emissions: An Absolute Target for an HR10 About Novelis [Pgs 6–7] Absolute Challenge [Pg 33] Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] GHG Emissions [Pg 34] HR11 Full GRI Index Energy Use [Pgs 35–38] Water Use [Pgs 38–39] Waste [Pgs 40–41] Non-GHG Air Emissions [Pg 42] Biodiversity [Pg 43] Candonga Consortium [Pg 57] Product Safety & Health [Pgs 70–71] 78 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References Aspect: Corruption Product Responsibility SO2 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Aspect: Materials Stewardship Employee Code of Conduct & Human Rights MM11 Transforming Our Business Model [Pg 10] [Pg 49] Embedding Sustainability Across Our Business SO3 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] [Pg 11] Employee Code of Conduct & Human Rights Implementing Our Sustainability Strategy [Pg 49] [Pgs 12–13] The Link Between Sustainability and Research & SO4 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Technology [Pg 14] Employee Code of Conduct & Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 17–19] [Pg 49] Our Global Recycling Strategy [Pg 21–27] Aspect: Public Policy Engaging with Our Communities [Pgs 50–57] SO5 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Customers: Partnering for Sustainable Growth [Pgs 58–65] SO6 Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Promoting Collection & Recycling Infrastructure Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior [Pg 68] SO7 Full GRI Index Educating Consumers [Pg 69] Aspect: Compliance Aspect: Customer Health and Safety SO8 Full GRI Index PR1 Product Safety and Health [Pg 59] PR2 Full GRI Index Aspect: Product and Service Labeling PR3 Full GRI Index PR4 Full GRI Index PR5 Customers: Partnering for Sustainable Growth [Pgs 58–65] Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Full GRI Index PR7 Full GRI Index Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Full GRI Index Aspect: Compliance PR9 Full GRI Index Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 79 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report UNGC Communication on Progress Index As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to upholding the Compact’s principles on human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption in our everyday business operations as well as reporting our progress. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle References: GRI Index / Other References: Report Section HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support Novelis endorses the UNGC, International CEO Letter [Pg 4] and respect the protection Labor Organization’s Conventions on Human Implementing Our Sustainability Strategy [Pgs 12–13] of internationally proclaimed Rights and the Universal Declaration of Sustainability Management and Governance (Pg 20) human rights; and Human Rights. Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] Full GRI Index: 4.4, 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, HR DMA, Our Environment, Health and Safety Management Performance Indicators HR 1–9 Systems [Pg 30] Corporate Website: Code of Conduct for Health and Safety Performance [Pgs 44–45] Board of Directors and Senior Managers, Employee Engagement [Pg 46] Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights [Pg 49] and Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct Candonga Consortium [Pg 57] 2. M ake sure that they are not Full GRI Index: 4.4, 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, HR DMA, CEO Letter [Pg 4] complicit in human rights Performance Indicators HR1–9 Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] abuses. Corporate Website: Code of Conduct for Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] Board of Directors and Senior Managers, Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights [Pg 49] Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold the Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] freedom of association and the Performance Indicators LA3, LA14, HR DMA, Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] effective recognition of the right Performance Indicators HR9–11 Employee Engagement [Pg 46] to collective bargaining, and Corporate Website: Novelis Supplier Code Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights [Pg 49] of Conduct 4. The elimination of all forms of Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] forced and compulsory labor, Performance Indicators LA3, LA14, HR DMA, Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] Performance Indicators HR1, 7 Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights [Pg 49] Corporate Website: Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct 5. The effective abolition of child Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] labor, Performance Indicators LA3, LA14, HR DMA, Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] Performance Indicator HR6 Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights [Pg 49] Corporate Website: Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct 6. The elimination of discrimination Novelis does not discriminate on the basis of Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] in respect of employment and race, religion, national origin, color, sex, age, Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] occupation. veteran status, or disability. Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights [Pg 49] Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, Performance Indicators LA3, LA14, HR DMA, Performance Indicator HR4 Corporate Website: Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct 80 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Principle References: GRI Index / Other References: Report Section ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a GRI Index: 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, EN DMA, CEO Letter [Pgs 3–4] precautionary approach to Performance Indicator EN27 Strategy [Pgs 8–13] environmental challenges, and Sourcing [Pgs 21–27] Our Environmental Performance [Pgs 32–43] 8. Undertake initiatives to GRI Index: 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, EN DMA, CEO Letter [Pgs 3–4] promote greater environmental Performance Indicator EN2, 5–7, 10, 13, 18, Performance Summary [Pg 5] responsibility, 26, 27, Performance Indicator MM2, 11 About Novelis [Pgs 6–7] Corporate Website: Novelis Environment, Strategy [Pgs 8–14] Health, Safety and Quality Policy Our Sustainability Progress and Performance [Pg 15] Stakeholder Engagement [Pgs 16–19] Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] Sourcing [Pgs 21–27] Our Environment, Health and Safety Management Systems [Pgs 30–31] Our Environmental Performance [Pgs 32–43] Novelis Neighbor [Pg 50] Charitable Contributions and Employee Volunteering [Pg 56] Customers [Pgs 58–65] Consumers [Pgs 66–71] 9. Encourage the development GRI Index: 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, EN DMA CEO Letter [Pgs 3–4] and diffusion of environmentally Performance Indicator MM11 Strategy [Pgs 8–14] friendly technologies. Industry Engagement [Pg 18] Public Policy Engagement [Pg 19] Sourcing [Pgs 21–27] Our Environmental Performance [Pgs 32–43] Customers [Pgs 58–65] Consumers [Pg 71] Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against Novelis does not tolerate corruption, Sustainability Management and Governance [Pg 20] corruption in all its forms, extortion or bribery. Responsible Sourcing [Pg 27] including extortion and bribery. GRI Index: 4.1, 4.6, 4.8, 4.11–12, SO DMA, Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights [Pg 49] Performance Indicators SO2–4 Corporate Website: Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and Senior Management and Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 81 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Awards and Recognitions Platts Global Metals Awards Aditya Birla Sustainability Award In May 2013, Novelis was named In December 2012, Novelis was Metals Company of the Year in honored by our parent company, the inaugural Platts Global Metals Aditya Birla Group (ABG), for Awards. Our CEO, Phil Martens, took Excellence in Sustainability, at ABG’s home the CEO of the Year honor. annual Awards for Outstanding We were named finalists in four Achievement given to its subsidiaries. additional categories: Aluminum A new category created this year, Leadership; End-User Efficiency the sustainability award recognized Initiative (for innovative use of Novelis for our sustainability strategy our aluminum by Jaguar Land and the progress that has been made Rover); Innovative Technology (for since its implementation. our Flextreme technology); and Lifetime Achievement (for Novelis European Aluminium Awards employee Bob Wagstaff, Director In October 2012, Novelis received of Global Technology, Molten the prestigious Jury Prize and two Metal Processing). Special Prizes at the 2012 European Aluminium Awards, which were presented during the Aluminium 2012 Trade Fair in Dusseldorf, Germany. Organized by the Dutch Aluminium Centre, the European Aluminium Association and the German Aluminium Association, the awards recognize products or projects in which aluminum has been applied in an innovative manner. Novelis won the Jury Prize for the aluminum façade panels of the Titanic Belfast museum in Northern Ireland. We received one Special Prize for an anti-graffiti aluminum surface treatment, and another for our three-piece tailored welded blank for the Mercedes SL. Additional Awards Along with the awards noted above, we received the following recent recognitions: Novelis CEO Phil Martens was The American Metal Market In China, Novelis received a named one of the top 25 CEOs in the recognized Novelis with an award Best Dedication Award from the world by the Best Practice Institute. for Environmental Responsibility Changzhou National Hi-Tech District and Stewardship. for the impressive ceremony Novelis hosted when breaking ground on our automotive sheet manufacturing facility in the District. 82 Sustainability Through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013 Novelis is the global leader in aluminum rolled products and aluminum recycling. Novelis supplies premium Design and production: Flag Content: BuzzWord aluminum sheet products to the automotive, transportation, packaging, construction, industrial and electronics markets. Novelis is a subsidiary of Hindalco Industries Limited (BSE: HINDALCO), one of Asia’s largest integrated producers of aluminum and a leading copper producer. Hindalco is a flagship company of the Aditya Birla Group, a multinational conglomerate based in Mumbai, India. For more information, visit www.novelis.com and follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/Novelis. We very much welcome your feedback or partnership on sustainability. If you have any questions or comments about this sustainability report or about sustainability at Novelis, please contact: Tel: +1 404 760-4483 john.gardner@novelis.com Novelis Inc. Two Alliance Center 3560 Lenox Road, Suite 2000 Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Tel: +1 404 760-4000 novelis.com © Novelis 2013 novelis.com/sustainability MANUFACTURED WITH 100% Recycled Fiber 100% WIND ENERGY 4 Sustainability through Disruptive Innovation Novelis Sustainability Report 2013
