BELGICAST is a company of UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 1 Introduc on We live in a global world. All instances of injus ce, rights viola ons, curtailments of freedom, environmental disasters, corrup on, and so forth, transcend the society in which they occur and have an inter-related eﬀect on diﬀerent cultures in all parts the world, both in our day-to-day existence as well as in the world we will bequeath to future genera ons. In the same way that irresponsible business ac vity has consequences and impact on the world we live in, the network woven by the United Na ons via World Pact will have a posive eﬀect on a worldwide level. The magnitude of this eﬀect will be propor onal to the sum of the eﬀorts made to develop and ensure responsible and sustainable policies. It is our duty to embrace the importance of this challenge. BELGICAST, and the group to which it belongs, TALIS, are businesses that operate in the water sector. There can be no doubt that opportuni es will arise to collaborate in the development of the World Pact by doing what we do best. But in order for this to happen, we must begin to implement the principles of the pact in all areas of the company. Over this past year we have ini ated a process which will undoubtedly favour the development of Belgicast on both a professional as well as a social level. This ini al COP is an opportunity for us at Belgicast to evaluate ourselves, our current situaon, the appropriateness of the fundamentals we are implemen ng, the ﬁrst ac ons implemented and the corresponding control ra os. I would like to take this opportunity to inform our customers, our suppliers, our social environment, our colleagues, and anyone who expresses an interest in this admirable project that the management of BELGICAST Internacional has renewed its commitment to the United Na ons Global Compact and its ten principles. The Management 2 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu Communica on on Progress July 2013 Contents 1) BELGICAST: social responsibility, sustainability and an -corrup on aspects of the company. 2) Implementa on process for the Corporate Social Responsibility plan (CSR). 3) The Ten Principles: ac ons, best prac ses and indicators. www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 3 1).BELGICAST: social responsibility, sustainability and an -corrup on aspects of the company BELGICAST is a company that manufactures valves, and has been doing so since 1957. We oﬀer technical solu ons for the complete water distribu on cycle and, since October of 2010, have been part of a European group, TALIS, which manufactures a complete range of products designed for water ﬂow regula on. Ra onal water management and responsible control of the water cycle are fundamental elements in the well-being of both current and future genera ons. The 162 professionals employed by BELGICAST have an average age of 39 and an average of 12 years’ experience in the sector and all are aware of the importance of maintaining a high level of quality throughout the produc on processes. For this reason, BELGICAST procedures comply with ISO 14001 for environmental standards, OHSAS 18001 for safety and ISO 9001 for quality. Our products have been approved by the most pres gious quality organisa ons in France (NF), Holland (KIWA), Germany (DVGW), UK (WRAS), Austria (ÖVGW), Russia (GOST), USA (FM) and United Arab Emirates, all of which have recognised the propriety of BELGICAST products for drinking water systems. Transparency is a concept that has been integrated into our way of working since the very beginning. In BELGICAST, best prac ses have been inherited from prior phases in our business and we have focused on maintaining working prac ses that comply with the Sarbanes -Oxley law regarding ﬁnancial transparency. Our income statements are published and audited by Price Waterhouse Coopers, who have concluded that our statements are a true reﬂec on of the company’s situa on. These are the founda ons on which our commitment to the United Na ons Compact. 4 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu 2).Implementa on process for the Corporate Social Responsibility plan (CSR). Approximately one year ago, in July of 2012, BELGICAST conﬁrmed its commitment to the United Na ons Global Compact and we have been developing our CSR Plan since that date. We have performed our generic risk assessment from two diﬀerent perspec ves. On the one hand, from the perspec ve of the possible impact on society as a consequence of unsuitable prac ses and, on the other, from the perspec ve of results for the company (loss of both pres ge and opportuni es). Given the founda ons and the prac ses which have already been assimilated by the company, the probability of risk materialising itself is low, but given the seriousness of the possible consequences, the magnitude of the risk may be considered as medium. That said, it is essen al to remain alert and to both maintain and make progress in the performance of our social responsibility tasks. We have assigned func ons and tasks for the development of the Plan and both our Marke ng Manager and HR Manager will assist company management in the integra on of the ten principles into all areas of BELGICAST. The company has ini ated integra on into the individual objec ves of all tasks rela ng to CSR, beginning with the safety (reduc on of work-related accidents) and environmental (reduc on of hazardous and toxic waste genera on) objec ves. We have speciﬁed GRI monitoring indicators for the four categories of Plan Principles and in addi on new indicators will be developed as we progress with the implementa on process. For a general evalua on, we should point out that BELGICAST is audited annually as a company with registra on number 300200 in RePro. These are the results obtained in CSR, work safety and the environment. Repro Audit Results of the audit on 04/10/2012 Auditors: Achilles South Europe, S.L.U. Company Sec on BELGICAST Score Average score RePro Suppliers CSR 61,70% 55,40% Occupacional Risk Preven on 69,80% 63,10% Environment 69,20% 60,00% BELGICAST will distribute this progress report among all its interest groups, including suppliers and customers, be they distributors or end users, as well as BELGICAST employees, their union representa ves and members of their social environment. www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 5 3).The Ten Principles: ac ons, best prac ses and indicators. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec on of interna onally proclaimed human rights. BELGICAST values are based on a Guide to Ethical Conduct in which respect for equality and diversity feature in Ar cle 1. Respect for equality and diversity is fundamental, not only so that we may treat each other with respect as human beings, but also in order to be able to compete in a global market. In BELGICAST, we feel that the ﬁrst step towards sa sfactory employment is a safe working environment. Employee representa ves, those responsible for produc on and maintenance, the management and the EHS and HR managers all meet regularly to monitor our preven on systems and to propose correc ve and improvement ac ons with a view to providing a safer workplace. We are currently living in a crisis situa on in which unemployment is present in prac cally all homes and in many cases aﬀects en re families. BELGICAST collaborates with the Asociación de Parados (Associa on for the Unemployed) of Mungia and our human resources department maintains a direct line of contact with the president of the associa on with a view to covering possible vacancies. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The purchasing department of BELGICAST, and throughout the TALIS Group as a whole, maintains its commitment to ensuring that its suppliers respect human rights. It is implicit in the opera ng criteria for those responsible for supply contracts that a supplier who does not respect human rights cannot be considered a valid intermediary and cannot be counted on to ensure supplies in the medium and long terms. For this reason our supply contracts contain a clause regarding respect for the principles of the Interna onal Labour Organisa on (aspects which are included in the following sec ons tled “Labour Standards” and “Environment”) In addi on, BELGICAST, as one would expect, complies with the regula ons concerning the sale of what are termed dual-use items (ECCN 2B350g) in accordance with European Council Regula on 428/2009. Furthermore, as part of the an -corrup on policy coordinated by the TALIS Group, all customers are informed that all business contracts are open to scru ny by our legal department. 6 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu Relevant GRI Indicators.– Human Rights BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to observe Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements and the ILO principles and respect for the environment. Of the top 40 suppliers HR1 contracts that include clauses incorpora ng human rights concerns, or of raw material (90% of the purchase volume) 82.5% includes human rights that have undergone human rights screening. clauses. Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the cer ﬁca on of an HR2 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and ac ons -corrup on included in the business rela onship contract. taken. BELGICAST par cipates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning principle and values. During this year is running a campaign speciﬁc training HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to opera ons, including the on the preven on of corrup on, monopoly and conﬂict of interest. The percentage of employees trained. campaign is aimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and administra on. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimina on and correc ve ac ons taken. There have been no incidents of discrimina on. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed in which the right to HR5 exercise freedom of associa on and collec ve bargaining may be voilaBELGICAST recognizes freedom of associa on in its ethical guidelines. ted or at signiﬁcant risk, and ac ons taken to support these rights. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk HR6 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Not applicable eﬀec ve aboli on of child labor. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk HR7 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute Not applicable to the elimina on of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organiza on’s policies or HR8 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Not applicable opera ons. Total number of incidents of viola ons involving rights of indigenous HR9 Not applicable people and ac ons taken. Range of ra os of standard entry level wage by gender compared to The minimum salary paid in BELGICAST is 186.05% of the minimum salary in EC5 Principle 1: local minimum wage at signiﬁcant loca ons of opera on. Spain. Businesses should LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collec ve bargaining agreements. 100% support and respect the protec on Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– The safety table is formed by the management of the company, the EHS of interna onally LA6 worker health and safety commiNees that help monitor and advise on manager, the industrial manager, warehouse managers, HR manager and proclaimed human occupa onal health and safety programs. the representa on of employees. rights. Rates of injury, occupa onal diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and LA7 Absenteeism. 2.93%. No fatali es. number of workrelated fatali es by region and by gender. Educa on, training, counseling, preven on, and risk-control programs in LA8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community memHave not been performed. bers regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade LA9 Every health and safety topic is treated with trade union. 100% unions. Composi on of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Percentage by gender: Men: 78% / Women: 23% LA13 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Percentage by gender in management: Men: 75% / Female: 25% membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ra o of basic salary and remunera on of women to men by employee In BELGICAST there is no wage gap between employees of the same gender LA14 category, by signiﬁcant loca ons of opera on. category. BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. Public policy posi ons and par cipa on in public policy development BELGICAST is Euskalit coopera on partner, the Basque Founda on for SO5 and lobbying. Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to compe veness and sustainable development. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and All our product components are according to the water regula ons in each PR1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant country. products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regula ons and volunPR2 tary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services No incidents during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Total number of substan ated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 No complaints. Data protec on audited. privacy and losses of customer data. www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 7 Relevant GRI Indicators.– Human Rights BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to observe Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreethe ILO principles and respect for the environment. Of the top 40 suppliers HR1 ments and contracts that include clauses incorpora ng human of raw material (90% of the purchase volume) 82.5% includes human rights rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. clauses. BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the cer ﬁca on of an HR2 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and ac ons -corrup on included in the business rela onship contract. taken. BELGICAST par cipates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures principle and values. During this year is running a campaign speciﬁc training HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operaon the preven on of corrup on, monopoly and conﬂict of interest. The ons, including the percentage of employees trained. campaign is aimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and admiTotal number of incidents of discrimina on and correc ve ac ons HR4 There have been no incidents of discrimina on. taken. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of associa on and collec ve bargaining may be Principle 2: HR5 BELGICAST recognizes freedom of associa on in its ethical guidelines. voilated or at signiﬁcant risk, and ac ons taken to support these Businesses should rights. make sure that they are not complicit in Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed as having signiﬁcant human rights abuses. HR6 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Not applicable to the eﬀec ve aboli on of child labor. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR7 Not applicable contribute to the elimina on of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organiza on’s HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Not applicable relevant to opera ons. Total number of incidents of viola ons involving rights of indiHR9 Not applicable genous people and ac ons taken. BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. Public policy posi ons and par cipa on in public policy developBELGICAST is Euskalit coopera on partner, the Basque Founda on for SO5 ment and lobbying. Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to compe veness and sustainable development. 8 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu Labour Standards: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve recogni on of the right to collec ve bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimina on of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the eﬀec ve aboli on of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimina on of discrimina on in respect of employment and occupa on. The sec on on Labour Standards will be dealt with on a group level as both the internal and external focuses are being implemented across the board. At this juncture, we can conﬁrm that good rela ons with employee representa ves is a prac se that for many years has been the natural means of advancing in mutual understanding in order to both develop the social aspects of the company and to aNain our objec ves. BELGICAST arranges the collec ve bargaining agreements and the schedules and metables with the employee representa ves, provides them with monthly informa on regarding the company performance and together they oversee the performance of preventa ve tasks. BELGICAST receives the support and commitment of the employee representa ves in the development of a system for Corporate Social Responsibility. As we men oned in the previous sec on, our suppliers operate in accordance with the principles of the Interna onal Labour Organisa on and the following aspects are included in clause 12 of our contracts: • The right to free associa on and collec ve bargaining • The elimina on of any kind of forced labour. • The aboli on of child labour. • The elimina on of discrimina on in the workplace. The interpreta on of Principle 4, rela ng to forced labour o coercion, must, in the case of BELGICAST, translate to our commitment to reducing both the risk of accident as well as psychosocial risks. BELGICAST operates in accordance with cer ﬁca on OHSAS 18001. Regarding the risk of loss of opportunity due to discriminatory prac ses, in BELGICAST, we evaluate individual objec ves using measurable parameters in which diﬀeren a on and discriminatory prac ses, for whatever reason, have no place. To put it simply, personal objec ves are either met or they are not. In BELGICAST, we apply equal opportunity regulaons with open criteria, priori sing labour concilia on in maNers of adapted work schedules or reduced working hours without these having an eﬀect on internal promo on or professional development. www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 9 Relevant GRI Indicators.– Labour Standards Percentage of employees covered by collec ve bargaining LA4 100% agreements. Minimum no ce period(s) regarding opera onal changes, incluLA5 BELGICAST applies, at least, the advance no ce required by law. ding whether it is speciﬁed in collec ve agreements. Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreeBELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to observe the HR1 ments and contracts that include clauses incorpora ng human ILO principles and respect for the environment. Of the top 40 suppliers of raw rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. material (90% of the purchase volume) 82.5% includes human rights clauses. Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other busiEvery new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the cer ﬁca on of an Principle 3: HR2 ness partners that have undergone human rights screening, and corrup on included in the business rela onship contract. ac ons taken. Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and the BELGICAST par cipates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, princieﬀec ve recogni on of Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures ple and values. During this year is running a campaign speciﬁc training on the the right to collec ve HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operapreven on of corrup on, monopoly and conﬂict of interest. The campaign is bargaining; ons, including the percentage of employees trained. aimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and administra on. Total number of incidents of discrimina on and correc ve acHR4 There have been no incidents of discrimina on. ons taken. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of associa on and collec ve bargaining may HR5 BELGICAST recognizes freedom of associa on in its ethical guidelines. be voilated or at signiﬁcant risk, and ac ons taken to support these rights. BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. Public policy posi ons and par cipa on in public policy developBELGICAST is Euskalit coopera on partner, the Basque Founda on for SO5 ment and lobbying. Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to compe veness and sustainable development. Relevant GRI Indicators.– Labour Standards Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to observe agreements and contracts that include clauses incorpora ng the ILO principles and respect for the environment. Of the top 40 suppliers HR1 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human of raw material (90% of the purchase volume) 82.5% includes human rights rights screening. clauses. Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the cer ﬁca on of an HR2 business partners that have undergone human rights screecorrup on included in the business rela onship contract. ning, and ac ons taken. Principle 4: BELGICAST par cipates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, princiBusinesses should Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures ple and values. During this year is running a campaign speciﬁc training on the uphold the elimina on HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to preven on of corrup on, monopoly and conﬂict of interest. The campaign is of all forms of forced opera ons, including the percentage of employees trained. aimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and administra on. and compulsory labour; Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed as having HR7 signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Not applicable and measures to contribute to the elimina on of all forms of BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. Public policy posi ons and par cipa on in public policy BELGICAST is Euskalit coopera on partner, the Basque Founda on for SO5 development and lobbying. Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to compe veness and sustainable development. 10 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu Relevant GRI Indicators.– Labour Standards Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to observe the agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporaILO principles and respect for the environment. Of the top 40 suppliers of HR1 ng human rights concerns, or that have undergone human raw material (90% of the purchase volume) 82.5% includes human rights rights screening. clauses. Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the cer ﬁca on of an HR2 business partners that have undergone human rights screecorrup on included in the business rela onship contract. ning, and ac ons taken. Principle 5: BELGICAST par cipates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, princiTotal hours of employee training on policies and procedures Businesses should ple and values. During this year is running a campaign speciﬁc training on the HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to uphold the eﬀec ve preven on of corrup on, monopoly and conﬂict of interest. The campaign is opera ons, including the percentage of employees trained. aboli on of child laaimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and administra on. bour. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed as having signiﬁcant HR6 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Not applicable to the eﬀec ve aboli on of child labor. BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. Public policy posi ons and par cipa on in public policy developBELGICAST is Euskalit coopera on partner, the Basque Founda on for ExceSO5 ment and lobbying. llence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to compeveness and sustainable development. Relevant GRI Indicators.– Labour Standards Total number employees 162. Rate of new employees: 1,69 ; Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 Rate per gender: Men:2,86 / Women:5 ; turnover by age group, gender, and region. Rate per region: Mungia: 3 / Madrid: 0 / Toledo: 7,69 / Gojain: 3,00 ; Composi on of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Percentage by gender: Men: 78% / Women: 23% LA13 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Percentage by gender in management: Men: 75% / Female: 25% group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ra o of basic salary and remunera on of women to men by In BELGICAST there is no wage gap between employees of the same gender LA14 employee category, by signiﬁcant loca ons of opera on. category. BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to observe the Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreeILO principles and respect for the environment. Of the top 40 suppliers of HR1 ments and contracts that include clauses incorpora ng human raw material (90% of the purchase volume) 82.5% includes human rights rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. clauses. Principle 6: Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other busiEvery new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the cer ﬁca on of an HR2 ness partners that have undergone human rights screening, and Businesses should corrup on included in the business rela onship contract. ac ons taken. uphold the elimina on of discrimina on in respect of employment BELGICAST par cipates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, princiTotal hours of employee training on policies and procedures and occupa on. ple and values. During this year is running a campaign speciﬁc training on the HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operapreven on of corrup on, monopoly and conﬂict of interest. The campaign is ons, including the percentage of employees trained. aimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and administra on. Total number of incidents of discrimina on and correc ve ac ons HR4 There have been no incidents of discrimina on. taken. Opera ons and signiﬁcant suppliers iden ﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measuHR7 Not applicable res to contribute to the elimina on of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. Public policy posi ons and par cipa on in public policy developBELGICAST is Euskalit coopera on partner, the Basque Founda on for ExceSO5 ment and lobbying. llence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to compe veness and sustainable development. www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 11 Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau onary approach to environmental challenges; BELGICAST has developed a new gate valve and, during the development process, a number of diﬀerent aspects intervened, the principle objec ve being to manufacture a value with increased performance speciﬁca ons that was also more compe ve in marke ng terms. Our product parts, and in par cular the cas ng processes undertaken by our suppliers, have an impact on the emission of Greenhouse Gases (GHG). The European PlaQorm LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) establishes formulas for quan fying the volume of emission of greenhouse gases according to the materials used in the manufacturing process. In the case of the new Bakio model gate vale developed this year, one of the many advantages obtained is a reduc on of GHG emission of 6608 kg CO2, (e.g. Bakio Dn100). In addi on to the technical improvements provided by the Bakio model, both in opera on and maintenance, we can add a reduc on of GHG emissions of 13.3%. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake ini a ves to promote greater environmental responsibility BELGICAST was the ﬁrst company in its sector to obtain ISO 14001 cer ﬁca on. We have maintained this cer ﬁca on since 1998 and con nue to integrate preventa ve ac ons derived from our environmental management policy into our working methods. At the risk of seeming repe ve – The water sector is our business. Our corporate website clearly states our commitment to the overriding need for keeping our water resources clean. Taking care of water is taking care of the environment, and environmental responsibility is a prominent feature in the trade fairs which we regularly aNend, as for example: Smagua in Zaragoza (Spain), Valve World in Düsseldorf (Germany), IFAT in Münich (Germany) and Aquatech in Amsterdam (Holland). Furthermore, BELGICAST is a collabora ng partner in Euskalit, the Basque Founda on for Excellence, where we collaborate through the sharing of experiences and knowledge in order to contribute to both compe veness and sustainable development. 12 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies ProgeT investments: Water circula on. As a business group whose objec ve is to promote respect for water resources, it is in our produc on processes where we must lead by example. Our hydraulic tes ng processes, which are an essen al part of the manufacturing process for all our valves, are performed using ﬁltering and circula on techniques that achieve considerable reduc ons in water consump on. In the latest signiﬁcant investment made this year, we have incorporated an automated hydraulic tes ng system for gate valves of diameters between DN50 and DN300, which has allowed us to increase our produc on capacity while maintaining a high level of quality. The investment includes a water circulaon system that reduces consump on to the minimum. BELGICAST performs hydraulic tests on over 185,000 valves every year. A register is kept of our water consump on, which can be broken down as follows: • Produc on processes: 625 m3 during 2012 • Oﬃces, toilets and showers: 1875 m3 during 2012. Indicators: BELGICAST has adopted an internal procedure (FPMA-01-2 Monthly quan ﬁca on of environmental aspects) which includes monthly and accumulated yearly informa on regarding all aspects that we consider as having possible environmental risk. The procedure includes over thirty separate indicators for gas, electricity and water consump on, CO2 emissions, buNon cells (baNeries), ﬂuorescent ligh ng, lubricants, oils and cleaning materials, etc. It goes without saying that this document is updated regularly and audited annually under ISO 14001. www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 13 14 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu An -Corrup on: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrup on in all its forms, including extoron and bribery. This sec on is of par cular importance, as much for BELGICAST as for the group to which it belongs, TALIS. We are commiNed to not entering the vicious cycle of corrup on under any circumstances . This year, an -corrup on, monopoly-preven on and conﬂict of interest policies have been implemented across the board in the TALIS Group. We have developed a speciﬁc training programme focusing on this subject that is being disseminated throughout the mul na onal group via web and on-site training. The training will reach all personnel who are either directly or indirectly involved in sales or purchasing and will include personnel responsible for ensuring accoun ng and ﬁnancial transparency. At the me of wri ng this Communica on on Progress the courses have not yet concluded as they are s ll in the second phase of the project and, as such, remain to be evaluated. The objec ve is for the courses to be completed by 100% of the related personnel. As a ﬁnal note, in order to maintain a responsible business rela onship we request that all new clients sign the corresponding an -corrup on clauses. Relevant GRI Indicators.– An -Corrup on Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks All our sales oﬃces are included in the TALIS an -corrup on training proSO2 related to corrup on. gram. Percentage of employees trained in organiza on’s an -corrup on SO3 100% of the administra on staﬀ included in the program. policies and procedures. Principle 10: SO4 Ac ons taken in response to incidents of corrup on. There have been no corrup on incidents. Businesses should work against corrup on in all BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. its forms, including Public policy posi ons and par cipa on in public policy developBELGICAST is Euskalit coopera on partner, the Basque Founda on for Exceextor on and bribery. SO5 ment and lobbying. llence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to compe veness and sustainable development. Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contribu ons to poli cal parNo ﬁnancial contribu ons to poli cal par es or related ins tu ons perforSO6 es, poli cians, and related ins tu ons by country. med. www.belgicast.eu UN Global Compact COP 2012 15 Your Choice in Waterﬂow Control TALIS is the undisputed Number One for water transport and water ﬂow control. TALIS has the best solu ons available in the ﬁelds of water and energy management as well as for industrial and comunal applica ons. We have numerous products for comprehensive solu ons for the whole water cycle – from hydrants, buNerﬂy valves and knife gate valves through to needle valves. Our experience, innova ve technology, global exper se and individual consulta on processes form the basis for developing long-term solu ons for the eﬃcient BELGICAST Internacional, S.L. treatment of the vitally important resource “water”. B° Zabalondo 31 48100 Munguía (Vizcaya) Nacional Tel: 94 488 91-00 Nacional Fax: 94 488 91-30 Export Tel: +34 94 488 91-20 Export Fax: +34 94 488 91-25 E-Mail: belgicast@talis-group.com Internet: www.belgicast.eu Note: Speciﬁca ons may be changed without no ﬁca on at any me. Copyright: No copying without express wriNen permission of BELGICAST. BELGICAST is a Registered Trademark. 16 UN Global Compact COP 2012 www.belgicast.eu
