AQ Electric Suzhou – COP 2013 Document number Revision: Prepared by: Approved by: COP_2013 Andrew Zhang James Ahrgren Page number: Revision date: Approval date: Page 1 of 5 2013-11-14 2013-11-16 AQ Electric Suzhou: Global Compact 2013 Communication on Progress (COP) Table of contents 1 Purpose 2 2 Scope 2 3 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director 2 4 Human Rights Principles 2 4.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 2 4.2 Implementation 2 4.3 Measurement of Outcomes 2 5 Labour Principles 2 5.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 3 5.2 Implementation 3 5.3 Measurement of Outcomes 3 6 Environmental Principles 4 6.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 4 6.2 Implementation 4 6.3 Measurement of Outcomes 4 7 Anti‐corruption Principles 4 7.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 4 7.2 Implementation 4 7.3 Measurement of Outcomes 5 8 References 5 9 Revision history 5 The original is data media. Paper copies only apply when signed by an authorized issuer date AQ Electric Suzhou – COP 2013 Document number Revision: Prepared by: Approved by: COP_2013 Andrew Zhang James Ahrgren Page number: Revision date: Approval date: Page 2 of 5 2013-11-14 2013-11-16 1 Purpose The purpose this report is to describe AQ Electric Suzhou’s progress with respect to the ten principles of Global Compact. 2 Scope This report applies to AQ Electric Suzhou only. This report covers the period from joining the initiative in Jun 2011 until the end of August 2013. 3 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director Attached as a separate file, see References (1.) 4 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 4.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals AQ Electric Suzhou’s goal is for all our employees and business partners to live up to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our code of conduct outlines the way each of us should behave and also makes clear our responsibility to report instances of human rights violations. This code of conduct is known to all employees within the company; however, perhaps there is room in the future for this to be disseminated throughout our immediate supply chain. 4.2 Implementation All employees can report directly to our Human resource Department should there be any grievances with regards human rights. This year the AQ Group continually implemented its core values, which established in early 2012, across all AQ companies. One of the cornerstones of the core values in “Courage and Respect” including the principles, “Every employee has the same status” and “We treat others as we like to be treated ourselves”. A copy of the AQ “Core Values” booklet has been handed to each employee and workshops have taken place to further strengthen their understanding across the company. Suppliers are audited using the standard AQ Group template which contains a section on human rights. Suppliers who have questionable ethics are not approved as an AQ supplier. 4.3 Measurement of Outcomes In AQ Electric Suzhou there have been no reported incidents of human rights abuses. If any issues happen in the future they will be recorded and brought to the attention of top management. AQ Electric Suzhou is fully committed to handle any such occurrences objectively and to provide fair solutions. 5 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; The original is data media. Paper copies only apply when signed by an authorized issuer date AQ Electric Suzhou – COP 2013 Document number Revision: Prepared by: Approved by: COP_2013 Andrew Zhang James Ahrgren Page number: Revision date: Approval date: Page 3 of 5 2013-11-14 2013-11-16 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 5.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Our employee handbook and code of conduct show clearly employee rights, compensation and responsibilities. All employees work here willingly and no employee is forced to work overtime. In AQ Electric Suzhou we have a non‐discrimination policy with regards gender, age, ethnicity, or background, and this is stated clearly in our code of conduct. Naturally, we uphold the law and our ethical responsibility by only employing people of a legal working age. 5.2 Implementation The Labour Union of AQ Suzhou is working well. Any issues can be discussed in this forum. This is the principle channel of collective bargaining in AQ Electric Suzhou. With regards the safety of our employees we evaluate all working conditions and make sure that, where necessary, the correct protective clothing is used by employees. We act in accordance with the law by annually checking the health of team members. During monthly workshop audits the work environment is constantly reviewed for any new or potential safety risks and appropriate actions are taken if any such cases arise. We fully commit to providing a safe working environment. New employees receive relevant training during orientation and existing employees receive “refresher” training at various intervals. 5.3 Measurement of Outcomes The average age at AQ Electric Suzhou is 31.8 years old. Our youngest employee is 19.6 years old and our oldest employee is 59.2 years old. Our top management team is made up of eight Chinese managers, two Swedish managers. Of the management team four are female. Company‐wide, female employees represent 36.3% of the headcount. Minutes of the Labour Union meetings will be recorded and reviewed in management meetings and appropriate actions will be taken in order to resolve any conflicts or issues. We have also passed audits this year from renowned companies like Tetra Pak, ABB, and Bosch who focus strongly on Corporate Social Responsibility and check for our compliance in these areas. The original is data media. Paper copies only apply when signed by an authorized issuer date AQ Electric Suzhou – COP 2013 Document number Revision: Prepared by: Approved by: COP_2013 Andrew Zhang James Ahrgren Page number: Revision date: Approval date: Page 4 of 5 2013-11-14 2013-11-16 6 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 6.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals In our Environment Quality Manual we clearly describe our environmental policy, which is a public document. On our website (http://aqg.se/en/electricsuzhou/quality‐‐‐environment) we publically share our environmental viewpoint: “We work safely and responsibly in a manner that protects, respects and promotes the health and well‐being of the individual and the environment.” Other extracts of our policy include, “Environmental work aims to reduce our waste, consumption of natural resources, use of fossil fuels and that our products to the greatest extent possible is reused or recycled”, as well as, “We work primarily with companies/suppliers who share our view on the environment.” 6.2 Implementation This year we have implemented a waste management procedure, resources and energy management procedure, and also an environment committee organisation. This is in preparation for the ISO14001 certification which we plan to achieve by the end of 2014. We assessed our environmental impact and we now measure our energy consumption and transport data, which is the converted into CO2 emissions. We track CO2 emissions as a ratio of sales. The responsibility for the environment lies with our EHS representative who conducts a monthly audit in conjunction with our monthly workshop 5S audit. 6.3 Measurement of Outcomes The CO2 KPIs are tracked on a monthly basis. And from January of 2013, we reduced its figure by more than 50%, and the tendency is a good downside curve 7 Anti‐corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 7.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Our code of conduct clearly indicates our stance on corruption: “If an employee is offered a gift, a bribe, an illegitimate commission, or any other form personal payment, it must not be accepted.” Also, a preliminary evaluation of the risk of corruption was made. The biggest risks come in the form of supplier/customer gifts and bribes. 7.2 Implementation In order to prevent the identified risks we commit to several actions: The original is data media. Paper copies only apply when signed by an authorized issuer date AQ Electric Suzhou – COP 2013 Document number Revision: Prepared by: Approved by: COP_2013 Andrew Zhang James Ahrgren Page number: Revision date: Approval date: Page 5 of 5 2013-11-14 2013-11-16 y Implementation of a rigorous procurement process including cross‐functional approval of suppliers. y Periodic market research of prices of key materials to be compared against existing purchasing prices. y Review of expense claims. y Addition of the Global Compact logo and description into our company presentation to disseminate this knowledge to our new and existing supply chain partners. 7.3 Measurement of Outcomes Regarding the aforementioned examples of corruption: We make it clear to our employees and supply chain partners that we will not accept behaviour of this kind. If it ever were to happen in AQ Electric Suzhou the relevant disciplinary and/or legal action would be taken against the guilty parties. So far there have been no legal cases regarding corruption in AQ Electric Suzhou since beginning operations in China in 2007. Audits from senior management take place at various intervals to check that standard procedures are being followed. 8 References 1. AQ Letter to Global Compact – Continued Support 2012 9 Revision history REV Page(P) Description Date / Issued by Section (S) ‐ New document 2012‐08‐30/JK Yearly update of 2013 2013‐11‐ 14/Andrew The original is data media. Paper copies only apply when signed by an authorized issuer date
