Sustainability Report 2012 MY OUR WILL POWER Turning Vision into Value. Contents Foreword by the Chairman of the Executive Board ...................................................... 6 Magazine ..................8 Segment Reporting ...78 Reports on our six focus areas Selected examples and key figures from the HOCHTIEF divisions Sustainable Products and Services ............................10 HOCHTIEF Americas Division .................................... 80 Active Climate Protection ............................................16 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division................................. 88 Resource Protection ...................................................22 HOCHTIEF Europe Division ....................................... 96 Attractive Working Environment ..................................28 Corporate Citizenship ................................................34 Information on this Compliance ............................................................... 40 Report .................. 106 Independent Assurance Report ..............................108 Sustainability at Information on this Sustainability Report (Reporting Period, Content, and Scope) .................. 110 HOCHTIEF.............. 44 Implementation of International Reporting Strategies, management tools, and key figures Standards .................................................................111 The Company ............................................................ 46 GRI External Assurance ............................................111 Sustainability Strategy ............................................... 50 Index Based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines ....................... 112 CR Program ........................................................ 53 Publication Details and Credits/Contacts ................. 115 Compliance ................................................................57 Risk Management ..................................................... 60 Cover: HOCHTIEF acts sustainably because we are convinced IT and Data Protection ...............................................61 that an integrated corporate approach generates added value. We aim to systematically put our goals into action. Employees .................................................................62 One example is Quartier 21 in Hamburg. Here, on the site of a former hospital, HOCHTIEF is building a stateOccupational Safety and Health ............................... 66 of-the-art city quarter that combines urban living with attractive residences catering to several generations. Environmental and Climate Protection ...................... 68 Research and Development ......................................72 Procurement ............................................................. 74 Wherever you see this symbol in the report, you will find links to institutions whose URLs Donations and Sponsorship ......................................76 are indicated on the relevant pages. Our Company at a Gla OCHTIEF YEARS In 1873, the Helfmann brothers founded a small construction HOCHTIEF Americas Division business—hoping that it would be a long-term success. In 2013, HOCHTIEF will be celebrating its 140th anniversary. A The HOCHTIEF Americas division coordinates the activities of number of remarkable projects around the globe testify to HOCHTIEF’s companies in the USA and Canada. the company’s creativity. Across two centuries, HOCHTIEF has shaped living spaces, built spectacular landmarks, and Through our subsidiary Turner, we are the number one general delivered technically superlative solutions. We moved the builder in the USA. Turner has long been the leading player in temples of Abu Simbel in Egypt, linked Europe and Asia by the key market segments for education and healthcare properties. building a bridge across the Bosporus, played a role in The same goes for sustainable “green” building, where the shaping the Frankfurt skyline, crossed the vast expanses of company ranks among the pioneers and trendsetters in the USA. Australia by road and rail, and helped to construct the Gotthard tunnel in Switzerland. The services provided by civil engineering company Flatiron complement our portfolio in North America. The company Today, HOCHTIEF is a publicly traded, world-leading connumbers among the top ten providers in US transportation infrastruction group managing operations worldwide from its structure construction and has operations in both the USA and corporate headquarters in Essen, Germany. HOCHTIEF has Canada, giving us a presence in North America as a transbeen able to weather difficult times precisely because the portation infrastructure provider as well. Through Flatiron, we company has stayed focused on competencies of develhave also gained a foothold in the growing market for US infraopment, construction, and operation, while at the same structure projects on a public-private partnership basis. time embracing change. HOCHTIEF has always been flexible and adaptive. We find solutions to the challenges of our The acquisition of E.E. Cruz and Company in 2010 enabled time and shape the infrastructure for modern societies. In HOCHTIEF to enhance its position in the market for civil engidoing so, HOCHTIEF always feels bound by tradition. Even neering infrastructure projects in the New York metropolitan when faced with considerable challenges, there are things area. that the company is never prepared to sacrifice, above all our amassed expertise. Tradition can be splendidly Effective January 1, 2012, our subsidiary Turner purchased a modern. majority stake in Clark Builders, Canada, paving the way for us to benefit even more fully from the positive trend in the Canadian If your cell phone supports QR codes, construction market. scan the code to view further information on HOCHTIEF’s history on our website. *For further information on the HOCHTIEF divisions, please see www. hoc 3 Sustainability Report 2012 nce in 2012 HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Corporate Headquarters (management holding company)* HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division HOCHTIEF Europe Division The HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division combines the Group’s The HOCHTIEF Europe division oversees the Group’s business activities in the Australia-Pacific region. HOCHTIEF holds the in Europe and selected growth regions around the world. Under leading position in the Australian market through our majority the leadership of HOCHTIEF Solutions AG, the HOCHTIEF Eustake in the Leighton Group. Leighton focuses mainly on conrope division designs, develops, builds, operates, and manages struction, contract mining, operation and maintenance as well infrastructure projects, real estate, and facilities. as services in the resources segment. Leighton also has a strong presence in infrastructure construction, real estate deCapabilities include building construction together with civil and velopment, and services. structural engineering, real estate development, logistics services as well as property and asset management. The division also The Leighton Group’s main operational units are Leighton Conprovides construction-related services in facility and energy tractors, Thiess, John Holland, and Leighton Properties in Ausmanagement, and develops and undertakes concessions and tralia, Leighton Asia in Hong Kong and Southeast Asia, and the operation projects on a public-private partnership basis. Habtoor Leighton Group in the United Arab Emirates. Through these units, Leighton is able to cover the entire construction HOCHTIEF Solutions focuses on lucrative growth markets where value chain. it provides one-stop solutions, such as in transportation and energy infrastructure projects. HOCHTIEF Solutions has already As a leading operator and manager in contract mining, Leighton established a leading position in constructing offshore wind succeeds in significantly expanding its portfolio of contracts farms. year after year. The Group also ranks among the leading players in the infrastructure sector, more specifically in road construcA market and innovation leader in many regions, HOCHTIEF tion, for example, as well as in the water and energy sector. Its Solutions offers a well-rounded portfolio for infrastructure projexcellent reputation in its home market of Australia is helping ects, real estate, and facilities. The combination of outstanding Leighton to gradually establish itself in selected Asian countries expertise in design, development, construction, and services as well as the Gulf region. generates attractive synergies and creates added value for the company and its clients. Our company at a glance htief.com. 4 Sustainability Report 2012 OCHTIEF years Creating Sustainable Value—Embracing Responsibility HOCHTIEF is one of the leading global construction groups and can look back on a 140-year history. We focus our competencies of development, construction, and operation on ­infrastructure projects as well as the contract mining business. Thanks to its global network, HOCHTIEF is on the map in all the world’s major markets. We believe in sustainable growth and take on responsibility. Our company’s expert staff create value for clients, shareholders, and HOCHTIEF alike. One-ofa-kind ideas and customized solutions set us apart from the competition—and contribute to mastering the challenges of our time. HOCHTIEF has a tradition of nurturing the relationship between business, the environment, and social responsibility. This is one of the major factors in our long-term success. Our clear commitment to sustainability presents us with very special challenges, as each of our projects is unique. We thus accept great responsibility toward people and the environment—now and in the future. Sustainability Report 2012 5 Foreword Dear Readers, labor laws, environmental protection, and anti-corruption, working to further those principles wherever possible. HOCHTIEF has regularly published environmental reports since 2001 and sustainability reports since 2005. We intend to continue this longstanding tradition in the future with even higher standards of transparency and quality. Starting in 2013, we will publish a sustainability report each year in order to inform our stakeholders about our activities and the progress we have made in implementing our goals. You will find a description of our goals in our six sustainability focus areas starting on page 53. In this Report, we have once again adhered closely to the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). And, as in the past, parts of this Report have also been appraised by public auditors. In addition, we succeeded during the reporting period in improving the quality and scope of our sustainability data. The IT-based CRedit reporting system introduced in 2010 represented a major enhancement in this regard. The Group uses this tool to collect quantitative and HOCHTIEF acts sustainably because we are convinced qualitative indicators on our six focus areas. CRedit that a holistic, future-focused approach to business will ­already supplies the majority of the information published bring added value to our company. in this report and represents an important step toward improving internal sustainability monitoring and control. We believe it is our duty to assume responsibility for everyone we work with. Key improvements were made to the system during the reporting period, and it was also externally audited in As a global construction group, HOCHTIEF designs 2012. Our specific target for 2013 is to roll out data colspaces for living. Our activities impact the people who lection via CRedit to other companies and business use those spaces and the natural environment that units within the HOCHTIEF Group. We aim to use mean­surrounds them. Acting responsibly is our obligation to ingful performance indicators to render success in the society, to both present and future generations. area of sustainability measurable over the long term. To achieve this, Corporate Headquarters will continue to HOCHTIEF made a commitment to the principles of enhance cooperation with the international HOCHTIEF sustainability early on and is considered a construction companies and foster even closer exchange. industry pioneer in this field. We joined the United ­Nations Global Compact initiative in 2008 and actively HOCHTIEF is a global enterprise that, in sustainability support its ten principles in the areas of human rights, as in other areas, has to meet a wide range of parame6 Sustainability Report 2012 ters, expectations, and needs worldwide. We therefore I intend to work with my colleague on the Board, the expressly support the initiatives that our subsidiaries managerial staff, and the workforce to continue our and associates, acting independently and on their own Group’s successful track record. To this end, we can account, launch and successfully implement in their draw on the vast experience of a company that looks countries and regions. These initiatives make up the back on a 140-year tradition, as well as the motivation ­integrated whole that we refer to as sustainability at and innovative prowess of every individual. HOCHTIEF. In all their diversity, they follow the strategic goals and values laid down Group-wide in the HOCHTIEF I am confident that we will successfully implement our vision and guiding principles as well as directives and sustainability strategy and our shared goals, and will codes governing specific areas. continue to advance HOCHTIEF along our chosen path. As we move forward, we remain in constant dialog with It is thus a shared success that the accident rate our stakeholders, and are guided by their needs and continued to be at a low level across the HOCHTIEF expectations. We are always pleased to receive your Group in 2012. Occupational safety and health are a suggestions, comments, and questions on sustainability top priority in our Group. The successes we have at HOCHTIEF—please get in touch with us at achieved spur us to maintain our high standards and ­nachhaltigkeit@hochtief.de. further step up efforts for the welfare of our workforce. We have posted a questionnaire for you on our website. For only in a working environment where everyone Your feedback on our sustainability strategy and activifeels safe and secure, both challenged and actively ties is invaluable in helping us to go on improving. ­encouraged, can each individual contribute to the full— Thank you in advance for your support. and that is what makes HOCHTIEF so strong. We will keep HOCHTIEF moving forward, sustainably We also firmly believe that sustainable action enhances and successfully. To ensure this, we have set ourselves our business success and sustainability-related issues clear goals—economic, ecological, and social— and offer huge potential for HOCHTIEF. Examples include the will work systematically and with conviction to attain expansion of renewables-based energy infrastructure them. as well as the field of energy efficiency. Our Group has systematically developed these markets in recent years and we are today well established in them as experts and partners of choice. HOCHTIEF is involved in the construction of North Sea and Baltic Sea wind farms, for example, using its own jack-up vessels to lay foundations and install turbine masts weighing many tons. For our industrial clients, we save energy and thousands of tons of carbon emissions by implementing smart energy solutions and installing efficient technology at their facilities. These are just two instances where HOCHTIEF contributes directly and indirectly to protecting the ­environment. Marcelino Fernández Verdes We can be proud of what we have accomplished. In my Chairman of the Executive Board capacity as the new Chairman of the Executive Board, of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Sustainability Report 2012 7 HOCHTIEF is an international network. My Team 8 Sustainability Report 2012 Magazine our spirit Almost 80,000 people work for HOCHTIEF worldwide. Their knowledge, talent, and motivation are the root of our success—and our corporate culture. When you work for HOCHTIEF, you’re part of an international team. Sustainability Report 2012 9 Reportage xxxxx Magazin Proving the importance of internal values: The Turner-built LEED-Gold certified Helen DeVos Children’s Hospital in Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA, is an award-winning “green building.” Around the world, HOCHTIEF constructs and certifies properties in accordance with sus10 Sustainability Report 2012 tainability criteria. Focus Area 1: Sustainable Products and Services Tested, labeled, and Magazine confirmed “green” Whether it’s equipment, apparel, foodstuffs or property­, consumers are being inundated with a veritable flood of quality, test, and environmental ratings. Their purpose is to provide information on the content, quality, and sustainability aspects of products, yet they are not always easy to understand—or indeed differentiate. That’s where the consultants come in. In the case of property, such environmental assessments the founding members of the DGNB—the German tend to be known as sustainability certificates, and of Sustainable Building Council—established in 2007, these there is a handful established around the world. and is thus committed to developing and establishing They carry names such as DGNB, LEED, and BREEAM, the Council’s seal of approval. HOCHTIEF subsidiary and behind these abbreviations lie comprehensive rating Turner is a founding member of the U.S. Green Buildsystems, all of which have a common goal: to provide an ing Council and has occupied a leading position in susindication of how sustainable a building is in terms of its tainable construction. The company is responsible for design, construction, and operation. Or: to render a propmore than 570 LEED registered and certified buildings erty’s internal “green” qualities transparent and measurable. either completed or currently under construction. Sustainability in this case reflects the degree to which However, Turner doesn’t just build “green.” Within its economic, ecological, and social aspects have been ranks, the company also has over 1,380 “LEED Accreditbalanced in the design of the building, its planning, its ed Professionals,” and thus maintains the largest team construction, and its ongoing operations. So it’s all about of experts for the certification system in the American adopting an integrated a ­ pproach and forming a 360-­de­­construction industry. In Germany and Europe, HOCHTIEF Advisers and supporters: gree view of the property. Here, the location and the Solutions pools its know-how and service portfolio in HOCHTIEF auditors Bernhard Hohmann (left) and property’s integration within its environment are regarded relation to green building and sustainability certifica­Daniel ­Keppel (right) support as just important as the materials used in construction, the tion within its “Green Building Management” group. their clients throughout the entire certification process. waste produced during the process, the energy and water The team boasts four qualified experts covering all The earlier they are involved, consumption that occurs in the in-use phase, or indeed ­aspects of DGNB, LEED, BREEAM, and their various the better. the interior climate created. Some certification systems systems. differ significantly in composition, the weighting they apply to the assessment criteria, and also the appraisal methods used (see also overview on page 13). So who decides which system is to be applied to certify a property? What happens in a certification process? And why does a building need to be certified in the first place? Part of the package: Wide-ranging experience HOCHTIEF can answer these questions. As a major construction company, it has gathered experience with all the established building sustainability certification systems. HOCHTIEF ranks among the leading international suppliers in this market segment and has designed, constructed, and accompanied the certification of properties in accordance with sustainability criteria across the globe. In Germany, HOCHTIEF was one of Sustainability Report 2012 11 Focus Area 1: Sustainable Products and Services all the major aspects—the advantages and obligations, likely costs and possible savings—so that they can Magazine make an informed decision on the certificate, the associated performance features, and qualities of the building. During construction, one of Turner’s most important roles is to make sure the work is executed according to the project documents and that all appropriate docu­ mentation is obtained. “A project may be executed perfectly but if the required documentation is not in place, the certification may not be achieved.” “Green” sells well But why do owners have a building certified in the first Green building leader: place? After all, this may involve additional, albeit calcuMichael Deane, Chief Sus­ tainability Officer at US sublable, expense in terms of time and cost. Surveys and sidiary Turner, has more studies show that properties constructed in accord­ than 1,300 “LEED Ac­credited Professionals” in his team. ance with sustainability criteria offer several compelling advantages, particularly where the full life cycle of the These auditors support their clients throughout the enbuilding has been analyzed. Thanks to their superior tire process—from initial drawings through to certificate ecological stand­ards, they ensure environmental proaward. It’s a varied and not always easy role, played as tection and also tend to bring benefits such as high it is at the interface between the frequently numerous energy efficiency. Utility costs are lower in the case of project participants. “A certification process passes such buildings than in their traditionally constructed through several phases in which the auditor has to percounterparts. Their occupants also benefit from a form different duties,” explains HOCHTIEF expert and ­positive living and working environment. auditor Daniel Keppel. “At the preparatory stage of a project, the main thing is to join with the client in defin“These are very attractive arguments for owners and ing the building’s performance targets and selecting investors. At the same time, they can be favorably dethe most suitable certification system. Following a quick ployed in real estate marketing and can increase both check to determine the sustainability potential, we then renting and selling opportunities,” adds HOCHTIEF’s advise the client with regard to implementing the requiDaniel Keppel. A glance at the German property market site features of the build and prepare a list of correspondconfirms this: Today, there is hardly a real estate develing requirements and resulting specifications.” opment that does not have a sustainability label as part of its marketing mix—particularly in the segment popuThe earlier in the planning phase the decision on which lated by high-quality office and residential properties in certificate is taken, the better, because then the subsethe more sought-after conurbation locations where the quent process can be planned and effectively controlled margins are low and competition is high. from start to finish. Later on, the auditor takes care of the registration and data transfer to the certifying body, 90 percent for example, the DGNB, puts the project team in the picture regarding the requirements involved, provides advice on how to meet the project specifications, docu­ ments the process, and audits the documentation. of executives surveyed in the It’s a demanding job, as Michael Deane, Chief Sustainability Officer at Turner in the USA, can confirm: “Because USA want to build “green.” of our in-depth experience with LEED and the know-how that is thus available to all our team members, managIn the USA, too, the trend toward green building is inexo­ ing the certification process has become ‘standard rable—as exemplified, for example, by the current Turner practice’ at Turner.” To ensure a successful process, he study: “2012 Green Building Market Barometer.” Every says, it is essential that clients be notified in advance of two years, the American HOCHTIEF subsidiary carries 12 Sustainability Report 2012 Certification certificates—an overview Magazine Certification systems evaluate the sustainability of buildings, thus contributing to a holistic assessment of sustainable building practices. For architects and investors, they constitute a tool in planning and implementing sustainability aspects in building projects. Since national and regional differences with respect to legal statutes, building regulations, technical requirements, geography, climate, and culture all have to be taken into account in the assessment process, various certification systems have become established in individual countries. In some cases, these exhibit considerable differences in terms of the selection and weighting of the rating parameters. The following number among the most renowned labels worldwide: DGNB: This seal of approval was developed by the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) in 2008. The main rating criteria are ecological, economic, socio-cultural and functional quality, technical quality, and process and location quality. The focus here is on the ecobalance of the build and its life cycle costs. The certificate is awarded in Bronze, Silver, and Gold. LEED: The certificate for “Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design” was introduced in the USA by the U.S. Green Building Council in 1998. Its primary issue-related rating criteria are materials and resources, water consumption, energy efficiency, interior air quality, location sustainability, and innovation. It does not carry out an ecobalance assessment or life cycle cost analysis. The LEED scale encompasses the levels Certified, Silver, Gold, and Platinum. BREEAM: Established in the UK in 1990 as the world’s first certification system for green building, the “Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method” is today the most widely used internationally. The main rating criteria are planning and design, energy use, materials used, water consumption, waste, environmental contamination, health and wellbeing, location quality, and transportation. The life cycle cost analysis carries little weight in the overall assessment. The five-level scale reads Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding. Green Star: This certificate was introduced by the Green Building Council of Australia in 2003. The system is based on the British BREEAM and the American LEED versions. The main assessment criteria are management, work climate, water, energy, transportation, building materials, location, emissions, and innovative approach. Up to six stars can be awarded under this scheme. (Please see also page 88 in this connection.) out an online survey of property owners, real estate deWith regard to the certificates themselves, the following Green Building Market velopers, and corporate executives to determine their development pattern is interesting to note: Despite a still Barometer 2012 views and plans on the sustainability front. Virtually all strong commitment toward green construction, the likeExecutive Summary Turner Construction Company’s latest Green Building Market Barometer, which surveyed more than 700 executives, found that companies remain committed to constructing environmentally-sustainable buildings. Almost all the executives participating in the 2012 survey said their companies would incorporate at least some Green features in their next of the 715 respondents (90 percent) indicate that green lihood of investing in LEED certification is declining (48 construction project, citing the potential to reduce energy costs and ongoing operations and maintenance costs as the most important reasons for constructing Green buildings. While the commitment to constructing Green buildings remains high, fewer executives said their companies were likely to seek LEED certiﬁcation when constructing a Green building. Brightening Outlook for Construction Projects Reducing Energy Costs and Operating Expenses are the Key Among real estate owners, developers, and corporate ownerDrivers to Green Construction aspects will be taken into account in forthcoming conpercent in 2012 compared to 53 percent in 2010 and 61 occupants, 64% said they expect to launch construction projects over Executives were most likely to cite ﬁnancial factors as being extremely the next 12 months (up from 46% in the 2010 survey), and 71% said or very important to their companies’ decisions on whether to they expect to undertake renovation projects over the same period (up incorporate Green features in a construction project: energy efﬁciency from 58% in the 2010 survey). (84%) and ongoing operations and maintenance costs (84%). Importance when Evaluating Costs & Beneﬁts of Green Features in 2012 Widespread Commitment to Sustainable Practices Percent Extremely/Very Important Fifty-six percent of executives said their companies were extremely Energy efﬁciency 84% or very committed to following environmentally-sustainable practices struction projects. In addition to “it’s the right thing to percent in 2008). The reasons for opting against LEED Ongoing operations & in their operations, while an additional 34% said they were somewhat maintenance costs 84% committed. In addition to citing ﬁnancial reasons for this commitment, Building value 75% executives were most likely to cite broader considerations as extremely Occupancy rates 74% or very important including belief that it’s the “right thing to do,” (68%), impact on brand/reputation (67%), and customer requirements (61%), Total 10-year costs 74% along with cost savings (66%). Indoor air quality 74% do” (68 percent), the main reasons for green building cited by the respondents are the costs of the certificaReasons for Commitment to Environmentally-Sustainable Practices Health & well-being of occupants 74% Percent Extremely/Very Important Belief that it’s Asking rents 73% “the right thing to do” 68% Impact on brand/ reputation 67% In addition, executives cited that building value (75%) and occupancy Cost savings 66% rates (74%) were important considerations when evaluating the beneﬁts of incorporating Green features into their building. However, Customer requirements 61% two-thirds or more of executives also said that non-ﬁnancial factors are the positive impact on brand/reputation (67 percent), tion process, the time and personnel input, and also Expectations or current employees 45% were extremely or very important such as indoor air quality (74%), Expected future health and well-being of occupants (74%), satisfaction of employees/ 40% legislation & regulations occupants (69%), impact on brand/reputation (67%), and employee Ability to hire qualiﬁed new employees 40% productivity (67%). However, only 37% of executives said it was Current legislation extremely or very important to their companies to minimize the 38% & regulations carbon footprint of their buildings. This suggests that the decision Investor requirements 36% to incorporate Green features is driven by a desire to reduce cost followed by an interest to improve the indoor environment for building and cost savings (66 percent), particularly with respect difficulties encountered in dealing with the process. FiftyRisk management 34% considerations occupants, rather than broader concerns about the impact of buildings on the global environment. to energy, operating expense as well as maintenance two percent of those who would not choose LEED preand repair. Further arguments for investing in a sustainfer their own green building standards, and 41 percent “Green Building Market Baro­meter 2012”: Every two able property include the higher building value (75 perof this group show a preference for a certificate other years, Turner surveys market cent), improved occupancy rates (74 percent), and the than the LEED label. Turner Chief Sustainability Officer trends ­relating to green building in the USA. positive effects on the health and wellbeing of the occuMichael Deane says: “While LEED is still by far the marpants (74 percent). ket leader, these other rating systems are challenging LEED in the marketplace. Future versions of LEED must Sustainability Report 2012 13 Magazine Certified and satisfied: In October 2012, the DHL DC1 logistics center in Bad ­H ersfeld received the “BREEAM DE in use” cer­ tificate, as one of the first redeveloped build­ings to be rated by this system in Germany. Daniel Keppel (left) steered the certification process as auditor and is as delighted as the other project participants with the award. tread a very fine line between pushing the market to be more sustainable and risking loss of market share if they are perceived as being too rigorous.” Competition promotes diversity and standards So the rating systems are, to a certain degree, in competition with one another. The fact is that the market for the sustainability certification of real estate remains in a state of flux. New rating systems are coming onto the scene that reflect, for example, the higher statutory requirements and the latest technical developments. As a result, standards are rising and the differences in terms also increasing with respect to certification for hospitals of substance and methodology are declining. However, and school buildings. “Studies show that sustainable the regional variations between the systems remain signifi­ buildings enhance the wellbeing of their occupants, for instance, through better air quality, flexible room configurations, and lots of natural light—and therefore also have “Certification is extensively established a positive effect on health outcomes and learning.” in the case of new builds. It’s in the One example of the kind of dynamic trend observed in the certification market is the advent of the “BREEAM certification of existing buildings that DE in use” option. Constituting an adaptation of the ­traditional British label for existing buildings within the the potential lies.” German market, this variant is currently being applied to its first projects in a pilot phase. HOCHTIEF is actively involved in driving this development: Since October 2012, cant. This is why, in order to be competitive and drive the company has had a seat on the DIFNI (German Inmore widespread adoption, the certifiers are developing stitute for Sustainable Real Estate), which bears regional new variants—for different building types on the one hand responsibility for the system. “We intend to participate and for different countries and regions on the other. in the work of adapting the BREEAM system to German requirements, optimizing and fine-tuning it, and contrib“Certification can be regarded as broadly established in uting our wealth of experience in green building and inkey market segments such as the construction of new ternational certification,” assures Bernhard Hohmann, office and commercial properties. There is, however, Head of Consult Real Estate Services at HOCHTIEF currently potential in other segments—for example, the Solutions and newly appointed council member. rating of existing buildings or entire city districts, and the operational side of the building,” explains Daniel Keppel “BREEAM DE in use” is a practical addition to the exper­ in summarizing the market possibilities. It is a view also tise and service portfolio of HOCHTIEF in the field of susshared by Michael Deane with regard to the North Ameritainability certification—and one from which our international can market. He explains that, in the USA, demand is consultancy clients will be able to benefit in the future.” 14 Sustainability Report 2012 Focus Area 1: Sustainable Products and Services Magazine Stakeholders have their say: Dr. Thomas Beyerle Does ecological building also make economic sense? Definitely—not only in the short and medium term but also in the long term. In the short term because there is currently substantial demand for “green” buildings in conurbations. In the medium term because the value-stabilizing factors of sustainable properties, such as energy efficiency, are becoming increasingly quantifiable and thus controllable. And in long term because an investment cost that may perhaps appear higher initially can be cited as a classic argument for extending the life cycle and thus the value of the build—with this in turn feeding back into current demand. Particularly when analyzing the life cycle costs of a building, the financial advantage of a sustainable approach becomes immediately apparent. Having said that, even the best green property has no economic prospects if the location has been poorly selected. Consequently, the decision as to where and how ecological building and, above all, ecological redevelopment really makes sense must be made on a case-by-case basis. SomeDr. Thomas Beyerle, times, conventional may be better. IVG Immobilien AG, Managing Director, Head of CS & Research What do sustainability certificates say about a property? Are they a value driver, a guide for investment, or a marketing factor? The certificate per se is merely the culmination of an assessment and documentation process to determine the sustainability credentials—i.e. the economic, ecological, and socio-cultural qualities—of the building. Certificates provide a snapshot assessment per the completion date, and serve as information for consumption by the process participants, occupants, and the public at large. They can also be value drivers. However, such an effect is only short-term because ecoratings merely document the excellent starting position of the build in the ensuing race for takers. Sustainability certificates do not ultimately provide any conclusive information as to how developments are likely to go over the next ten years. What’s more, they are usually not really internationally comparable. These are among the reasons why I regard these certification processes as merely an intermediate step—albeit an important one—within the “green building revolution.” Measurable variables such as the carbon footprint will surely herald the next stage in the evolution of sustainable real estate. Which label would you say offers the greatest potential in the marketplace? In relation to Germany, the DGNB certificate is the leader in both quantitative and qualitative respects. Going beyond Germany, however, it quickly becomes apparent that substantially more buildings around the world bear the American LEED and British BREEAM label—not to mention the HQE (Haute Qualité Environnementale) that dominates in many French-speaking countries. An analysis of the market points to one thing in particular: The competition to find the “best” national label has, strictly speaking, already been decided when it comes to properties built primarily with German occupants or purchasers in mind. As soon as international lessees or investors come into the picture, the decision frequently lies between LEED and BREEAM as the more common labels in the global competitive arena. Or, in some cases, dual certification may be pursued, with LEED and DGNB being taken in tandem—although it should be said that such cases are currently few and far between. As the methodologies of the certification systems differ considerably in certain respects, it is unlikely that any specific label will become dominant in the foreseeable future. How do you see things unfolding in the field of green construction, and are certificates likely to influence the scene? Every real estate development, whether classic new build or refurbishment, now carries some kind of “green passport,” albeit aligned to different international standards. In other words, the market as it stands today reflects the change in awareness that has come about with respect to the ecological—and thus also the economic—approach both to building construction and facility management. This has become much more than merely a green veneer. Many globally active investors prefer to put their capital in green buildings or sustainability funds. Here, the range available is, of course, still limited, relative to the market as a whole. But there is no doubt that certification helps steer investment capital toward the “right” buildings. Sustainability Report 2012 15 Reportage xxxxx Magazin Precision is his middle name: HOCHTIEF Facility Manager Stefan Brucker and his colleagues ensure reliable operation of state-of-theart facilities for industrial clients, while conserving energy and ­resources to the greatest extent possible. HOCHTIEF calls this 16 Sustainability Report 2012 “blueFM.” Focus Area 2: Active Climate Protection It comes down Magazine to the details Green buildings contribute substantially to climate protection. But what about existing buildings? A specialist in sustainable energy and facility management, HOCHTIEF Solutions developed blueFM, an end-to-end approach for climate-friendly operation of buildings throughout their entire life cycle. “Climate protection.” Martin Arneth’s description of his primary responsibility is short and to the point. And he’s not talking about the embattled ozone layer, melting “Balancing energy conservation glaciers or rising sea levels. The HOCHTIEF Solutions facility manager is referring to the climate in the research with maintaining a comfortable and manufacturing facilities at Siemens Healthcare in Forchheim for which he has been responsible as prop­indoor climate for clients is the art erty manager for the past six years. Here, in Germany’s Franconia region, the company produces the latest and science of our job.” generation of x-ray and CT equipment. The technology alone in these specialized medical devices is extremely exacting. But the production environment is also subemission standards or environmental protection regulaject to stringent standards. Only when these are met tions. And, keeping in mind that operating costs make can Siemens ultimately ship this high-tech equipment up 80 percent of the life cycle cost of a property, it beto customers around the globe. comes clear that green buildings alone are not the solution. Above all, building and facility operation must be A key rule is that the temperature in the production cells energy efficient: a key goal benefiting both the environSiemens produces x-ray and must always stay between 18 and 28 degrees Celsius ment and the company’s bottom line. MRI machines at its Forchheim plant. Hundreds of with humidity ranging from 40 to 70 percent, 24 hours pieces of heating, cooling a day, seven days a week. While the temperature must blueFM combines these ecological and economic aims and ventilation equipment create just the right indoor be hospitable for machines, employees must also be into a single approach for an optimal way to attain the climate in the research and comfortable in the manufacturing facility: the air should common goal of conserving energy. A systematic promanufacturing facilities. Here, Stefan Brucker moninot be too warm, or too cool, or too stuffy, and there cess, it greatly influences day-to-day operations in fators a refrigeration system should be no irritating drafts. In total, 265 pieces of cility management. on the roof. heating, cooling and ventilation equipment are used to create a suitable indoor climate for man and machine alike. And all of them, including the building’s utility and water treatment systems, are the responsibility of Martin Arneth and his team. The more, the worse Of course, it is impossible to separate the climate inside Siemens’ production facility from the climate as a whole. Heating, cooling and electricity all affect the environment directly or indirectly due to emissions or resource consumption. So, the maxim here is “The more, the worse.” Worse for the environment, but also for the company’s coffers. Energy is expensive, as is non-compliance with Sustainability Report 2012 17 Focus Area 2: Active Climate Protection Inspiration for new ways to save come daily from various 164,000 t of CO2: sources and are systematically collected in the blueFM Magazine process. One factor essential for ensuring smooth functioning of this approach are HOCHTIEF Facility Management’s employees: electricians, measuring this is how much HOCHTIEF facility and energy equipment experts, HVAC specialists. Special training courses raise their awareness of the issues, and they managers helped their clients save in 2012 are instructed to point out possible opportunities for conservation and savings. Whether it is an old fan in the ventilation system or inefficient batteries, “I rely on Stimulus from several directions the input I receive from my master tradesmen,” Martin Describing blueFM in action is the best way to facilitate Arneth also confirms. “Ultimately, they’re the ones dealunderstanding of the process. When blueFM’s experts ing with the details every day. They know much more arrive at a client’s site, they first assess all buildings and about the condition of the systems than I do.” facilities for possible improvements and document their ideas in a database. The focus here is on water, heating, Keeping an eye on the details: ventilation and air conditioning, electricity, office equipFacility Manager Stefan ment, the building’s structure, waste and consumables, Brucker at work. (Images at right) and conveying systems. The question is always, “Where can we make adjustments to operate the facility more Continual dialog: Property Manager Martin Arneth and efficiently and conserve resources?” This collection of Ulrich Timm of Siemens Real Estate explain to a Sustaindata then provides a baseline for day-to-day work in ability Report editor how the facility. After all, blueFM is a dynamic process more Siemens and HOCHTIEF implement blueFM (picture than anything. At its core are the property managers, below). who naturally receive the requisite training. 18 Sustainability Report 2012 Another driving force is technical advances and statutory regulations. Martin Arneth gives the following exMagazine ample: According to the Kyoto Protocol, the refrigerant R22 must be replaced with a more environmentally friendly product by no later than 2014. The refrigeration systems at the Forchheim site are around 20 years old, in some cases do not tolerate newer refrigerants and are approaching the end of their useful life. As a result, the HOCHTIEF employees entered the “R22 Exchange” blueFM—a vital and “Refrigeration System Replacement” projects in the database, kicking off the blueFM process for them. From first ideas to actual savings component of Regardless of the source, once an idea is in the system, the property manager estimates the benefit of a the life cycle project. Help is provided by a property management primer specially tailored to blueFM. This resource conA systematic process, blueFM enhances solidates important energy efficiency facts and tables HOCHTIEF’s sustainable construction and and enables an initial estimate to be made. After this professional energy management activities rough calculation, if the project offers promising potenfor a climate-friendly building and facility tial savings, specially trained energy managers at life cycle. HOCHTIEF generate more precise calculations of the costs, effects and amortization period of the project. blueFM’s objective, and HOCHTIEF SoluFinally, the engineers’ recommendations are forwarded tions’ voluntary obligation, is to protect the to the client, who decides whether, when and to which climate, use scarce resources responsibly, extent a project is feasible or not. If a project is greenand act sustainably from an environmenlighted, it is entered in the business plan according to tal, economic and social viewpoint. We its priority ranking and carried out. take responsibility, as early as the planning phase: The products we use must be reThe refrigeration system project in Forchheim provides cyclable and manufactured in a climatean example of how this is done: Gradually, the refrigera­ friendly manner. Their energy consumption tion machines at the site were, and are still being, recomplies with the most recent laws. placed. This was taken as an opportunity to implement systems with a heat recovery feature to conserve heatIn 2011 and 2012, we reduced the CO2 ing energy. The new machines are now again being emissions of our blueFM clients by a total monitored by the facility manager. If additional potential of around 89,000 metric tons per year. for improvement is discovered during routine maintenance, the systems are again entered as an open project in the blueFM agenda. A continual process. In other cases, no capital expenditure at all is required. For example, savings can be achieved by adjusting environmental parameters, turning off systems and lights Continual dialog is necessary for blueFM’s positive efoutside of business hours, and striving for compliance fects to fully unfold. The property manager holds the with certain rules. “Sometimes we just have to remind key here as the interface between the client, the engipeople to close the window when the heat is on,” exneers and the technicians. Regular meetings ensure plains Martin Arneth. that the overarching goals remain the focus of attention and are not drowned out by the usual bustle of daily activity. Sustainability Report 2012 19 Magazine It’s essential to keep track: Small change, big impact pletely different. With blueFM firmly established, recHOCHTIEF’s facility management experts manage What is new since blueFM was introduced? “Well, on ommendations for improvement from this area carry a more than 250 systems at the one hand, a lot. On the other hand, not very much completely different weight with clients. The program’s Siemens Healthcare in Forchheim—and continually at all,” says expert Arneth. His sphere of responsibility clear framework makes sustainable facility managediscover new ways to save has remained the same and, of course, resource conment an attainable goal.” And one producing concrete energy. servation and energy efficiency had already been on results: At Siemens Healthcare in Forchheim alone, 11 the agenda before. “But the awareness today is comprojects have been implemented since 2010, accounting for annual savings of 345 metric tons of CO2, the equivalent of the emissions of 27 average households. “But that’s just the tip of the iceberg,” Arneth comIn the end, it’s all the little things ments. The next projects are already in the pipeline. that make a big difference. 20 Sustainability Report 2012 Focus Area 2: Active Climate Protection Magazine Stakeholders have their say: Ulrich Timm Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Ulrich Timm, Siemens AG Siemens Real Estate Asset Management What is your job, and how do you interface with HOCHTIEF Facility Management? I’m a property manager at Siemens Real Estate and manage all aspects of several properties, including tenant support, ­repairs, investments, and space planning with tenants. As a result, I interface with my colleagues at HOCHTIEF quite a bit. Once a month, we meet at the sites and discuss things like blueFM projects. What were the reasons for Siemens to introduce blueFM? Siemens is a sustainable company. We have set ourselves climate protection goals and aim to put sustainability into practice, not just talk about it. blueFM offers us the opportunity to gradually optimize our operating environment to ­improve our carbon footprint. What sustainable facility management criteria are particularly important to you? What do you keep an eye out for? We consider it important to use the most environmentally friendly products we can afford and to design processes for maximum energy efficiency. What’s nice about blueFM projects is that cost effectiveness and environmental friendliness go hand in hand. That goes a long way toward encouraging acceptance, since Siemens Real Estate is also obligated to its tenants to keep ancillary costs as low as possible. What has changed since the introduction of blueFM? Our attitude. We’re much more willing to reach into our coffers and invest in environmental protection because the ­issue is always at the forefront. The regular blueFM meetings on site and maintenance of the database are what helps most in this regard. The effect, and therefore the purpose, of the projects is brought into clear focus by the statistics and comparisons showing savings already achieved. The issue really becomes tangible that way. And the public discussion surrounding Germany’s energy transition and global warming just raises awareness even more. The need to be more frugal with resources such as water and energy has been firmly fixed in our consciousness. There is definitely more acceptance, too. Which measure do you think was most persuasive? Actually, rather than a single project, it was the entirety of all the little details. Things that you would think initially would have a minimal effect ended up having huge overall potential when looked at more closely. I can see that this is the case when I take a look at the blueFM database, which has grown considerably in the past two years. In the end, there’s really a lot there. Sustainability Report 2012 21 Reportage xxxxx Magazin Greener pastures: Parts of the Duralie Coal Mine in Australia have been renaturized with native trees and bushes. The measures are part of a large-scale program HOCHTIEF subsidiary Leighton Contractors is carrying out there in order to protect people and the environment. Focus Area 3: Resource Protection Being good Magazine neighbors The platypus, a solitary animal that lives in creeks, rivers, and ponds along Australia’s eastern coast. It is shy and rare—and mostly avoids human contact. Just over two years ago, a juvenile platypus turned up that are protected because they are sacred to Indigenous in front of the office building at Duralie Coal Mine near Australians. Then there is the fauna. As if the local wildGloucester, New South Wales. A worker who happened life wanted to make its presence felt, in the 60 minutes it upon the animal quickly notified Beth Viertel, the Leighton took to drive around the mine site, our path was crossed Contractor’s manager responsible for occupational safeby seven kangaroos, a half-meter goanna lizard, and a ty, health, and environmental protection. The platypus family each of ducks and swans. Duralie is also home to was delicately placed into an empty wastepaper basket echidnas—Australia’s indigenous spiny anteaters—along and released at a watercourse a couple of kilometers with snakes and turtles. away. “It was very cute and a number of people wanted to offer it a home,” laughs Beth Viertel, remembering On top of all this, the nearest neighbors live only a kilothe encounter. meter from the mine. The local farmers expect that mine sites contain their noise, dust and lighting at night. There At the Duralie Mine, mine workers, farmers, and the inare strict environmental compliance obligations imposed digenous fauna live peacefully side by side. This happy on the mine and regulated by the state and federal coexistence only works because the miners do their governments. Should a mining operation fail to adhere ­utmost to be good neighbors—both to their four-legged to these strict environmental obligations, then they can and, most of all, to their two-legged fellows. be expected to be shut down by the regulators. The Duralie mine produces in excess of two million More than just a feel-good factor metric tons of coal per annum. A 170-strong workforce Yet abiding by the law is not the only reason Leighton is employed by Leighton Contractors, a company beContractors miners care about sustainability. Matthew longing to the Leighton Group, HOCHTIEF’s Australian Joyce, project manager at the mine, himself lives within ­subsidiary. The open cut mining operation is owned eyeshot of Duralie. “Many coworkers come from around Source of inspiration and and operated by Yancoal Australia Ltd. here and live close by the mine. That’s reason enough namesake: A platypus that strayed into the Duralie mine for us to leave as little impact as possible,” he says. As and was rescued by workers Challenging neighborhood a manager, though, Joyce is not just driven by the feelgave Beth Viertel of Leighton Contractors the idea for the Duralie mine is located about 300 kilometers north of good factor. Every outlay on environmental protection Golden Platypus environSydney in the midst of gently rolling farmland and a and site rehabilitation, he explains, is first and foremost mental award. couple of hours from the beautiful Barrington Tops, a strictly protected rainforest nature reserve. The Duralie site poses a number of challenges, frequent rainfall means water often has to be pumped into storage dams on site due to a nil-release obligation for mine-related water. Next, the two main coal seams descend into the rock at about a 45 degree angle, making tricky work of extracting the coal. The facility is traversed by a main power line that supplies the area north of the mine with electricity. Close to the mine are a number of small sites Sustainability Report 2012 23 Focus Area 3: Resource Protection One of Ribbons’ workmates won a Golden Platypus for the idea of modifying truck exhausts so they no longer Magazine pointed down, because directed at the ground they churned up a lot of dust when the engine fired up and at other times. The exhaust pipes on all mine vehicles now point upward—therefore eliminating potential dust “Someone comes to me with an idea nearly every month,” says Viertel. Environmental protection takes commitment, she believes, and details matter. “The effect of each individual change might seem negligible, but add it all together and the efficient way we operate here makes a huge difference to the environment.” Another example is how workers are trained to drive haul trucks so as to minimize tire wear when the frequent rain events wet the haul roads. This has cut tire wear by at least 15 perNature returns: Beth Viertel a worthwhile investment in respecting the desire of the cent. That not only means less impact, it saves is in charge of the broad spectrum of renaturization workforce. “Mining has a certain stigma in Australia as ­money—especially with tires for the haul trucks measures at the mine. The a pretty aggressive industry. Our people are proud that costing more than EUR 35,000 a piece. first spoil tips have been planted with native trees we go about things differently at Leighton, that we care and bushes and are today about the environmental impact of what we do and try When it comes to sustainability, there are three key isscarcely distinguishable from surrounding land that to keep it as small as we can.” sues for the Duralie management team: protecting surstayed in its natural state. face waters, and avoiding dust and noise. Duralie sits Col Wheildon, Duralie Mining Superintendent, concurs: between two rivers—home to the platypus—and is a “Our workforce here take sustainability personally. It’s designated zero water emission site. Rainwater pumped more than just part of the job.” One of the many who go out of the mine is collected in large ponds and reused. the extra mile is Lindsay Ribbons. He operates one of In dry periods, it is used to spray the mine to control the 16 haul trucks that move coal or overburden from dust. Another use is to provide water for reforested areas the mine and is a fountain of ideas for making the operaof the site. “Once we are done mining, we spread the tion cleaner and more efficient. His latest was a plan overburden back where it came from and plant thouto locate the night floodlights in such a location that sands of native trees and bushes. When we eventually neighbors would not be in direct sight of the lighting. finish altogether, it will look as if there had never been a mine here at all. That is our goal,” explains Beth Viertel. As a result of the rehabilitation work, the earliest spoil “Our workforce here take sustaintips are scarcely distinguishable from surrounding land that stayed in its natural state. ability personally. It’s more than The weather expert just part of the job.” It is not possible to completely avoid noise altogether in open cut mining, however, as huge machinery is in constant use. The larger of the haul trucks shift 180 metric One of his earlier suggestions was to deploy larger and tons of coal at a time. The excavating machines are as noisier trucks deeper in the mine and smaller and quitall as a three-story building. When their engines fire up eter ones higher up near the rim, primarily to minimize or their giant buckets dig into the ground, noise is presnighttime noise levels. He has already twice won the ent—even with the noise-suppressed machinery used Golden Platypus award—a brainchild of Duralie environby the Duralie team. mental manager Beth Viertel. “I regularly award it to workers who help make the operation even more susOther things are easier to rein in—like dust. Bill Arnold tainable.” The idea came from the platypus that arrived has been a Drill and Blast Engineer for 18 years, and at on site, explains Viertel, who also counts animal welfare Duralie that experience stands him in good stead. For among her interests outside of work. one thing, to get at the coal in the first place, given how the seams plunge steeply into the ground, Arnold and his team get around this by drilling through them and 24 Sustainability Report 2012 Magazine blasting from below for minimum coal contamination. This gets noticed at headquarters. As Craig Tucker, Prized brainstormer: Lindsay Ribbons, who drives one of To minimize the noise and dust nuisance to neighbors, Group Environment Manager at Leighton Contractors, the mine’s giant haul trucks, Arnold’s computer models allow him to predict noise observes, “When you go to a mine, you pick up the has won the Golden Platypus award not once, but and vibration levels. When conditions are not right the working climate in a matter of minutes. Duralie is ordertwice for his savvy environblast is delayed. He also keeps a close eye on wind ly—and by that I don’t just mean everything appears mental ideas. and weather conditions so dust from explosions does Giants at work: The haul trucks not affect neighboring properties. “I have worked in a lot of mines. That means I have something to compare with, and I’m able to say that Leighton Contractors takes environmental protection seriously. Duralie really shift up to 180 metric tons of coal is a good place to work.” And indeed, few who work there want to leave, with workforce turnover marginal. at a time. Sustainability Report 2012 25 Focus Area 3: Resource Protection well looked after. You feel the camaraderie in the team. The workforce come from the area and they want to Magazine take care of where they live.” In July 2012, the government in Canberra once again raised the climate change and environmental policy Australia— stakes by adopting a tax on carbon emissions. That pushed energy efficiency even further up the agenda, the black including at Duralie. Floodlights have been fitted with solar panels, programmed timers turn off diesel-powered continent lighting at daybreak, truck lights have been replaced with LEDs, and all workers are trained in driving to save “Dig up the ground anywhere along the fuel. Reason enough for Leighton Contractors to award east coast and you’ll find coal.” That is a the Duralie team with the company’s internal Excelfairly accurate description of Australia. lence Award in the environment category for 2012. Each year, the country produces some 470 million metric tons of coal, almost all The test comes when visitors leave the mine. The train of it in the two states of New South Wales to Sydney passes within maybe 40 meters of the mine and Queensland. According to industry boundary. Yet there is nothing to see, hear, or smell of statistics, some EUR 21.5 billion have been the operation right alongside. All the better for neighbors invested in Australian coal mining, with like the platypus. around EUR 36 billion worth of new projects planned. All of the top buyers of Australian coal, accounting for 88 percent of the total, are in Asia: Japan, China, Korea, India, and Taiwan. HOCHTIEF subsidiary Leighton, with companies Leighton Contractors, Thiess, and John Holland, is the world’s largest contract miner, with over 30 years in the business. In Australia and Asia, Leighton mainly extracts iron ore and coal, but also metals such as gold, manganese, nickel, and zinc. Leighton’s capabilities include the design, planning, and construction of mines, facilities and their infrastructure; construction management; operation and maintenance; extraction, logistics, technical support, and rehabilitation. 26 Sustainability Report 2012 Magazine Master blaster and weather expert: Bill Arnold draws on his wealth of experience in keeping dust, noise, and ­v ibrations to a minimum when blasting. Stakeholders have their say: Craig Tucker “I am especially proud of our Green Champions program. Each year, Leighton Contractors selects a small group of employees to travel to Lord Howe Island. That’s an island of just under 15 square kilometers in size and located 600 kilometers off the east coast of Australia that was declared a UN World Heritage site in 1982. Lord Howe Island has incredible natural beauty and teems with rare flora and fauna. Leighton employees spend a week on Lord Howe participating in environmental research projects with scientist and rangers and learn about conservation and biodiversity. The essence of the Green Champions project is to immerse our staff in an enriching natural experience to open their eyes to environment values and possible impacts. We then engage with the participants to get recommendations and feedback on how we can better and more practically manage the environment at Leighton Contractors. Craig Tucker, Group Environment The experience for all involved is quite profound.” Manager, Leighton Contractors Sustainability Report 2012 27 Reportage xxxxx Magazin Well-prepared: The offshore workers trained by HOCHTIEF practice forming a circle in order to increase their visibility in the water in an emergency. Occupational safety exercises such as this one are an extremely important part of the specially developed course. Focus Area 4: An Attractive Working Environment A strong team of Magazine offshore workers “Brace! Brace! Brace!” comes the call from the loudspeakers. The passengers adopt the crash position in the helicopter fuselage and, with a loud thwack, it hits the water. This penetrates the cabin with increasing speed, washing around the legs of the men, all of whom are tightly strapped in and preparing for the fuselage to capsize. They press the mouthpieces of the emergency breathThey are not in a life-threatening situation, but inside a ing system firmly between their lips as the fuselage besea survival training center in Bremerhaven, Germany. gins to sink, pulling everyone below the surface with it. The nine men are taking part in the training program for It turns upside down—and so do the passengers. They offshore workers. In mid-2012, almost 50 specialists keep calm, release the emergency window locks, unwere trained here in the construction of offshore wind turfasten their belts, and dive out. bines. These specialists, some with experience at sea and some without, hail from all the professions reRolls of thunder fill the air and lightning reflects off the quired in the construction of such turbines, are prelife jackets. Legs clasped under one another’s shoulpared to work offshore, and meet the necessary ders, they have now been strung together in the water health as well as personal requirements. for what feels like an eternity. It took them a long time to organize themselves into two groups: a total of nine Back to the beginning men, the crew of a transfer helicopter en route to their Monday, April 2, 2012. They sit in the rooms of the place of work out in the North Sea. The wind is incesBremerhaven wind center—25 men, most of them on sant, lashing their faces with cold spray and sending their first day with HOCHTIEF. They give each other the waves rolling over them. Again and again, they spit out once-over. They are strangers, but over the next seven the water that is being forced into their faces. These weeks and beyond, they will experience a great deal quite clearly show their efforts and yet convey an almost and spend much time together. stoic calm and sense of mutual trust. The kind of trust that can only grow from tough training. Short, sharp For not only during the HOCHTIEF course but also orders are heard through the noise: “Just paddle right!”; after it, they will be working together closely as a team. “Just left”; “Stay together!” They know that they will form the assembly team on the “INNOVATION” jack-up vessel for the construction And suddenly—quiet. of the Global Tech I offshore wind farm. The wind has dropped, the waves die down, and all of a sudden it is broad daylight. What was just now a stormy The formula for work sea becomes a calm pool. The rolls of thunder die down to a quiet murmur from the loudspeakers. An occasional offshore: 1/2/12/0/100 flash of lightning still emanates from the strobes on the wall. The exhausted accident victims swim to the edge of the pool and help one another out of the water. Working offshore means one team, two weeks at sea, twelve-hour shifts, almost zero privacy, and total concentration while withstanding the elements. To meet these exacting requirements, HOCHTIEF moved ahead of its time, joining forces with partners to set up the course in 2012. In Bremerhaven, the HOCHTIEF Offshore Crewing staff were prepared for their future work cenSustainability Report 2012 29 Magazine Staging the real thing To achieve this, the real-life conditions experienced when working and living at sea had to be recreated as closely as possible. They were therefore divided into two teams. Each was housed on a fore-and-aft schooner so as to create the proximity needed in order to get to know one another better also after work—all the highs and lows of communal living included. Following a safety briefing by the crew and a communal dinner, the aspiring offshore workers had one last chance for a proper rest: Looking back, they will definitely be describing the coming weeks in one word—strenuous. A new routine To get the workers used to it, the duty roster was drawn up to reflect their subsequent work routine: Training modules were scheduled one after the other, from eight in the morning until nine at night in some cases. After Working safely at heights: trally by taking them through a course that is unique 14 days’ training, they had three to four days off, before A wind turbine is almost 90 meters high from the surface throughout all of Europe. Unique because this kind of they were back again for another 14 days’ training. The of the water to the rotor hub. coaching did not exist before. It combines extensive course comprised three phases: “Occupational Health A fire or an accident at this height is always life-threatspecialist training with team building and produces a and Safety,” “Rigging and Nautical Science,” and “Inening. Far removed from the tight-knit offshore team that is trained on land and at stallation of Offshore Wind Turbines.” normal rescue services, the offshore workers must know sea. how to help themselves. The Safety and environmental protection are a priority at “Rescue at heights” training module is therefore compulThe general nervousness on this day in April is palpable: HOCHTIEF. No wonder, then, that the first part of the sory at HOCHTIEF. Will everything go smoothly? Will the months of plancourse dealt with precisely those areas: The offshore ning for the course bring the success they are hoping workers were trained in both the theory and practice of for? Following a welcome by the wind center team and occupational health and safety and environmental proHOCHTIEF representatives, the budding offshore worktection management. HOCHTIEF’s specialist staff gave ers retire to their rooms, or rather to their bunks. The the participants a closer insight into safe, environmenteam members not only have to be optimally trained in tally friendly conduct, the possible causes of accidents, their field; they also have to be able to get along on an and risk assessment. The offshore workers will be workinterpersonal level as well as respect and trust one aning up to 100 meters above sea level. So besides taking other in any situation. the basic courses in “Rescue at heights” and “Fire fighting”, they had received general safety and emergency training as well. This was followed by the first baptism of fire for each individual and the team—the “Helicopter Underwater 30 Sustainability Report 2012 Escape Training.” The simulated crash of the transfer OFFSHORE helicopter, the appropriate conduct at sea, and the rescue CREWING Magazine measures were all part of this tough survival course lasting several days. Only those who passed and succeeded in proving their worth on the team were allowed Offshore workers to continue. “Cast off!” Although the ships had only been used as accommoThe training for HOCHTIEF Offshore Crewdation up until this point, the moment had now come ing’s first offshore workers was delivered for the team to prove itself “at sea.” It was time for four in cooperation with Förderungsgesellschaft days’ sailing—from Bremerhaven to Helgoland and Dienstleistungen mbH, Berufliche Bildung back—nonstop. Tensions can, of course, arise in such Bremerhaven GmbH, and the wind turbine situations. Therefore, the time was used to analyze the manufacturer Areva Wind. The parties inindividual participants’ team-working experiences with volved pooled their expertise and devised seasoned trainers, develop modes of behavior that fosan intensive training program. This covers ter trust, and nurture the team culture. “When we went all key aspects—from engineering through on the sailing trip, Michael’s eyes lit up and the sailor in safety and environmental protection to him was awoken,” participant Joris Becker says about communication. The Bremerhaven wind his colleague. This brief observation describes the extent center offers trainees the best possible to which the new HOCHTIEF employees had already coaching environment. They also become bonded by this point. acquainted with the installations they will construct at Global Tech I. A load afloat The dimensions of an offshore wind turbine are im“The demands on offshore workers are pressive: The 360-metric-ton nacelle measures roughly enormous. Various different skills are rethe same as a duplex house, a rotor blade has the quired. A high level of training, team skills, span of a jumbo jet, each of the tower segments is almost and safety are particularly important,” says 60 meters in length, and sits on a tripod base weighing Gerd Kroll, Managing Director of HOCHTIEF nearly 900 metric tons. So each installation combines just Offshore Crewing GmbH. under 1,500 metric tons of materials in total. What’s even more impressive is that all this fits on the INNOVATION several times over! First class: In spring 2012, HOCHTIEF and its partners launched the specially developed training course which, over the course of several intense weeks, turned a total of 50 participants into offshore workers. Sustainability Report 2012 31 Magazine Impressive dimensions: The The crew were trained in April and the INNOVATION Ending on a celebratory note deck of the HOCHTIEF jackwas put into service in August. How do you practice In mid-May 2012, the team then received their course up vessel INNOVATION is roughly half the size of a loading and securing freight on a ship that is not yet in certificates. After one last training session with the soccer pitch—and a great service? You build an imitation deck! Without further manufacturers of the wind turbines and an introduction place for newly trained offshore workers to step into ado, the INNOVATION’s deck configuration, including to the nacelles’ sophisticated engineering, the particiaction. the crane, was replicated on a large open space. The pants can quite rightly claim to have done something manufacturers provided the components, enabling the special: They are the first—the first extensively-trained teams to not only practice handling and attaching the offshore workers. They are a team. A team that knows, enormous parts at length but also hone their skills and trusts, and supports one another. They will put to sea absorb what they had learned. feeling safe and secure. Everything went well. The course ran without a hitch How do you practice loading a and 50 participants completed it successfully. “This course prepares us for our job very well,” says Janis ship? You build an imitation deck! Becker. “We have all gotten to know one another here and are familiar with each individual’s strengths and weaknesses. It’s like a family.” Since August 2012, they have formed the INNOVATION’s permanent construction crew and shared their first goal: to build the Global Tech I wind farm on the high seas— safely and effectively. 32 Sustainability Report 2012 Magazine Stakeholders have their say: Andreas Nowacki In November 2011, Berufliche Bildung Bremerhaven GmbH was contacted by ­Förderungsgesellschaft Dienstleistungen mbH who expressed their wish to jointly ­organize an offshore training course together for commercial and technical staff at the HOCHTIEF Group. As we have been providing training for the wind power sector since as far back as 2003, we immediately agreed and got down to work. Working together with HOCHTIEF’s project staff and safety officers in a close relationship of trust, we developed a course of a kind not yet introduced anywhere in Europe. We implemented standards no one had heard of before so as to meet the highest possible safety requirements. What was special about it was that both we as the provider and HOCHTIEF were treading new ground and neither of us made any secret of it. Andreas Nowacki, Shared expertise was collated and every idea assessed as to whether it could be imManaging Director of Berufliche Bildung Bremerhaven GmbH plemented in practice. The mutual regard, the determination, and the trust shown in one another were fantastic. The result is a product that made the entire industry sit up and take notice. So, today, it still gives us a feeling of immense satisfaction when we meet former participants or HOCHTIEF staff on the INNOVATION or on other occasions and talk about how successful the training course was. We are always available for further collaboration and would like to thank HOCHTIEF for showing great trust in us. Sustainability Report 2012 33 Reportage xxxxx Magazin Expanding horizons—something HOCHTIEF also does in Central Africa. Ten employees worked with non-profit organization Bridges to Prosperity and local residents to build a footbridge in Rwanda. It’s an example of HOCHTIEF’s long-term social commitment. Focus Area 5: Corporate Citizenship Building bridges Magazine to the future There are regions where people can only dream of supermarkets, running water and paved roads. The district of Gatsibo in northern Rwanda, the “Land of a Thousand Hills,” is just such a region. Saturday is market day there and it sees dozens of people travelling along dusty tracks to the nearest village. And so it is today. The stream of people shows no sign of abating. Men, of them waving at the workers while the women and women, and children balance potatoes, live chickens, children wash their clothes on the banks. Today, just or bananas on their heads. Carrying their wares for like every day at noon, a farmer herds his cattle down several kilometers, they first make their way down the to the river to quench their thirst. Now, during the dry hill before crossing the Nyamabare river and then climbseason, the water flows smoothly and calmly to the ing up the hill on the opposite side to the market place north. But during the rainy seasons, which last from in Myange. September to December and from February to early June, it is transformed into a raging torrent. On their way, they pass by the HOCHTIEF construction site, where they pause and gaze inquisitively. The new The wooden walkway is flooded bridge over the river will soon be completed. A young Then the water level rises so high that the small existing man hangs back and calls to the European workers in wooden walkway is flooded, and, on occasion, even good English: “That’s a good project! When will the swept away by the current. Many of the 12,000 people bridge be finished?” Soon—in just a few days. in the surrounding area are then cut off from the market, schools, and medical care for weeks at a time. Almost one hundred meters long HOCHTIEF employees, members of Bridges to ProsThere is a more reliable crossing some ten kilometers perity (B2P), and residents from the surrounding villages away—but it’s too far for many of the locals. So there’s are building a new bridge here, one hundred kilometers a good reason for HOCHTIEF and B2P to erect a new from the capital Kigali. It will be 96 meters long. Right structure that will span the river at a height of almost now, they are stretching the steel cables between the ten meters. It’s high enough to enable people to cross towers, which, at just 1.30 meters high, appear rather the river safely even during the wet season. squat. It’s tiring work, especially in the scorching midWorking some ten meters day heat. For B2P, it’s the one hundredth project since the nonabove the ground and well protected: HOCHTIEF emprofit organization was founded around ten years ployees lay the heavy wooden The steady rattle of the chain hoist echoes through the ago—which makes it rather special. Thomas Bang, planks over the cross beams. valley, accompanied by the long drawn-out sound of the power drill. Three to four men in the deep and narrow excavation pit tighten the cables around the anchor blocks, which are set in concrete. Others are preparing the cross-beams onto which the two-meter-long wooden planks that make up the bridge flooring will be laid later on. These boards are stacked close by and are being predrilled. Some of the locals observe this unusual hive of activity. Beneath the cables, the river flows quietly through the green valley. Boys jump exuberantly into the water, some Sustainability Report 2012 35 Focus Area 5: Corporate Citizenship who manages the project on behalf of the organization, labor makes an exciting change from their usual office plans with the utmost care and explains each individual environment—out here, they’re learning about the conMagazine step to the team. As with the majority of B2P structures, struction business and being introduced face-to-face this one is also a hanging bridge and is constructed to a completely different culture. according to a predetermined plan jointly developed by B2P and HOCHTIEF subsidiary Flatiron. They work without the assistance of cranes or excavators; there’s not even a wheelbarrow to be had. They carry stones, cement, wood, and sand to the building 900/day pits, transport the concrete in long human chains, build reinforcement boxes, fit boards and railings on the bridge. And all in just eleven days. Some 900 people cross the Of the six steel cables measuring over 120 meters in length that are currently being stretched, the lower four river every day will support the wooden planks while the upper cables This bridge is also something very special for the HOCHTIEF employees. The fact that they are all working together on “their” project helps them overcome the pain barrier and is turning a group of people who It’s a hit: Before the new bridge has even been opened barely knew each other previously into a close-knit officially, the locals try it out team. The four women and six men normally work in for themselves—some slowly and cautiously, others different company units and regions from Munich to with gusto and enthusiasm. Moscow. The team includes engineers along with a ­Everyone who lent a hand is proud of “their” structure. ­legal expert and commercial managers. The physical 36 Sustainability Report 2012 will act as handrails. It’s now July, the height of the long dry period. The heat is pushing the bridge builders to Magazine their limits, not helped by the fact that each cable weighs around 700 kilograms. Finally, the cables are suspended at the correct height and all becomes clear: “Now I can really picture the bridge,” says Johannes Keitel, project manager from the HOCHTIEF team, that evening. The other volunteers are also delighted to have completed this important stage. Cultures come together A perfect team: Passers-by stop and stare for longer, eagerly awaiting the opening of the bridge. Only a few of the locals speak Flatiron and English or French, which restricts the ability of the bridge builders to engage with them. B2P An interpreter provided to assist on the construction site Flatiron, an American subsidiary of is helping the workers slowly get to know each other. HOCHTIEF, has cooperated with Bridges Bit by bit, the HOCHTIEF employees are also learning to Prosperity (B2P) since 2009. By the end their first few words of the local language, Kinyarwanda, of 2012, more than 60 employees of Flatsuch as “water”, “concrete”, or “goat”. Although armed iron and of fellow Group companies Turner with a limited vocabulary, the new-found coworkers are and E.E. Cruz helped plan and construct still able to understand one another. After all, hand sigseven footbridges in remote areas of South nals can be used to overcome language barriers the and Central America. world over. The accumulated know-how of the bridge “Mzungo, bye!” shout the children construction specialists is put to work in Here, so close to the Equator, it’s already dark by seven every B2P project. This enabled the como’clock in the evening, so the team members down tools pany to develop a prototype hanging bridge and return exhausted to their accommodation several that can be erected in similar form using kilometers away in the nearest large town, Ngarama. As minimal resources anywhere in the world. always, the children rush to the roadside, shouting “Mzungo, bye!” to the departing visitors. Out here, they Flatiron is set to erect three bridges per year stand out as foreigners and it’s yet another unfamiliar up to 2017. HOCHTIEF also intends to build experience for them. The fires for preparing the evening on the success of its first project with two meals are already burning outside some of the houses further bridge projects in 2013. This unique and the smell of smoke fills the car. commitment is expanding into a sponsoring initiative throughout the Group, which It is experiences like these that make the greatest immay also involve Leighton from Australia. pressions on the European volunteers. Linda Klasen, facility manager from Hamburg, is astonished: “Although people have to make do with very little compared to us, they are still full of the joys of life. They make the best of what they have and greet us every day with a smile.” Their good humor is simply infectious. The HOCHTIEF employees live here for two weeks without home comforts. However, their accommodation still boasts electricity and cold water showers, which is almost luxury compared to what their colleagues from Flatiron must endure. The American HOCHTIEF subSustainability Report 2012 37 Magazine Eleven days’ of hard work sidiary was the first Group company to cooperate with also what inspires the HOCHTIEF employees in Rwanda. have been worth it: The new B2P. In 2012 alone, three teams that included employHere, they are putting our corporate vision into practice bridge is finished. The HOCHTIEF volunteers have ees from Turner and E.E. Cruz traveled to Nicaragua. in the truest sense: “HOCHTIEF is building the future.— not only seen that a structure Volunteers in El Rodeo were put up in tents close to the Along with our partners, we expand horizons, link people meas­uring almost 100 meters can be erected with limited construction site, for example, although it didn’t dampen and organizations, create new ways to think and act …” resources, but have also their enthusiasm in the slightest. ­learned a great deal about foreign cultures and team And so it is in reality: Just five days after the cables are spirit. One of these was Teresa Gunnarsen, business manager secured, the new bridge sways gently over the Nyama­ for Flatiron in Alberta, Canada: “I worked harder than bare. The local residents’ quality of life has been made a I’d ever thought I could, met people I never would have little better. As hundreds of villagers sing and dance otherwise—these two weeks were extraordinary,” she with joy, all the volunteers walk across the bridge for says of her experience. the first time. “This project means less isolation for each and every one of us,” stresses Ruboneza Ambroise, mayor of Gatsibo. He is grateful to everyone who worked to deliver a small piece of infrastructure that does so “They make the best of what they much to overcome barriers. have and greet us every day with a The HOCHTIEF employees are delighted to have successfully completed their project on time and with such smile.“ limited resources. They will leave their bridge behind them, but will bring to bear during their day-to-day work their impressions, the experience of strong team spirit, A narrow bridge transforms the lives of many and the motivation gained. However, the bridge will be An awareness of the need to help other people, knowa permanent fixture; the locals will make sure of that. ing that this little help makes their lives a lot easier, is The past two weeks have shown them how it’s done. 38 Sustainability Report 2012 Magazine Stakeholders have their say: Ken Frantz “There are more than 580,000 bridges in the USA and even more in Europe. They are the lifeblood of our civilization. Without them, efficient trade would be impossible and people would be unable to access medical care or schools. In the 50 poorest countries of the world, however, more than one billion people live in a society virtually without bridges of any kind. There, rivers are insurmountable obstacles. Of course, these people also lack many other basic services, and there are many other organizations that focus on these needs. B2P, however, focuses entirely on building footbridges. HOCHTIEF or Flatiron are indispensable in leading and supporting our mission work. As well as providing substantial financial support, they lead in creating new sustainable bridge designs, and send teams to lead bridge construction on these same innovative designs. Ken Frantz, In doing so, they receive a great deal in return: Team spirit among the workforce is founder of the organization Bridges to Prosperity strengthened, as is staff loyalty, and the company’s image is improved. Numerous studies have shown that employees today want to do more than simply offer their services for financial reward. They want to be proud of what they do, and feel that they are pursuing a higher purpose. Virtually all volunteers who return from a B2P project have a clearer understanding of the importance of their professional work and purpose in life. With their commitment and their knowledge, the experts from HOCHTIEF and Flatiron are giving those living in extreme poverty the gift of opportunity and a higher quality of life. We are delighted to have them on board as stakeholders and an integral part of our team.” Sustainability Report 2012 39 Reportage xxxxx Magazin Proper conduct, both ethically and legally, is of utmost importance for companies and employees alike. An interview with Dr. Thomas Sonnenberg offers a look at compliance at HOCHTIEF and discusses the prospects for the future. Focus Area 6: Compliance Quo vadis, Magazine compliance? In Dr. Thomas Sonnenberg, HOCHTIEF has acquired a new head of Corporate Governance/Corporate Compliance. What is Dr. Sonnenberg’s vision for this area, which has gained massive­ ly in momentum over the past 15 years? And what are the first projects on his personal to-do list? The Sustainability Report editorial team spoke with him about these issues. Dr. Sonnenberg, you have headed Corporate all Group companies. To do so, we must pursue an exGovernance/Corporate Compliance at HOCHTIEF change of information with our foreign companies even since August of 2012. What aroused your intermore intensely in the future. est in this job? Both the company and the job itself: HOCHTIEF is a GerIn addition, each business segment at HOCHTIEF is, of man company rich in tradition that is now broadly posicourse, already facing its own special challenges and tioned internationally. As one of the leading construction own risks with respect to compliance. When developing groups worldwide, HOCHTIEF has an extensive portfonew segments or tapping into regions with different lio of products and services ranging from conventional cultures, the main thing for us is to explore them and construction projects all the way to innovative tech­ implement the appropriate measures in response to nologies for transforming the supply of energy in Gerthe situation at hand. Specifically, this means that the many. My areas of responsibility are just as varied. I am project managers—for example, in the case of projects in charge of managing the Executive Board Secretariat, in countries in which HOCHTIEF has not yet gathered including the Corporate Legal department, Corporate any experience—must carefully analyze all risks, toCompliance, and Corporate Auditing. As well as being gether with their contacts in the compliance organizaable to draw on my previous professional experience, I tion. It is then the task of the persons responsible for am also dealing with topics in which I have thus far not the project to communicate the challenges faced by been directly involved. For me, this is an ideal mix, and HOCHTIEF to those contacts and request a solution. naturally also a challenge. Possible measures might be, for example, that the project team receive the necessary training or that HOCHTIEF Which challenges do you see in the area of compliance directives be implemented in the project ­compliance at HOCHTIEF? company. However, when clients are public authorities, The compliance organization at HOCHTIEF deals it may also be necessary to conclude agreements on with fight­ing economic crime, especially corruption. implementation of the project and to include integrity HOCHTIEF’s international standing alone leads to a numclauses. Our goal is to extend our standards to all of ber of exciting topics in this regard. It is important that HOCHTIEF’s business operations in a uniform manner. all global companies familiarize themselves with the different anti-corruption laws in the countries in which they What is the strategic contribution of compliance operate. Plus, the challenges faced by compliance systo the success of the company? tems are also growing. In April 2011, the Institut der These days, it is no longer conceivable for an internationWirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Ger­many) al company not to include topics such as compliance published an audit standard on compliance in Germany, and sustainability in general in its corporate strategy. which is the first time there has been a systematic repreAfter all, breaches of compliance represent one of the sentation of the basic elements of compliance manage­ ten biggest risks for a company. ment systems in Germany. Our goal at the HOCHTIEF Group is to work even more diligently on a common If you ask about the impact of such a breach, the direct understanding of the challenges inherent in compliance financial consequences are mentioned first and foremost, systems in order to establish comparable standards at besides the criminal law consequences for the compaSustainability Report 2012 41 Focus Area 6: Compliance Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft various major corporations, which were followed very closely and made very prominent by the media. Magazine OSHEP Chief Compliance Officer Data ProtecThere has been a general recognition of how important Center tion officer behaving with integrity is for a company’s reputation, and which criminal and civil law liability risks companies, management, and employees subject themselves to in Corporate Compliance Counsel Corporate Crime Prevention cases of non-compliance. Along with general awareness, standards also rose. The important thing is that compliance is more than introducing guidelines on gifts HOCHTIEF Americas HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific HOCHTIEF Europe along with a code of conduct. It is much more important to create a corporate culture in which each employee questions his or her own behavior at the right time and ny management and its employees. These include, for asks for advice in case of doubt. I am glad that this funinstance, high penalties or damage claims. But, of course, damental awareness exists among our employees. indirect damage should not be discounted, either. For Nonetheless: The best is the enemy of the good—much example, this may involve damage to a company’s repu­ has been done, and there’s still much to do. Our goal tation, the financial impact of which can hardly be must be to anchor compliance even more deeply at quantified. For a listed company such as HOCHTIEF, HOCHTIEF. For example, we want to use documented damage to our image could lead to a considerable drop processes to make our compliance work even more in share prices. In the business world, a bad reputation transparent and also enable review of its effectiveness. most definitely makes it more difficult to convince partners to enter into transactions. This also goes without How do you intend to achieve this? How will you saying in connection with funding for companies or projintroduce this topic in the company? ects. Exclusion from public tenders may be a further HOCHTIEF has a variety of communication paths availconsequence of compliance violations. Finally, trust may able for the purpose of reaching out to employees and also be compromised. That, in turn, makes it harder to informing them about directives or current topics related hire new qualified employees, and can induce longto compliance. Along with the information made availstanding employees to leave the company. able on the intranet, these include regular contributions to in-house publications such as our employee magaConversely, this means that a broad-based compliance zine. In addition, some years ago we developed a trainorganization represents an advantage in today’s world, ing concept comprising two components—e-learning given that this topic is now increasingly playing a greater and on-site training. We combine these two elements role in competition between companies. The fewer because along with providing information, a key elecompliance risks a partner suspects of existing in a ment in communication is, of course, personal dialog, company, the easier it is for that partner to decide to which we foster on a continuing basis through on-site cooperate in a joint venture. training as well as on other occasions. HOCHTIEF made a commitment to compliance It is also very important to me that the compliance sysvery early on. How has the topic of compliance tem be comprehensible and behave consistently. When changed in the corporate world in the meantime, employees address questions to us, they should be and which aspects do you believe will become able to approximate the answers themselves. Firstly, more important in the future? because they know and understand the rules and, secIt’s quite true that HOCHTIEF already committed itself to ondly, because they realize that the same issues will the topic of compliance in the last millennium, making ­always be handled in the same way. us a very early adopter in comparison with other companies. This topic has gained fresh momentum in recent HOCHTIEF needs employees who go about their busiyears due to the compliance incidents that occurred in ness with their eyes open and have the courage to speak to us and report irregularities. It is important to HOCHTIEF 42 Sustainability Report 2012 management as well as to me and my team that those who display such courage be protected. It goes without Magazine saying that we treat the issues reported confidentially. If someone is nonetheless concerned about being subject to reprisals due to having made a report, it is possible to report issues anonymously. Apart from protecting the person providing the information, we also want to protect those against whom an accusation has been Dr. Thomas made. Sonnenberg What measures do you take to enshrine values and rules in the minds of your employees? Dr. Thomas Sonnenberg, aged 51, has It is a matter of great importance to me that the comheaded Corporate Governance at pliance system itself is credible and consistent. FurHOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft in Essen thermore, the job of the Compliance Officer at our subsince August 2012. In this capacity, he is sidiaries is becoming increasingly important. Corporate responsible for the legal and auditing secCompliance can give substantial support here, but as tions as well as the Executive Board Secthey say in the sports world, “it’s what happens on the retariat. He is also the Group’s Chief Comfield that counts.” In this respect, the significance of the pliance Officer. Compliance Officer and the eight General Compliance Managers appointed at the segment level as well as Dr. Sonnenberg studied law at the University the 75 Compliance Managers appointed in the branches of Cologne, where he went on to earn his in 2011 and 2012 cannot be overestimated. They are doctorate in 1989. After completing his “on-site compliance” personified. The new organization studies, he joined the Sal. Oppenheim bank at HOCHTIEF Solutions AG represents a milestone in in Cologne. There he was appointed Genterms of enshrining values and rules in the company. eral Counsel for the group’s legal and tax This positioning will allow us to offer our employees division for Germany in 2002 and for Luxtraining that is even broader and more in-depth in 2013. embourg starting in 2007. In addition, Dr. Sonnenberg was a member of the manWhat are the next projects that you would like to agement board committee of Sal. Oppentackle? heim jr. & Cie. S.C.A., Luxembourg, until First of all, the Corporate Compliance department will the end of 2008. In March 2010, he achave to strengthen its numbers to be able to fulfill tasks cepted a membership on the loan commore effectively than before. The toughening of anti-cormittee and on one additional management ruption laws I already mentioned is increasing the duty board committee at Sal. Oppenheim. His of care required for companies, particularly in the semost recent position was as General lection of business partners. The most ambitious projCounsel for Ferrostaal AG in Essen from ect in this connection will surely be setting up business 2010 to 2012. partner compliance screening on an IT-supported platform. This project will keep us busy in 2013 in preventive compliance. The IT support is intended to better document and standardize the selection process. This will also increase transparency when we contract with business partners. We believe that an improved review of business partners will be instrumental to our efforts to develop compliance both strategically and organizationally. Sustainability Report 2012 43 HOCHTIEF stands for active environmental and climate protection. My conservation 44 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF our area HOCHTIEF aims to minimize the impact of its operations on the soil, water, air, and climate. Environmental and climate protection—goals we pursue with the latest technologies, tailor-made concepts, and heartfelt commitment. Sustainability Report 2012 45 The Company For further information on HOCHTIEF is one of the world’s leading construction groups. We have been delivering our core competency of the HOCHTIEF Group, please see www.hochtief.com and construction for 140 years, focusing on complex infrastructure projects in the transportation, energy, social and the HOCHTIEF Annual Re­urban infrastructure segments, and in the contract mining business. Our portfolio also includes developing and port 2012. operating real estate and facilities. Thanks to its international subsidiaries and associates, HOCHTIEF is on the map in all m ­ ajor regional markets worldwide. Sustainable strategy • Achieve differentiation through unique solutions: Our forward-looking strategy is all about achieving a HOCHTIEF stands for technical excellence and innosustained increase in our company’s profitability and vative edge. Our one-of-a-kind solutions give us a Sustainability at HOCHTIEF efficiency and making us more competitive. Our skilled competitive advantage and make us a partner of staff create value for clients, shareholders, and choice, notably on complex projects (see also page HOCHTIEF alike. 72 et seq.). HOCHTIEF’s strategy comprises the following • HOCHTIEF: Best place to work: ­elements: Our employees’ capabilities are a key factor in • Focus on the competencies of development, HOCHTIEF’s business success. This is why it is imconstruction, and operation, particularly infraportant to attract and retain the right workforce for structure projects: our company (see also page 62 et seq.). HOCHTIEF offers tailored solutions and, through its competencies, makes a key contribution to meeting When it comes to implementing our strategy, sustainthe challenges faced by modern societies. On comability is a key aspect and therefore a guiding principle plex infrastructure projects in particular, HOCHTIEF is enshrined in our corporate strategy. It opens up numera sought-after partner and source of expertise. The ous opportunities for HOCHTIEF to achieve its business Group carries out projects in the transportation, engoals. A vision and guiding principles, codes of conergy, social and urban infrastructure segments, and duct as well as management systems and tools have in the contract mining business for private and publicbeen established within the Group so that we can sector clients worldwide. In addition to mainstream ­balance economic, environmental, and social considera­ construction, we also provide upstream and downtions in our decision-making processes and assess stream serv­ices for real estate and facilities, such as and appraise the effects, risks, and opportunities assoenergy and facility management. Our clients benefit ciated with our business activities (see also the followfrom our end-to-end approach and the projects’ ing sections). ­holistic perspective. • Optimize financial fire power: (For further information, please see page 47 of the HOCHTIEF Annual Report 2012.) • Improve risk management: The focus of our risk management system is on selecting the right markets, project size, target projects, and partners, as well as qualified employees, appropriate financial and contractual structures, and effective control and management mechanisms (see also page 60). 46 Sustainability Report 2012 A big-picture approach delivers one-of-a-kind The various stakeholder groups naturally differ greatly solutions with regard to issues and perspectives. HOCHTIEF is HOCHTIEF’s solutions are unique. For each of our projcareful to address the respective challenges discerningly ects, it is necessary to develop a separate production and develop solutions on a case-by-case basis. Within process, taking into account both the client’s individual the Group, there are therefore various different approaches requirements and the overall parameters. Our approach to and tools for stakeholder dialog. HOCHTIEF presents is fundamentally sustainable: HOCHTIEF offers services its capabilities to clients at numerous trade shows, spanning the entire infrastructure project, real estate, conferences, and other events and actively participates and facility life cycle. On many projects—particularly in industry discussions. As and when the need arises, Sustainability at HOCHTIEF those that we carry out on a public-private partnership HOCHTIEF companies and units carry out customer basis—we provide services throughout all phases, from satisfaction analyses and surveys, such as the “Green the initial idea right through to completion, from comBuilding Market Barometer 2012” conducted by our US missioning to revitalization. HOCHTIEF views projects subsidiary Turner (see also the article starting on page from a holistic perspective. From long before the con10). A regular image survey enables HOCHTIEF to learn struction phase begins, we work in close partnership and about how the company is perceived in the public eye dialog with clients and others involved, and plan well and identify development potential. ahead to factor in sustainability considerations such as energy efficiency and project life cycle assessments. Journalists who cover HOCHTIEF in the media are furOur 360-degree perspective enables us to produce nished with regular, timely, and transparent informatop quality from end to end—and offers advantages for tion—on request, through informal background briefthe client, HOCHTIEF, and the environment alike. ings—and at regular events such as press conferences. Likewise, analysts and investors can obtain up-to-date Open dialog with stakeholders information specifically tailored to their needs from our HOCHTIEF shapes living spaces. Our business activiwebsite* at any time. In addition, our investor relations *For further information, please see www.hochtief. ties therefore impact on the people who live in, work (IR) team and the Executive Board provide information com/investor-relations. on, and use our projects. As a global company, we opin one-on-one meetings as well as at regular roadshows erate in a variety of different legal and cultural environand conferences. In late 2012, our IR team conducted ments and employ almost 80,000 people worldwide. This an online survey among analysts, current and potential is reflected in the many stakeholder groups HOCHTIEF investors, and those interested in HOCHTIEF shares in has (see list on page 51 et seq.). We seek to engage in order to even better tailor the information offering to purposeful dialog with them and, in doing so, attach ­users’ needs. This survey asked for views on the website, utmost importance to transparency. Our policy of prothe quality of the publications and personal communividing open, timely information enables stakeholders to cation, and the relevance of modern information technolform a picture of the company and reach decisions. In ogies and media. The feedback was mostly good and, return, this active dialog with stakeholders lets HOCHTIEF where possible, action is taken to implement specific take their requirements, wishes, and expectations on wishes, such as the request for certain key figures to board in its business activities and continue to selecbe included or specific effects to be explained in detail. tively develop its products and services. There is currently no demand for social media to be used. Sustainability Report 2012 47 Key figures 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Extract from the Five Year Summary in the HOCHTIEF New orders EUR million 25,284 22,473 29,627 25,368 31,488 Annual Report 2012 Of total: domestic 2,549 1,919 2,524 2,286 2,127 international 22,735 20,554 27,103 23,082 29,361 Work done EUR million 21,620 20,566 23,234 25,790 29,693 Of total: domestic 2,820 2,284 1,804 2,017 2,129 international 18,800 18,282 21,430 23,773 27,564 Order baklog at year-end EUR million 30,961 35,374 47,486 48,668 49,794 Of total: domestic 3,603 2,996 3,726 4,048 3,991 international 27,358 32,378 43,760 44,620 45,803 Employees (average for year) Total Number 64,527 66,178 70,657 75,449 79,987 Of total: domestic 11,004 11,135 10,821 10,331 10,111 international 53,523 55,043 59,836 65,118 69,876 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF External sales EUR million 18,703 18,166 20,159 23,282 25,528 Increase/(decrease) on prior year % 13.7 -2.9 11.0 15.5 9.6 Materials EUR million 14,273 12,563 13,764 15,572 17,312 Materials ratio % 74.7 69.0 67.8 67.3 67.6 Personnel costs EUR million 3,266 3,501 4,081 4,864 5,536 Payroll ratio % 17.1 19.2 20.1 21.0 21.6 Depreciation and amortization EUR million 392 501 679 783 919 Profit from operating activities EUR million 287 525 715 626 595 Net income from participating interests EUR million 306 227 223 (585) 186 Net investment and interest income EUR million (96) (155) (181) (168) (235) Profit before taxes EUR million 497 597 757 (127) 546 New orders by region Work done by region Order backlog by region Asia/Pacific/Africa 58.6 % Asia/Pacific/Africa 61.9 % Asia/Pacific/Africa 65.4 % Americas 31.3 % Americas 27.3 % Americas 22.5 % Germany 6.8 % Germany 7.2 % Germany 8.0 % Eastern Eeurope 1.6 % Eastern Eeurope 1.6 % Eastern Eeurope 1.1 % Rest of Europe 1.7 % Rest of Europe 2.0 % Rest of Europe 3.0 % 100 % = EUR 31.49 billion 100 % = EUR 29.69 billion 100 % = EUR 49.79 billion Ownership structure (as of December 31, 2012) Free float 35.70 % Treasury stock 4.40 % Qatar Holding 10.00 % ACS* 49.90 % *ACS ACTIVIDADES DE CONSTRUCCIÓN Y SERVICIOS, S.A., Madrid 48 Sustainability Report 2012 The Company HOCHTIEF around the world HOCHTIEF around the world: A selection of the many companies in our divisions shows HOCHTIEF’s global presence. For further information, please see F L AT I R O N ™ www.hochtief.com LEIGHTON F L AT I R O N LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON Sustainability at HOCHTIEF LEIGHTON Leighton Holdings LEIGHTON Corporate Headquarters (management holding company) HOCHTIEF Americas HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific HOCHTIEF Europe Turner (USA) Leighton Holdings (Australia) HOCHTIEF Solutions Flatiron (USA, Canada) Leighton Contractors (Aus­tralia, (Abu Dhabi, Austria, ­Bahrain, Bulgaria, Chile, Czech Botswana, New Zealand) Republic, ­Denmark, Germany, Greece, Hungary, ­India, E.E. Cruz (USA) Ireland, Luxembourg, Peru, Poland, Qatar, ­Romania, Clark Builders (Canada) Thiess (Australia, India, Indonesia) Russia, Serbia, South ­Africa, Sweden, ­Switzerland, John Holland Group (Australia) Turkey, UK) Leighton Properties (­Australia) HOCHTIEF ViCon (Germany, Qatar) Leighton Asia (Cambodia, Hong Streif Baulogistik (Austria, Germany, Poland, Qatar, Kong, India, I­ndonesia, ­L aos, Macau, ­Russia, Ukraine) Malaysia, Mongolia, ­Philippines, HOCHTIEF Property Management (Germany) ­Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, ­Vietnam) aurelis Real Estate (Germany) Habtoor Leighton Group (Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab ­Emirates) HOCHTIEF Energy Management (Germany) HOCHTIEF PPP Solutions (Canada, Chile, Germany, Greece, India, Ireland, UK, USA) Distribution of value added 2010 2011 2012 EUR million % EUR million % EUR million % Employees 4,078.4 80.3 4,860.3 97.5 5,537.2 86.8 Lenders 245.8 4.8 249.2 5.0 297.6 4.7 Minority shareholders 258.2 5.1 (7.6) -0.2 227.5 3.6 HOCHTIEF shareholders 147.1 2.9 0.0 0.0 73.6 1.2 Public authorities 210.3 4.1 40.9 0.8 160.8 2.5 HOCHTIEF 140.9 2.8 (160.3) -3.2 84.5 1.3 Net value added 5,080.7 100.0 4,982.5 100.0 6,381.2 100.0 Value added analysis shows how HOCHTIEF generates added value for the economy and how it is distributed to the various skakeholder groups. Sustainability Report 2012 49 Sustainability Strategy HOCHTIEF is well aware of its responsibility toward society and the environment. We act with an eye toward the future, which is why we have made sustainability—the relationship between business, the environment, and social responsibility—one of the guiding principles of HOCHTIEF’s Group strategy. Sustainability guides our work in many areas of operation and presents new opportunities for us to reach our business goals. Our commitment to sustainability has a long tradition at Sustainability strategy and focus areas HOCHTIEF and is part of our corporate vision: In the process of developing our CR/sustainability strategy, we examined the current and future challenges faced “HOCHTIEF is building the future.—Along with our partby modern societies and the contribution HOCHTIEF Sustainability at HOCHTIEF ners, we expand horizons, link people and organizacan make on the basis of its competencies. This ground­ tions, create new ways to think and act, and continually work led to the definition, in 2008, of our six overenhance the values entrusted to our care.” arching sustainability issues: • Sustainable products and services *For further information, Our guiding principles* help implement the HOCHTIEF • Active climate protection please see www.hochtief. vision. They are based on four main areas and fully • Resource protection com/sustainability. cover the Global Reporting Initiative criteria: • Attractive working environment • Client-oriented service spectrum • Corporate citizenship • Successful employees • Compliance • Sustainability • Value-oriented strategy These areas form the basis of our CR strategy and the resulting objectives and measures (see “CR program” As early as 2000, we became the first construction starting on page 53). They are relevant to all of our segcompany in the world to sign on to the standards of the ments and help us in delivering on our social respon­ www.ilo.org International Labor Organization (ILO) aimed at ensibility. As part of the CR directive introduced in 2011, abling women and men the world over to work in conthese areas are applicable to all Group divisions. ditions of freedom, equity, security, and human dignity. In 2008, HOCHTIEF joined the United Nations Global Materiality analysis www.unglobalcompact.org Compact . In addition, we put our commitment to In 2012, we initiated an Internet survey to review the sustainability on record in 2010 by signing the Code of ­validity of our sustainability areas along with how they Responsible Conduct for Business, giving our volunare prioritized and how significant they are for our tary pledge along with 42 other corporate groups to stakeholders. A total of 215 individuals from HOCHTIEF’s sustainability, social partnership, merit, and fair compevarious stakeholder groups took part in the survey. The tition. results were compiled to form a materiality matrix comparing the different areas and their significance for our Taking economic, ecological, and social concerns into stakeholders and for HOCHTIEF. According to the rebalanced consideration—that is the challenge we are sults, all six areas continue to be highly relevant. We see faced with every day. We firmly believe in the benefits this as confirming the direction we have taken with our and in the efficiency of sustainable services and develsustainability strategy. Based on the information gathered, opment. In many areas, we are registering rising dewe will now work on developing the individual aspects mand for responsibly implemented projects—from deof these areas. velopment to construction and operation. 50 Sustainability Report 2012 Exchanges with stakeholders Materiality analysis Sustainability topics are often complex and require the Very high relevance cooperation of various representatives of industry, government, and society. We have identified our stakeholders as those groups that significantly impact the economic, ecological, and social welfare capability of HOCHTIEF today and in the future as well as those Significance for our stakeholders groups that are significantly affected by the economic, ecological, and social welfare capability of our Group Sustainability at HOCHTIEF and that could continue to be affected in the future. In identifying our stakeholders, we drew in particular on the experience gained from our longstanding customer relationships, our project activities, our communication work, and regular market surveys. Significance for HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF’s stakeholders are: high relevance very high relevance • Employees • Clients: decision makers from industry and politics  ustainable products and S Attactive working environment services Corporate citizenship • Government and public authorities Active climate protection Compliance • Investors, shareholders, analysts Resource protection • Journalists • Associations and organizations, NGOs CR Organization • Neighbors and local residents Management of sustainability issues is performed by • High school and college/university students, recent the CR function within HOCHTIEF Corporate Developgraduates ment. In this way, we also ensure that our organization • Universities, colleges, and scientific institutions incorporates sustainability into strategic development • Subcontractors and suppliers and the shaping of innovation processes. Established in 2007, the CR Committee is in charge of ongoing deCR Organization velopment of the HOCHTIEF sustainability strategy. It HOCHTIEF Executive Board also translates that strategy into targets and action items, and then initiates and monitors their implemenStrategy Recommendations tation. In its work, the Committee makes use of the Group’s management systems and the compliance or• Investors CR Committee: Sustainability • Clients • Associations/ • Chairman of the excellence • Associations/ ganization, which will be introduced in the following NGOs Executive Board team: NGOs pages. The CR Committee reports directly to the Execu• Employees • Representatives • Representatives • State/public • Journalists of corporate deof operational authorities tive Board, providing advice and making recommenda• Scientists partments units • Scientists tions. The Committee meets on a quarterly basis. In • Students/ • Representatives •R  epresentatives • Subcontracgraduates of divisions of corporate tors 2008, the sustainability excellence team was founded. • Works council departments • Suppliers • CR function • CR function •N  eighbors/loIt is comprised primarily of employees in the operational cal residents units. The sustainability excellence team translates strategic ideas into sustainable products and services CR program Information Credit ­exchange and brings those products and services to market. Divisions/ operational units Sustainability Report 2012 51 The composition of our central decision-making CR CR data compilation and quality bodies reflects the rigorous alignment of our activities We endeavor to improve the quality and comprehento stakeholder interests. HOCHTIEF attaches great imsiveness of our CR data. The aim is to make success in portance to a transparent approach in all our dealings the area of sustainability measurable using meaningful with stakeholder groups. To support them in gaining an performance indicators. Since 2010, we have been understanding of our company, we supply our stakeworking with a HOCHTIEF-developed IT-based reportholders with information openly and promptly, tailoring ing system called “CRedit”. CRedit collects quantitative contents specifically to each target group. This in turn and qualitative indicators on our six focus areas. Stand­ gives HOCHTIEF the opportunity to identify and differardized definitions, systems and processes ensure entiate the requirements of its stakeholders and to take high-quality data. CRedit already supplies the majority these into account in its corporate action. of the information published in this report and repreSustainability at HOCHTIEF sents an important step toward improving internal sustainability monitoring and control. During the reporting period, key improvements were made to the system, and it was also externally audited in 2012. *For further information, please see www.hochtief. com/investor-relations. Sustainability indexes* In 2012, HOCHTIEF qualified for the renowned ability Performance Index (ASPI) Eurozone and Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe for the one of 120 top companies in the euro zone that seventh time in succession and still as the sole are valued using a best-in-class method. German construction services provider. The DJSI lists companies that implement and track ecological In 2010, the Carbon Disclosure Project for the and social as well as financial criteria. In February first time included HOCHTIEF in the Carbon Dis2011, HOCHTIEF’s existing listing—dating back to closure Leadership Index of the DACH region (Ger2007—in the Ethibel Sustainability Index Exmany, Austria, and Switzerland). The project incellence Europe was renewed. We are one of volves testing the 350 largest companies in each four European companies from the construction region for transparency in their carbon emission industry and the only German construction comreporting. HOCHTIEF was again included in the pany to be listed. The index, published by an indeLeadership Index in 2012, ranking No. 31. This pendent consulting company for socially responsible put us in Carbon Performance Group C. These investment, ranks listed companies according to results confirm that climate change is of sufficient their performance on a range of issues such as importance to HOCHTIEF and that relevant the environment, treatment of employees, corpo­a ction and initiatives are built into our corporate rate governance, and social responsibility. strategy. HOCHTIEF is also the sole German construction As these index listings demonstrate, the capital group represented in the MSCI World ESG Index market honors our sustainability approach. 2012/2013, which lists companies that are highly committed to environmental, social, and govern­ They mean that HOCHTIEF shares are also suitance (ESG) issues. We are also the only German able for investors who align their portfolios to strict industry representative in the Advanced Sustainsustainability criteria. 52 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Strategy CR Program Corporate responsibility Overarching objective: We aim to be a responsible corporate citizen and set standards in our industry. We nurture the interrelationship in our company between business, the environment, and social responsibility and we engage in open dialog with stakeholders. Goal Action to 2015 Status December 31, 2012 Improve organizational strucIntensify cooperation with Plans to organize and staff the committee ture and processes in CR the divisions: Establish a CR ­underway management Steering Committee 2013: Submit a compliance CR Committee resolution on complying with Increase transparency in susdeclaration with the German the German Sustainability Code passed tainability management Sustainability Code Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Implement a web-based verIntegration in existing IT landscape concluded, reImprove CR data quality sion of the CRedit data entry porting and valuation process created and imsystem throughout the Group plemented, external audit successfully concluded Introduce regular stakeholdFirst Internet-based survey in October 2012; Intensify and structure stakeer surveys 215 participants holder dialog Conduct regular image/ Most recent HOCHTIEF image survey in reputation surveys ­November 2011 Sustainable products and services Overarching objective: We aim to lead the global market for sustainable projects in the construction and construction-related services segments. We are therefore adding to our range of services spanning the infrastructure project, real estate, and facility life cycle. Goal Action to 2015 Status December 31, 2012 Continue sustainability 16th meeting in August 2012 Develop new sustainable ­excellence team activities products and services along Decentralize and internation15 web-based “Ideas Rooms” for employee the life cycle alize ideas management ideas established; new software introduced; plans to integrate Turner underway Increase the number of certi311 LEED-certified projects fied buildings with HOCHTIEF 298 LEED-registered projects involvement 1,390 LEED-accredited auditors 14 DGNB-certified projects 15 DGNB-registered projects 6 DGNB-accredited auditors 26 Green Star-certified projects Increase HOCHTIEF 3 Green Star-registered projects ­involvement in sustainable 34 Green Star-accredited auditors construction worldwide 3 BREEAM-certified projects 1 BREEAM-registered project 1 BREEAM-accredited auditor Other certificates: HafenCity: 1; minergie: 1 Group sales in the green building segment: EUR 4.49 billion Increase the number of ex89 percent of all corporate units certified Increase customer satisfaction ternal ISO 9001 certifications Sustainability Report 2012 53 Active climate protection Overarching objective: We aim to save carbon emissions together with our clients. Goal Action to 2015 Status December 31, 2012 Define new climate change Conceptual planning started mitigation targets Group-wide Lower internal carbon Cut business travel kilometers HOCHTIEF in Germany: Business travel kilometers ­emissions at HOCHTIEF by using web and video per employee per year reduced by 29 percent ­conferences (reference year: 2008); new video conference systems installed in Essen, New York, Boston, and Sydney Implement carbon monitorCarbon emission coverage in the Group: 85 Improve data quality on caring at Flatiron and Leighton percent of all corporate units (see page 71); bon emissions and energy Asia; external validation of HOCHTIEF again included in the Carbon Sustainability at HOCHTIEF consumption in the Group Group carbon emissions ­Disclosure Leadership Index (DACH region: Germany, Austria, and Switzerland) Use energy contracting 2012: 118 thousand metric tons of carbon Lower carbon emissions for ­solutions to reduce clients’ saved clients ­carbon emissions Expand offshore wind HOCHTIEF participation in six wind farms in the ­energy activities North and Baltic Seas; launch of the HOCHTIEFdeveloped “Innovation” jack-up vessel; HOCHTIEF entry into wind farm development; innovative Expand services in the process for establishing offshore wind farms in ­strategic area of energy cooperation with Herrenknecht in trial phase ­infrastructure Develop and implement Research project underway on using hollow ­efficient and innovative spheres on the sea floor as storage; planning ­electricity storage devices started for first pumped storage power plant in Lower Saxony Resource protection Overarching objective: We aim to conserve natural resources and optimize the use and protection of resources. Goal Action to 2015 Status December 31, 2012 Ensure implementation of the No Category 1 environmental damage was Avoid damage to the 2012 directive, conduct ­reported in any of the HOCHTIEF divisions in ­environment ­regular training for employees 2012. and partners (see page 70) Standardize environmental HOCHTIEF Europe division: Percentage of Improve organizational protection processes and ­environmental protection certifications ­structure for environmental ­increase number of external (ISO14001, EMAS, SCC) (measured in terms of protection certifications staff headcount): 80.0 percent Increase coverage for rel­ Water consumption coverage: 68 percent Improve quality of environevant environmental data Waste coverage: 75 percent mental data in the Group (see page 70) 54 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Strategy Attractive working environment Overarching objective: We aim to further boost our position as a sought-after employer and, over the long term, establish ourselves among the most attractive employers in the industry. Goal Action to 2015 Status December 31, 2012 Avoid work-related accidents inConduct regular training Accident rate within the HOCHTIEF Group: volving HOCHTIEF employees, measures 1.74 accidents per million man-hours partners, and subcontractors (see page 67) Standardize occupational 66.3 percent of Group certified for occupational safety processes and increase safety (OHSAS, ISO18001, SCC) Improve organizational strucnumber of external certifications ture for occupational safety Revise Group-wide crisis Process initiated ­reporting system Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Increase employee Conduct regular, systematic Europe: employee survey in spring of 2012, ­satisfaction employee surveys USA (Turner): end of 2011 Expand continuing education Please see pages 63, 84, 92 et seq., 103. as needed and increase numTrain employees ber of continuing education hours per employee Further expand HOCHTIEF’s Group-wide Executive Development Program Ensure future supply of internal processes for top initiated in 2012 ­specialist and managerial management employee ­employees ­development Corporate citizenship Overarching objective: We aim to get involved in the community wherever our company is at work. Goal Action to 2015 Status December 31, 2012 Improve organizational strucRevise directive on donaProcess initiated ture in corporate citizenship tions and sponsorship Continue involvement with HOCHTIEF: first project implemented in Ruanda, Bridges to Prosperity (B2P) Turner/Flatiron/E. E. Cruz: three projects impleand expand to entire Group mented in Nicaragua; Flatiron: cooperation and strategic partnership with B2P extended until 2017 Promote projects in line with main Group sponsorship Continue involvement in Germany: participated in “Ideas Park 2012” ­activities ­fostering education and ­engineering and innovation show; USA: Turner young talent and identify School of Construction Management with over new projects 1,000 participating companies at 31 locations in 2012; Australia: awarded grants worth approximately EUR 306,000 to young Indigenous Aus­ tralians in 2012 For example: donation drives No action on this goal during the reporting and provision of personnel, ­period. Support populations in equipment, and materials in ­disaster areas accordance with current needs Sustainability Report 2012 55 Compliance Overarching objective: We aim to set standards with our principles of conduct. Goal Action to 2015 Status December 31, 2012 Expand training programs More than 7,000 employees trained in Germany Promote awareness and on Code of Conduct and and the US ­application of the HOCHTIEF compliance Code of Conduct Improve internal communicaVarious articles published in internal tion on compliance ­communications media Increase proportion of 60 percent of procurement value prequalified prequalified and validated and 73 percent validated Demand and encourage subcontractors HOCHTIEF Europe division: 4,525 prequalified ­sustainability and ethical suppliers and subcontractors ­responsibility in subcontracSustainability at HOCHTIEF Introduce self-disclosure on In preparation tors and joint venture partners compliance for potential joint venture partners on basis of HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct 56 Sustainability Report 2012 Compliance We are confident that our business ethics and our integrity contribute significantly to our credibility. Our commitment to managing HOCHTIEF using a value-oriented strategy is anchored in our guiding principles. Since HOCHTIEF, as an international company, operates in a variety of political systems and legal jurisdictions, we have introduced a compliance system aimed at meeting this commitment. Compliance organization at HOCHTIEF ­division, has also implemented a compliance program. Established in 2008, the compliance organization is An Ethics and Compliance Committee acts as the exheaded by the Chairman of the Executive Board of change platform between the Leighton subsidiaries. HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft. The Chief Compliance Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Officer reports regularly to the Chairman or, in urgent The aforementioned organization is directly responsible cases, immediately. He also submits a yearly report to for all compliance matters relating to fighting corruption the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. The Chief and economic crime. Areas such as occupational safeCompliance Officer is supported in his duties by a comty, health, and environmental protection are allocated mittee (the Corporate Compliance Counsel) and a lawyer to a separate competence center (the OSHEP Center) specializing in criminal law at the holding company of (see page 66). A data protection officer is in charge of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft. In the divisions, complidata protection (see page 61). ance officers have assumed responsibility in this regard and act as interfaces with the compliance organizations Clear commitment of the individual divisions. They report directly to the We established sustainable action and value-oriented Chief Compliance Officer of HOCHTIEF. strategies early on as part of our corporate guiding principles. Back in 2002, HOCHTIEF published a behavIn the HOCHTIEF Europe division, for instance, general ioral code that today is anchored in our corporate culcompliance managers (segment level) and compliance ture in the form of the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct. managers (business unit/branch level) make compliance Whether we are competing in the market, awarding a part of the everyday workday. They serve as on-site contracts, or conducting regular business activities, contacts and provide for the necessary exchange of inwe attach great importance to fairness, honesty, obformation within the organization. The compliance manjectivity, and transparency. We are continuously workagers are also tasked with employee training. The system ing to refine and improve the compliance system within is similar at Turner and Flatiron, our US subsidiaries in the company to avoid the risk of criminal or civil liability the HOCHTIEF Americas division, which have had their along with the damage to our reputation and competiown compliance committees since 2008. Leighton, our tive disadvantages that would ensue from non-compliAustralian subsidiary in the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific ance. The HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Executive Board: OSHEP Chief Compliance Officer Data Protection Center Officer Corporate Compliance Counsel Corporate Crime Prevention HOCHTIEF Americas HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific HOCHTIEF Europe Sustainability Report 2012 57 In 1999, we became the first construction group proThe HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct for Business Partners vider to join Transparency International as a corporate was created in 2011 on the basis of the Code of Conmember. In 2000, again as the world’s first construction duct for Subcontractors and successfully implemented industry company, we promised to uphold the standards in the period under review. It conveys our values to all of the International Labor Organization (ILO). The ILO is parties with which we have a contractual relationship, an agency of the United Nations with the objective of whether clients, business partners, or suppliers—all of promoting decent and productive work, in conditions whom we expect to likewise adhere to compliance of freedom, equity, security, and human dignity. In 2007, standards. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct for BusiHOCHTIEF was a founding member of Netzwerk Comness Partners is now available in ten languages. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF pliance, a German compliance network undertaking to combat dishonest business practices. We are also a Internally, Group directives further clarify the contents member of the international “Partnering Against Corrupof the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct. For example, the tion Initiative” of the World Economic Forum. In 2008, Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft enwe undertook to adhere to and promote the ten rules acted two Group directives on dealing with donations of the UN Global Compact, an international initiative in December 2011. The first was a revision of the existbrought by representatives of the private economy, the ing client event directive, and the second entailed a United Nations, civil society, and workers. new donations directive clarifying the principles for giving and accepting gifts or invitations in everyday busiCode of Conduct and directives ness life. Both Group directives aim to help our employWe have a tradition of combining corporate action with ees differentiate between legal customer care and ethical principles. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct corruption that is punishable under criminal law and to reflects these corporate principles and outlines rules for conduct themselves within the bounds of the law in responsible action. It sets forth binding regulations for their daily business activities. internal dealings within the company as well as for external relations with business partners, subcontractors, Whistleblower system and public authorities. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct Since our credibility and our reputation rest on our is now available in ten languages. Its contents can be business ethics and integrity, we are very interested in divided into the following five areas: discovering when employees or business partners do • dealing with antitrust issues, business partners, and not comply with existing rules. All employees are thereconflicts of interest such as bribery and corruption, fore encouraged to notify HOCHTIEF of any irregularidonations, and sponsorship ties. In situations in which employees suspect that rules • dealing with information, insider knowledge, confihave been violated, reports should be made first and dentiality, and data protection foremost to the employee’s direct superior. If the em• health, safety, and environmental protection ployee is not able to turn to his or her superior, the com• company assets, including documenting transacpliance organization should be the point of contact. tions, dealing with company-owned property and Information may also be reported to Corporate Auditcompany assets as well as insider rules ing. In addition, employees can use internal and exter• principles of social responsibility such as respecting nal whistleblower hotlines for reporting violations. The human dignity, rejecting child labor and forced labor, internal hotline puts the reporting individual in contact equal opportunity and bans on discrimination, the with a Group compliance officer, and calls to the exterright to organize, and the right to collective bargaining nal hotline are taken by an independent law firm specializing in criminal law. The divisions have similar hotlines for reporting violations, and they exchange information with Corporate Compliance on a regular basis. Alterna58 Sustainability Report 2012 Compliance Corruption risk 60 Measured on Transparency 50 K 2008 International’s Corrup­t ion Percent of K 2009 Perception Index (CPI) 40 K 2010 construction from Transparency Internaoutput 30 K 2011 tional , HOCHTIEF mostly K 2012 operates in countries with 20 low or very low corruption risk. 10 0 www.transparency.de Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Very high risk High risk Medium risk Low risk Very low risk CPI <= 2 4 >= CPI > 2 6 >= CPI > 4 8 >= CPI > 6 CPI > 8 tively, employees may report to Corporate Compliance tact persons. Classroom training and e-learning provia e-mail. All information is treated confidentially as a grams are conducted on the basis of a detailed conmatter of course, and it is important to us to protect cept. Online training courses, such as on combating the reporting individual. Information may also be recorruption, under-the-table work, and illegal employported anonymously. ment, take practical examples from everyday life, and the courses familiarize participants with the existing legal Responses to violations situation besides offering suggestions on how to act in We handle all reports of violations with great care and compliance with the regulations. All managerial staff are use all means at our disposal to clarify the situation. required to complete the learning programs. In addition We respond with full rigor to infringements, while also to the online course offerings, on-site classes are offered acknowledging the danger of anonymous whistleblowin the departments and branches. We distribute circuing resulting in individuals being falsely accused. In-house lars with information about new developments, in addiinvestigations of compliance cases are carried out by tion to which the various internal and external corporate Corporate Auditing, if necessary with the support of publications regularly include articles on this topic. external consultants. For matters involving violations of criminal law, Corporate Crime Prevention is called in. The training programs on compliance and communicaFinally, suggestions for action in cases of compliance tions on this topic are structured similarly in the divisions. infringements are put forward by the Steering CommitOur US subsidiary Turner offers video recordings on tee, which comprises members from the Auditing, Comcompliance topics that are available on the intranet, for munications, Legal, and Human Resources departments example, in addition to on-site training courses. along with the Corporate Compliance Counsel. Responsibility for taking the action, which can go as far as disIn 2012, Corporate Compliance began by training the missal, lies with the relevant superior or the managecompliance officers and general compliance managers ment of the corporate unit in question. on both general and current issues. This was followed by training for newly appointed compliance managers Training and communication in the HOCHTIEF Europe division aimed at familiarizing HOCHTIEF uses various tools to make employees them with their tasks and enabling them to train the aware of compliance issues and inform them of the employees in their units themselves. The objective is to applicable regulations. The company intranet plays a establish an annual compliance conference in order to key role in this. A separate area has been set up in enhance the exchange of information and practical exwhich all employees have access to internal directives perience between the divisions. and information on the compliance program and conSustainability Report 2012 59 Risk Management HOCHTIEF’s global business naturally involves risks. But only undetected and hence unmanaged risks pose a real potential threat. Risks include all developments that can negatively impact the attainment of qualitative and quantitative business goals, including sustainability targets. Our risk management system reduces this potential to a minimum through proactive risk control and therefore plays a major part in securing the company’s future and successful onward development as well as in enhancing our earning power. Risk management at HOCHTIEF encompasses all orgaThe internal control system supports managers in nizational processes and instruments designed to detect organizing activities so that processes are goal-driven risks at an early stage as well as to develop and impleand efficient and unnecessary risks are avoided. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF ment suitable countermeasures in time. Sustainability and risk management are therefore comparable, comThe internal audit system uses process-indepenplementary concepts: We apply structured processes dent, systematic audits to supervise the effectiveness and deploy defined control tools and processes to preand cost-efficiency of the installed systems and provent future threats to the company. cesses. *For detailed information, Organization of risk management at HOCHTIEF* The central decision-making body for the early warning please see www.hochtief. com/riskmanagement. Our Group-wide early warning system is an integral part system is the Risk Management Steering Committee, of management and of the planning, control, and reportwhich is composed of divisional and corporate departing system. In this way, we ensure that all material risks ment risk managers and chaired by the Head of Corpoare regularly surveyed, assessed, and communicated. rate Controlling at HOCHTIEF Aktien­gesellschaft. The A Group directive formulates principles, states the comSteering Committee meets at least three times a year ponents, describes the structure and procedures of before forecasts are finalized. At these meetings, risks risk management, and lays down the Group-wide framereported on a regular or ad-hoc basis by divisions and work for our corporate early warning system. This direccorporate departments and classified by Corporate tive is supplemented with further directives as well as Controlling are comprehensively appraised and diswith working and organizational instructions specific to cussed, and, where appropriate, countermeasures inithe activities of each division. tiated. The risks are subsequently compiled into a Group risk situation that is reported to the Executive Board as The system comprises the following elements that part of forecasting and planning. A member of the dovetail to control business risk at all levels: HOCHTIEF Executive Board serves as coordinator with overall responsibility for risk management in the Group. The early warning system supports managers in all units with timely risk detection, analysis, control, and The make or break factors in risk management are the monitoring. sensitivity and experience of our workforce. For this reason, we have created a risk culture at all levels that The risk controlling system improves risk transparis supported by organizational processes, systems, ency with regular reporting to divisional management and communications and is constantly being refined teams, the Executive Board, and the Supervisory Board. and improved. The recipients are thus provided with the current risk status together with a commentary on changes arising in the risk landscape. 60 Sustainability Report 2012 IT and Data Protection Data protection is afforded great significance in our Group. That is why this topic has been included in the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct. We have made a commitment to our employees, business partners, and clients to safeguard their privacy and protect their personal data. In cooperation with our service providers, the Group’s Data Security Officer ensures that personal data is only processed in accordance with the requirements of the German Federal Data Protection Act and that the right of individuals to determine how their personal data is used is respected. The Data Security Officer is integrated into our compliThe contribution of IT to increased sustainability ance organization and reports to the responsible memIn 2012, we initiated a project targeted at analyzing ber of the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF AktiengesellHOCHTIEF’s printer landscape in Germany, Austria, Sustainability at HOCHTIEF schaft (see chart on page 57). and Luxembourg and subsequently making gradual optimizations and enhancing uniformity. We expect a IT security more modern and standardized printer fleet to bring Data protection is closely related to the topic of IT secucost savings along with numerous positive effects in rity. HOCHTIEF relies on modern information technolterms of sustainability and health. The focus is on the ogy, both within the Group and in communications with environmental sustainability of the equipment as well clients, partners, and suppliers. Challenges to IT secuas energy consumption and CO2 savings potential. rity result from the comprehensive use that IT systems are put to in order to perform operational tasks. To meet Using modern, mobile communication tools enables these challenges, we take continuous measures to conour employees to take advantage of flexible working solidate and further expand our already high degree of time models such as “Home Office”. In this manner, IT IT security. A standardized system and coordinated is contributing to a better work-life balance. process landscape with a uniform shopping cart serve to simplify operations and reduce the risk of downtime. We have succeeded in reducing travel activities with the HOCHTIEF addresses risks from the Internet by having help of our web conferencing service, which we further its firewall systems regularly checked by external speoptimized during the period under review. Within the cialists. The deployment of modern hardware and softHOCHTIEF Group, our employees are able to link up ware combined with digital and physical access conwith each other via their monitors using the Internet. This trols ensure the availability of data and protect data from additionally promotes cooperation across various time unauthorized access. This involves placing the data in zones and regions. In 2012, the number of meetings held physically separate data centers that are certified in online using the conferencing tool increased from 379 to accordance with ISO 27001. Moreover, the use of en704 per month. cryption technology guarantees the confidentiality and the accuracy of the digital information. Our initiatives on building information modeling have reduced both risk and the error rate in project impleWe counter IT risk by working closely together with commentation and in the subsequent operation of the buildpetent service providers. Our IT security directive, which ings. We use a 3D model to continuously track and applies to the HOCHTIEF Europe division as well as to compile building data during the entire lifetime of a the HOCHTIEF Americas division with respect to securi­ project. Planning, analysis, and adaptation are first underty aspects, is continuously refined in consultation with taken on the computer prior to execution. This saves ­experts. Business processes are implemented on the time and resources. HOCHTIEF is one of the market ­basis of reliable and modern ERP systems to ensure leaders in virtual construction, implementing this method up-to-date, forward-looking corporate management. across the globe in its projects. Sustainability Report 2012 61 Employees HOCHTIEF has almost 80,000 employees and is responsible for several thousand employees of subcontractors worldwide. A major Group-wide goal in human resources management is to create the best possible working conditions for our ­employees as well as to further strengthen and expand on our position as a sought-after employer. After all, our employees and their performance are a key factor in HOCHTIEF’s success. One of the four cornerstones underlying our corporate Human resources management topics guiding principles is dedicated to our successful emHuman resources management at HOCHTIEF comployees. Vital elements are skilled, committed specialprises six key areas: Employee rights, recruiting, emists and managerial staff, an efficient workforce strucployee loyalty policies, personnel development, diverSustainability at HOCHTIEF ture, and a high degree of employee identification with sity, and occupational safety and health protection. the company. To that end, HOCHTIEF has made it a goal to train and support employees as well as to foster Employee rights their loyalty. Effective processes and dialog on all levels The basic principles of human resources management are the foundation on which our sustainable human throughout the HOCHTIEF Group are based on human resources management is built. As a globally operating and employee rights as well as the German Corporate Group, HOCHTIEF draws on the expertise in its various Governance Code. In addition, the HOCHTIEF Code of divisions and encourages intensive exchange. Conduct, our code of behavior, obliges all our employees to treat colleagues, business partners, and clients Human resources management at HOCHTIEF respectfully and in compliance with the law (more on The strategic orientation of human resources managepage 58). HOCHTIEF also attaches utmost importance ment is chiefly the responsibility of the Corporate Departto cooperation with employee representatives based ment Human Resources. In cooperation with the Execu­ on trust. The Management expressly approves of emtive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft and the ployees’ right to form unions. Works Council members heads of the divisions, it defines long-term goals and are represented on the Supervisory Board and particimeasures based on the Group’s strategy. pate in Occupational Safety and Health Committee meetings. Key tasks for strategic human resources management are: In cases of restructuring, HOCHTIEF always first explores opportunities for placing employees in other corporate • Development of managerial staff divisions or Group units. Should employment termina• Optimizing our workforce structures tion be unavoidable for compelling business reasons, • Employer branding we provide counseling services and training. • Deriving and analyzing key figures • Guiding human resources management processes Recruitment In a labor market characterized by internationality and a The strategy is implemented in a process based on shortage of specialist staff, one of HOCHTIEF’s key goals partnership with the HOCHTIEF Americas, Asia Pacific, is to find well-trained employees, facilitate their smooth and Europe divisions. The three divisions and their reentry into the company, and cultivate their lasting loyalty gional service segments are responsible for operating to HOCHTIEF. We use a variety of activities to underpin human resources activities. and increase the attractiveness of the HOCHTIEF employer brand: 62 Sustainability Report 2012 • Cooperation with chairs at college and university HOCHTIEF by providing ways for employees to have faculties and schools in the form of presentations, their say. One such program is Ideas Management (see discussions, excursions, scholarships, and awards page 72). for students • A diverse range of internships, work-study placeWe conduct the majority of our training activities inments, and career training options house, for example, in our own programs such as the • Incorporating new media into the recruitment proHOCHTIEF Academy, the Turner University, and the cess Flatiron Construction University. Throughout all divi• “Employees Recruit Employees” programs sions, we offer a wealth of on-site and online seminars. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF • Entry, mentoring, and trainee programs Options range from soft skills training to specialist • Alumni and intern retention programs seminars through to state-recognized degrees such as a Bachelor of Facility Management. Online media are growing in importance at HOCHTIEF as fast, economical, and interactive tools, especially in Talent management at HOCHTIEF is conducted through the application process. We also attach great imporvarious national and international talent pools and protance to personal contact with potential candidates. grams. The Executive Development Program is designed This is reflected in particular by the high rate of interns for top management. Additional talent pools for spebeing offered contracts and the ever improving quality cialists and managerial staff ensure long-term personnel of applications submitted through the “Employees development. The annual skills assessment for special­Recruit Employees” programs. ists and managerial staff is the basis for national and international succession planning. The awards we have received in Germany and internationally during the period under review are testimony Open dialog to HOCHTIEF’s appeal as an employer. For example, Structured employee interviews for all staff and feedFlatiron was named one of 50 large employers named back for the managerial staff help us foster ongoing “Best Workplaces in Canada.” Turner was named an open dialog. This is also a forum for evaluating and ini“Ideal Employer” in a 2012 Universum Communications tiating personal development opportunities. In addition, study, and the research institute trendence placed internal media such as the intranet and the staff magaHOCHTIEF among Europe’s top employers for engizine “One Roof” report on relevant issues in the company. neers. Used as a medium in all the divisions, webcasts increase the presence of the Executive Board and Senior Vice Opinions in-house confirm this positive picture: EmPresidents, which has a positive impact on employees’ ployee surveys in the various divisions regularly reveal trust in the management. high job satisfaction. Compensation and retirement plans Employee loyalty policies and personnel HOCHTIEF’s compensation policy is characterized by ­development economy, appeal, competitiveness, and fairness. It adAttracting skilled employees and ensuring their loyalty heres to globally uniform standards for fixed and varito the company in the long term is vital for our lasting able components and is reviewed against annual benchsuccess. Development potential is one key element of marks. job satisfaction and loyalty. HOCHTIEF works continuously to maintain the ideal environment for individuals Attractive retirement plans are in place worldwide, each to unlock and develop their potential. What’s more, we adapted to the conditions in each country. These include guarantee fair compensation and foster an atmosphere the option of deferred compensation and various insurof open communication as well as identification with ance options. Sustainability Report 2012 63 Work-life balance Diversity HOCHTIEF is aware that the balance between a career Diversity plays a major role in the HOCHTIEF Group, and personal life is becoming an increasingly important with different culture-based focal areas in the various factor in both the choice of an employer and employees’ divisions. In Australia and the USA, for example, spemotivation on the job. That is why we promote a good cial emphasis is placed on hiring people of various ethnic work-life balance, with measures including flexible workorigins. We take the key megatrend of demographic ing time models such as part-time employment and the change into account in all our projects and processes option of teleworking. We also provide various services within human resources management. This includes and counseling options. actively involving older employees, for example. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Occupational safety and health Occupational safety and health are a top priority in the HOCHTIEF Group. Within the organization, it falls under the aegis of the competence center for occupational safety, health, and environmental protection (OSHEP) (see page 66). Key Figures Key figures on employees in the HOCHTIEF Group Workforce structure 55,000 (As of Dec. 31, 2012) 50,000 K Women Waged/industrial K Men employees 45,000 36,033 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 Salaried/office employees 44,560 20,000 15,000 Employees by ethnic group in North America 10,000 (As of Dec. 31, 2012) Afro-American 430 5,000 Native American 47 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Other 101 Asia/Pacific Asia/Pacific Asia/Pacific Asia/Pacific Europe America Europe America Europe America Europe America Latin American 955 Asian 369 The proportion of women in the Group workforce as a whole was White 5,754 15.5 percent in 2012 (2011: 15.8 percent). 64 Sustainability Report 2012 Employees Age structure in the HOCHTIEF Group in 2012 Tenure of employment in the HOCHTIEF Group (in years) (in years) 60 % 12 55.1 K Europe K Europe 51.0 49.8 10.5 10.6 50 % K America 10 K America K Asia/Pacific K Asia/Pacific 40 % 8 7.7 32.7 6.8 30 % 26.5 26.9 6 23.7 18.0 4.0 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 20 % 16.3 4 3.7 10 % 2 0% 0 < 30 30–50 > 50 2011 2012 As of Dec. 31, 2012 As of Dec. 31 Women in management positions in the HOCHTIEF Europe division HOCHTIEF Group in 2012 (in percent) There were a total of 2,468 terminations in the HOCHTIEF Europe division in 2011. This figure was 2,626 in 2012. 14 % 13.3 13.2 12 % HOCHTIEF in Germany K Europe People with severe disabilities comprised 4.10 per10 % K America 9.2 cent of the HOCHTIEF workforce in Germany as of K Asia/Pacific 8% ­December 31, 2012. As this is below the statutory five percent quota, HOCHTIEF pays a compensatory levy. 6% 4% The proportion of employees in Germany who return to work after parental leave rose from 67.1 per2% cent in 2011 to 79.8 percent in 2012. 0% The proportion of HOCHTIEF employees in GerAs of Dec. 31, 2012 many who work part-time likewise increased in the reporting period, from 7.2 percent in 2011 to 8.6 percent in fiscal 2012. The number of trainees at HOCHTIEF in Germany decreased from 402 in 2011 to 351 in 2012 (as of December 31 each year). Sustainability Report 2012 65 Occupational Safety and Health At HOCHTIEF, the health and safety of our employees is of the highest priority. Therefore, assuming responsibility for those employees represents a key principle of sustainable corporate action for us. Our goal is to create a working environment in which job-related illnesses and accidents have been eliminated to the highest degree possible and in which our employees stay healthy. It is also important to us that our business partners implement such working conditions. Clear commitment to occupational safety and also appoint management officers and specialists who health advise and support the management boards and projIn both our corporate guiding principles and the ect executives. The OSHEP Center, as the superordinate Sustainability at HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct, we have undertaken to link, maintains contact with the boards and executives actively pursue occupational safety and health. As a and ensures that reporting is carried out. We thus see to representative of German industry, we signed the Seoul it that our defined objectives and standards are impleDeclaration on Safety and Health at Work in June 2008. mented with as little error as possible. HOCHTIEF was at the same time representing a sector in which it is exceptionally challenging to establish Occupational safety and health is integrated into the occupational safety and health. ­entire project process. In addition, the divisions use management systems based on international stand­ To attain our high standards, we set forth minimum ards (ISO 18001, Safety Certificate Contractors [SCC]). requirements for occupational safety and health in a Measured in terms of personnel headcount, coverage Group directive. The directive was revised in 2012. It amounted to 66.3 percent as of year-end 2012. applies to all divisions of the HOCHTIEF Group and those Group companies over which HOCHTIEF has HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Executive Board significant influence. Moreover, our employees are expected to adhere to all statutory and regulatory requirements regarding occupational safety and health as well HOCHTIEF Corporate Divisions OSHEP Center Executive Board/ as to implement the risk minimization measures identiManagement Board fied in the hazard assessments. Structure of occupational safety and health at Officers HOCHTIEF At HOCHTIEF, occupational safety and health is a management task under the purview of the Labor Director Experts within the Group Executive Board. Our competence center for occupational safety, health, and environmental protection (the OSHEP Center) is responsible for anIdentifying risk early on choring OSHEP within the company, further optimizing At HOCHTIEF, occupational safety and health starts as occupational safety and health management, and oversoon as the first planning steps of a project are underseeing implementation of the directive and the suppletaken. Using what are known as “hazard assessments,” mentary provisions. we identify risk at an early stage and establish preventive measures. The goal is to keep any residual risk to the In terms of their organizational systems and procedures, health of our employees as low as possible. We also the divisions have set up structures and processes that take the occupational safety and health performance of correspond with the relevant standards and are reviewed our subcontractors into account when selecting and by the OSHEP Center on a regular basis. The divisions assessing them. 66 Sustainability Report 2012 In our service areas, occupational safety and health is for example, we are planning an initiative of the Execuclosely coordinated with our clients. In most cases, tive Board of HOCHTIEF Solutions. The initiative will measures are determined in consultation with them. first focus on upper-level managerial staff, who are exHOCHTIEF is responsible for some of the measures. pected to actively promote occupational safety and health in their divisions. The OSHEP Center will follow Number of fatal accidents in the HOCHTIEF Group the process and support the operational units where Region 2009 2010 2011 2012 needed. Americas 0 0 0 0 Asia Pacific 0 2 5 2 At Leighton in Australia, the salaries of managerial emSustainability at HOCHTIEF ployees were linked in 2011 to the results of the extenEurope 1 1 0 0 sive occupational safety and health programs. HOCHTIEF Group total 1 3 5 2 Subcontractors (in Europe) are not included in the table. However, they must comply with the safety standards that apply to HOCHTIEF. We attach particular importance to providing training Tribute and continuing education for our safety experts. They We deeply regret that employees have died during their work. are always up to date in their areas of specialization, We extend our condolences to their families. and they advise and support the project executives in their occupational safety and health activities. The exEven given our above-average preventive organization, perts take advantage of internal and external working it is unfortunately not possible to entirely rule out accigroups to share their experiences on a regional basis. dents, some of which may have serious or fatal consequences. We use a graduated reporting system to record In addition, we, of course, focus on continuous profesand analyze these accidents in order to understand the sional development for all HOCHTIEF employees. They cause, develop new preventive measures, and optimize receive regular training both internally as well as exterour processes. The objective is to develop a uniform nally. We take care to ensure that the intervals between concept across the Group of how to classify on-the-job training measures are short. Occupational safety and accidents. Binding standards will thus be set regarding health are established components of the course offerreporting for the HOCHTIEF Europe division in the future. ings at HOCHTIEF’s internal continuing education faciliVarious management hierarchies will be involved in inties. In many places, the managerial staff additionally To bring our accident statistics reporting in line with investigating accidents depending on the seriousness of conduct on-site briefings for their teams known as “tool ternational standards, we the accident in question. box talks”. We also give our business partners access state the accident frequency rate (AFR) rather than the to the relevant tools. number of accidents per Promoting a culture of occupational safety 1,000 employees. awareness It is important to us that a culture prevail at HOCHTIEF Accident rate within the HOCHTIEF Group (accidents per million man-hours) in which each employee feels responsible for occupa45 41.48 41.59 40.05 K 2009 tional safety and health. To develop and promote this, 40 35 K 2010 notably all managerial staff must be aware of their reK 2011 30 sponsibilities and enable or maintain such a culture of 25 K 2012 occupational safety and health within their areas of 20 competence. 15 10.11 9.06 8.50 7.50 10 5 The work safety cultures at the HOCHTIEF units and 1.36 0.86 1.67 0.92 0.98 0.83 0.66 1.14 0 companies have developed to differing degrees due to Europe Americas Asia/ Pacific Construction industry overall in Germany* the varying social welfare systems in the different coun*Source: Annual accounts of German institutions for statutory insurance and prevention; figures for 2010 were tries. In order to develop a uniform philosophy, in Europe, not yet available as of the editorial deadline. Sustainability Report 2012 67 Environmental and Climate Protection HOCHTIEF affects the environment with its business activities. We are aware of this, and have pledged—together with our partners—to find solutions to keep the impact on soil, water, air, climate, biological diversity, and cultural assets to a minimum as well as to avoid environmental damage. We conserve resources, optimize their use, and systematically reduce emissions harmful to the environment and our climate. To reach these goals, HOCHTIEF established minimum ured at an early stage. Only then can preventive meas­ requirements for environmental and climate protection ures aimed at avoiding environmental damage be in a Group directive. The directive was revised in 2012, planned and implemented. Environmental and climate with additional environmental and climate protection protection risk is also taken into account when making Sustainability at HOCHTIEF aspects being added. Our corporate guiding principles investment decisions. and the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct are also required to address these topics to ensure that employees are Our divisions have identified the most important environsensitized to the issue. Back in July 2008, we joined mental and climate protection aspects for them in light forces with more than 80 leading international companies of their areas of operation and regional circumstances to sign the CEO Climate Policy Recommendations to and allocated them to the individual projects. In the case G8 Leaders. of major infrastructure projects such as the construction of roads, tunnels, or bridges, the effect on the environOrganizational structure of environmental and ment is precisely determined and environmental impact climate protection in the HOCHTIEF Group studies carried out in the early phases. If needed, indiThe way in which we have integrated environmental vidual environmental protection concepts are developed and climate protection into our organizational structure and implemented in the construction process. underscores the value placed on this area by our Group: The Center for Occupational Safety, Health and EnvironDespite all the precautions taken, incidents affecting the mental Protection (OSHEP Center) reports directly to environment cannot be fully ruled out. Any resulting the Executive Board. The divisions have integrated ­environmental damage is recorded and assessed using ­OSHEP into their organizational structures on their own a graduated reporting system. This allows us to develop responsibility and ensure by means of qualified emmeasures to avoid future incidents and to optimize our ployees that the standards defined are implemented. processes. Our Australian subsidiary Leighton, for Management officers and specialists advise and sup­example, has for many years operated a three-level port the management boards and project executives. system for reporting environmental damage and has The OSHEP Center interfaces with the boards and exestablished this indicator across the company. ecutives and ensures that reporting is carried out. Our aim is to develop a uniform understanding regarding Environmental and climate protection is integrated into the type and scope of environmental incidents throughthe entire project process. In addition, the HOCHTIEF out the entire Group. divisions maintain management systems based on international standards (ISO 14001, ISO 50001). The proFostering employee awareness and training portion of projects in the HOCHTIEF Europe division We consider it important that our employees develop an with environmental management certification (ISO 14001; in-depth understanding of ecology, which is why we EMAS/SCC) thus stood at 80.0 percent in 2012 (2011: continually provide education on this topic. The training 79.9 percent). measures range from regular instruction when working on projects to e-learning tools and in-person seminars. Identifying risk early on The numerous suggestions for environmental and climate It is crucial that any risk to environmental and climate protection submitted by our employees to our Ideas protection in our project work be identified and meas­ 68 Sustainability Report 2012 Management team testify to their high level of awareness Within the Group, we implemented a number of meas­ in this area. ures to save electricity and reduce carbon emissions (see chart on page 71). We succeeded in reaching our HOCHTIEF attaches particular importance to providing internal climate protection targets in Germany and in training and continuing education for our environmental the USA in 2011, even exceeding them in some cases. experts. They are always up to date in their areas of New targets are currently being developed. Our counspecialization, and advise the project executives in their try-level subsidiaries and our individual projects have environmental activities. These experts share their exlikewise formulated specific targets for lowering carbon periences on a regional basis via internal and external emissions. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF working groups. Carbon savings by HOCHTIEF Energy Environmental and climate protection issues ­Management for clients (t CO2-e)* *Source for carbon conversion factors for the at HOCHTIEF 115,000 118,000 ­HOCHTIEF Solutions energy 105,000 Renewable energy sources 95,000 managers: gemis 4.6 Energy infrastructure is an important business area for HOCHTIEF. We undertake a variety of activities targeted at increasing the supply of electricity on the basis of renewable energies. In the North and Baltic Seas, we are erecting wind energy farms that integrate our 2009 2010 2011 2012 special equipment developed in-house. Waste management We are building modern pumped storage power plants Waste management starts with waste avoidance. We and researching innovative methods for the interim therefore plan our materials usage early on and in destorage of energy on the ocean floor. We have already tail. Project-specific waste disposal concepts are used been in the market for electricity from geothermal energy to determine methods of disposing of the waste once for several years now and operate two geothermal separated. For infrastructure projects, HOCHTIEF depower plants. velops plans at an early stage to keep quantities of excavation materials to a minimum and to reuse them Energy efficiency where possible. For instance, we use material excavated A substantial contribution can be made to improving during tunnel construction to produce concrete for climate protection by increasing energy efficiency as well road and path building projects. as conserving energy. Carbon emissions are caused to a substantial degree by cooling, heating, and operating Water supply and water quality properties. HOCHTIEF is involved in various projects that contribute to improving the supply of water to people and regions. This is where HOCHTIEF takes action—both for our These include modernizing existing water pipes and ­clients and within our own organization. All over the sewer systems, expanding the water infrastructure, and world, we construct “green” buildings noted for their building water treatment plants. Water consumption electricity and heat conservation. As an energy conmanagement is an important factor in the sustainable tractor, we conserved 118 thousand metric tons of CO2 buildings we construct. emissions for our customers in Germany in 2012 and contributed to an efficient operation of properties and For civil engineering projects, we ensure by means of industrial installations with our sustainable facility individual designs that a lowering of the groundwater table ­management services. is kept to a minimum, water quality is continuously monitored, and suitable water treatment methods are used. Sustainability Report 2012 69 Biodiversity impact of our actions on nature. Moreover, we renature HOCHTIEF advocates maintaining biological diversity the affected land in many projects, thereby protecting in the areas surrounding its projects as early as in the the local flora and fauna. planning phase of construction projects. We develop customized environmental strategies to minimize the Key figures Work done (EUR billion) Water consumption (in m3) 29.69 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 25.79 Water consumption Group percentage 23.23 (in m 3) 21.62 20.56 2012* 5,074,045 68 % 2011 735,000 35 % 2010 671,000 45 % 2009 714,000 45 % *Half-year figure for Leighton (07/12–12/12) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The data is estimated from material-specific cost types assuming ­average prices. The environmental indicators below are to be viewed in relation to the project work carried out for each year. Environmental damage Waste requiring disposal (in tons) Incidents resulting in significant chemical or biological enWaste requiring ­disposal Group percentage vironmental damage must be reported to HOCHTIEF. 2012* 1,061,669 75 % Such incidents are divided into three levels: 2011 499,384 40 % Level 1: Trans-regional, high severity and/or irreversible 2010 510,464 45 % detrimental effect and/or estimated impact of over 2009 508,660 45 % EUR 5 million Level 2: Medium severity, estimated impact exceeding ge*Half-year figure for Leighton (07/12–12/12) neral deductible but under the general amount of coverage of EUR 5 million. The Group-wide waste recycling rate was approximately Level 3: Low severity, impact under the general deductible 75 percent in 2012. No Level 1 environmental damage was reported in any of the three HOCHTIEF divisions in 2012. Fines In the period under review, no significant fines were levied against HOCHTIEF for violations of environmental regulations. 70 Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental and Climate Protection *Metric tons of carbon Greenhouse gas emissions*: Energy consumption levels and the greenhouse gas emisequiva­l ent. Source for ­c arbon conversion factors: HOCHTIEF Americas Division (t/CO2) sions inferred from them directly depend on the nature GHG Protocol tool for sta­ and scale of the projects in progress. A tunneling project tionary combustion, Version 16,000 4.0 K indirect emissions with a tunnel boring machine, for example, generates far 14,000 K direct emissions greater indirect carbon emissions than a building construc12,000 tion site or a facility management project. The trend in the 10,000 key figures therefore indicates very little as regards actual 8,000 climate protection activity. 6,000 4,000 2,000 Energy consumption in the HOCHTIEF Americas and 0 HOCHTIEF Europe divisions (megawatt hours) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 60,000 55,000 Greenhouse gas emissions*: 50,000 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division (t/CO2) 45,000 K Americas 40,000 K Europe 1,400,000 35,000 1,300,000 K indirect emissions 30,000 1,200,000 K direct emissions 25,000 1,100,000 20,000 1,000,000 15,000 900,000 10,000 800,000 5,000 700,000 0 600,000 2011 2012 500,000 400,000 Energy consumption in the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific 300,000 Division (megawatt hours) 200,000 220,000 100,000 200,000 0 180,000 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 2011/2012 160,000 140,000 Greenhouse gas emissions*: 120,000 HOCHTIEF Europe Division (t/CO2) 100,000 80,000 165,000 K indirect emissions 60,000 150,000 K direct emissions 40,000 135,000 20,000 120,000 0 105,000 2010/2011 2011/2012 90,000 75,000 Group percentage 2 011: 85 % 60,000 2012: 88 % 45,000 30,000 15,000 The major office locations in Germany have been using 0 green power fully since 2010. The Leighton Group, too, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 uses green power at selected locations. Group percentage 2 011: 85 % 2012: 85 % The key figures shown relate to the energy consumption and carbon emissions of the main corporate units in Europe, the USA, and Australia. The majority of the data is estimated from material-specific cost types assuming average prices. Sustainability Report 2012 71 Research and Development As a sustainable company, HOCHTIEF wins over clients and partners in many projects with innovative and forwardlooking concepts. We identify market trends at an early stage and develop sustainable solutions in our research and development work. Managing innovations effectively is a major factor in HOCHTIEF’s sustainability activities. We therefore continually optimize this process. In addition to product and project-related innovations, we enhance our internal workflows and processes on an ongoing basis. In this way, we clearly set ourselves apart from the competition and create measurable added value. Number of R&D projects 50 Innovation management on three levels intensively in the reporting period to submit sugges46 41 Innovation is managed on three levels at HOCHTIEF: tions. Overall, 324 ideas were published in 2012. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 33 The first level, central innovation management, focuses on cross-divisional issues, i.e. innovations that benefit Cross-border research and development operating activities throughout the Group. Innovation We build projects around the globe that meet abovemanagement is coordinated by HOCHTIEF Corporate average sustainability standards. This is why we also Development. This department picks out promising participate in cross-border organizations and research 2009 2010 2011 2012 ideas and supports their implementation. The Innovation initiatives and have built up a high-caliber cooperation Number of R&D projects Committee, which comprises members from the opnetwork. We work closely and continuously with national ­completed erational units and Corporate Headquarters, decides in and international universities, scientists, and associa17 17 each case whether to go ahead with a project. HOCHTIEF tions. As a member of the European Construction Tech16 spent around EUR 6 million on Group-wide, first-level renology Platform, HOCHTIEF makes an active contribu11 search and development (R&D) projects in fiscal 2012. tion toward maintaining and improving the high technical Around 80 employees worked on a total of 50 projects. standards of the European construction industry. We We launched 15 new projects in 2012 and brought 17 are also a member of ENCORD, the European forum 2009 2010 2011 2012 to completion. for industry-led research, development, and innovation in the construction sector. Benefits from our memberNumber of R&D projects The second level of the HOCHTIEF innovation manship include best practice exchange on issues such as ­s tarted 29 agement system comprises divisional innovation. These corporate responsibility, work safety, and virtual conprojects are developed, financed, and implemented by struction. 14 15 the units and companies themselves. 8 In June 2011, the members of ENCORD collectively The third level relates to project-specific innovation. signed a “Sustainable Development Charter” in which 2009 2010 2011 2012 R&D work of this kind is carried out in the contract bidthey agree to integrate sustainability into their corpoding and execution stage. The resulting expenses are rate strategies and promote this concept, especially in Investment volume of R&D accounted for as part of project costs and these innoresearch and development. ­p rojects (EUR million) vations are not registered at Group level. The majority 6.2 5.2 of HOCHTIEF’s developments take place at this third R&D projects from the field of sustainability 5.0 4.9 level. Energy infrastructure Many of our innovation projects are closely related to Ongoing employee participation issues of sustainability or are driven forward by our obOur employees play a key role in innovations and are jective of acting sustainably. This particularly applies constantly on the lookout for potential improvements. to the expansion of a sustainable energy infrastructure 2009 2010 2011 2012 Employees’ suggestions are dealt with by “Ideas Manbased on renewable energies, in which HOCHTIEF is The statistics in the charts agement,” a separate unit within Innovation Manageinvolved through a wide range of services. To this end, relate to the first-level innova­t ion projects. ment. Our employees in Germany can use the “Ideas we have forged ahead with existing development projRoom,” a central tool on the intranet that was also used ects in the reporting year and launched new research projects. 72 Sustainability Report 2012 Further development of offshore foundation potentially start operation in 2020. The repowering of ­drilling existing plants is part of our planning in this innovation The Offshore Foundation Drilling (OFD ®) technique project. ­developed together with a partner for erecting offshore wind farms was fine-tuned in the reporting year. In conHollow-sphere storage facilities on the ocean trast to the conventional method, the piles for the wind floor turbines are not rammed into the sea floor, but instead HOCHTIEF is working with the Fraunhofer Institute for a hole is drilled for them. The new method has crucial Wind Energy and Energy System Technology as well as advantages: First, the acoustic pressure which is harmother partners on the “STENSEA” project (Stored Energy Sustainability at HOCHTIEF ful to marine animals is substantially reduced compared in the Sea) to research and develop a concept for storing with the ramming method and is well within the legal energy on the ocean floor. Unlike land-based pumped limit. In addition, OFD can be used in almost any understorage power plants, this system does not use two resground location and enables piles with a larger diameter ervoirs, but rather a hollow sphere on the ocean floor is than previously to be erected. We have also joined with used to store water. When electrical energy is needed, partners in developing a mortar that will further accelthe sphere is flooded. The inflowing water drives a turerate the installation of piles, making it possible to reduce bine to generate electricity. When there is a surplus of the impact on the environment even further. We plan to electricity in the grid, part or all of the water is pumped carry out final tests on the procedure in the fourth quarout of the sphere, and in this way the energy is stored ter of 2013 and to offer it to customers in 2014. until re-released during the next filling cycle. HOCHTIEF would handle the construction, logistics, and operation New construction methods for onshore wind of the hollow spheres. ­power plants In addition to the further development of offshore serv­ Green building/energy efficiency ices, HOCHTIEF is growing its expertise in the field of Plus-energy district onshore wind energy. In 2012, we launched an R&D In 2012, HOCHTIEF, together with the Technical Univerproject to develop a construction method for wind power sity of Darmstadt, launched the “Plus-energy district plants in poorly accessible low mountain regions. In Oberursel” research project. On a site in Oberursel in ­order to be able to erect the high towers of the facilities Hesse, a district with some 150 apartments and comcost-effectively and with as little environmental impact mercial premises is to be built. It is to have a positive as possible, e.g. without clearing large areas of trees, energy balance. The entire district will meet its energy new construction methods are needed. The new deneeds from its own renewable sources and by drawing sign will also take into account the dismantling of the energy from the surrounding area through networking, facilities. while also supplying energy to the surrounding area when it has a surplus. The aim of the research is to Innovation project on pumped storage power develop and test a sustainable concept as a basis for plants designing, implementing, and operating future plusEnergy from wind farms or photovoltaic systems is not energy districts. always available when it is needed. A future energy supply based on regenerative energy thus requires efficient storage media. A HOCHTIEF innovation project is therefore looking into the development of pumped storage power plants in Germany and neighboring countries. Construction work could begin on such a pumped storage power plant in Freden, Lower Saxony, once the regional planning process is completed and official planning permission has been granted. The plant could Sustainability Report 2012 73 Procurement As an integral part of our corporate strategy, our firm resolve to conserve resources, protect the climate, and treat people fairly also guides procurement activities at HOCHTIEF. Key sustainability aspects are therefore enshrined in our Group Procurement Directive and taken into account when selecting, evaluating, and developing subcontractors and suppliers as well as in the procurement of materials and products. Each year, HOCHTIEF spends the equivalent of apOur divisions put this Group strategy into effect in the proximately 58 percent of Group output on the prooperating business. curement of goods and services. Expenditure in 2012 ­totaled EUR 17 billion. As a company committed to The Group Procurement Directive, which was revised Sustainability at HOCHTIEF sustainability, working to reconcile ecology, economics, with major additions in mid-2012, is a key cornerstone and social responsibility aspects is an essential part of of our procurement strategy. To further improve the imthe job for us in procurement as elsewhere. To this end, plementation of sustainability in our procurement prowe have further stepped up our activities toward greater cesses, the Directive now makes reference to the six sustainability in procurement and with regard to our thematic areas of sustainability at HOCHTIEF (see page procurement culture. 50). Divisions are thus required to give due regard to corporate social responsibility and sustainability princiEnhanced Group Procurement Directive ples throughout supplier selection and evaluation as Procurement strategy The HOCHTIEF Group’s procurement strategy is geared well as when awarding orders to subcontractors. DiviKey features: to maximizing value creation for the company and clients. sional procurement functions must monitor compliance • D eveloping and fostering entrepreneurial procurewith these principles, perform sampling-based checks, ment culture and investigate any suspicions of noncompliance. • Pursuing opportunities to add value and cut cost • E nhancing competition The Group Directive helps us to improve procurement with innovative programs, processes, and tools. Compliance on an ongoing basis. Part of this consists in prequalifya tional Framewo ing and evaluating suppliers as well as carrying out cenaniz rk Org tralized training. At the same time, in adopting the Direcittee mm Pro tive, we have created a new framework for an internal Co principles and ent c ir ng m gu rem u ure e St e c ide en audit system covering all procurement units and levels. t o lin t pr Code of Code of men Conduct for Conduct for e Bo First and foremost, this takes in mutual control, funcPro n s ard Te Employees Business cu re Partners tional separation, and automated test routines (see chart). Transparency Sustainability Mission Measurement and Governance Strategy ent c ompan y ns Continuous Supplier sio Divi improvement management gem an a M Best place to work Collaboration Procur ement teams Inte r nal Control System 74 Sustainability Report 2012 Compliance Internes Kontrollsystem Organisatorischer Rahmen Code of Conduct a key feature Structure of the internal control system in procurement We have a tradition at HOCHTIEF of organizing our activities along ethical lines (see page 58). The HOCHTIEF Group procurement Code of Conduct therefore features among the ten Group Business unit and subsidiary-level procurement procurement procurement principles and rules in the Group Procureaudits at all ment Directive. For companies that work with HOCHTIEF, levels we have laid down rules in our Code of Conduct for Project-level procurement Business Partners, which we revised in 2011. CompaReporting to next higher level Top-down auditing nies are obligated to comply with these strict rules in Sustainability at HOCHTIEF their own operations and in dealings with their subcontractors. The rules include expecting companies not to permit child labor and to pay their workforces a fair Similarly in transportation infrastructure, HOCHTIEF’s wage or salary. activities are not limited to building projects like tunnels, bridges, and roads. Our integrated service portfolio in Reducing procurement risk this area also includes the supply and installation of enLarge-scale projects like those developed and underergy-efficient and energy-saving lighting for such infrataken by HOCHTIEF tend to span long timescales. In structure. many cases, prices of key inputs such as steel and copper increase over the project duration. We use speAs an example in the area of social and urban infrastruccial financing systems to better contain material price ture, our US subsidiary Turner is a pioneer in the green risk. Prices negotiated today thus apply for the entire building segment. HOCHTIEF is also extending its duration of a project. ­position in sustainable construction in many other countries. This requires us to procure and use in those projNew procurement challenges ects materi­als and services that meet the strict sustainHOCHTIEF focuses its business on the areas of energy ability stand­ards applicable. We comply with the exacting infrastructure and resources, transportation infrastrucstandards for sustainability certification by using resourceture, as well as social and urban infrastructure. Our conserving materials and techniques as well as meas­ projects center on the delivery of integrated, sustainable ures for increasing energy efficiency. Our facility and solutions. This calls for additional segment-specific exenergy management experts also ensure sustainable pertise and above-average market knowledge in proreal estate and facility operation and are supported in curement. this by the relevant procurement units. In the area of energy infrastructure, for instance, the task In the area of resources, our majority-owned Australian of procurement does not end with buying materials— subsidiary Leighton aims for sustainability in the procurei.e. steel and concrete—to build the foundations for offment of overburden excavators and caterpillars used in shore wind turbines. As HOCHTIEF also performs the mining. Energy and fuel efficiency are important criteria maintenance of such turbines, our procurement experts in the procurement of such machinery. must also obtain items such as helicopters to ferry personnel to and from installations and charter tugboats for our specialty equipment. Sustainability Report 2012 75 Donations and Sponsorship As an international construction group, HOCHTIEF designs living spaces all over the world and is therefore constantly interacting with the companies at which and for which we work. We see ourselves as corporate citizens and embrace social responsibility wherever we are at work. We prefer working together with regional subcontractors, and support cultural and social initiatives and local institutions. At the Group level, we focus our social commitment on donations and sponsorship activities that involve two overarching themes: education and modern ­architecture. How to handle donations and sponsorship and the all activities planned by the corporate units or in con­topics of focus are governed primarily by the HOCHTIEF nection with projects must be coordinated with the Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct at the Group level and, since 2007, communications managers. Responsible parties have by a directive. The directive additionally stipulates that likewise been specified in the companies and the operano donations may be made to political organizations, tional units of the HOCHTIEF Americas and the parties, or individual politicians, whether directly or inHOCHTIEF Asia Pacific divisions. All activities are addi*Leighton, our Australian directly.* tionally reported to the central CR coordination office at subsidiary, reports on its indirect political donations in HOCHTIEF. In justified individual cases and emergencies, its annual report and on the There are separate, supplementary directives at the disuch as natural disasters, the topics of focus need not Internet at www.leighton. com.au. visional level. Differences in donation and sponsorship be adhered to. Additional sums and materials are made activities result mainly from the differences in the reavailable in such cases. gions in which our divisions operate and the prevailing social welfare policies and cultural norms. Finally, we Focal points of sponsorship activities aim to gear our social commitment toward the needs To leverage the impact of our donation and sponsorof the society that we intend to support. HOCHTIEF ship activities, we established two focal points in 2007, Asia Pacific, for instance, is highly involved in working both of which have a special relationship to our comfor the rights of Indigenous Australians. The HOCHTIEF pany and our business activities. All HOCHTIEF diviAmericas division undertakes a variety of measures to sions give high priority to promoting these endeavors. help ethnic minorities, and the HOCHTIEF Europe diviThe first involves our commitment to educational projsion supports talented young people from a migrant ects and fostering young talent, by means of which we background. are investing in one of the most important factors in economic development. The second relates to modern The Group directive on donations and sponsorship will architecture, an area that we feel particularly bound to be revised in 2013. Our goal is to more closely align the promote on the basis of HOCHTIEF’s tradition as an inprovisions regarding the use of cash donations and ternational construction group. We believe that by gifts, expertise, and individual efforts regarding social ­being involved in these areas, we will also raise awareissues with our topics of focus and to increase the ness of our business activities and other topics relevant overall impact by combining related topics. to construction. Organization Beyond these two focal points, the HOCHTIEF Group At the Group level, the Corporate Communications dehas numerous project-related and location-related partment is responsible for donations and sponsorship. commitments as well as sponsorship topics specific to There are varying ways of dealing with this in the divithe divisions. We also very much welcome our employsions. In the HOCHTIEF Europe division, for instance, ees participating in volunteer activities. 76 Sustainability Report 2012 Focus on Bridges to Prosperity Total donations and sponsorship (EUR million) For some years now, the Bridges to Prosperity (B2P) 0.35 non-profit organization has received support in its Cen0.45 0.37 tral and South America projects from Flatiron, Turner, EU Australia and E.E. Cruz, our US subsidiaries. In cooperation with USA 3.41 sponsors, B2P builds pedestrian bridges across rivers 0.36 and gorges in low-infrastructure regions all over the world to give the local population better access to trade, 3.26 6.30 5.20 education, and medical treatment. In addition, Flatiron Sustainability at HOCHTIEF is particularly committed to its role as a strategic B2P partner and uses its building expertise to support the design of the bridge models. In 2012, HOCHTIEF was 6.35 3.43 3.00 4.06 for the first time involved from Germany and Europe in constructing a bridge in Africa. Two additional projects 2009 2010 2011 2012 are planned to follow in 2013. The goal is for the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division to also participate in B2P in the future so that the entire Group will be inResults of 2011/2012 image survey: Stakeholders volved in sponsorship activities. believe that the sponsorship activities we focus on fit well with HOCHTIEF Our commitment to B2P extends far beyond simple Based on your image of HOCHTIEF, in which area should cash donations. For all of the projects we finance, we we be concentrating our social welfare initiatives? have a group of employees on site who play an active (Figures in percent) part in building the bridges—an unforgettable team ex10 10 6 7 7 4 2 perience that the employees bring back to their every9 13 12 6 6 9 3 day working lives. By integrating local workers into the bridge building, we pass on our expertise to the local 8 15 11 13 12 11 5 population, which is then able to use these methods 7 14 18 17 14 14 7 and the skills they have acquired in other projects. 6 14 18 14 14 15 13 5 13 15 21 13 14 14 According to B2P reports on the impact of an average project, some of the results of a newly erected bridge 4 9 7 8 9 9 14 were: 3 5 7 7 10 6 12 2 5 3 4 7 8 14 • the number of students attending classes increased 1 by twelve percent 2 2 1 3 4 5 • medical facilities reported 24 percent more patient 0 2 1 2 5 5 11 0 = Do not agree at all 10 = Agree strongly visits Shaping the future/reEnvironmental protection/ Education/fostering young Development aid Sports Art/architecture • the number of local businesses rose by 15 percent • the number of women with jobs increased by 18 persearch cent You will find more on B2P and our activities in the artisustainability talent cle starting on page 34. Sustainability Report 2012 77 HOCHTIEF develops creative ideas and new ­technology. My pioneering 78 Sustainability Report 2012 Segment Reporting our achievement HOCHTIEF sets itself apart with superior technological prowess coupled with its employees’ experience and innovative potential. In our projects, we employ state-of-the-art technology and develop unique solutions—to deliver one-of-a-kind innovations worldwide. Sustainability Report 2012 79 Segment Report HOCHTIEF Americas Division For further information about The companies included in the HOCHTIEF Americas division recorded numerous successes during the rethe company, please see porting period in our six sustainability focus areas. Turner, for instance—our subsidiary specializing in building www.turnerconstruction. com and www.flatironcorp. construction—was again recognized as a leader in the US green building segment. Flatiron, our civil engineercom. ing subsidiary, was among Canada’s top employers in 2012. And finally, our cooperation with the charitable organization “Bridges to Prosperity” saw further successes with the construction of three pedestrian bridges in Nicaragua. Focus area 1: Sustainable products and services Highly efficient building supply installations were also Turner: Market leader in green building the main factor in awarding Gold LEED certification to Turner, HOCHTIEF’s US subsidiary, again achieved the the Fort Belvoir Community Hospital in the state of top spot in the green building market segment in the Virginia in July 2012. Thanks to the design of the apannual rankings of industry publication Engineering proximately 110,000 m² building, it consumes nearly News-Record (ENR) for the fourth time in a row in 30 percent less energy than conventional hospitals. 2012. Turner was also ranked No. 1 in sustainable buildMoreover, water consumption is reduced by collecting ing by “Building Design and Construction” mag­a ­zine rainwater to provide a natural water supply. for the fifth time. By the end of 2012, Turner had either completed or begun implementation of a total of 576 Another Gold LEED project from Turner is the Helen *LEED = Leadership in Energy buildings certified in accordance with the LEED* stand­ DeVos Children’s Hospital in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Environmental Design ard or registered for certification. In addition, the which received certification in April 2012. Two of the ­c ompany employs 1,387 Leed Accredited Profes­ factors leading to the new 14-story hospital building sionals—auditors trained for certification. This is receiving the quality seal are its highly efficient buildmore than any other construction company in the ing shell and its heat recovery system, both of which world. (You will find more on seals of quality for susmake a key contribution to the high energy efficiency tainable building in the article starting on page 10.) of the property. The modern engineering installations ensure that water use is very low. The glass facade www.usgbc.org In July 2012, the U.S. Green Building Council lets in abundant daylight, which has a positive impact Segment Reporting (USGBC) awarded the Gold LEED certificate to the on ­patients’ recovery. The building was additionally Columbia University Northwest Corner Building built given the accolade “Best Healthcare Project” for 2011 by Turner in New York. The 14-story educational fa­ by ENR. cility contains a lecture hall, classrooms and meeting rooms, and a café. An abundance of natural light and “Net zero energy” buildings take things one step furthe use of regional, recyclable construction materials ther. These latest-generation green buildings are along with energy-­efficient, resource-conserving ­designed to not utilize more energy than they produce building technology make a key contribution to the themselves by means of photovoltaics installations, building’s pleasant atmosphere and small environgeothermal pumps, and wind energy systems. In April mental footprint. In addition, Turner recycled more 2012, the USGBC South Florida honored the prothan 2,000 tons of construction waste during the gressive concept of Turner’s “TD Bank Cypress Creek” building phase. Added to this was a special engineerproject by conferring the “Outstanding LEED New ing challenge: Much of the building was to be conConstruction” award. The Platinum LEED-certified ofstructed on top of a sports hall. fice property in Fort Lauderdale uses a solar-powered system to produce more than 100,000 kilowatt-hours This required special measures from Turner in terms of electricity each year, even though it only uses apof structural design and safety, for which the compaproximately 97,000 kilowatt-hours. ny was able to contribute the knowledge it had amassed in other challenging projects of this nature. 80 Sustainability Report 2012 The entrance to Colonel Smith Middle School in ­Arizona: With this green building, Turner created an eco-friendly learning ­e nvironment (picture left). Working in view of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco: HOCHTIEF and Flatiron built a new approach, dubbed the Presidio Parkway, to the world-famous bridge. Built by our US subsidiary and inaugurated in August One Greenroads project currently underway with 2012, the Colonel Smith Middle School in Fort Huachuca, HOCHTIEF participation is the Presidio Parkway in Arizona is the first net-zero-energy building in the state. San Francisco, the new 2.5-kilometer-long south acThe school combines photovoltaic systems and wind cessway to the Golden Gate Bridge. The consortium turbines to generate energy. On the consumption side, led by HOCHTIEF PPP Solutions North America will resource-efficient building engineering ensures that build, operate, and partially finance the stretch of road less energy is used than is generated. Water, for inas part of a public-private partnership. Flatiron will stance, is heated via solar panels. In addition, the projcarry out the construction work in its capacity as deect combines the highest standards in sustainable sign-build lead. The current accessway built in the building with an innovative use of space founded on a 1930s no longer meets modern traffic requirements project-based learning model: The approximately 350 and is seismically unsafe. Upon its completion in 2015, sixth to eighth graders enjoy flexible common work the Presidio Parkway will improve traffic connections spaces in their new school and are also able to use to the surrounding areas as well as the general situathe outside areas for studying. The design and oriention at this key traffic junction, along with reducing the Segment Reporting tation of the building are such that the rooms receive impact of traffic on the environment. The project also the maximum possible natural light at all times, which includes landscaping, as well as improving pedestrian is said to have a positive impact on the learning enviand bicycle paths as supporting measures. ronment and, according to studies, on the students’ achievement levels. The traffic authority of the state of New York also aims to expand and improve its transportation infrastructure Sustainable transportation infrastructure in the most environmentally friendly manner possible. The US “Greenroads Foundation,” of which our US The “GreenLITES” environmental certification program www.greenroads.org civil engineering subsidiary Flatiron is a member, deis one of the programs developed in this context. In velops sustainability initiatives for transportation infraApril 2012, the Lake Champlain Bridge built by Flatiron structure projects. The foundation has its own certifireceived the Evergreen award, which is the public cation system to enable sustainability in this construction ­authority’s highest accolade. The bridge is the main segment to be measured and compared. The system connection between the states of New York and Vercan be applied to new construction as well as refurmont and on both sides crosses areas that are highly bishment and revitalization projects and extends to sensitive in terms of their historical and cultural heristreets and bridges. A project must fulfill a total of tage as well as their ecology. eleven fundamental factors to be given the “Green Road” designation, including materials and resources used, construction methods, and road surface. Sustainability Report 2012 81 Focus on the environment: In its expansion and conversion work on the Calavera dam, Flatiron is deploying an endto-end package of environmental protection measures. This is also a topic of interest for the young, up-and-coming engineers visiting the site as part of Flatiron’s Build-ABridge program. Focus area 2: Active climate protection In the reporting period, our subsidiary Flatiron received Internal climate protection measures the first Platinum certification ever awarded by the Turner is committed to contributing to climate protec“Association of Equipment Management Professionals” tion in various ways in its daily business activities. for the company’s environmentally friendly equipment During the reporting period, the HOCHTIEF subsidiary fleet. Platinum certification is the highest of the four succeeded in further improving the environmental life certification levels. Prior to receiving the certification, cycle assessment of its office locations by means of Flatiron had invested in new construction machinery its “Green Zone” program launched in 2011, which takes and equipment that use less fuel and have lower into consideration comfort and environmental quality, emissions. recycling and waste disposal, water consumption, ­energy and indoor air quality, as well as innovation and Focus area 3: Resource protection design. A total of 280 Turner offices and jobsite locaBack in 2008, Flatiron developed a minimally invasive tions took part in the 2012 survey, with 118 meeting bridge construction process. The process significantly the necessary requirements for certification as a Green reduces the environmental impact of major infrastrucSegment Reporting Zone. The program fulfills several functions at once: ture projects since the structure is erected using a type The checklist is used to assess the status quo at the of assembly-line procedure, eliminating the need for locations and provide ideas for future measures. heavy-duty construction vehicles. In the fall of 2011, Above all, the internal certification motivates employFlatiron received an environmental award from the ees to implement improvements in the area of climate Canadian “Alberta Roadbuilders and Heavy Construcprotection in their day-to-day business activities. tion Association” for implementation of an environmentally friendly construction method in building the Another method used to improve climate protection in Athabasca River Bridge project in Canada such that a the company is the interactive energy displays installed fish biotope and breeding grounds on the river were by Turner in many of its offices. The displays indicate spared. precisely how much electricity and heat is being used at the location. During the reporting period, Michael Deane, Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer of Turner, received a “Recycler of the Year” award from the ­Construction Materials Association to recognize his achievement in developing an online program used by Turner to collect and evaluate data on waste disposal and recycling for construction and demolition projects. The application generates data on several 82 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Americas Division Long-term commitment: With the Turner School of Construction Management, our American subsidiary Turner ­offers targeted support for companies run by women or ethnic minorities. Pictured here are the graduates of one such ­s eminar. hundred projects each month. In 2012, Turner recyFocus area 4: Attractive working environment cled some 529,540 metric tons of construction waste Award for high workplace attractiveness which corresponds to a recycling rate of 93.6 percent. The companies belonging to the HOCHTIEF Americas division are attractive and popular employers in the Since the end of 2011, Flatiron has been relocating USA and Canada, as indicated by numerous studies and upgrading the Calavera dam, which provides conducted among various stakeholder groups. drinking water to 2.5 million people in the San Francisco area. The old reservoir built in 1925 has only been operTurner was ranked among the top 100 most popular ated at 40 percent capacity since it was classified as US employers in the reporting period in the “Ideal Emseismically unsafe in 2001. The work has been comployer” study conducted by Universum Communicabined with a comprehensive environmental protection tions. The study surveyed more than 60,000 students program. Nearly 5.5 million cubic meters of rock and nearing graduation. Turner was also recognized in the soil have been moved in the course of the complex area of diversity in 2012. For the fourth year in a row, construction project, which generates natural asbestos business owners named the HOCHTIEF subsidiary Segment Reporting fumes. To prevent damage to the health of workers one of the top 50 organizations for multicultural busiand nearby residents and enable any necessary counness opportunities. termeasures to be taken, equipment has been installed on site to check the air quality and the concentration According to a survey, employees at Turner have a of the asbestos fumes. In order to protect the aquatic strong sense of loyalty to the company, and gave high fauna, fish passages were also created to allow the favorability ratings for a range of topics including cafish to safely overcome the obstacle of the dam as reer development and benefit programs. they migrate. Moreover, when diverting water into the Alameda River in the future, it will be possible to match In 2012, Flatiron was voted one of the 50 best large the temperature and the flow speed to the cycles and employers in the country by the “Great Place to Work requirements of the native fish species. Institute Canada.” The ranking was based on a survey of Flatiron’s own employees and included some 60 factors as well as a detailed examination of corporate culture, personnel policy, and human resources operations. Eighty-two percent of employees said Flatiron was a “great place to work.” A total of 49,000 employees from more than 230 companies in Canada took part in the study. Sustainability Report 2012 83 Support that’s right on target: Health protection With the Build-A-Bridge program, Flatiron awards In the US health system, it is especially important for scholarships and paid inemployers to take an active part in healthcare and ternships to high school students interested in purhealth prevention for their employees. The HOCHTIEF suing engineering careers. subsidiaries have initiated various programs in this regard. Most of them involve prevention, such as free check-ups and flu shots for employees and their families. Flatiron, for example, makes a contribution to health by holding health fairs every year where employees can take advantage of biometric health screening. Recruiting and personnel development The results are confidential, but Flatiron benefits from We draw on our employees’ high satisfaction levels in the aggregated health data, which it can use to furour recruiting process. Many open positions can be ther improve its programs. The HOCHTIEF subsidiary filled by means of our “Employees Recruit Employees” promotes good nutrition and fitness by holding a initiative. company-wide sports competition. Employees compete in teams for the highest number of hours of To win new employees, HOCHTIEF’s US subsidiaries sports activities undertaken. More than 200 people have established successful internship and early taltook part in the “Flatiron Fitness Challenge” in 2012. ent management programs. Turner alone provided internships to more than 300 students during the reFlatiron construction sites include targeted fitness porting period. The best among them have very good programs, such as a morning “stretch&flex” program. chances of being hired by the company after graduatThese exercises help to avoid injuries and increase ing. Flatiron subsequently hires some 70 percent of its the construction workers’ awareness of safe behavior. interns. More than 90 percent of them are still working Segment Reporting there. For young engineers, we offer a job rotation Increasingly, a healthy work-life balance plays a vital program that allows them to quickly gather experience role in preventing work-related and psychological illin all core areas of the construction process and denesses. Turner sends out a regular newsletter on this velop their personal strengths. subject and also grants special vacation days, such as on the birthdays of employees’ children, in order to A comprehensive training and continuing education foster a good balance between private and working program is available to employees at Turner University, life. ranging from communication training and health-related courses to technical seminars. Our training programs are meeting with ever greater interest outside the company as well, with more than 7,500 external students registered. Flatiron’s Construction University offers a choice of around 150 different seminars, either as online or ­video presentations or on-site/on-the-job training courses. Employees wishing to continue their education externally—for instance, by going to college ­part-time—receive financial support from Flatiron. 84 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Americas Division Focus on safety: For Turner’s annual Safety Stand Down, workers interrupted their activities in Madison Square Garden to talk about occupational safety (picture left). Simulating accident prevention: Virtual construction generates three-dimensional models that also help improve safety planning at construction sites. Occupational safety row (2009 to 2012) and over 3.2 million man-hours HOCHTIEF’s US subsidiaries are regarded as exemstraight without a lost-time incident. plary in their sector in the field of occupational safety. In the period under review, they again received nuDuring the period under review, the safety management merous certifications in addition to national and resystem of Flatiron was also certified in a ­ ccordance gional awards. with the international OSHA* 18001:2007 standard. Turner is in the process to obtain this certification. In The Turner offices received more than 20 safety order to familiarize employees with the standard’s reawards in the reporting period alone. These included quirements, at least 90 percent of Turner ­employees, *OSHA = Occupational Safety and Health Administration several awards from industry body “Associated Genfor instance, are required to complete a compreheneral Contractors of America” (ACG), such as the “Consive, web-based OSHA training course comprising 30 struction Safety Excellence Award” conferred in the course hours. category of largest construction company. Recognition is generally given for projects implemented with no Turner is similarly setting new standards with its vir­ Segment Reporting accident-related downtime thanks to successful safety tual planning and construction models. “Building Infor­ programs. mation Modeling” (BIM) is used to simulate designs as well as building and operational processes long beIn March 2012, Flatiron was honored for its achievefore the start of construction. This enables risks to be ment, initiatives, and programs in the field of work identified and managed at an early stage and worksafety with the “AGC First Place Construction Safety flows to be organized more efficiently. Turner is one of Excellence Award”—the top safety award for US conthe market leaders in virtual construction. In 2012, the struction companies. Based on a detailed examinaNew York building authorities for the first time aption, the jury e ­ valuated Flatiron’s management comproved and used the digital 3D site safety plans genmitment to occupational safety and health protection erated by Turner u ­ sing BIM for two construction sites as well as the involvement of and training provided for on the campus of New York University. This shortemployees, along with risk assessment and control ened the approval process, allowing the construction processes at the construction sites. site to be set up much more quickly. Flatiron reached a major safety milestone as 2012 To sensitize employees to the topic of work safety, drew to a close: a year without a lost-time safety inciHOCHTIEF’s US companies are initiating yearly prodent. Employees worked more than 4.1 million mangrams and prevention campaigns based on observahours and had zero lost-time incidents. In Canada, tions made in the preceding year as well as new deFlatiron employees have worked nearly four years in a velopments in regulations and standards. For example, Sustainability Report 2012 85 Peak performance: Three Flatiron employees climbed the 4,322-meter peak of Mount Shasta in the Cascade Mountains. Their 8.5hour trek took them through ice and snow (picture left). Hearts and Hammers: Turner has already implemented a large number of volunteer projects to help those in need—for instance, volunteers renovated a house. Turner holds an annual occupational safety day called Focus area 5: Corporate citizenship “Annual Safety Stand Down.” The latest event in SepIn line with the focus of HOCHTIEF’s sponsorship actember 2012 was entitled “Lean Construction and tivities, our US subsidiaries are particularly active in Safety Management: Materials Management for a fostering education and view their actions in light of Safe Working Environment.” On one day, employees their role as corporate citizens. and subcontractors at Turner construction sites put their work aside to participate in safety training and Turner, for instance, has for many years been working discussions. Lean management is a process optimito promote companies headed by women and minorization approach aimed, for example, at harmonizing ties. The company’s own Turner School of Construcprocesses and minimizing wastage. The presentation Management plays a key role in this. It offers tions at the 2012 Occupational Safety Day primarily women and minorities free courses on constructioncentered on how to use lean methods to improve and business-related topics such as estimation, prosafety management. curement, logistics, financing, safety, marketing, and business development. The support initiative, which Segment Reporting One of Turner’s initiatives is the “five-worker lunch” has been in existence since 1969, is today offered in where, each month, five employees meet with a se31 cities with Turner locations and has more than nior management representative to discuss safety 1,000 participating companies. In 2011/2012, Turner topics. awarded contracts in excess of USD 1 billion to these firms. This close-knit involvement and opportunity to shape decisions plays a major role in motivating employees to practice work safety in their daily lives. Turner also changed the work safety evaluation cri­ teria for the employee reward system in the reporting pe­riod. Instead of having points taken off for mistakes, employees now earn bonus points for correct behavior. 86 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Americas Division Stepping up to the plate for a good cause: Turner organizes a softball tournament every year. The winning teams decide where the donations will go (picture left). All together now: Flatiron, Turner, and E.E. Cruz employees celebrate the opening of a bridge they built over the Jucuapa River in Nicaragua for Bridges to Prosperity (B2P). The bridge will save lives during the rainy season. A joint sponsorship activity with the HOCHTIEF AmeriFor the annual “Giving Campaign,” Flatiron’s regional cas division is the cooperation with non-profit organibusiness units choose local projects to sponsor. The zation Bridges to Prosperity (B2P), initiated by Flatprojects are then supported with donations of time, www. bridgestoprosperity.org iron in 2009. Since that time, Flatiron employees have money, and various items. In 2011 and 2012, employbeen building pedestrian bridges in impassable, reees together donated several ten thousands of dolmote regions of South and Central America, and lars, put in more than 500 hours of volunteer time, since 2012 in joint teams with Turner and E.E. Cruz. In and collected hundreds of toys and articles of clothing 2012, the teams built three bridges in Nicaragua. Flatas well as around 500 kilos of food. iron is particularly closely linked with the organization. Flatiron plans and draws up the bridge designs for and together with B2P before they are implemented on site. (You will find more on the HOCHTIEF Group’s partnership with B2P in the article starting on page 34.) Segment Reporting As is traditional in the US, HOCHTIEF’s subsidiaries are also highly committed to charitable activities. They donate to health initiatives as well as take part in numerous volunteer activities and fundraising campaigns, for instance, to help the socially disadvantaged. During the reporting period, for example, employees from Turner’s office in Washington, D.C. repaired the house of a retiree who could not afford to do so himself. Volunteers from Turner’s office in Arizona turned an abandoned lot into a public park. This especially benefited residents of a home for low-income seniors. At the 24th Turner Annual Charity Softball Tournament, 300 employees played for a donation amount of EUR 28,000. The winning team was allowed to decide to which charitable organization the money would go. Sustainability Report 2012 87 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division You can find more informaThe HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division comprises the Leighton Group of companies operating in Australia, Asia, and the tion about the company at Middle East. There are numerous sustainability-related highlights to report for 2011 and 2012. As the world’s largest www.leighton.com.au. contract miner, Leighton Group was heavily involved in implementing environmental and energy efficiency measures for mining projects undertaken by Leighton Group subsidiaries. The company also again excelled in the field of occupational safety, sustaining the highest standards and posting outstanding achievements in this arena. Leighton is committed to diversity within the company, promoting in particular the progress of women and Indigenous Australians. Focus area 1: Sustainable products and services causing the rooms to heat up. The building fabric comThe Leighton Group, too, is active in the field of green prises either renewable raw materials or a high percentbuilding and once again completed a number of environage of recycled substances. mentally friendly buildings in accordance with sustainability standards during the course of the reporting period. Completed back in 2010, the regional branch office of (You can read more about green building in the article Leighton Group subsidiary Leighton Contractors in starting on page 10.) Brisbane was also honored in the period under review. Developed by Leighton Properties, this office building One example is the “King George Central Office Tower” received six green stars and the “2011 National Urban in Brisbane, which was completed in November 2012. Taskforce Development of the Year” award, the project This 36-story office and commercial property is expected coming top in competition with 35 other high-caliber real to be crowned the “healthiest building in Queensland.” estate developments in Australia. The awarding jury conIn order to actively promote the health of the building’s sidered not only the economic success of each particiusers and to encourage them, for example, to become pating project but also its benefit to the community, more mobile, bicycle stands have been provided and user satisfaction, and its environmental friendliness. In user-friendly stairways erected for access to all levels. A the case of the winner, contributors to this latter aspect cafeteria offering healthy food options has also been ininclude the use of recycled building materials, an effitegrated. Thanks to its concept, the “King George” becient sanitation system, and an irrigation arrangement came the first property in Australia to be supported by for the green areas that uses captured rainwater. A comSegment Reporting the renowned “Heart Foundation.” The building has also bined heat and power (CHP) generation system further already received six stars under the Australian “Green ensures savings of more than 2,200 metric tons of CO2 Star” approval scheme for sustainable building proper year. www.gbca.org.au moted by the “Green Building Council of Australia.” It likewise expects to be recognized by the “National Since 2012, Leighton Contractors has been engaged in Australian Built Environment ­Rating System” (NABERS) the growing market for electric cars through its subsidi­ in the categories “Energy” and “Water.” ary Visionstream. This participation involved purchasing parts of a commercial organization that has been August 2012 saw the completion of the “Eclipse Tower” operating charging stations for electric vehicles in Ausin Parramatta near Sydney. With 19 floors over a height tralia and New Zealand since 2008. Leighton is thus conof 88 meters, it is the tallest office block in the area. tributing to the expansion of a sustainable, climate-friendly The Eclipse Tower has been registered for certification transportation infrastructure. within the “Green Star” rating scheme, with good prospects for a five-star award. A five-star NABERS energy Focus area 2: Active climate protection rating is also on the horizon. Among the sustainability Addressing climate protection from within measures implemented are a 75,000 liter rainwater tank As the reality of climate change continues to drive global serving the bathroom flush systems, and an intelligent transformation toward a more resource-efficient and lowglass facade capable of controlling the impinging suncarbon economy, many governments and regulators light so that natural light is effectively exploited without around the world have sought to address these issues 88 Sustainability Report 2012 Intelligent and elegant: The glass facade of the Eclipse Tower in Parramatta responds to sunlight so as to keep the rooms from overheating. That helps the building save a lot of energy (picture left). Saving claws: On a road building project, Thiess works among other things with a hybrid excavator. Equipment like this generates average fuel savings of 30 percent. through mechanisms such as usage restrictions, taxes of the “Hunter Expressway Alliance” road building projand other market-based pricing mechanisms, adding ect in the Australian state of New South Wales, Thiess pressure to business to act. The Leighton Group, as tested hybrid excavators for the first time. The aim was large energy users and operating in some tight regulato ascertain whether hybrids were in fact lighter on fuel tory environments, such as Australia where a price on by directly comparing them and conventional high-per­ carbon was introduced July 1, 2012, recognize the need form­ance excavators when performing the same work. to develop and implement cleantech and sustainability The outcome? While keeping pace with the standard strategies to mitigate the risks and seize the opportuniexcavators’ productivity rates, the hybrids burned on ties of climate change and associated regulations. average eleven liters of gasoline per hour—30 percent less than their counterparts. During the trial phase of One area where the Leighton Group is focused is the project alone, the hybrids saved roughly 4,500 liters ­optimizing fuel consumption and emissions released of fuel and ten metric tons of CO2. by mining vehicles and equipment fleets. To this end, the Leighton Group works closely with the Australian Expanding sustainable energy infrastructure Segment Reporting government. In the case of the “Analyses of Diesel Use The Leighton Group is committed to the expansion of for Mine Haul and Transport Operations” study, for inenergy infrastructure that will harness renewable forms stance, this cooperation was with the Department of of energy. Leighton Contractors made good on this Resources, Energy and Tourism. Leighton Contractors’ commitment during the period under review as a memcontribution was to develop the “Best Truck Ratio” ber of a consortium charged with the construction of model, which serves as a benchmark for assessing the the largest onshore wind farm in the southern hemienergy consumption of all trucks in operation on a mine sphere. Located some 250 kilometers west of Melsite. Actual energy use is then compared with the theobourne, the Macarthur Wind Farm will be equipped retical best performance for those machines. As a result, with 140 wind turbines capable of generating up to 420 this tool serves as a yardstick not only for a fleet’s effimegawatts of electricity annually—enough to power ciency but also the remaining margin for improvement. 220,000 average households. The first wind turbines Since the model relies on a ratio, a single benchmark were connected to the power grid in fall 2012. Standing can be applied to different mining projects. 83 meters high, these very tall towers contain turbines designed specifically for local wind conditions. As a reWith a view to achieving a better energy balance, Leighton sult, they are able to generate up to three times more Group subsidiary Thiess has, among other things, introelectricity than older models found in the region. duced to its projects trucks with an optimized load bed shape and size so as to reduce the quantity of vehicles Since mid-2012, Leighton Group subsidiary Leighton required and the number of trips undertaken. As part Asia, India and Offshore (LAIO) has been erecting a total Sustainability Report 2012 89 Renewable energy for Mongolia: Leighton built the country’s first wind farm (picture left). Sensitive construction: Leighton built the Onkaparinga Valley Bridge using a long span technique for minimum encroachment on the wetland nature reserve. of 31 wind turbines as part of the Salkhit Wind Farm in ern suburbs. The 1.2-kilometer elevated rail viaduct Mongolia. Set among the mountains some 70 kilometers over the Onkaparinga Valley features exceptionally long south of the capital Ulan Bator and 700 kilometers from spans of over 50 meters between the piers. Thanks to the Chinese border, this is the first facility of its kind in the environment-friendly long span technique, which inthe country. LAIO is responsible for transporting and volves the incremental erection of each bridge segment, erecting the wind turbines, building the necessary roadthe construction footprint on the wetlands was minimized ways and electrical infrastructure on the site as well as because, for example, less material needed to be de­ laying a roughly twelve kilometer long overland cable to livered and stored on site. Aside from the sensitive conthe nearest substation. On completion, the wind farm struction methods, the project itself will have a positive will generate 50 megawatts, which translates into five impact on the environment because the rail link will percent of Mongolia’s energy needs. What’s more, the significantly diminish road traffic in the region and confacility is expected to reduce the country’s CO2 emissequently reduce air as well as noise pollution. sions by 200,000 metric tons a year. Mongolia has ambitious climate protection goals and aims to supply 25 Commitment to watercourse conservation and Segment Reporting percent of its energy requirements from renewable water treatment sources by 2020. Due not least to the general scarceness of water in many parts of Australia, water conservation carries a Focus area 3: Resource protection high priority as part of the environmental management Notably the major infrastructure and mining projects on activities of our Australian subsidiary Leighton and its the Leighton Group’s books frequently leave a consideroperational units. The Leighton Group therefore attaches able environmental footprint and entail the consumption great importance to ensuring that water is used effiof resources. Water and site rehabilitation are conseciently in its projects. It also manages water treatment quently two key aspects of environmental and resource projects and is involved in the cleaning of contaminated protection pursued by the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific diviwater resources. sion. In order to keep the use of drinking water for site works to Wherever possible, the Leighton Group implements ena minimum, Thiess is using a mixture of treated recycled vironmentally sensitive construction methods—such as water and harvested rainwater from various local sources when building a bridge over a protected and ecologically for dust suppression and road compaction during fragile area. One example of this philosophy in practice ­construction of the M80 Ring Road in Melbourne. The is the “Seaford Rail Project,” which was completed in effect: By the end of 2011, only three percent of the late 2012 and links Adelaide with its burgeoning southwater used on site was drinking water. 90 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division The Victorian Desalination Plant: Thanks to its ample roof vegetation, the stateof-the-art seawater desalination plant fits in well with its surroundings (picture left). Like a wave: In Hong Kong, Leighton built the largest sewage sludge incineration plant of its kind. Its ­d esign sets new aesthetic benchmarks. Commissioned at the end of 2012, the Victorian DesaliThroughout the entire process, the water quality of the nation Plant is the largest and most state-of-the-art river was strictly monitored, with 200,000 measureseawater desalination plant in Australia. At full capacity, ments being carried out in all. This flagship project was it produces 450,000 cubic meters of drinking water a recognized with the “United Nations Association of day, equivalent to 150 billion liters per year, enough to Australia World Environment Day 2011 Award.” The supply Melbourne with water for a year in the event of area can now be commercially utilized—for example, no rain. Built by Thiess as part of a joint venture, the for the construction of homes. plant is powered entirely by renewable energy, for which purpose new wind parks have been built in the vicinity. Another major undertaking involves the restoration of In addition, a coastal park with wet biotopes, marshes, the platypus habitat in Sydney, with Thiess Services and wooded areas has been established around the plant participating in Phase 2 of the project. Over the years, in order to provide a new habitat for local fauna. This is the area has been home to a whaling station, a gasone of the largest ecological restoration projects in the works, a weapons factory, and, finally, a naval base, history of the state of Victoria. with contamination levels reflecting these various usages. Segment Reporting The central harbor location requires special protective In Hong Kong, Leighton Group subsidiaries John Holmeasures to safeguard local residents. During the land and LAIO, working within a joint venture involving earthworks, for example, a gigantic marquee is to be a further partner, designed and are in the process of placed over the site in order to prevent, among other building the world’s largest sewage sludge incineration things, unpleasant odors from spreading. Before the air plant of its type. From late 2013, this facility will be reis released, it will also be filtered by a special system. cycling around 2,000 metric tons of sewage sludge per The contaminated water is to be treated in a reprocessday, generating its own energy in the process. The ing plant. Throughout the entire project, real-time moniproject also includes an environment information centoring systems are to be used to keep tabs on the liberter, cultivated gardens, and a habitat for water fowl. ated gases, noise, and vibrations. Among the projects involving the restoration of natural Thiess is also committed to promoting water conser­ surroundings was the revitalization of the Hunter River, vation beyond its own project work. This Leighton Group completed in October 2011. After more than 70 years of company is both main sponsor and eponym of the effluent from the steel industry, the banks of this river Thiess International Riverprize, first introduced in 1999 and its estuary in the state of New South Wales were and now conferred by a non-profit foundation. The heavily contaminated. Over a period of two years, Thiess award recognizes international projects aimed at proServices removed, cleaned, and disposed of around tecting and conserving rivers, and in 2012 it went to the 800,000 cubic meters of the contaminated sediment. USA’s “Willamette River Initiative” in Oregon. These efSustainability Report 2012 91 Happy winners: The 2012 Thiess International Riverprize went to a water protection project in the US. The recipients are pictured here accepting their symbolic check. Green mining: The Thiess team are also carrying out renaturization work at the Burton Coal Mine. forts were able to bring about quantifiable improvements number of its development programs are geared to for the river and its surroundings, which had become women and Indigenous Australians, with the aim of contaminated notably by chemical substances, as well sparking their interest in the industry and providing as suffering from high water temperatures and a rethem with qualifications. stricted flow channel. Today, the watercourse is cleaner than it was 50 years ago. Meanwhile, the “River ManageTargeting the promotion of diversity ment Young Achievers Award” sponsored by Thiess In line with its commitment to actively promoting diversity Services was conferred in 2012 to a young researcher in its workforce throughout the entire Leighton Group, from the University of New South Wales for her investiLeighton has set itself the target of increasing female gations into water ecosystems. representation in executive and senior management positions at Leighton Holdings from 25 percent in DeRenaturization in mining projects cember 2012 to 40 percent by 2016, and appointing at With its Australian subsidiary Leighton, HOCHTIEF is the least two female Directors to the Board by 2016. A range largest contract miner in the world. Working on behalf of initiatives have been launched to help women emSegment Reporting of various clients, the Leighton Group extracts millions ployees qualify for management positions, such as the of tons of raw materials in Australia and Asia every year. “Great Leaders are Made” and “Women in LeaderParticular emphasis is placed on ensuring efficient and ship” programs, preparing women for senior manageenvironmentally sound excavation techniques. Regular ment roles. The “Advanced Management Program” is inspections into the state of the mines and the extraction aimed at women with experience in leadership posiprocesses used are therefore standard practice. Nutions. merous mining contracts awarded to the Leighton Group also include the renaturization of the area (see also the Also in 2012, a remuneration review focusing on genarticle starting on page 22). der equality was initiated. This will be pursued in 2013. For example, the Burton Coal Mine in Queensland, at Mining is a field which traditionally tends to employ more which Thiess has been operating since 1996, is to be men—but, as is the case with many other areas in the renaturized in a five-year program. Implemented on the construction industry, mining is also suffering from a basis of detailed execution and control plans, the requishortage of specialist staff. To counter this, Leighton site measures will encompass landscaping, drainage, has initiated various programs to actively recruit women the laying of topsoil, and planting. for jobs in mining and prepare them for their duties with the necessary training measures. One example is the Focus area 4: Attractive working environment “Indigenous Women in Hard Hats” program, a partnerDiversity plays a key role in the Leighton Group’s corship with the government of the state of Queensland. porate culture and human resources management. A The program aims to recruit Indigenous women for jobs 92 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division broaden participants’ horizons and prepare them for Safely through the day: In Indonesia, Thiess broadmore diverse responsibilities. casts its own radio program as a way of enhancing occupational safety in the mines. Another Thiess initiative celebrated its 20th anniversary Lively music prevents fatigue. during the period under review: In 1992, the Leighton subsidiary launched an apprenticeship training program in Indonesia, which started out with eight participants. Now there are 420 trainees in the four-year program, which is based on Australian standards and was recognized as the best such program in the country as early as 2008. It trains heavy-duty mechanics, automotive electronics engineers, and welders, among other at the Burton Coal Mine. With training in a wide range professions. Thiess invests some EUR 1.5 million in this of areas, the women receive professional qualifications program each year. and practice skills such as operating heavy mining machinery. The HOCHTIEF subsidiary, in cooperation with Health protection and occupational safety the “Queensland Resources Council,” awards scholarThe Leighton Group sets the highest standards in health ships to support female engineering students. Other protection and occupational safety. Its frequency of measures, such as the “Enginhearing Recruitment Prowork accidents in Australia in 2012 equates to 1.61 gram,” aim to attract female employees by helping ­notifiable incidents per million hours worked, with the them balance work, family, and study commitments. ­figure in Asia at 0.64. These low incidence rates are ­attributable to a comprehensive safety management Sometimes promoting gender equality means recognizapproach, with unusual methods and measures occaing and responding to different needs. For instance, sionally also part of the picture. Thiess provides a broad range of work clothing tailored specifically for women. Because these items fit well, Back in 2008 in Indonesia, for example, Thiess estabSegment Reporting they enhance safety. lished an independent network of radio stations providing major mines with their own individual programming. Leighton is a founder member of “Supply Nation,” Health protection and occupational safety messages www. supplynation.org.au formerly known as the “Australian Indigenous Minority make up a large part of the informative output provided Supplier Council.” The organization supports and certiby the broadcasters, with relevant topics being dealt with fies Indigenous businesses and advocates on their beon the basis of role playing, reports, and features inhalf to foster their cooperation with other Australian volving mine workers, their families, or outside guests. companies and government agencies. In 2012, Leighton The music mix is aligned in particular to helping comcompleted contracts worth a total of a good EUR bat worker fatigue in the night shifts. Between 2009 480,000 with Supply Nation-certified businesses. and 2012, the incidence rate of notifiable accidents at sites served by a radio station fell from 1.9 to 0.6. Training young people The Leighton Group has established a variety of proThe Sangatta mine is one of these sites. During the regrams designed to attract skilled young people and porting period it posted a new safety record with an ­offer them entry-level opportunities and career prospects. accident-free worktime total of over 8.6 million hours. Thiess, for instance, has launched a training program The mine was also recognized in the national health in partnership with “MEGT Australian Apprenticeships protection and occupational safety awards. The GoverCentre” to equip apprentices and trainees with skills in nor of the Indonesian region East Kalimantan and the various areas and job categories. Its goals are to Bupati of East Kutai Timur presented the prizes. Sustainability Report 2012 93 Over 2.7 million accidentfree work hours: Employees accepting the Safety Award for the Toka Tindung Gold Mine in Indonesia (picture left). 17 million accident-free working hours: The Doha City Centre in Qatar is a flagship project for occupational safety in the Habtoor Leighton Group. The companies of the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division million hours worked without a serious accident. And in were the recipients of numerous safety awards during November 2012, this project managed by Leighton Asia the period under review, with 15 being conferred in garnered two further safety accolades: the “Aditama 2012 alone. Some examples: The Mining Division of Award” and the “Best of the Best Trophy,” the highest Leighton Contractors received the “CME Safety Award” honor a contract miner can receive from the governfor the development of a remote-controlled camera for ment. monitoring a hazardous loading process, thus eliminating the need for a worker to be present in the danger At the end of 2011, the safety management of the joint zone. venture company Habtoor Leighton Group in the Middle East adopted a new slogan: “Safety: We can’t live The “New Future Alliance” (NFA), comprising Leighton without it.” This was the winner of a competition of emContractors and three other partners, received an Exployee suggestions. And the measures implemented cellence Award in the category “Best Solution of an as part of the program have brought tangible success: OHS Workplace Risk” from the “National Safety CounBy the end of 2011, the projects “Al Shaqab Equestrian Segment Reporting cil of Australia,” similarly in 2012. The NFA is part of a Academy” and “Doha City Centre” in Qatar had remajor home construction and infrastructure program mained accident-free for 15 and 17 million work hours for Indigenous Australians in Northern Territory, at the respectively, while the Zayac University project in Abu same time providing jobs for members of their commuDhabi passed the 18 million hour mark. The safety pronity. However, many Indigenous Australians have little gram is based primarily on illustrative training concepts or no training, particularly with respect to health proand instilling a high level of risk awareness among emtection and occupational safety. In order to improve ployees. this situation, a user-friendly system was developed and introduced in which Indigenous Australians of all Focus area 5: Corporate citizenship age groups could be directly involved. Leighton and its subsidiaries and associated companies find many ways to engage with the communities In the Philippines, Leighton Contractors operating the where they operate and the people with whom they Masbate gold mine celebrated three years without a ­interact. Their support ranges from employees getting single incident of lost time through accidents at the end involved personally and contributing their expertise, to of 2012. Located 350 kilometers south of Manila, the financial and other donations. In addition, the Leighton mine produces one-sixth of the gold extracted in the Group also awards and sponsors prizes for selected Philippines. In September 2012, the Toka Tindung gold initiatives and groups. In 2012, the Leighton Group mine received the “Best Award for Occupational Health spent over EUR 5.1 million on corporate citizenship acand Safety Management” from the Indonesian minister tivities, focusing on arts and culture, Indigenous Ausresponsible, having by then clocked up more than 2.7 tralians, and the environment. Leighton maintains long94 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division This, in turn, motivated them to go for medical screenUnited against cancer: Thiess employees raise awareness ings themselves. Employees of Leighton Asia in Hong of the risk of prostate cancer Kong volunteered to serve on beach clean-up crews in a colorful campaign geared to motivating people to seek and refurbished a facility for preschoolers with learning regular preventive checkdisabilities. In the communities near two projects in ups. India, Leighton companies funded eye operations for 88 people suffering from cataracts. This disease is ­responsible for 51 percent of all cases of blindness worldwide. Over 250 more people received treatment for other eye ailments. Focus area 6: Compliance standing partnerships, geared to sustainable success, In August 2012, Leighton introduced its Group-wide with various organizations as well as educational and “Code of Business Conduct.” Rooted in Leighton’s corcultural institutions—including “Landcare Australia,” porate governance system, this extends the already eswww. landcareonline.com.au for example, whose partnership with Leighton dates tablished Code of Ethics by outlining the standards of back to 1997. Landcare’s objective is to protect the behavior expected of everyone in the Group. These continent’s natural and cultural resources. standards stem from the company’s values of Discipline, Integrity, Safety, and Success. The code is divided into In addition to various environmental projects, Leighton various sections including People and Safety, The has also sponsored the “Leighton Indigenous Landcare ­Environment and The Community, Ethical Business Award” since 2010, conferred on projects that work to Practices, Use of Leighton Group Assets and Resources, foster culturally sustainable land use and environmental and Government, Media, and Investors. The Code of protection. In 2012, it was awarded to the Bunya MounBusiness Conduct is not intended to subsume the inditains Murri Rangers and Bunya Mountains Elders Council, vidual corporate cultures of the operational entities, but in recognition of activities such as a program that teaches rather enshrine them within a uniform framework. As Segment Reporting children about the cultural significance of the Bunya the company continues to grow, it is increasingly imporMountain National Park. tant that a consistent set of principles and standards guides decision making, regardless of operating comIn line with its sponsorship focus, Leighton Group sponpany or location. sorship in 2012 included scholarships, training, and ­vacational programs for young Indigenous Australians to the tune of a good EUR 590,000. Additionally, there are a wealth of local initiatives in the communities where projects are underway, as well as numerous volunteer initiatives. Thiess, for example, donated roughly EUR 34,000 in 2012 to charitable causes in Hunter Valley, where the company has been operating for over 20 years. Thiess supported initiatives inLeighton Group Code of Business Conduct cluding a camp for children with cancer and a program to help disadvantaged teenagers. The employees at various mining projects held fundraising drives for breast and prostate cancer patients. | DISCIPLINE | INTEGRITY | SAFETY | SUCCESS | Issued August 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 95 HOCHTIEF Europe Division For further information on The HOCHTIEF Europe division comprises the operational entities and units of the controlling company HOCHTIEF the company, please go to Solutions AG. Through a wide range of projects, measures, and initiatives, they helped implementing and further www.hochtief-solutions. com. developing the HOCHTIEF Group’s six thematic areas of sustainability in their daily work during the period under review. HOCHTIEF has thus become an established player in the marketplace for offshore wind energy. With its energy management expertise, moreover, it is able to play a key role in improving climate protection. For the first time from its ­European base, HOCHTIEF has become involved in a bridge construction project in Rwanda under the auspices of the non-profit organization “Bridges to Prosperity.” Focus area 1: Sustainable products and services In Germany, several HOCHTIEF-constructed properties www.dgnb.de The business portfolio of HOCHTIEF Solutions and its were awarded certificates by the DGNB (German subsidiaries in Europe comprises numerous sustainable Sustainable Building Council). Developed by our real products and services. These include “green building” estate experts, the Essen headquarters of IT service and the refurbishment of existing buildings in line with provider AtoS garnered the DGNB’s gold seal of approval prevailing environmental standards, and also energy in October 2012. The approximately 7,500-square-meter and facility management services aligned to cutting office building is both heated and cooled by a highly CO2 emissions. (For more information, please turn to ­effi­cient, so-called “energy floor.” The temperature and the article starting on page 16.) the sun protection systems are automatically adjusted and can also be individually regulated via web-based conNumerous HOCHTIEF properties certified trols. The lighting system reacts to presence detectors, The HOCHTIEF Europe division obtained numerous automatically shutting down when no one is in the vicinity. green building certifications for its projects in the course of the reporting period. Further projects meeting sustainThe Hamburg office and commercial property “Metro­ ability criteria are underway. One example is the “Aquapo­lis Haus,” completed in late 2011, received DGNB tikon” in Zurich, which is currently being developed by bronze certification. It has two atriums offering natural HOCHTIEF Solutions according to the Swiss Minergie-Pworkplace lighting. A special highlight is the historic eco standard and received LEED Platinum precertificaauditorium of the former Metropolis cinema which—reSegment Reporting tion. The planned measures aligned to environmental, stored to its former glory in line with a preservation resource, and climate protection in this office property ­order—was integrated into the new building. are wide-ranging indeed. Almost 100 percent of the building materials are suitable for recycling. Various The office buildings at Hamburg’s Katharinenquartier, cutting-edge technologies are to be harnessed to enwhich is currently developed in an old school complex sure optimum energy efficiency in the building, includand scheduled for completion in fall 2013, r­eceived DGNB ing automatically darkening window panes that respond silver precertification. This mixed-use development comto sunlight, and thermal component activation. Utilizing prising homes, offices, and retail premises has been the principle of evaporative cooling, so-called salines designed by HOCHTIEF real estate developers and will be installed in the atrium. Fed with captured raintheir partners so as to keep the existing trees and water, these can not only ensure a consistently pleas­ensure unimpaired visibility of the St. Katharinenkirche ant interior climate but also reduce—by nearly a quarchurch tower, which is subject to a conservation order. ter—the amount of external cooling energy required. Further contributors to exemplary energy efficiency in Since October 2012, two other buildings developed, built, the Aquatikon are a photovoltaic system installed on and used by HOCHTIEF are also proud bearers of silver the roof and a central storage facility that captures the certification: The HOCHTIEF office buildings in Berlin and waste heat from all the building’s various internal sysHamburg were honored for their compliance with various tems. Some 70 percent of the energy needed can be sustainability criteria. Site selection, internal air quality, produced on site in this way. and the quality of the materials used were also taken 96 Sustainability Report 2012 Saline flow tree in the atrium of the Aquatikon, Zurich. The eye-catching design feature in the building’s ­a trium will double up as a sustainable cooling system (picture left). Well protected: HOCHTIEF experts refurbishing the Ruhr University in Bochum strip out contaminated material using our innovative SurFace cutting and surface treatment technology. into account, supplementing the imperatives of low energy the district complex. The German Federal Ministry of consumption and reduced life cycle costs. Exemplifying Economics and Technology is sponsoring the pilot projthe sustainability credentials of the build, all rooms are ect with a grant of EUR 1 million (see also page 73). temperature controlled via a concrete core activation system that performs both the heating and cooling functions. Sustainable refurbishment of existing buildings Another important segment in this industry is refurIn Berlin, the office building “Berlins Grosse Freiheit” bishing and upgrading aging properties. Such projects constructed in line with the LEED* “Gold standard” was avoid the problem of sealing off green field surface, while *LEED = Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design completed in early 2013. This commercial property also also ensuring the conservation of resources. Measures features concrete core activation for heating and coolgeared to increasing energy efficiency are vital in such ing, while the flat roof is to be grassed and planted, furprojects—for example, improving insulation or installther enhancing the energy balance of the building. The ing cutting-edge technical equipment—as is adapting room lighting is provided by energy-saving luminaires old structural fabric to meet new requirements and with demand-based control via presence detectors and standards. Building materials that are hazardous to Segment Reporting daylight sensors. Moreover, environmentally compatible, health are also removed from old buildings and reregional, and recoverable construction materials have placed by harmless, eco-friendly materials. been used, some of which were themselves from recycled stock. (For more information on green building, One example is the refurbishment project at the Ruhr see the article starting on page 10.) University of Bochum. By 2013, HOCHTIEF Solutions will have completely gutted the engineering faculty’s Sustainable research project building complex, erected in 1965, leaving only the shell Meanwhile, we are also developing visions that go beas the framework for the new facilities. These are to yond the individual building. HOCHTIEF Solutions is inbe built and installed in line with the latest ecological volved in the development of sustainable urban districts standards. Eliminating hazardous materials, including as “Energy-Plus” projects, to which end it launched the PCB-laden paint, constitutes a particular challenge. research project “Plus-energy district Oberursel” in Here we can rely on HOCHTIEF SurFace, a cutting and 2012. Together with the Technical University of Darmstadt, surface treatment technology developed by us with it aims to develop and test a mixed urban district conwhich the hazardous substances can be removed and cept capable of covering its energy needs from its own, disposed of safely, expertly, and correctly in environregenerative sources, with the various buildings doumental terms. The faculty’s students are also benefitbling up as energy producers, consumers, or storage ing on the theory side, with experts from HOCHTIEF facilities. With energy centralized in this way, surplus holding a s­ eries of seminars at the start of construction output could also be supplied to buildings adjacent to work to explain the refurbishment approach. Sustainability Report 2012 97 Neoclassical splendor from 1913: In refurbishment projects like Neue Direktion Köln we combine historic charm with cutting-edge ­a rchitecture (picture left). Electric mobility in the fast lane: HOCHTIEF Solutions installed 1,000 charging stations at the premises of German car dealers for RWE Effizienz. Ensuring a sympathetic approach to buildings subject town Düsseldorf, our aim is to achieve LEED Platinum to preservation orders is also integral to the HOCHTIEF certification. This requires, for instance, that 95 percent portfolio. In Warsaw’s Mazowiecka Street, our Polish of the waste generated during the construction phase be HOCHTIEF project developers are refurbishing a buildrecycled. HOCHTIEF subsidiary Streif Baulogistik is proing that is partly protected by a conservation order. viding the necessary collection containers for the various The historic facade has been restored to its original glory, types of waste, such as plastic sheeting and polystyrene, including the balustrades, cornices, and window frames. wood, paper, metal, steel, and general rubble, along The building work is being carried out in accordance with precise documentary evidence that the waste has *BREEAM = Building Rewith BREEAM* standards for sustainability. Named the indeed been correctly sorted and disposed of. search Establishment Mazowiecka Building, the project was also a recipient ­E nvironmental Assessment Method of the “Excellent Award” as part of the “EuropaProperty Electric cars offer enormous potential within the mass CEE Green Building” awards scheme. Factors in the mobility arena, and HOCHTIEF Solutions is involved in ­jury’s decision included the introduction of solar energy developing the requisite infrastructure. On behalf of as a part of the modernization remit, leading to reduced RWE Effizienz, facility managers from HOCHTIEF speSegment Reporting consumption of primary energy, plus measures to save cializing in utility construction and the provision of water, and a general reduction of power consumption wide-area technical services, ensured that—by October throughout the build. 2012—around 1,000 RWE charging stations had been installed at German car dealerships. In Cologne, Germany, HOCHTIEF real estate developers are to convert the old “Königliche Eisenbahndirektion” Focus area 2: Active climate protection railway administrative building of 1913 into a state-of-theIndustry-wide cooperation is important when it comes art office property, Neue Direktion Köln. In the course to improving climate protection. Hence, HOCHTIEF is a of the dismantling work, historical furnishings and fitmember of the “European Network of Construction www.encord.org tings such as floor tiles, marble claddings, and wrought Companies for Research and Development” iron railings are being removed for later re-installation ­( encord). HOCHTIEF and the other 18 companies in in their original form. The neoclassical facade, subject the organization collaborate on developing concepts, of a preservation order, is also to be retained. guidelines, and measures geared to promoting sustainability, particularly at the research and development Sustainable services level. In the period under review, encord issued a Efficient construction logistics are also indispensable to code of practice specifying a uniform method of meas­ meeting the requirements of the various environmental uring CO2 emissions, where construction material, the certification schemes. In the “Kö-Bogen” project involving construction process as well as building usage and the construction of a retail and office property in downoperating patterns were the key variables. 98 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Europe Division square kilometers. We aim to develop and optimize our The “Innovation” in action: The HOCHTIEF crane lifting projects within their early planning and design phase in shift takes foundation masts order to reduce the risk of spiraling costs and delays in for wind turbines onto its loading deck. At 3,400 the subsequent construction phase. Before starting square meters, this is about construction, we will then sell the project development the size of half a soccer pitch. work to companies, who will in turn construct and operate the wind parks at the sites concerned. Like wind power, water and geothermal heat are sources of “clean” energy. In recent decades, HOCHTIEF has built a number of efficient hydroelectric power plants around the world. For example, HOCHTIEF Solutions is Climate protection through a sustainable energy currently building the Cheves power station in Peru— infrastructure 2,000 meters up in the Andes. From the end of 2013, HOCHTIEF Solutions is participating in the expansion of this facility will be covering peak power demand for the a sustainable energy infrastructure through its numerous Lima region. Moreover, in November 2012, we and a services and project involvements. Notably in the field of partner were awarded a contract to build the Alto Maipo offshore wind energy, we have in recent years positioned hydroelectric power plant in Chile. The project com­ ourselves as an important market participant and trusted prises two complex contract sections in the Andes southpartner. east of the capital, Santiago. The contract includes 18.5 kilometers of tunnel boring work, the intake systems, In summer 2012, the “Innovation”—currently the largest and a five-kilometer steel pipeline. The HOCHTIEF conjack-up vessel in the offshore market—was completed sortium is also responsible for construction planning. and put into service. It can handle a payload of up to Work on the 530-megawatt power station will begin in 8,000 metric tons and its crane can lift up to 1,500 met2013 and is scheduled for completion in 2017. ric tons. Its deck is big enough to transport between Segment Reporting seven and twelve wind turbine assemblies, depending South of Munich in Kirchstockach and Dürrnhaar, on their size. Since its completion, this special crane HOCHTIEF Solutions is operating two geothermal power lifting vessel, developed by HOCHTIEF together with a plants which harness energy from high-temperature partner, has been performing construction work at the thermal water taken from depths of more than 3,600 Global Tech I wind park. There HOCHTIEF Solutions is meters. Offering a capacity of 5.5 megawatts, the installing the foundations for a total of 80 wind turbines Kirchstockach plant is initially being used to provide which once erected will be able to supply 445,000 homes energy for electricity generation. Over the long term, with environment-friendly power. however, it will also supply regenerative heat to the surrounding communities. The Dürrnhaar plant generates HOCHTIEF Offshore Development Solutions, a joint some 46,000 megawatt hours of electricity per year, venture established with a partner in February 2012, providing energy to about 18,000 households. In these develops offshore wind farms. With six wind farms curprojects, HOCHTIEF was also responsible for the derently in development in the North Sea—capable of velopment and construction work. generating a total of up to 3.5 gigawatts—the company is supporting the German government’s plans to exWith its mobile combined heat and power (CHP) genpand the German offshore wind energy market. In this erating units, HOCHTIEF Solutions is able to offer its inway, HOCHTIEF is also fostering the successful greendustrial clients the possibility of supplying their facilities ing of energy supplies in Germany. Located between with energy from a decentralized source in line with 160 and 200 kilometers off the island of Borkum, our their specific requirements. These CHP units operate windfarms extend over an area of more than 300 on the basis of an engine that generates electrical enSustainability Report 2012 99 Storage for renewable en­ As an example, the automotive components supplier ergy: Pumped storage power Saint-Gobain Sekurit will, in the course of the ten-year plants use surplus electricity to pump water from below contract with HOCHTIEF Solutions starting in 2012, reto the upper reservoir. When duce CO2 emissions at its Herzogenrath site in Germany extra power is needed, the water is allowed to flow back by around 70,000 metric tons. To this end, HOCHTIEF’s down, driving turbines on experts are constructing a combined heat and power the way. HOCHTIEF will ­d evelop and build pumped plant and modernizing the existing boiler house, installstorage power plants of this kind in Germany. ing a refrigeration plant, and refurbishing the air conditioning system. And with newly installed building management technology, all the company’s systems and equipment are to be centrally monitored and controlled. ergy, with the waste heat produced also being used by Pharmaceuticals manufacturer Nordmark will, together the recipient business or plant, thus creating an inexpenwith HOCHTIEF Solutions, be able to reduce its energy sive and energy-efficient integrated solution. The concosts by a six-figure euro amount and cut its CO2 emistainer format makes HOCHTIEF CHP units both flexible sions by around 3,700 metric tons year on year. Among and portable, enabling them to be quickly installed ready other things, a CHP plant is to be installed, numerous refor immediate service. The idea for this project came furbishment measures are to be carried out on the buildfrom one of our employees who submitted a suggestion ing systems, and the new cooling i­nstallation is to be filled to the HOCHTIEF Ideas Management scheme (for more with ammonia, a natural, environmentally sound refrigerant. details, go to page 72). It garnered our “Top Idea” award. The energy management experts from HOCHTIEF An infrastructure based on regenerative energies not ­Solutions have been commissioned to provide a rubber only needs alternative sources of power generation but technology company Phoenix Compounding Technology also new storage facilities in order to both close supply in Hamburg, part of the ContiTech Group, with commergaps and absorb production surpluses—because the cial energy media—primarily steam, compressed air, and Segment Reporting wind and sun cannot be tailored to demand patterns. process water—for a further four years. We will also be Pumped storage power stations are both suitable and further modernizing and operating the associated energy tried-and-trusted as a solution for storing electricity and supply systems at the site. The contract between the two thus ensuring supply consistency and grid stability. As a companies has been in existence since 1998. In the indeveloper of complex infrastructure projects, HOCHTIEF terim, the client’s CO2 emissions have been reduced by has therefore analyzed a number of possible sites for such 24,000 metric tons. Among other things, a CHP plant has facilities in Germany and its neighboring countries. In the been installed to power the production lines, with fall of 2012, we began work on our first project in Lower HOCHTIEF also ensuring that the waste heat from this Saxony, with the start of construction of the 200-­megawatt system is properly utilized through an innovative, integratpower plant planned for 2016. HOCHTIEF is also focusing ed heat recovery concept. Our energy experts take the its R&D work on innovative storage solutions (for more water required for production from a canal and convert information, please go to page 73). it into process water. A modern instrumentation and control system has also been installed, enabling all the Climate protection through sustainable energy technical systems to be centrally monitored and regulated. and facility management Offering various efficiency measures, technical solutions, In its role as energy contractor, HOCHTIEF Solutions and operational models, the energy and facility managers was able to save its clients in Germany a total of 118 at HOCHTIEF Solutions help our clients to operate their thousand metric tons of CO2 emissions in 2012. The properties and facilities more efficiently, save thousands HOCHTIEF Solutions energy management unit has of tons of CO2 emissions every year, and thus also re­almost 100 percent ISO 50001 certification. duce their energy costs. 100 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Europe Division Internal climate protection measures Minimally invasive construction: Preparing the last segDuring the reporting period, various measures were ment of the Saale-Elster also implemented to protect the climate and reduce Viaduct. Using a special topdown construction techthe company’s own CO2 emissions. At HOCHTIEF nique, HOCHTIEF can work Group headquarters in Essen, various printed materials from a gantry above to avoid harm to the nature reserve. are produced, giving rise to CO2 equivalents. These are offset by investments in compensatory measures—for example, certified climate protection projects—arranged through the emissions trading agency First Climate. Among products rendered carbon-neutral in this way were the HOCHTIEF annual, quarterly, and sustainability reports published in 2011 and 2012, and the various editions of the HOCHTIEF employee and client magathe environmentally friendly top-down construction zines. In terms of printed matter, the equivalent of a method. In this, the build progresses end-on from an good 134 metric tons of CO2 were offset in the period overhead truss, which in turn serves as the working under review. HOCHTIEF business trips by rail in Gerplatform that extends beyond the already completed many have also been rendered carbon-neutral since bridge section. From there, the next piers are erected, 2010. This gave rise to compensatory measures offsetallowing the bridge girders and deck to be laid on a ting some 610 metric tons of CO2 equivalent in 2011 step-by-step basis. and 571 metric tons in 2012. All offsetting payments go to wind power projects in Turkey and India. Keen to minimize the environmental effects caused by installing wind turbines at sea, HOCHTIEF began deFocus area 3: Resource conservation veloping an innovative drilling process together with a Major infrastructure projects such as road, bridge, and partner in 2011. In this “Offshore Foundation Drilling” tunnel construction involve significant interventions in the (OFD®) technique, the foundation is bored into the seaenvironment and the consumption of considerable rebed rather than created by conventional pile driving. Segment Reporting sources. HOCHTIEF therefore deploys various protective This creates substantially less noise: For sea creatures and conservation measures, as well as developing ad such as the common porpoise, whose habitat is the hoc solutions in order to minimize any ensuing impacts. North Sea, the otherwise injurious sound pressure level is reduced by several orders of magnitude to a point One complex challenge is the construction of the Saalesubstantially below the statutory limit. (For more inforElster Viaduct near Halle, the concrete deck of which mation on the OFD method, please see page 73.) HOCHTIEF Solutions completed as part of a joint venture in 2012. The 8.6-kilometer-long bridge is part of Clean water with cutting-edge sewage treatment the high-speed Nuremburg-Berlin railway link and plants crosses the Saale flood plain. This highly sensitive, By building state-of-the-art sewage treatment plants, protected nature reserve is home to many threatened HOCHTIEF again made a key contribution to eco-susspecies such as corncrakes, beavers, and red kites. tainability during the period under review, providing There was an overriding requirement to ensure that the people and regions with clean drinking water and treatflood plain habitats were disturbed as little as possible. ing their wastewater. In Romania, an existing sewage The environmental protection precautions put in place treatment plant was refurbished and expanded by determined not only the schedule adopted by HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF Solutions. The plant now treats almost in this project—during the birds’ breeding season, work 1,200 cubic meters of sewage per hour, employing the along certain sections was brought to a complete halt— latest technologies to remove the nitrogen and phosbut also the method of construction. To avoid having to phorus. The methane gas, which is produced as gather­ access the flood plain, our bridge building experts used ing sewage sludge ferments, is also captured to proSustainability Report 2012 101 Industrial facilities are getpoint of use. And finally, the building sites operated by ting greener: The staff at the company, together with their surroundings, are the HOCHTIEF Polska office in Kraków enhanced the to be made “greener.” To achieve this, there will be greater building of clients Silgan White Cap with greenery. ­focus on environmental factors in the planning process, the use of ecologically harmless materials, reducing impacts on the environment, and implementing renaturi­ zation measures. The program has already borne its first fruits: In 2012, HOCHTIEF Polska took third place in the ranking for sustainable companies published by the business newspaper “Dziennik Gazeta Prawna.” In addition to environmental protection measures, the jury also took ­aspects such as ethics, compliance, and duce energy in an adjacent CHP plant. This sewage ­occupational safety into account. treatment facility is an infrastructure project in the environmental sector sponsored by the European Union. Focus area 4: Attractive working environment Accolade as an attractive employer We built a fully biological sewage treatment plant in SerVarious benchmark comparisons and an employee bia to clean and clarify the wastewater produced by survey published in the reporting period served to conthe 84,000 inhabitants of the industrial town of Sabac. firm HOCHTIEF’s place among Germany’s and Europe’s Four times as big, another plant in Turkey is to treat a more attractive employers. daily average of 62,000 cubic meters of sewage for the 334,000 inhabitants of Erzurum. This will greatly improve Both in a ranking by consultancy firm “Universum the water and environmental situation in the region beCommunications” and in a study of young engineers in 2012 2 cause, until now, these enormous volumes of effluent Germany by the European research institution “­ trend­­ence,” have flowed untreated into the Euphrates River. The HOCHTIEF was named among the 20 most popular Turkish sewage treatment plant includes a sludge staemployers cited. And in the pan-Euro­pean “trendence Segment Reporting bilization stage from which biogas is produced for elecEuropean Graduate Barometer 2012” survey, we ranked tricity generation to power the plant. number 132 in the engineering/IT segment. And we took second place in the league of most popular emInternal measures: Environmental program in Poland ployers in Germany according to a survey by the propIn summer 2011, the Polish subsidiary of HOCHTIEF erty newspaper “Immobilien Zeitung” among more than Solutions launched a program to enshrine environmen700 final-year students taking property and construcARBEITGEBER tal protection more deeply within its corporate culture. tion-related degree courses. In a Universum survey of Four targets and various measures were defined to over 5,200 engineers with up to eight years’ profesdrive ­forward the process. The “HOCHTIEF Polska sional experience, HOCHTIEF came in 27th among the Green Horizon Environmental Program” aims to procompanies for which the young professionals would mote ­environmentally friendly behavior among the like to work. For German high school students, too, company employees, business partners, and subconHOCHTIEF is an attractive potential employer, as revealed tractors. Training events and courses as well as interby the “trendence School Student Baro­meter 2012,” in action with trade associations and similar organizations which we were once again included among the 100 play a major part in the concept. Efforts are likewise most popular companies. under­way to render the workplace and its surroundings more ecologically sustainable and more efficient. Internal studies corroborate the picture. The employee This means, for example, keeping the machine pool survey “People.index 2012,” which took in the German up to date, introducing efficient equipment, and reducheadquarters and also the operational units of HOCHTIEF ing power, water, and resource consumption at the Solutions in Europe, indicates that relations between 102 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Europe Division employed and employer are good. Over eight out of ten Graduating with flying colors at the HOCHTIEF Academy: respondents felt strong ties with HOCHTIEF—a figure Successful graduates come which lies well above that of other corporations. In paraway with a Bachelor of ­E ngineering degree in conticular, the level of cooperation with the direct line manstruction site management ager is viewed positively by almost nine out of ten. Reand state accreditation in building construction engispect, trust, and confidence play an important role in neering. this regard. The result is a clear improvement compared with both the last People.index survey in 2009 and the general benchmark. Employee participation and networking HOCHTIEF employees everywhere have the right to elect their own representatives to safeguard their interof knowledge and ideas management is the HOCHTIEF ests. Management expressly supports the right of emIdeas Room, which has been in existence for some years ployees to union membership. Effective 2010, 100 pernow (for more details, go to page 72). cent of the workforce are represented by works councils. Employee representatives also sit on the Supervisory Recruitment and personnel development Board of HOCHTIEF. In units that have an Occupa­ HOCHTIEF keeps in contact with promising talents tional Health and Safety Committee, employee repreamong its former interns in order to recruit as many of sentatives regularly take part in its meetings. them as possible following completion of their studies. And with success: Once again, the intern retention rate HOCHTIEF was one of the first companies in Germany from this development program was around 60 perto conclude a voluntary agreement—before the legal cent in the period under review. With lectures and talks requirement for this came into force—covering the Group at various universities in Germany, HOCHTIEF experts companies within the European Union on the provision and managers regularly provide students with an inof information to and consultation with employee represight into working life and promote career choices in Segment Reporting sentatives. The currently 11 out of a possible 19 Eurothe construction industry as well as at HOCHTIEF. pean works councils from twelve countries are usually notified twice a year by the Group management on Filling positions with specialist requirements is somecross-border matters. The European Works Council, times particularly challenging, with jobs in the offshore which has been in existence since 1996, represents all wind energy field being a case in point. So in 2012, the employees of HOCHTIEF and its majority holdings HOCHTIEF joined forces with a partner to develop an in EU countries. in-house training program for offshore workers. In the reporting period, 50 participants completed the sevenHOCHTIEF employees also have other avenues to acweek training course (and you can read more about tively participate in the company’s ­affairs and network this in the article starting on page 28). with one another. With the “peopleNet” platform, established in summer of 2011, HOCHTIEF in Germany Our employees in Germany pursue continuous personal has a social and business network via which employdevelopment (CDP) courses offered by the HOCHTIEF ees can exchange messages and views across all Academy. In the reporting period, the program offered ­areas of the company. Following its launch, peopleNet around 135 different seminars. Over 3,500 employees quickly came to be used intensively, notably in the field took part in more than 400 single or multi-day internal of knowledge transfer and experience sharing. And events. Complementing the seminars from the CPD catathe level of active participation is steadily growing, with log, increasing numbers of individual training courses are increasing numbers of online users from other Euro­ also being offered to specific departments or divisions. pean entities joining in. Another central tool in the field Sustainability Report 2012 103 Running proud: The Essen corporate run is a highlight for many in the HOCHTIEF workforce (picture left). How not to do it: In filming for the HOCHTIEF occupational safety video, actors play out how ignoring the rules causes accidents on site. HOCHTIEF Solutions is responsible for facility manageEssen, while more than 100 participated in the JP ment at Bahrain Airport and, in this capacity, participates Morgan run in Frankfurt. in a development program that has garnered an award: Following the successful completion of their studies, Occupational safety young Bahrainis are offered the chance to go to Germany Occupational safety is of paramount importance, particufor 18 months. There, they initially take a language course larly on HOCHTIEF sites. In order to sensitize employees and then work in a company that is already active in their to the concomitant risks and to train them to behave in homeland. In recognition of this, the award was cona safe and secure manner, HOCHTIEF Solutions joined ferred by the Bahraini Committee for Economic Develforces with Berufsgenossenschaft BAU, the employers’ opment during the period under review. mutual indemnity association for the construction industry, to produce—in the course of the reporting period—four Health protection information videos with subsequent interactive study ques­ HOCHTIEF supports employees with a wide range of tions. Among the topics were “Lifting Loads” and “Work­­ programs and measures notably designed to promote ing Distances.” The question-and-answer part was proSegment Reporting preventive healthcare. Sufficient exercise, healthy nutriduced in several languages to reach as many of our tion, stress management, and regular checkups by the employees in Europe as possible. company medical service all play a key role in the recommended regime. The period under review saw the The annual “Occupational Safety Day” held in Germany launch of numerous campaigns flanked by a wide is an important tool for establishing and enhancing our choice of activities and services, from yoga courses to health and safety culture. In 2012, the slogan adopted nutritional advice. was “Safe buildings—from idea to operation.” Employees at the various HOCHTIEF sites had the opportunity For example, the company participated in a “Bike to to take part in seminars on a series of topics, including Work” scheme launched by a German health insurhow they might be able to make their place of work ance company and the German cycling organization healthier. At many locations, subcontractors were also ADFC in summer 2012, in which a total of 58 HOCHTIEF invited to join in the activities of this motivational day. staff from around Germany took part. The distance ­cycled by the participants over the three-month period The level of occupational safety on the “Barwa Commertotaled a good 28,000 kilometers. For this and for its cial Avenue” project in Qatar, is regarded as especially additional support to bike riders—including the proviexemplary. HOCHTIEF Solutions began work here in sion of showering facilities at work—HOCHTIEF received 2008, building an 8.6-kilometer retail boulevard. At the “Bike-friendly Company” award. Joint participation at peak times, this major site was attended by 15,000 sport events is also particularly popular: In 2012, 160 workers from 45 countries. In all, 63,000 people took HOCHTIEF employees took part in the Corporate Run in up work there to date. Yet up to the end of 2012, there 104 Sustainability Report 2012 HOCHTIEF Europe Division Young wind farmers: In a game at the HOCHTIEF booth, visitors to the Ideas Park generate electricity on special fitness bikes. The screen in the background shows how much power the kids are pedaling out at that moment. Community commitment: Led by a HOCHTIEF member of staff, a class of Frankfurt school pupils discover the secrets of a passive energy house. were only nine accidents with downtime recorded town planning organization JAS, which HOCHTIEF has against almost 98 million hours worked. And each of been supporting for some years now. the injured quickly recovered. During the reporting period, many of our employees in Our subsidiary HOCHTIEF Polska received a “Construct Germany were engaged in volunteer activities both prisafely” award from the Polish Health and Safety Execuvately and together with their coworkers. HOCHTIEF tive a total of four times in the reporting period. likes to foster this involvement wherever possible and, to this end, launched an initiative in 2012 whereby emFocus area 5: Corporate citizenship ployees who work as volunteers for a project that meets HOCHTIEF Europe focused its sponsoring activities in HOCHTIEF’s primary sponsoring criteria can be given the period under review on a project in the field of edufast-track financial assistance with the minimum of red cation and support for young talent: our collaboration tape. This was how employees from the human resources with “Bridges to Prosperity” (B2P). Together with this department were able to organize a day out for both non-profit organization, we built a pedestrian bridge in able-bodied and disabled children at a horse riding Segment Reporting Rwanda in July 2012, facilitating people’s access to center. These HOCHTIEF volunteers took a day’s vacaeducation, medical provision, and markets. (For more, tion and, together with a kindergarten, arranged the read the article starting on page 34.) entire program including therapeutic riding, crafts, and games. August 2012 saw the fourth edition of the Ideas Park in Essen, a technical exhibition outing for the whole family “Energy + Architecture—Buildings also need a warm organized by ThyssenKrupp. The purpose of the two-week pullover” was the name given to a workshop sponsored event was to encourage children and young people to by HOCHTIEF at the German Architecture Museum (DAM) develop an interest in technology and innovation and to in December 2012 in which Frankfurt school students consider a profession in these areas. HOCHTIEF took participated. Included in the visit was a tour of the part with an interactive information booth for which the HOCHTIEF Passive House project. A HOCHTIEF emslogan read: “On the energy track. Taking power from ployee who volunteers privately for work at the DAM had sea to city.” It offered young visitors a fun journey of organized the event with a view to sparking interest discovery through the world of offshore wind power— among young people from socially deprived backgrounds from generation and transport to storage and conin architecture and their developed environment. sumption. Developed and attended by HOCHTIEF staff, the booth included a town model p ­ reviously used by HOCHTIEF as part of another sponsoring project. Children had made this in a workshop organized and led by members of the German youth architecture and Sustainability Report 2012 105 HOCHTIEF offers young talent opportunities. My opening Information on this Report 106 Sustainability Report 2012 our move HOCHTIEF is committed to fostering education and young talent. Through visits to construction sites, internships, and job training, we give young people Information on this Report the world over the opportunity to get to know our company—and to discover their talents. Sustainability Report 2012 107 Report on the Independent Audit To HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft, Essen Responsibilities of the auditor According to our assignment we have conducted a Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the ­limited assurance audit for selected data of the 2012 ­Sustainability Report for the period July 1, 2011 to Sustainability Report of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft, ­December 31, 2012 based on our audit. Our opinion headquartered in Essen, Germany. The report refers to takes into account any information that may lead to the the period July 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012. In line conclusion that the content of chapter 2 “Sustainability with the assignment we have audited the content of at HOCHTIEF” has not been prepared in line with the chapter 2 “Sustainability at HOCHTIEF”. above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pages 7 to 17) of GRI. Responsibilities of the statutory representatives The Executive Board of Hochtief Aktiengesellschaft Our assignment does not include the corporate data on is responsible for the preparation of the 2012 Sustainpage 48 and 49 of the Sustainability Report, the work ability Report in line with the Sustainability Reporting done figures for 2011 and 2012 on page 70, or references Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pages 7 to 17) ­criteria of the Global to ­other chapters or to the Annual Report. Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our assignment does include suggestions on how to • Materiality, ­further develop both the corporate responsibility manage• Stakeholder Inclusiveness, ment and the corporate responsibility reporting. • Sustainability Context, • Completeness, We have conducted our audit in accordance with the • Balance, International Standard on Assurance Engagements • Clarity, (ISAE) 3000. Accordingly we are required to comply • Accuracy, with ethical requirements and plan and perform the • Timeliness, ­audit in line with the principle of materiality to obtain • Comparability und limited assurance. • Reliability The extent of audit procedures that are conducted in the This report refers to the period July 1, 2011 to December context of an audit with limited assurance is limited 31, 2012. The responsibilities of the Executive Board compared to an audit with reasonable assurance (e.g. in ­include: accord­a nce with § 317 HGB). Therefore the level of ­reliability gained is lower. The selection of audit procedure • Choosing and implementing of adequate methods in depends on the auditor’s professional judgment. We order to compile the Sustainability Report, have performed the following actions in the context of our audit: • Undertaking estimations and setting assumptions for selected corporate responsibility data that are feasible • Inspection of the documentation of the processes in the relevant corporate responsibility context, ­underlying the corporate responsibility management; Information on this Report • Developing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes that are necessary for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. 108 Sustainability Report 2012 • Documentation of the processes as well as inspection Audit Opinion of the documentation of the systems and processes We state that our audit of chapter 2 “Sustainability at underlying the collection, analysis and aggregation of HOCHTIEF” for the period July 1, 2011 to December corporate responsibility data as well as an examination 31, 2012 has not led to any reservations. We have not based on random samples; become aware of any facts that the content of chapter 2 “Sustainability at HOCHTIEF” has not been prepared • Inspection of the IT system used for collecting corporate in line with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting responsibility data; Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pages 7 to 17) of GRI. • Interviews with employees of the department “Corporate Suggestions for improvements Social Responsibility” who are responsible for preparWe suggest the following improvements in order to furing the report. The focus of the interviews was on the ther develop both the corporate responsibility manageprocess how the Sustainability Report has been prement and the corporate responsibility reporting. These pared as well as the according internal controls that suggestions are not contradictory to the above stated have been implemented. opinion and do not restrict the above stated opinion. •A  nalytical assessment of documents that we had • Stronger embedding of the corporate responsibility been provided with as well as conducting interviews management among affiliates as well as detailed with employees who are responsible for the following ­documentation of flow of information parts of chapter 2 “Sustainability at HOCHTIEF”: • Connecting corporate responsibility programme with • The Company key performance indicators as well as stakeholder • Sustainability Strategy communication • Compliance • Risk Management • Further development and standardization of the pro• IT and Data Protection cesses underlying the compilation, controlling and • Employees ­archiving of the corporate responsibility data in order • Occupational Safety and Health to enhance data quality. • Environmental and Climate Protection • Research and Development • Procurement Essen, February 12, 2013 • Donations and Sponsorship PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Information on this Report [signed] [signed ppa.] Michael Werner Juliane von Clausbruch Sustainability Report 2012 109 Information on this Sustainability Report Reporting period and frequency of reporting Forward-looking statements In this Sustainability Report, we have opted to present a This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking staterelatively brief synopsis of the relevant topics. A supplements. These statements reflect the current views, exment to this Report as well as further information is pectations, and assumptions of the Executive Board of available on our Internet platform at www.hochtief.com/ HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft regarding future events and sustainability. The report covers the period between developments relating to HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft or July 2011 and December 2012 and follows on from the the HOCHTIEF Group and are based on information curSustainability Report published in June 2011. The reporting rently available to the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktien­ periods for key figures are stated separately. The next gesellschaft. Such statements involve risks and uncertainSustainability Report will be published on February 28, ties and do not guarantee that future results (such as profit 2014. Starting in 2013, we will be reporting each year. before tax or consolidated net profit) or developments (such as with regard to possible future divestments, general busiReport content and scope ness activities, or business strategy) will transpire. Actual The content of this report has been developed on the basis results (such as profit before tax or consolidated net profit), of internal processes. The relevant information was either dividends and other developments (such as with regard to requested from the operational units of the Group or origipossible future divestments, general business activities, or nated from official HOCHTIEF documents. The report conbusiness strategy) relating to HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft tent has been checked by the staff in charge of the individ­ and the HOCHTIEF Group may therefore differ materially ual issues. from the expectations and assumptions described explicitly or implicitly in such statements due to, among other things, Certain companies in HOCHTIEF’s international business changes in the general economic, sectoral, and competitive portfolio have management systems of their own. This environment, capital market developments, currency exprecludes compiling standardized data for the entire Group. change rate fluctuations, changes in international and na­ We indicate any limits of coverage in this report wherever tional laws and regulations, in particular with respect to tax they apply. laws and regulations, the conduct of other shareholders as well as other factors. Any information provided on dividends The goals described in this Sustainability Report are based is additionally subject to the recognition of a corresponding on the assumption that the HOCHTIEF Group will continue unappropriated net profit in the published separate financial to operate in its current form. statements of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft for the fiscal year concerned and the adoption by the competent deci­ Disclaimer sion-making bodies of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft of While the data contained in this report has been collected appropriate resolutions taking into account the prevailing and processed with the greatest possible care, transcription situation of the Company. Aside from statutory publication errors cannot be fully excluded. obligations, HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements Previous reports contained in this Sustainability Report. An archive of previously published reports is available online at www.hochtief.com/sustainability-reports. Information on this Report 110 Sustainability Report 2012 Implementation of GRI External Assurance International Reporting Standards Principles of the UN Global Compact HOCHTIEF joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2008. We are consequently actively committed to supporting the Global Compact’s ten principles and to advancing them within the Group. We are committed to the respect of human rights, labor standards, and environment protection standards and participate in the fight against corruption. This Sustainability Report 2012 also serves as our report on progress in implementing the UN Global Compact. HOCHTIEF publishes the required annual Communication of Progress with an overview of specific action on each principle on the Global Compact website, www.unglobalcompact.org. Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative The HOCHTIEF Sustainability Report 2011 adheres to the current Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the 3.1/CRE final version of the GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRE). Conformity of the information provided with the requirement profiles has been checked by GRI and the report classified as Application Level B+. For the summary GRI index, please see the back flap on pages 112–114. Information on this Report Sustainability Report 2012 111 Index Based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines Profile Page 1 Vision and Strategy 4.9 Executive Board and Supervisory Board-level 1.1 Foreword by the CEO................................................. 6–7 processes for overseeing the organization’s risks 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities.......................6–11 and opportunities regarding sustainability..... 51–52, 60, HT 4.10 Processes for evaluating Executive Board 2 Organizational Profile performance..................................47, 83, 102, GB 93–99 2.1 Name of the organization............................................115 Commitments to external initiatives 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services..........3–4, 46, CP 4.11 Consideration of the precautionary 2.3 Operational structure of the organization..................... 49 approach............................................ 60, 68–69, 90, 101 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters.....................115 4.12 Participation in external 2.5 Countries where the organization operates.................. 49 initiatives........................................ 50, 52, 58, 66, 72, 111 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form............................. 48 4.13 Memberships.....................11, 52, 58, 72, 81, 93, 98, 111 2.7 Markets served......................................... 3–4, 46, 48–49 Stakeholder engagement 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization............................... 48 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 2.9 Significant changes regarding structure organization.............................................................51–52 or ownership.....................................................AR 23–27 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders...................51 2.10 Awards in the reporting 4.16 Stakeholder engagement ......... 12–13, 15, 21, 27, 33, 35, period............... 63, 80–85, 88, 94, 96, 98, 102, 104, 105 ...................................39, 47, 50–52, 63, 77, 83, 102–103 4.17 Consideration of stakeholders’ interests...........47, 50–52 3 Report Parameters Report profile Management Approach and Performance Indicators 3.1 Reporting period.........................................................110 5 Economic Indicators 3.2 Date of most recent previous report............................110 Disclosure on management approach......................................... 46 3.3 Reporting cycle...........................................................110 Aspect: Economic performance 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report........115 EC1 ● Direct economic value generated and distributed....48–49 Report scope and boundary EC2 ◗ Financial implications of climate change...................... 68 3.5 Process for defining report content................. 50–51, 110 EC3 ● Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations............ 64 3.6 Boundary of the report................................................110 EC4 ◗ Financial assistance received from the 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report.........................110 government.................................................97, AR 56+57 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Aspect: Market presence subsidiaries, etc..........................................................110 EC5 ◗ Ratios of standard entry-level wage compared 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of to local minimum wage........................................ 63, CAR calculations......................... 49, 52, 59, 67, 69, 70–71, 77 EC6 ◗ Policy, practices, and spending on 3.10 Explanation of any re-statement of information local suppliers.................................................. 86, 92–94 provided in earlier reports.......................................52, 67 EC7 ◗ Procedures for local hiring................................ 24, 92–94 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, Aspect: Indirect economic impacts or measurement methods................................... 6–7, 110 EC8 ● Infrastructure investments and services provided 3.12 GRI content index – primarily for public benefit Tabular overview with page numbers...................112–114 ........... 35–38, 80–81, 86–87, 89–90, 95, 97–98, 99–102 3.13 Assurance – External assurance EC9 ● Type and scope of significant indirect economic for the report............................................... 108–109, 111 impacts ........... 35–38, 80–81, 86–87, 89–90, 95, 97–98, 99–102 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Corporate governance 6 Environment 4.1 Corporate governance, including responsibility Disclosure on management approach................................... 68–70 for sustainability.................. 41–43, 51, 57, AR 93–99, CG Aspect: Materials 4.2 Independence of Supervisory Board......... AR 98–99, CG EN1 Weight/volume of the materials used 4.3 Control body or independent members of the EN2 ● Percentage of materials used that are highest governance body............................................ CG recycled input materials.................................... 70, 96–98 4.4 Shareholder and employee recommendations Aspect: Energy to the Executive Board.............................. 47, 52, 62, 103 EN3 Direct energy consumption 4.5 Linkage between Executive Board compensation EN4 ● Indirect energy consumption.........................................71 and sustainability performance........................ AR 93–99 CRE1 ● Building energy intensity 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest......... 57–59, CoC (buildings in use only)....................................... 80–82, 96 4.7 Executive Board members’ expertise on EN5 ● Energy saved.................................19, 26, 69, 82, 89, 102 sustainability..................................................................51 EN6 ● Initiatives to provide products/services with Information on this Report 4.8 Mission statement, codes of conduct, and corporate a higher energy efficiency....... 19, 69, 80, 89–90, 96–101 values................ 46–47, 50, 57–58, 61–62, 66, 68, 74–76 EN7 ● Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption...................................................54, 82, 101 not reported ◗ partially reported ● fully reported CoC: Code of Conduct, AR: Annual Report 2012, CP: www.hochtief.com/clientportal, CG: www.hochtief.com/corporate-governance, HT: www.hochtief.com/riskmanagement, CAR: www.hochtief.com/career 112 Sustainability Report 2012 Aspect: Water 7 Labor Practices and Decent Work EN8 ◗ Total water withdrawal ................................................. 70 Disclosure on management approach.................................. 62–64 EN9 Sources affected by water withdrawal Aspect: Employment EN10 ◗ Percentage of water LA1 ◗ Workforce profile ............................................. 48, 64–65 recycled and reused ......................... 24, 90–91, 101–102 LA2 ◗ Employee turnover................................................. 26, 65 CRE2 ● Water intensity LA3 ● Benefits provided to full-time (buildings in use only) ................................ 80–82, 88, 96 employees ............................................ 64, 84, 104, CAR Aspect: Biodiversity LA15 ● Return to work and retention rates after EN11 ● Land used in protected and parental leave .............................................................. 65 high-biodiversity areas .............................23–24, 90, 101 Aspect: Labor/management relations EN12 ◗ Significant impacts on biodiversity ...........68–70, 90, 101 LA4 ● Employees covered by collective EN13 ● Habitats protected or restored .......... 25, 83, 90–92, 101 bargaining agreements ........................................ 64, 103 EN14 ◗ Management of impacts on biodiversity................ 70, 82 LA5 ● Notice periods regarding significant EN15 Number of affected species on the IUCN operational changes .......................................52, 62, 103 Red List and other lists Aspect: Occupational health and safety Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste LA6 ● Workforce representation in health EN16 ● Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions.............71 and safety committees .................................. 55, 62, 103 EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions LA7 ● Injury, absenteeism, and fatalities ..... 67, 93–94, 104–105 CRE3 ● CO2 intensity from building energy CRE6 ● Percentage of the company operating in (buildings in use only) .......................19, 80, 88, 100–101 accordance with an internationally recognized CRE4 ● CO2 intensity from new construction health and safety management system ....................... 66 and building refurbishment ........................................ 100 LA8 ● Training, counseling, and risk-control programs EN18 ● Initiatives to reduce greenhouse regarding serious diseases........ 83–86, 93–94, 103–104 gas emissions........... 17–20, 54, 69, 82, 88–89, 100–101 LA9 ◗ Agreements with trade unions on health EN19 Ozone-depleting substances and safety topics ................................................. 66, 103 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions Aspect: Training and education EN21 ◗ Water discharge .................................................... 90–91 LA10 ◗ Hours of training ...........................29–32, 63, 67, 84, 103 EN22 ● Weight of waste ................................... 69–70, 80, 82, 98 LA11 ● Skills management and EN23 ◗ Significant spills ............................................................71 lifelong learning.................................. 29–32, 63, 72, 103 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, LA12 ◗ Employees receiving regular performance or treated waste and career development reviews................................. 63 EN25 Water bodies affected by discharges of Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity water and run-off LA13 ● Diversity of senior management CRE5 ◗ Contaminated land held that has been and staff structure ........................................... 64–65, 92 remediated ............................................................ 90–91 LA14 ● Salaries......................................................... 63, 92, CAR Aspect: Products and services EN26 ◗ Initiatives to mitigate environmental 8 Human Rights impacts of products and Disclosure on management approach...................................57–59 services ...................................80–81, 88, 90–92, 96–98 Aspect: Investment and procurement practices EN27 Percentage of products with reused packaging HR1 ◗ Investment agreements that include Aspect: Compliance human rights clauses .................................................. 58 EN28 ● Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with HR2 ● Percentage of suppliers and contractors environmental laws and regulations ............................ 70 that have undergone screening ..........................56, 75, 93 Aspect: Transport HR3 ◗ Hours of employee training on human EN29 ◗ Environmental impacts of transporting rights aspects .............................................................. 56 products, goods, and employees.........................54, 101 Aspect: Non-discrimination Aspect: Overall HR4 ◗ Incidents of discrimination and actions taken........ 58–59 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Sustainability Report 2012 113 Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 10 Product Responsibility HR5 ◗ Operations at risk and actions to support Disclosure on management freedom of association .................................. 58, 62, 103 approach ...................................... 11–14, 46–47, 57–59, 61, 76–77 Aspect: Child labor Aspect: Customer health and safety HR6 ◗ Operations at risk and measures to PR1 ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety eliminate child labor ............................................... 58, 75 impacts of products are assessed ......................... 11–14 Aspect: Forced and compulsory labor PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with health and HR7 ◗ Operations at risk and measures to eliminate safety regulations forced and compulsory labor ...................................... 58 Aspect: Product and service labeling Aspect: Security practices PR3 ● Product labeling/product information .............. 11–14, 53 HR8 ◗ Security personnel trained in aspects of CRE8 ● Sustainability certification, evaluation, and human rights ..........................................................57–58 labeling systems for new construction and Aspect: Indigenous rights building refurbishment ........................................... 13, 53 HR9 ● Actions taken to protect the rights of PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with product indigenous people ................................................. 92–94 labeling regulations Aspect: Assessment PR5 ● Practices related to customer satisfaction...12–13, 47, 53 HR10 ◗ Operations that have been subject to human Aspect: Marketing communications rights reviews and/or impact assessments ................. 58 PR6 ● Programs for adherence to laws and voluntary Aspect: Remediation codes related to marketing communications .........76–77 HR11 ● Grievances related to human rights filed, PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with marketing addressed, and resolved through formal communications regulations grievance mechanisms .....................................57–59, 62 Aspect: Customer privacy PR8 ◗ Number of substantiated complaints regarding 9 Society breaches of customer privacy ..................................... 61 Disclosure on management approach.......................57–59, 76–77 Aspect: Compliance Aspect: Local community PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws concerning SO1 ◗ Management of impacts on local communities ..... 55, 94 the use of products and services SO9 ● Operations with potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ....................... 84, 94, 105 SO10 ◗ Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ........... 86–87, 94–95, 105 CRE7 Number of people displaced, and compensation, broken down by type of project Aspect: Corruption SO2 ● Percentage/number of business units analyzed .......... 59 SO3 ◗ Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures ................................... 41–43, 56, 58–59 SO4 ● Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption... 59 Aspect: Public policy SO5 ● Public policy positions, participation in public policy development, and lobbying ............................... 76 SO6 ● Contributions to politicians, political parties, and institutions ............................................................ 76 Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior SO7 ◗ Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior ................. 58 Aspect: Compliance SO8 ● Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations .......................................................42, 70 Sustainability Report 2012 114 Publication Details Contacts and Credits Published by: HOCHTIEF CR Committee HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Barbara Hansen, CR Coordinator Opernplatz 2, 45128 Essen, Germany Tel.: +49 201 824-2162 Tel.: +49 201 824-0, Fax: +49 201 824-2777 nachhaltigkeit@hochtief.de info@hochtief.de, www.hochtief.com HOCHTIEF Human Resources Project management/editor-in-chief: Martina Steffen Lisa Zindler-Roggow, Verena Blaschke Tel.: +49 201 824-2624 martina.steffen@hochtief.de Editing/text: HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications HOCHTIEF Investor Relations Verena Blaschke, Ann-Kristin Brönnecke, Ulrike Kröner Indra Folke, Volker Lahr, Robert Schöpf Tel.: +49 201 824-1833 investor-relations@hochtief.de Barbara Bierach, Sydney HOCHTIEF Corporate Governance/Compliance CR coordination: Dr. Thomas Sonnenberg Barbara Hansen Tel.: +49 201 824-1555 info@hochtief.de Design and layout: HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications Dr. Bernd Pütter English adaption: Tel.: +49 201 824-2610 Burton, Münch & Partner, Düsseldorf info@hochtief.de Image editing: M&S Communication, Jörg Struwe, Düsseldorf Photography: For further information on our commitment to Christoph Schroll, HOCHTIEF sustainability, please see www.hochtief.com/ sustainability Photo credits: HOCHTIEF photo archive, Essen; HOCHTIEF Polska; Leighton This Sustainability Report is a translation of the Holdings, Sydney; Leighton Asia, Hong Kong; Thiess Pty Ltd., original German version, which remains definiBrisbane; Turner Construction, New York; Flatiron Construction tive. Corp., Firestone, Colorado; Habtoor Leighton Group, Qatar; Cover image: plainpicture/Fancy Images, Carsten Brügmann; Editorial deadline: February 12, 2013 gettyimages/Frank and Helena (p. 8); Corbis/Mario Castello (p. 9); Prologis Germany Management GmbH (p. 14); Daniel Keppel The next Sustainability Report will be published on (p. 14); Tobias Titz (p. 22–27); Jason Edwards Bio-Images (p. 23); February 28, 2014. gettyimages/stock4B (p. 40); istockphoto/hamzarturkkol (p. 43); Veer/Zen Shui Photography (p. 44); plainpicture/ojo (p. 78); Hearts and Hammers (p. 86); Courtesy of Department of This report is dedicated to our colleague Dr. Ute Planning, Transport and Infrastructure, South Australia (p. 90); Bardelmeier who as CR Coordinator was deeply Pure Rendering GmbH (p. 97); Michael Claushallmann (p. 99); committed to the subject of sustainability in our Lineair-Hans Blossey/Imagebroker/Okapia (p. 100); db (p. 101); company for many years. Sadly, she passed Ekkehard Viefhaus (p. 103, 104); Corbis/Inmagine Asia (p. 106) away on November 24, 2012 and will be sorely missed in our Sustainability Report project team. Imaging work, typesetting and prepress: We all miss her greatly. Creafix GmbH, Solingen The project team Printed by: Druckpartner, Essen This Sustainability Report is printed on eco-friendly Maxi Silk coated paper certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Sustainability Report 2012 115 Sustainability Report 2012 If your cell phone supports QR codes, scan the code to view further information on the HOCHTIEF Sustainability Report HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft 2012 on our website. Opernplatz 2, 45128 Essen, Germany
