Sustainability in the Human Age ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report TM Workforce Solutions to deliver better business results Combining our global reach, local expertise and unmatched insights into the forces impacting the World of Work, ManpowerGroup partners with clients to develop and deliver innovative solutions that drive success—increasing the quality, productivity and effectiveness of their entire workforce. Manpower® is a global leader in contingent and Experis™ is a global leader in professional resourcing permanent recruitment workforce solutions. We and project-based workforce solutions. With operations provide the personal flexibility and agility businesses in over 50 countries and territories, we deliver 51 need with a continuum of staffing solutions. million hours of professional talent specializing in IT, Finance and Engineering to accelerate clients’ businesses each year. 2 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age ManpowerGroup™ is the world leader in Innovative Workforce Solutions. We leverage our global reach and local expertise of tens of thousands of people across 80 countries and territories, making it possible for businesses to access the talent they need when they need it. Right Management® is a global leader in talent and ManpowerGroup™ Solutions provides clients with career management workforce solutions. Through our talent-based outsourcing and consulting services innovative and proprietary process, we leverage our primarily in the areas of large-scale recruiting and expertise to successfully increase productivity and outcome-based workforce intensive initiatives, thereby optimize business performance. sharing in the risk and reward with our clients. Introduction 3 Table of Contents 6 CEO’s Message H 30 F EATURE STORY: H 8 FEATURE STORY: Placement Program for French Government Manpower Vocational Training Centers Employment Services 9 Talent Sustainability 32 Ethics Framing the Problem 10 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 32 Workforce Agility 11 33 Human Rights & Fair Labor Workforce Employability 12 H 34 FEATURE STORY: Workforce Vitality 13 700 Refugees and Immigrants Find Work with H 14 FEATURE STORY: Manpower Telge Jobbstart Competitive Wisconsin’s Be Bold Initiative 35 Diversity 15 Addressing the Issue Women Leaders at ManpowerGroup 36 Our Role 16 Supplier Diversity 37 Our Insight & Expertise 17 38 Health & Wellbeing Our Solutions 19 Wellness at Work 38 22 What’s Humanly Possible Safety 38 Environment 38 23 Inside ManpowerGroup 39 Supply Chain Integrity 24 Culture & Engagement Our Organization & Culture Strategy 24 H 40 FEATURE STORY: Manpower Logistics Academy Collaborative Organization Model 25 ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey 26 41 Environment Community Investment 26 Environmental Impact 42 Corporate Volunteerism 27 Environmental Initiatives Around the World 44 28 Training & Development H 46 FEATURE STORY: Leveraging Talent through Training 28 Byron’s Story Our Development Philosophy 28 47 Governance Teachable Fit 29 49 About this Report Leadership Development 31 Reporting Approach 50 Environmental Performance 51 Stakeholder Engagement 52 Client Engagement and Satisfaction 52 Materiality of Reporting Topics 53 Commitments to External Initiatives and Strategic Memberships 54 55 GRI Index We invite you to visit our Sustainability Report microsite to learn more about how we work to strengthen the agility, employability, and vitality of the world’s workforces, including examples of our local programs and partnerships around the world. Learn more at www.manpowergroup.com/sustainability 4 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Performance Highlights Highlights 2012 Performance Performance We Connect People to Meaningful Work Highlights WE CONNECT PEOPLE TO MEANINGFUL WORK We Connect People to Meaningful Work 3.4 Million People Connected to Opportunities 3.4 Million People People Placed in Permanent, Connected to Opportunities 107,000 636,000 Temporary ’12 and Contract Positions 3.4 million People from Underserved Populations People Placed on Assignment Trained/Coached in 2011-2012 Every Day ’ 11 3.5 million People Placed in Permanent, 107,000 636,000 Temporary and Contract Positions3.5 million ’10 ’12 ’09 3.4 3.0 million People from Underserved Populations People Placed on Assignment Trained/Coached in 2011-2012 Every Day ’ 11 ’08 4.0 million 3.5 Employees* All Managers* Global Leadership Team ’10 3.5 million 55% 34% ’09 Employees by Operating Unit ’08 3.0 million 4.0 million Employees* Female All Managers* Female Global Right Management 5% Leadership Team 55% 34% Americas 33% Employees by Operating Unit Total Female Female 26,000 Right Management 5% 67% Female 45% 66% APME Americas 14% 33% Male Male Europe 48% Total 26,000 67% Female 45% 66% APME 14% Male Male Europe 48% Values Rooted in the Intersection of Proﬁtability and Responsibility VALUES ROOTED IN THE INTERSECTION OF PROFITABILITY Values Rooted in the Intersection AND of Proﬁtability RESPONSIBILITY and Responsibility Combining leading edge Investing in emerging markets virtual and in-person career to build the vitality of their management solutions to workforces increase Human Age employability Combining leading edge Investing in emerging markets virtual and in-person career to build the vitality of their management solutions to workforces increase Human Age employability Accelerating growth by Growing our Solutions offerings connecting employers with hard as we increase clients’ business to find IT, engineering and and workforce agility finance professionals globally Accelerating growth by Growing our Solutions offerings connecting employers with hard as we increase clients’ business to find IT, engineering and and workforce agility finance professionals globally Strong Record of Long-Term 2012 Segment Revenues Revenue Growth In Millions ($) In Billions ($) Americas 4,595.9 25 Strong Record of Long-Term 2012 Segment Revenues $20.68 Revenue Growth 20 Billion In Millions ($) In Billions ($) Total Southern Europe 7,250.9 15 25 20,678.0 Americas 4,595.9 10 20 $20.68 Billion Northern Europe 5,773.9 5 Total Southern Europe 7,250.9 15 20,678.0 APME 2,728.8 0 Right Management 328.5 10 ’98 ’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 5 Northern Europe 5,773.9 APME 2,728.8 0 Right Management 328.5 ’98 ’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 Practical Approach to Environmental Responsibility REDUCING Practical Approach to Environmental EnvironmentalResponsibility Initiatives in Key Markets are Performance Highlights 5 Environmental Initiatives in Key Markets are CEO’s Message Today, the word “sustainability” has different definitions, meanings and connotations. A lot of focus around sustainability has been on We live in an age where supply and demand for environmental and natural resources. When we workers no longer match up. The skilled people think about sustainability, and what it means that companies need are often unavailable, for our company and the important impact we and their businesses suffer for it. Young people have on society, we turn to the mission that has and other inexperienced individuals are being been laced into the legacy of ManpowerGroup: left behind while economies and societies connecting people with work. A legacy built over pay the price. And with compressed business six decades by just three CEOs in the history of cycles forcing shorter skills life-cycles and the company, our mission stands for the dignity of unprecedented pressure on margins, unleashing work and employment opportunities for everyone. human potential becomes the world’s economic and societal sustainability savior. In a world where millions of people are unemployed globally, we need solutions that Ensuring the sustainability of are scalable and sustainable. Those solutions the world’s workforce is what need to be centered around another scarce ManpowerGroup has been doing resource that deserves more attention now than ever before–talent. since we opened our doors 65 years ago. Human potential is a limitless resource, but the key to success is knowing where to find it and how to cultivate and sustain it. You’ll see proof of that here in our 2012 Sustainability Report, where we share how ManpowerGroup builds talent sustainability that helps businesses do well, while building communities and enabling people to pursue more than just a job, but a rewarding livelihood. ManpowerGroup supports the United Nations Global Compact, and continues to be committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This 2012 Sustainability Report serves as our annual Communication on Progress. 6 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age We enable sustainability by building agility, employability and vitality in the world’s workforce. For instance, you will find examples of how we foster innovation and flexibility, such as Competitive Wisconsin’s Be Bold Initiative. You will learn how business and personal success are gained through our training, skills and workforce developmental programs, including the Manpower Logistics Academy in Belgium, the Manpower Vocational Training Centers in India, and the Placement Program in France. And, we will show you what can happen when you tap into the potential of individuals, like Byron, whose talents are too often overlooked. Together with governments and educators, businesses and community partners, and the millions of people who come to us seeking opportunity, we see no limits to what is humanly possible. And in uncertain economic times like these, I’m proud to say that we’re strengthening our resolve to be at the epicenter of finding solutions to unlock potential and prosperity. At the end of the day, we help connect people to the jobs they want and need, and we help build businesses so they can employ more people. This is the power of ManpowerGroup: a company powered by people who connect the ambition of business to the potential of individuals to achieve more than they imagined, and thereby ensuring a sustainable workforce for the future. Jeffrey A. Joerres, Chairman and CEO CEO Message 7 T s STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STO Manpower Vocational Training Centers e The 2004 Asian tsunami, the most destructive in recorded history, killed hundreds of thousands and disrupted millions of lives. Recognizing the need to rebuild the communities and lives most affected by the disaster, ManpowerGroup and HOPE Foundation established two vocational training centers in Tamil Nadu, India. b The Manpower Vocational Training Centers (MVTCs) provide training in marketable skills such as IT, masonry, tailoring, cell phone repair and engine maintenance and repair. They also help individuals become more self-sufficient and local economies to sustain and endure a future crisis, which is at the core of ManpowerGroup’s philosophy. u Since its launch in September 2005, one MVTC has expanded its original role and become a resource for the entire community, hosting seminars on a number of issues important to the local population, including women’s healthcare and parenting. The Center’s staff and volunteers have also helped spearhead micro-finance initiatives that, a to date, have provided more than 1,500 local entrepreneurs with essential start-up capital and operational funding. As the Centers approach their eight-year anniversary, more than 9,000 people have completed training, benefiting thousands of families and exceeding initial program goals by almost 50%. i Learn more>> 8 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age alent Sustainaina tainability Talent nt Sustainability ility Talent Sustai stainability Talent lent Sustainabilit Talent Sustainability nability Talent Su 9 Talent Sustainability Framing the Problem 10 Workforce Agility 11 Workforce Employability 12 Workforce Vitality 13 9 Framing the Problem Historically, the world’s focus around sustainability has been on the environment It’s been two years since we announced that the world had and natural resources. Perhaps that’s where most businesses can have the greatest entered a new age—the Human impact. But, in a time of unprecedented unemployment, Age—in which we stated that unleashing the potential of combined with critical talent shortages, there is also a individuals in new ways will great need and opportunity for the world to shift its focus be the single most important determinant of success. to talent as a critical resource for sustainability. At the end of the day, when we connect people to jobs and improve a person’s employability, we build communities, countries and the lives of individuals. The socio-economic implications of a world where the only certainty is uncertainty are significant: an entire generation of unemployed and disaffected youth, unprepared to enter the workforce and without job opportunities carries the threat of potential social unrest, as well as the possibility of a future where the majority of the population is not contributing to the economy. From high youth unemployment and stressed social systems to companies that are RELATED RESOURCES struggling to grow because they can’t find people with the skills they need, ensuring • The Great Talent Shortage Awakening: Actions to Take the sustainability of the world’s workforce is at the forefront of business leaders’ for a Sustainable Workforce minds. As the unemployed become unemployable, countries lose the ability to build • Manpower Employment sustainable economies. Employers will not only struggle to find the talent they need Outlook Survey now to achieve their business goals, but increasingly will not have a sustainable talent • Leading in the Human Age pipeline for their future needs. • Entering the Human Age Our world prospers when employers are investing and growing, and when individuals have the opportunity to work and contribute. This synergy happens when the employment ecosystem—employers, educators, government and individuals—work cohesively together to solve problems. To that end, everyone has a responsibility to come together collectively to ensure the talent sustainability of countries and economies. 10 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age There are three pillars to building Talent Sustainability—Agility, Employability, and Vitality. Each addresses both employer and individual needs in a changing world CREATING AGILITY of work. Talent sustainability depends on employers, governments, educators and • Our Role individuals taking accountability for strengthening the world’s workforce to build a • Our Insight & Expertise healthy and prosperous ecosystem. • Our Solutions • Programs & Partnerships • Inside ManpowerGroup »» Organization & Culture Workforce Workforce Strategy Agility Vitality »» Collaborative TALENT Organization Model SUSTAINABILITY »» Leveraging Talent Through Training »» Diversity »» Supply Chain Integrity Workforce Employability Workforce Agility RELATED RESOURCES • Break the Crisis and In today’s uncertain world, businesses of all sizes and individuals at any stage of their Complacency Cycle careers must be agile enough to adapt to the ever-changing environment. Businesses • How Policymakers Can Boost need this flexibility to effectively operate in a profitable yet sustainable way, and Youth Employment individuals need to ensure their long-term employability. • Modern Outsourcing Strategies Meet the Need for a More Agile Workforce To that end, employers need work models that enhance flexibility, and efficient workforces that have the ability to change quickly based on business demand. As • Leveraging Talent Through Training: A ManpowerGroup businesses flex, individuals are being prompted to rely less on job security and more Research Report on their employability, which often stems from their ability to adapt and change. At the • Moving People to Work: same time, scarce talent is pressuring businesses to create flexible work environments Leveraging Talent Mobility to that align with individuals’ personal motivations and goals as they evolve throughout Address the Talent Mismatch in the Human Age their careers. Talent Sustainability 11 Governments, employers and individuals each have a role to play in strengthening the agility of the workforce ecosystem. Governments need to ensure that labor laws support agility, recognizing and incenting choice and providing new levels of flexicurity. Employers need to have well-defined workforce strategies that leverage flexible work CREATING EMPLOYABILITY models, anticipate talent demands and tap into previously underutilized sources of • Our Role talent to meet those demands, and employ innovative people practices that drive • Our Insight & Expertise high-performing organizations. Individuals need to understand the risks and rewards • Our Solutions that come with choice, ensuring they keep up to date with current work models and • Programs & Partnerships take ownership for managing their careers. • Inside ManpowerGroup »» Training & Development With that in mind, ManpowerGroup has a strong commitment to advocating for fair employment practices, shedding light on barriers to employment and collaborating with governments, employers and individuals to create a more sustainable environment for individuals and businesses to thrive in. RELATED RESOURCES Moreover, like all other employers, ManpowerGroup needs agility to adapt to constant • The Great Talent Shortage change as well. Within our organization, we strive to ensure that our workforce Awakening: Actions to Take for a Sustainable Workforce strategy addresses the need to drive better performance and gives us the agility and flexibility we need to operate sustainably. • Youth Unemployment Challenge and Solutions: What Business Can Do Now Our solutions enable employers to implement flexible workforce strategies that align with their business strategies, and provide choices for individuals that enable them to • How to Advance the Capabilities of Today’s work in ways that align with their goals. Workforce: Bolstering Employability Responsibility Demands an Attitude of Change Workforce Employability • Teachable Fit: A New Approach to Easing the Employers are seeking workers whose skills and capabilities match the needs of Talent Mismatch today’s and tomorrow’s jobs. Individuals are seeking sustainable employment and a sense of security that they will be able to find work that meets their unique needs. In turn, companies must stay focused on advancing workers’ overall capabilities and individuals must proactively develop their skills. As a Human Age organization, ManpowerGroup understands the value of equipping people with the tools, opportunities and training they need to achieve their goals. Developing our people is a critical part of our success, and our leadership ensures that a commitment to development is part of our culture. 12 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age In addition, we have seen an important shift in the employment life cycle. Individuals can no longer count on job security. Instead, in the Human Age, they must focus on security through employability. As individuals become more flexible and adaptable in the face of change, they improve their chances of becoming employable over the long term. CREATING VITALITY This notion could be daunting to some and empowering to others—daunting because • Our Role individuals are now expected to constantly adapt to a changing environment but • Our Insight & Expertise empowering because people have the personal ability and freedom to shape their • Our Solutions own future. In the past, job security meant more fixed and potentially more limited • Programs & Partnerships opportunity. Employability, on the other hand, encourages individuals to build • Inside ManpowerGroup transferrable skills that can take them across employers and industries. »» Culture & Engagement »» Training & Development We provide both employers and individuals with the insight and solutions they need »» Ethics to better understand how jobs and skills are changing, and what work models drive both talent development and business success. This might include directly connecting »» Human Rights & Fair Labor business to what’s being taught in schools or colleges to ensure young people are »» Diversity work ready, not just graduate ready, or providing people with access to life-long »» Health & Wellbeing learning that is directly relevant to what’s required in the workplace. Workforce Vitality RELATED RESOURCES • The People Side of Strategy Workforce vitality focuses on making sure that employees are able to be contributing • A Pulse on Talent Management and productive members of an organization. Beyond safe and healthy work in the Year Ahead conditions, individuals seek out organizations that let them prosper and feel proud of the work they do; this is especially important when retaining and attracting scarce in-demand talent. We understand what motivates our people, which is why we provide a great work environment and train our leaders to unleash the potential of their workforce. Employers need high-performing diverse workforces that enable innovation, customer excellence and drive great financial performance. They need to redesign their people practices to be more contemporary, moving away from a “compliance” or “one size fits all” mindset to become more customized and targeted to meet individuals’ needs. Conversely, individuals need to take ownership for their performance and engagement, making sure they remain vital in the workforce based on their skills and contribution. Talent Sustainability 13 E STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STO d Competitive Wisconsin’s Be Bold Initiative In 2012, we partnered with Competitive Wisconsin, Inc. (CWI) to assist the US State of Wisconsin’s Is e business, government, and academic leaders in addressing the state’s short-term skills gap and its longer-term need to build a sustainable and globally competitive talent pool that empowers workers as well as meeting employers’ needs. The initiative—part of CWI’s ongoing “Be Bold” efforts to develop and advocate for strategic policies to enhance how Wisconsin competes, grows jobs and strengthens its economy—clarifies how producing clusters of in-demand skilled workers could help the current workforce, support r employers and position Wisconsin as a top destination state for both talent and businesses. “For Wisconsin’s growing economy to thrive in the Human Age—an era in which skilled talent is increasingly scarce—the state’s employers will require a skilled workforce here in Wisconsin and improved national, regional and global access to talent through contemporary work models,” said Jonas Prising, ManpowerGroup President. ManpowerGroup Solutions, the company’s outcome-based and talent-driven solutions business, e conducted a complex analysis of the state’s workforce, focused on shortand long-term supply and demand projections in critical industries and select skill clusters. Researchers are also talking with representatives from Wisconsin’s education and training workforce ecosystem in an effort to profile best practices. “Domestically, states short on in-demand talent face high recruitment costs,” said Scott T. VanderSanden, President and CEO of AT&T Wisconsin and CWI President. “In turn, states with an i over-supply of talent with outdated skills are burdened with rising unemployment which reduces public sector income and increases the need for financial assistance. Examining talent development opportunities across the state’s industry sectors and education systems is key to driving the best customized workforce strategy for Wisconsin. ManpowerGroup’s “Be Bold 2” study, completed in September 2012, presents three core strategies and recommendations that engage all stakeholders: u • Align talent development with economic development • Provide real-time jobs and career information on-demand • Promote Wisconsin’s rightly skilled, world-class talent See the Be Bold 2 report to learn more>> 14 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age dressing the Iss sue Addressing Issue Addressin essing the Issue Issue Addressin ng the Issue Add Addressing the Issue e Addressing th 15 Addressing the Issue Our Role 16 Our Insight & Expertise 17 Our Solutions 19 22 What’s Humanly Possible 15 Our Role Our business builds talent sustainability for the good of companies, communities, countries, and most importantly, Two years ago, ManpowerGroup introduced the Human Age to individuals themselves. ManpowerGroup is at the center the world. Since then, macroof connecting people with experience and employment economic forces have continued to evolve and shape the world opportunities that they previously did not have access to. of work. As these forces grow We build agility, employability and vitality into the world’s stronger and more intertwined, the Human Age is becoming workforce ecosystem to help ensure its sustainability. increasingly volatile and unpredictable. ManpowerGroup is uniquely positioned to help make sure that people have the right skills to ensure the sustainability of the world’s workforce. Our leadership position The resulting uncertainty and complexity of the Human allows us to be a center for quality and meaningful employment opportunities for Age means that there are people at all points in their careers paths. In 2012, we connected 3.4 million people to new demands for innovation, opportunities and purpose, who worked to help our more than 400,000 clients meet productivity, and talent, driving their business objectives. Seasoned professionals, temporary to permanent, skilled new systems and structures and requiring a whole new level of laborers, mothers returning to work, elderly persons wanting to supplement pensions flexibility and innovative thinking and disabled individuals—all turn to ManpowerGroup for employment possibilities. to succeed. The conclusion we can draw from is clear: as we have seen throughout the Human Age, the only way to navigate this uncertainty and Workforce Workforce chaos will be through unleashing Agility Vitality human potential. RELATED RESOURCES • The Great Talent Shortage Awakening: Actions to Take for a Sustainable Workforce Workforce • Is Talent Holding You Back? Designing Workforce Strategy Employability for Sustained Business Growth Similarly, national and local governments look to us to help reduce unemployment and train the unemployed with the skills they need to enter the workforce. This enables us to advocate for collaboration between the public and private sector to create new approaches to developing the world’s talent, as well as promote employment policies 16 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age that support, rather than hinder, employers. We provide a bridge to experience and employment, building more sustainable communities. Our unique ability to connect our deep understanding of human potential to the ambition of business ensures that organizations and individuals can capitalize on unseen opportunities and achieve more than they imagined. This approach drives profitable growth for us as a company, and supports healthy and prosperous economies, countries and communities. Our passion for unleashing human potential to power the world of work brings our mission to life every day. Connecting people with the tools, opportunities and training they need to find meaningful work to help our clients win is a legacy that was founded 65 years ago and thrives today. In recent years, we have broadened our services and solutions to more comprehensively address Talent Sustainability: from strategic workforce consulting to workforce engagement to permanent and contingent talent resourcing—we provide innovative solutions to meet the workforce needs of organizations, while at the same time enabling individuals to achieve all that is humanly possible. This is where profitability intersects with responsibility, and where our values are rooted. Our Insight & Expertise Through our extensive experience, proprietary research, and our partnerships with experts from business, academia and government, we have become the industry We work in partnership with leader in understanding talent and economic trends—and their impact on the World experts from business, academia and government, sharing ideas, of Work today and in the future. As a leader, we take every opportunity to advocate demonstrating our understanding for talent sustainability, and in particular, the role of agility, vitality and employability in of market challenges and showing strengthening the world’s workforce ecosystem. we are trusted to provide workable solutions. ManpowerGroup is regularly invited to participate in summits, seminars, forums and • Meet some of roundtables hosted by organizations, research partners and media outlets to share ManpowerGroup’s thought leadership partners its unique insight and trusted advice as the expert in the world of work. In addition, we frequently convene thought leaders around the world to debate evolving labor • Learn more about our Thought Leadership, Research and market trends. Insights We maintain our thought leadership by understanding and anticipating trends that shape the world of work and developing strategies that are both practical and innovative to address them. Addressing the Issue 17 Manpower Employment Outlook Survey Q4 2013 For more than 50 years the Manpower Employment Outlook Survey has carefully tracked the hiring plans of more than 65,000 employers across the globe. Unsurpassed in its Manpower At the World Economic Forum’s Employment brand-new Business 20 (B20) size, scope and area of focus, this quarterly research from Outlook Survey Global Task Force on Employment, ManpowerGroup provides trusted insight into expected hiring ManpowerGroup presented the A Manpower Research Report activity in 42 of the world’s major labor markets. top five Priority Actions for the G20, which included facilitating SMART JOB NO: 06418 ediTiON: Quarter 4 2013 Learn more>> CLieNT: manpower SUBJeCT: meos global Q413 – us letter – 2 colour SiZe: us letter dOC NAMe: 06418mpcp_global_us_2col_Q413 PAGe: 1 ARTwORk SiZe: 279.4mm x 215.9mm dATe: 21.08.13 the growth of small and medium 87 ChARTeRhOUSe STReeT • LONdON eC1M 6hJ • TeL +44 (0)20 7324 1060 enterprises and innovative business models, improving Talent Shortage Survey collaboration between business and educational institutions, Now in its eighth year, ManpowerGroup spoke to 38,618 and scaling internships and employers across 42 countries and territories to look at the apprenticeships. extent to which they are having difficulty finding the right Learn more about B20 talent; what jobs are most difficult to fill and why; concern over recommendation outcomes>> stakeholder impact; and what strategies employers are pursuing Learn more about our strategic to overcome the talent shortage. partnership with the World Economic Forum >> Learn more>> World Economic Forum ManpowerGroup has been a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum (WEF) since 2004. This strategic partnership allows us to engage key stakeholders to elevate the conversation about the issues affecting the World of Work, including youth unemployment and the gender gap. We are committed to creating dialogue around these core issues. Our executive leaders participate in WEF Global Agenda Councils, facilitate forum sessions, and participate in panel discussions. Mara Swan, ManpowerGroup’s Executive Vice President, Global Strategy & Talent has played a key role as a member of the Global Agenda Council on New Models of Leadership and the Women Leaders and Gender Parity Advisory Board; both the council and the board emphasize ManpowerGroup’s advocacy around the need for new work models that are more inclusive of women, as well as the development of women as one solution to addressing the growing issue of talent shortages. 18 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age In addition to strategic efforts made around the WEF Annual Meeting, ManpowerGroup engages and communicates with leading policy makers, stakeholders, and national as well as global media in key markets at regional WEF summits to continue the global conversation. PREPARING TODAY FOR For example, in 2012, ManpowerGroup Chairman and CEO Jeff Joerres co-chaired TOMORROW’S TALENT WEF’s brand-new Business 20 (B20) Task Force on Employment, which delivered NEEDS. five global scalable priorities for boosting and sustaining employment worldwide in The Chinese government wanted a session held at the G20 Leaders’ Summit. The priorities, packaged with concrete to reshape its workforce to actions and commitments needed from businesses, governments and educators, meet talent needs in the future. Working together, we forecasted were designed to be piloted across a subset of G20 countries. the talent needed to fuel their economic growth in the years Our Solutions to come and are now preparing people for jobs in growing areas such as healthcare, engineering Sustainable Employment Opportunities for Individuals and IT. Our contribution to communities is as much a part of the services we offer to Learn more>> clients as it is to the individuals we connect to meaningful work. We connect people with possibilities. Whether it is a young person just out of school, a seasoned professional looking to make a career change, a parent re-entering the working world after raising children, or an older worker who is close to the end of their career—we provide opportunities for people to gain experience, refresh their skills, develop new capabilities, and work in flexible ways that enable work/life balance. By providing innovative workforce solutions to employers, we strengthen them, and strong businesses have the potential to hire more, improve the employee experience and invest in communities—all of which are benefits to society at large. Our skills assessments and job matching tools allow us to pinpoint job opportunities that suit an individual’s abilities and interests, connecting people with opportunities where they can be satisfied and successful. Because we work closely with both employers and individuals to understand their needs, we can suggest matches and work models that can meet the needs of both clients and individuals in ways that neither may have considered. At no cost to individuals, we continually invest in training for our workforces. Our Global Training and Development Center hosts more than 6,000 courses, with topics ranging from management to sales to information technology, enabling individuals to continually refresh and develop their skills, making them more employable. Addressing the Issue 19 Our summer internship programs provide opportunities for young people to earn an important credential for their future job searches. Internships help prepare young people to successfully enter the world of work with actual experience in a professional environment, a letter of recommendation, a well-written resume, marketable job skills FLEXIBILITY TO MEET FLUCTUATING DEMAND. and professional references—all assets that help individuals begin and move ahead in their careers. One of the largest automakers in Europe needed a flexible workforce model to better align their talent In a difficult economy, where employers may not be willing to hire permanent with fluctuating sales and exportstaff, we give people an opportunity to work through temporary or project-based related demand. We developed an innovative, scalable recruiting solution assignments. Temporary-to-permanent placements also give individuals a foot in the to quickly and efficiently meet future door with desirable companies. This also enables employers to create jobs, without talent demands. having to commit to the burden of permanent staff. In a recent study by Boston Learn more>> Consulting Group and CIETT, 62% of employers surveyed indicated that without the possibility of leveraging temporary employment for certain projects, they would choose not to do them or leverage already over-burdened internal resources, rather than creating new jobs. Innovative Workforce Solutions for Employers We help clients think about how they need to evolve their strategies to be successful, educating them about world of work trends and new work models, such as virtual working, hyper-specialization, and job sharing, that they can employ to meet their business goals. These strategies not only address the needs of businesses, but they can also improve the quality of an individual’s experience. 20 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Our contemporary and creative solutions can improve an individual’s workplace flexibility, address their personal and/or physical needs and increase development opportunities. To that end, we help clients identify solutions that not only improve their bottom line, but also address the needs of individuals so that they too many thrive in AGILITY TO ENTER A their everyday work. NEW MARKET. A global telecom company needed Many employers can’t afford to invest in the expertise they need to effectively develop, to capitalize on a key growth implement and manage their workforce strategy. In particular, many organizations opportunity and sought a partner are struggling with how to groom and grow their people at all levels so they are able to resource and operate device sales in a new sales channel. We to assume leadership positions. Often these individuals lack the skills and abilities quickly created an outsourcing needed to turn strategy into action. solution that recruited, trained, and managed a seasoned management team and 550 sales professionals. By creating trusted partnerships with our clients, we The new enterprise has exceeded can act as an extension of their organization, providing sales goals for 6 consecutive years, while lowering customer tools that help clients measure and improve engagement acquisition cost by 16%. and performance among their workforces, as well as Learn more>> our insights and expertise on an as-needed basis, allowing them to focus on their core business. This also creates opportunity for individuals to grow and learn in their organization, which can improve their sense of commitment to and pride in their work. We don’t believe one size fits all. We provide flexibility in the way we deliver our solutions to help our clients achieve their unique business objectives. For example, at one client site, we may provide contingent staffing, enabling a company to scale their workforce up or down based on ever-changing demand. At another client site we might be taking responsibility for the management of an entire call center or manufacturing operation. Companies can take on as much or as little of the risk as their strategy calls for—from managing the talent that we recruit and place, to having us manage their contingent staff, all the way to utilizing end-to-end outsourcing models that hold us accountable for the delivery of business outcomes. In an era of certain uncertainty, this kind of agility is critical to the sustainable operations of any organization, and it’s reassuring to clients and individuals to know that we have a history of upholding strong ethical standards that have their best interests at heart. Addressing the Issue 21 r A sustainable and growing economy will not be possible without strong and s vibrant labor markets that tap into all segments of the population, especially those that are currently under-leveraged and under-represented in today’s workforce: youth, women, minorities, people with disabilities, and the longterm unemployed. This need drives our local programs and partnerships, which strive to equip people with the skills and opportunities they need to become more employable and earn sustainable livelihoods. p Through programs initiated by local operations in communities throughout the world, we provide people from all walks of life with the skills and connections to employment opportunities that enable them to earn sustainable livelihoods. Featured in this report are just a few examples from across the globe that demonstrate how ManpowerGroup, through our innovative workforce solutions and our 26,000 colleagues worldwide, builds talent sustainability for the good of companies, communities, countries and most importantly, I individuals themselves. More examples are available on our online Sustainability Report>> p p 22 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age oup Inside Manp ManpowerGroup ide ManpowerG owerGroup de ManpowerGr Inside ManpowerGroup 24 Culture & Engagement Our Organization & Culture Strategy 24 Collaborative Organization Model 25 ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey 26 owerGroup Insid Community Investment 26 Corporate Volunteerism 27 28 Training & Development Leveraging Talent Through Training 28 Our Development Philosophy 28 Teachable Fit 29 Leadership Development 31 32 Ethics Inside Manpow Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 32 33 Human Rights & Fair Labor 35 Diversity Women Leaders at ManpowerGroup 36 Supplier Diversity 37 38 Health & Wellbeing Wellness at Work 38 Safety 38 Environment 38 39 Supply Chain Integrity Talent Sustainability 23 Inside ManpowerGroup ManpowerGroup has a reputation for operating at the highest level of integrity. Our strong commitment to responsible business practices is reflected in everything we do—from our own corporate governance structure and policies, to the assurances we seek from our supply chain business partners. We strive to provide a great work environment for our employees and to be a beacon of integrity for our clients. Manpower’s approach to sustainability within our own operations is driven by our Global Values, Vision and Strategies that determine the way in which we do business. We are committed to: respect for people, clients and community, and the role of work in their lives; sharing our knowledge and expertise to develop sustainable workforce practices throughout the world; and striving for excellence through innovation to develop vital working environments for the long term. Culture & Engagement Building Blocks to Engagement In 2010, Right Management conducted a Leadership global study of nearly 29,000 employees from Delivering Value 10 major industry sectors in 15 countries around the world. The focus of the study Development was to understand the elements of an effective Culture organization and its connection to productivity. The results confirmed that engagement is critical to financial performance, customer satisfaction and employee retention. Learn more>> In the Human Age, companies will need to reconsider their work models and the way they construct work within their organization to get more value. Successful companies have a clear picture of the outcome they need to win and accelerate their business strategy. Additionally, they know more than just the number of people needed to execute, they know the capabilities and the organizational culture required to deliver, and they consider employee engagement as an important lever for productivity, rather than a “nice to have.” To create organizational effectiveness, companies need to align people management systems and organizational culture to their business strategy in order to ensure effective engagement of their people. Our Organization & Culture Strategy Talent is critical to ManpowerGroup’s success. Our Organization and Culture Strategy is to attract and retain high quality people for the long term by creating an environment that promotes entrepreneurship, rewards high performance, and motivates us to reach our full potential. 24 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age ORGANIZATION & CULTURE STRATEGY MODEL Vision We lead in the creation and delivery of Innovative workforce solutions and services that enable our clients to win the changing world of work Organizational culture is one of Organization and Culture Evolving our organization and culture requires attracting the five pillars of our business and retaining high quality people for the long term. It also requires creating an environment that promotes strategy—and we take it very entrepreneurship, rewards high performance and motivates us to reach our full potential seriously. We have developed our people processes and Great Great leadership practices in alignment People Places with our org & culture strategy. I am We are Attract Connect Develop Reward Lead Live Execute Attracted by Connected to my Challenged and Responsible for my Leaders in the Living our Values and Executing against challenging work colleagues and to the motivated to reacy results excited by the changing world of Brand Attributes Vision Credo and and by making a clients, candidates & my fullest potential differentiated rewards work, leveraging our so we proudly create Stategies to drive difference communities that I through the and inspired by a deep knowledge of the ManpowerGroup industry star support assignments, training culture of recognition human potential to Experience everyday performance and coaching I seek and celebration provide our clients and recieve with innovative workforce solutions Great People Process Great Leadership Great Results Collaborative Organization Model Collaboration is core to how we deliver solutions with speed to our clients. Our Collaborative Organization Model is designed to ensure we leverage the capabilities of our people across brands, geographies and functions with the agility that is needed in today’s world. We also focus on developing our people’s mindset and behavior to be successful in a collaborative organizational structure. OPEN Mindset: Collaborative Organization Model Collaboration is core to how we deliever solutions with speed to our clients Outcome oriented We focus on the outcome to ensure that we make the best decisions for our clients and ManpowerGroup. Perspective We value different points of view and trust that we all have good intentions because we are focused on helping our clients win. RELATED RESOURCES E mbrace conflict • Organizational Effectiveness: We believe that conflict is a healthy and important part of Discovering How to Make It collaboration and work together to resolve it. Happen N ot invented here We believe in leveraging the capabilities and knowledge of our colleagues so we DO NOT have to invent everything ourselves. Inside ManpowerGroup 25 ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey At ManpowerGroup, we believe all of our people have the opportunity to make a difference for our clients, candidates, communities, colleagues and ourselves. Having In 2011 and 2012, we donated people who are engaged and believe they can make a difference is critical to our nearly $875,000 and 3400 success. That is why we conduct the ManpowerGroup People Survey every year. hours of time and resources for When our employees complete our engagement survey, we learn at a broader level 300 community meetings and events hosted at our Global what is important to them, what we are doing well and where we need to make Headquarters in Milwaukee. improvements as a company. It’s critical to our success and imperative to our role as Beneficiaries have included: broader thought leaders in the World of Work. • Best Buddies of Wisconsin • Boys & Girls Club Our people are committed to our shared success and demonstrate their passion in • City of Milwaukee the survey—almost 90% complete it every year. We really take the time to listen and • COA Youth and Family Centers learn from them, and then take action. We not only communicate the results to our • Easter Seals people, we talk with them to gain more perspective and develop action plans at all • Fuel Milwaukee levels of the organization that are designed specifically for each team. And then we • INROADS hold ourselves accountable to those actions and share our progress. • Junior Achievement of Wisconsin Community Investment • Milwaukee Public Schools At ManpowerGroup, we believe that healthy communities contribute to successful • Milwaukee Talent Dividend companies and economies. For ManpowerGroup, our commitment to the communities • Milwaukee Urban League in which we operate extends well beyond just writing a check to a charitable cause. All • MLK Drive Business over the world, ManpowerGroup partners with community organizations, businesses Improvement District and governments to provide workforce development programs that make a difference • Next Door Foundation in the lives of individuals and the communities where they live. • Schools that Can Milwaukee • Teach for America While we do provide financial donations and sponsorships, most significantly to • United Way the United Way, the majority of our community investment is in the form of time • Wisconsin Economic and resources. Development Corporation • Wisconsin Department of For example, when we opened our Global Headquarters in Milwaukee, we also Workforce Development opened our doors to local community organizations to use our state of the art • Women’s Business facilities—at no cost—for their meetings and events. The cost of professional event Development Center facilities can be prohibitive for small organizations. In 2011 and 2012, we hosted 300 community events and meetings, at an estimated cost of nearly $875,000 for meeting space, audio-visual equipment, parking, and refreshments. In addition, our Event and Experience Team dedicated 3400 hours of their time to provide event planning and management services. 26 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Corporate Volunteerism Volunteering is an integral part of ManpowerGroup’s culture. In 2012, our largest operations reported that employees performed more than 130,000 hours of community service through local involvement with organizations of their choice and corporate-sponsored activities. We believe that volunteer activities also provide opportunities for employees to enhance and enrich their professional capabilities. One example of our corporate volunteerism is our “Entrelazados, Comprometidos con los Jóvenes y el Trabajo” (Intertwined, committed to youth and work) program in Argentina. Intertwined enables employees to volunteer during business hours to work with economically disadvantaged youth, people with disabilities and rural workers, by sharing time, knowledge and contacts to contribute to their employability. Volunteers are trained on social issues and then give talks, workshops on professional training, and courses on specific issues. Download ManpowerGroup Argentina’s Sustainability Report to learn more>> Another example is the TeamWorks program in the United States. Each year, TeamWorks selects a small group of premier non-profit and community organizations with which to partner. The organizations align with our focus of helping to build the workforces of today and tomorrow, and provide opportunities for ManpowerGroup employees to contribute their time, knowledge and hard work to promote life skills, work readiness and confidence for people of all ages and walks of life. TeamWorks is a strategic business initiative that increases our employees’ appreciation for diversity and a culture of inclusiveness, while boosting our ability to attract, develop and retain the best employees. Learn more about TeamWorks Community Involvement here>> Inside ManpowerGroup 27 Training & Development Leveraging Talent Through Training RELATED RESOURCES To investigate the extent to which organizations use formal training and apprenticeship • Leveraging Talent Through programs to develop their talent, ManpowerGroup conducted research among nearly Training: A ManpowerGroup 24,000 employers in 41 countries and territories. The research explores three distinct Research Report categories of employee: professional roles, skilled manual trades jobs and unskilled • Recruiting a Competitive positions, and reveals the specific job roles where this kind of employee development Workforce: Should Needed is most likely to be targeted. It also gives insight on how organizations are structuring Skills be Built or Bought? and delivering these programs, while highlighting the training methods which employers find most effective. Findings also detail local labor market issues which drive the need for customized talent development programs. Finally, the research asks those organizations that don’t currently offer tailored training to employees to explain why this is the case. Learn more>> MANPOWERGROUP TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT CENTER Our Development Philosophy In addition to development Development of ManpowerGroup’s people is a critical part of our success, and our opportunities, ManpowerGroup provides free skills training for company leadership ensures that a commitment to development is part of our culture. thousands of employees and Evolving our organization and culture requires attracting and retaining high-quality talent our associates on assignment for the long term, and creating an environment that promotes entrepreneurship, rewards worldwide. Our global Training high performance and motivates people to reach their full potential. All of our employees and Development Center offers more than 6,000 classes participate in regular discussions to enhance their performance and development. covering technical and general work skills that are most in need. ManpowerGroup’s development philosophy is based on the three Es: Exposure, Learn more>> Experience, and Education. Self Awareness Exposure Experience Education • Coaching • Stretch assignments • Group training classes • Group and individual • Transfers/rotations to • Individual training mentoring different regions or • Web-based training • Industry/Professional functions • Professional and/or Associations/Boards • Global and/or regional academic development • Reading projects that require broader focus • Contemporary • Presenting Leadership Series • On-the-job • Peer coaching Self Awareness Exposure Experience Education • Coaching • Stretch assignments • Group training classes 28 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age • Group and individual • Transfers/rotations to • Individual training mentoring different regions or • Web-based training • Industry/Professional functions • Professional and/or While many companies have traditionally sent people to training courses, they now see this approach as costly, time consuming and of limited benefit to the company or individual. To overcome the gap in this approach, ManpowerGroup focuses on experiential learning. For example, engaging employees through stretch projects that ManpowerGroup has developed carry additional responsibilities is a practical approach as it enables our company to a practical framework – the achieve desired business outcomes, while simultaneously developing employees to Teachable Fit Model – that is being used by employers broaden their expertise and perspective and take on new roles. to identify what capabilities really matter for success. By Teachable Fit dissecting job roles, employers can identify the skills that can Despite high unemployment, employers worldwide report difficulty filling key positions. migrate across industries or be Employers are seeking ever more specific skill sets and combinations of skills—not developed with relative ease. just technical capabilities alone but perhaps in combination with critical thinking skills Employers can then be more detailed and specific about or other qualities that will help drive the organization forward. As a result, the “right” the pragmatic requirements person for a particular job is becoming much harder to find. This talent mismatch has of the job, and more focused only intensified as the economy begins to recover and demand increases. on the gaps that can be filled. Employers can use the model to Employers must recalibrate their mindsets to consider candidates who may not have evaluate candidates, and predict how successfully a potential all the specific skills a job requires. This is especially true for systemic shortages of candidate’s skills gaps can be in-demand roles: employers cannot address these shortages one hire at a time. filled. The model can also be They must refine job descriptions and candidate evaluations to identify people with a used to help identify and target “teachable fit” based on adjacent skills rather than a traditional fit. At the same time, complementary industries to tap they must also commit to reskilling and upskilling employees, new hires and even into previously unconsidered talent pools, as well as identify potential candidates by partnering with governments and other stakeholders. and cross-train existing employees who have the capability and potential to Teachable Fit Framework be developed into other roles. Important? Teachable? Learn more>> Capabilities 1 (low) 5 (high) 1 (low) 5 (high) Knowledge Academic/Professional Discipline Business or academic disciplines Industry/Function/Process Technical Problem Solving Fixed Skills Demonstrated aptitudes Communication and practices, both “hard” and “soft” Planning/Organization Collaboration/Teamwork Flexible Self-Management/Autonomy Values & Mindset Attitudes that people Initiative bring to jobs and jobs need in people Motivation to Learn Service Orientation Personality & Intelligence Analytical Basic character and mental traits Capacity to Learn Inside ManpowerGroup 29 E STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STO Placement Program For French Government Employment Services Disconnected youth and long-term unemployed in France are referred to as “hard-to-serve.” Most lack hard skills. Many lack self-confidence or so-called soft-skills. To help them get back on their feet, ManpowerGroup has partnered with the French government to establish the ManpowerGroup Placement Program. The Placement Program views the path to steady employment as a series of progressive steps. The first essential step includes reintroduction of the “hardto-serve” candidates to some—any—kind of work. This may include a very basic, temporary assignment. A key to improving candidates’ confidence and motivation, it helps them start a portfolio of relevant work experience. As the individuals progress to more career-oriented work, they continue to receive full support from the Program. They get connected with their personal Manpower Employment Advisors who coach them through several short-term jobs and transitions. In the final step, advisors provide candidates with access to relevant labor market information, help them research job options and construct realistic career plans. More than 65% of the 5000 youth served each year by the ManpowerGroup Placement Program have been successfully placed in long-term employment. 30 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Leadership Development ManpowerGroup made a commitment to develop our top Developing leaders is a vital investment and an important step in ensuring continued 150 global leaders—building growth for businesses. In order to effectively build a global leader capacity with their own coaching capabilities, breadth and depth, organizations must continually identify, develop, nurture and retain so they could increase the their leaders as part of an ongoing talent development strategy. capability and capacity of our people and, in turn, elevate their own leadership contributions to In the Human Age, the role of leadership has changed; it requires new capabilities ManpowerGroup. What makes and mindsets. At ManpowerGroup, we believe that leadership development starts this leadership development with a shared definition of success, not only in “what” we need to achieve, but more experience special is that it is both importantly “how” we achieve our goals. Our Leadership Success Model (LSM) leader-owned and participant-led. Over the course of a year, seven defines the critical expectations and behaviors for all ManpowerGroup leaders and is global workshops were facilitated integrated with all of our people processes. in-person, each sponsored and personally facilitated by our CEO. The workshop engaged Leadership Success Model participants through pre-work, assessments and intensive feedback, peer-to-peer and peerLeadership Role to-leader connections, experiential What activities and follow-up work, do you do? resulting in lasting mindset shifts Client People Thought Results Leadership Leadership and behavioral change across our organization. Leadership Behaviors Values Collaborate to Win People What do you do? Unleash Human Potential Knowledge Solutions Mindset In 2012, we earned the distinction Innovation Disciplined Execution of being named on of Chief Executive Magazine’s 40 Best Companies for Leaders for The LSM provides alignment and clarity for our leadership development strategies our outstanding leadership development. and investments and keeps us focused on what’s most important. Our leadership development includes signature education programs, but also critical experiences and RELATED RESOURCES exposure. Every leader has individual development plans based on their strengths and • Leadership Mindset and needs with the goal of helping them reach their full potential. Techniques that Drive Success Inside ManpowerGroup 31 Ethics In the Human Age, values, credibility, transparency and reputation are ever more important to suppliers and clients; and employees are challenging their companies to contribute to global values beyond the bottom line, from the environment to human rights. These values are becoming increasingly important as currency in the Human Age. Moreover, in a world of increasing transparency, the power balance has shifted and companies are being scrutinized (by the media, consumers and their employees) In 2011 and 2012, as never before. Supply chains are now audited (and in fact, talent supply chains ManpowerGroup was the only are increasingly becoming an area of focus as the world wakes up to the realities of company in its industry to be exploitation and human trafficking in some countries). named to Ethisphere’s list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. For 65 years ManpowerGroup has built a corporate culture of trust, integrity and accountability. The ideals of the company’s co-founder, Elmer Winter, continue to shape our commitment to doing good by doing well. Conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner is part of our company’s DNA. The ManpowerGroup BUSINESS ETHICS HOTLINE Experience has always been marked by trust, and our daily display of ethical business behaviors has been demonstrated as a competitive edge in the decisions made by ManpowerGroup provides access to our Business clients, candidates, suppliers, employees and governments. It is one of the reasons Ethics Hotline where we have been named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. employees, shareholders and other interested parties Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and other policies reflect our commitment can communicate concerns to the highest possible standard of ethical conduct. Through annual training and regarding potential violations certification, everyone at ManpowerGroup takes responsibility for behaving in a way of our Code. that is consistent with our values. Learn more>> Code of Business Conduct and Ethics At ManpowerGroup, we believe the success we achieve in our business is based on how well we serve others The ManpowerGroup Experience and how they experience our company in day-to-day Code of Business business interactions. Our Code of Business Conduct and Conduct and Ethics Ethics (“Code”) provides guidance to all of our colleagues and partners worldwide on the conduct of our business according to the highest ethical standards. The Code helps RELATED RESOURCES to focus everyone on areas of ethical risk, provides guidance in recognizing and dealing with ethical issues and provides • Code of Business Conduct mechanisms to report unethical conduct without fear and Ethics of retribution. • Anti-Corruption Policies Our Code, which incorporates all of our policies on ethical business practices, is • Corporate Governance available on our global website in more than 20 languages, to make it accessible to • Business Ethics Hotline all employees and stakeholders. Learn more>> 32 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Human Rights & Fair Labor As an active participant in the United Nations Global Compact, we have publicly declared our support for, and respect of internationally proclaimed human rights. We believe everyone should have the opportunity to work. Our business was founded, and continues to be based on, respect for meaningful work as a fundamental human right. Through our many local partnerships, we endeavor to provide opportunities for people from disadvantaged and underrepresented populations to enter the workforce and maintain their employability. Learn more>> We believe we should go beyond mere compliance with applicable employment laws worldwide, especially those that address working hours, conditions, and child labor. We believe that everyone should be treated fairly and without discrimination in regards to hiring and advancement opportunities. We believe that diversity contributes to business success, by bringing a broader range of perspectives and capabilities to our organization. Learn more>> We believe that everyone has the right to a safe and respectful work environment, free of abusive or unprofessional conduct, or harassment of any type. We are committed to respecting our employees’ freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, as demonstrated by our cooperation with organizations like UNI Global Union. Learn more>>. We have a zero tolerance policy regarding human trafficking or forced labor of any kind and adhere to all international labor and immigration laws and regulations wherever we operate. We encourage other entities to follow our example. We were the first corporation to sign the Athens Ethical Principles, and were an early sponsor and partner of End Human Trafficking Now!. RELATED RESOURCES In 2012, we partnered with Verité to develop An Ethical • Code of Business Conduct Framework for Cross-Border Labor Recruitment, and Ethics which provides a set of standards of ethical practice for recruitment firms that operate across borders. • United Nations Global Compact The standards are designed to protect against specific • Athens Ethical Principles patterns of worker vulnerability and abuse in the current • An Ethical Framework for cross-border recruitment marketplace, and reflect Cross-Border Labor the proven daily operating practices of leading Recruitment recruitment firms. Inside ManpowerGroup 33 E STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STO 700 Refugees and Immigrants Find Work with Manpower Telge Jobbstart Before major government reforms in 2010, it MTJ was formed and participants, selected by would take years for immigrants to get their the Södertälje municipality, spent 18 months first job in Sweden—on average, 10 years for a studying Swedish culture and society, and woman and seven years for a man. Now, with receiving assistance finding work. More than help from ManpowerGroup and its company 60% eventually moved from welfare into jobs. Manpower Telge Jobbstart (MTJ), more than The program is now expanding to other Swedish 700 refugees and immigrants have found work. towns and will integrate ManpowerGroup training aimed at helping the long-term unemployed. The effort first began in the Swedish town of Södertälje, which has received more war Further, MTJ is supporting reforms by serving refugees from Iraq than the United States and as an “introduction guide” to refugees and Canada combined. To help integrate these immigrants in Stockholm, placing more than 58% individuals into society and pair them with of those served in jobs. The team’s success is meaningful work, local government reached out based on building a network of contacts for new to ManpowerGroup for help. immigrants. MTJ helps facilitate introductions and conversations, bridging any language or cultural differences between job seekers and potential employers. Learn more>> 34 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Diversity ManpowerGroup considers diversity and inclusiveness to be both ethical and practical issues. The deliberate pursuit of diversity and inclusiveness helps drive competitive ManpowerGroup defines diversity broadly to include differences of advantage and is directly connected to our ability to provide high quality innovative gender, race, ethnicity, culture, workforce solutions for our clients. physical ability, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, work experience, and At ManpowerGroup, we believe in human potential. We create an environment that social class. As a company with a gives everyone the opportunity to achieve more than they imagined. We respect footprint that spans 80 countries, everyone as individuals, valuing their differences and strengths and supporting them we view our international diversity as a key strength. to succeed. Through programs and Building a strong pipeline of diverse leaders and partnerships initiated by local Our People culture that helps people to achieve their potential operations throughout the world, we provide people from all walks of life with the skills and connections Candidates Providing opportunities to diverse candidates to employment opportunities & Clients to fulfill the talent needs of our clients that help them earn sustainable livelihoods. Our programs have a Community Building sustainable communities around the world particular focus on women, youth, people with disabilities, and the long-term unemployed. The nature of our business uniquely positions us to contribute towards and celebrate Learn more>> diversity across our global network. From its founding, ManpowerGroup has advocated for creating opportunities for women to engage and thrive in the workforce, beginning in 1948 when it was not yet socially accepted for women to work outside of the home and develop careers. We have also played an important role in providing jobs to racial minorities, beginning in the 1960s, which was the most pivotal era for racial diversity in the United States workforce. In our employment practices and our In 2011, ManpowerGroup was special workforce development initiatives, ManpowerGroup practices leadership by recognized by Diversity Journal as tapping into the human talent and innovation of workers across the broad range of a Leading Company for Employees with Disabilities. diversity with a focus on inclusion for all. This leadership in diversity continues today, particularly in providing opportunities for women, who are strongly represented throughout our global organization. A recent survey of our largest business entities reported that over 70% of our employees and more than 50% of managers are women. Women make up 34% of our Global Leadership Team, leading a number of key business entities and functions throughout our organization. Inside ManpowerGroup 35 Women Leaders at ManpowerGroup Few companies have helped empower women like ManpowerGroup—both inside and outside our company. We not only provide experience and employment opportunities to women that they previously may not have had access to, but more importantly, we nurture a culture that respects how diversity of thought inspires the productivity, innovation and collaboration organizations need in the Human Age. ManpowerGroup’s commitment to diversity at the highest level 30% 34% 55% of Board of Directors of Global of Managers has been recognized by the 2020 Leadership Team Women on Boards Campaign for having at least 20% of its board comprised of women. Learn more>> With women making up over 50 percent of our managers globally, ManpowerGroup continues to be an advocate for the advancement of women. Sixty-five years old and still growing strong, we were one of the first employers to bring women into the RELATED RESOURCES workforce decades ago. Our collaborative organization structure creates a framework • The People Side of Strategy: that fosters contemporary approaches to work arrangements that unleash the Why Closing the Gender productivity and innovation of our people, regardless of gender or generation. Talent Gap Makes Good Sense for Business Women Lead Some of our Largest Markets Across the World Maalfrid Brath Managing Director Kate Donovan ManpowerGroup Norway President, Global RPO ManpowerGroup Solutions Lancy Chui Regional Managing Director ManpowerGroup Greater China Dalia Narkiss Regional Managing Monica Flores Director ManpowerGroup Regional Managing Director Eastern Mediterranean ManpowerGroup Latin America 36 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Supplier Diversity ManpowerGroup is committed to developing relationships with diversity suppliers to collaborate on the innovative workforce solutions we offer our customers worldwide. Through these collaborative efforts, we can help strengthen the economic wealth of our diverse business communities, while at the same time helping our clients meet their goals for diversity in their supply chains. The Supplier Diversity Initiative was designed to provide innovative approaches to recruiting, developing and increasing our diverse supplier base. Our program includes Beginning in 2009, every year the Women’s Business Enterprise women, minorities, veterans, disadvantaged and small business owners who share National Council has named our mission of providing quality services to their customers. We collaborate with ManpowerGroup as one of 29 of diversity suppliers who share our vision of being the best provider of higher value America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises, staffing services and the center for quality employment opportunities. recognizing our world-class programs that help create level The goals of ManpowerGroup’s Supplier Diversity Initiative are to: playing fields for women’s business • Increase the number and quality of relationships with diversity suppliers, enterprises to compete for corporate contracts. while maintaining our current standards of quality, competitive pricing, and service delivery • Mentor and assist diversity suppliers, accelerating their growth and profitability, by broadening their participation in ManpowerGroup’s client programs • Promote the development of diversity suppliers to enhance their ability to succeed in the marketplace • Promote integrity, ethics, and social responsibility in the workplace by cultivating quality diversity suppliers • Expand ManpowerGroup’s Commitment to supporting the communities we serve. Learn more>> Inside ManpowerGroup 37 Health & Wellbeing At ManpowerGroup, we believe that wellness and healthcare are important to ensure that people are able to stay productive and contributing members of the workforce. Wellness at Work—A Model We also believe that flexibility allows us to employ the most talented workforce, At our World Headquarters, we and that time away from work is good for employee wellbeing and for their ability to model an approach to wellness that fosters a culture of wellbeing, contribute to our strategic success more effectively. by providing employees with contemporary tools, education and experience that reinforce Wellness at Work and foster healthy choices in a ManpowerGroup encourages work-life balance by providing flexible working number of areas, including onsite fitness programs, discounted arrangements including working remotely, as well as a number of at-work services memberships to fitness clubs and ranging from dry cleaning to automobile repair to exercise and nutrition programs. weight management programs, We helps individuals and families address financial concerns by providing access to smoking cessation, stress management, health coaching, health insurance—including dependents and same-sex partners, tax-savings plans and health fund contributions. for healthcare and childcare, and retirement and stock purchase plans. Our benefits programs are part of our overall compensation plans designed to attract and retain talented employees. Because we operate in 80 countries and territories— often with a variety of jurisdictions, regulations and customs—our benefits programs are aligned at the local level, by country. Safety Because we care about people, we care about the health and safety of everyone as an integral part of our culture. We endeavor to take appropriate measures to provide a safe working environment for all staff personnel, temporary associates, contractors and consultants. We focus on compliance with health and safety legislation within our own business operations and also apply this same standard as a matter of priority when reviewing whether to place associates, contractors and consultants in a client’s work environment. Environment Workplace environment plays an important role in ensuring the health and wellbeing of employees. ManpowerGroup takes a practical approach to environmental responsibility in our operations around the world. Learn more>> 38 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Supply Chain Integrity Organizations rely on their supply chain business partners for a wide variety of RELATED RESOURCES goods and services, including talent. Supply chain partners can either enable or • Supply Chain Business hinder a company’s agility. Missed deadlines, quality issues, or negative publicity Partner Policy stemming from human rights violations can all impact an organization’s ability to • Code of Business Conduct achieve business success. and Ethics In a world of increasing transparency, companies are being scrutinized—by the media, by consumers, by watchdog groups and by their employees—as never before. It is more important than ever to ensure the integrity of business partners, especially those that are closely linked to a company’s brand. Operating in 80 countries and territories around the world, ManpowerGroup engages a broad base of suppliers from across the globe. We seek positive assurance that the businesses and individuals we work with throughout our entire supply chain understand, share and commit to the standards outlined in our Supply Chain Business Partner Policy. Learn more>> ManpowerGroup’s efforts to ensure the integrity of its supply chain have been showcased as part of the EHTN-Global Compact Case Study series on Business CASE STUDIES ON BUSINESS & HUMAN TRAFFICKING & Human Trafficking. MANPOWERGROUP A MULTI-FACETED APPROACH TO COMBATING HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND EXPLOITATION IN THE STAFFING AND EMPLOYMENT INDUSTRY Learn more>> The End Human Trafficking Now case studies on Business & Human Trafficking, developed with the United Nations Global Compact, explore the practical application of EHTN’s Athens Ethical Principles and the Global Compact’s human rights principles using concrete examples of company experiences. The studies offer detailed examples of how businesses in different industries are attempting to implement policies which promote corporate social responsibility and curb human trafficking. Inside ManpowerGroup 39 E STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STO v Manpower Logistics Academy Belgium’s seaport and transportation infrastructure make the country a vital gateway for freight and merchandise destined for distribution throughout Europe. The World Bank ranks Belgium’s logistics industry sector as the 12th largest in n the world, and it is growing at an annual rate of eight percent. But the shortage of experienced workers threatens that growth. In 2007, Manpower Belgium developed a plan to help clients get the trained workers they require, while helping candidates—many of them unemployed and all of them with little or no relevant industry experience—receive free training and the v opportunity to find work in this sector. The Manpower Logistics Academy, created in partnership with training specialist @thetys, is a hands-on training facility that provides real-world experience for managers, forklift operators and other personnel who are essential to the smooth operation of logistics facilities. However, the Academy is more than just a training course. It is an integrated employment program that begins with candidate recruitment and aptitude testing, and finishes with task-based training and industry certification. Once candidates earn certification, they are guaranteed a position with a Manpower Belgium client. In 2007, the Academy trained 400 candidates. Now operating out of three facilities, the program trains and places more than 1500 candidates annually, and continues to evolve training to meet the needs of the industry, recently developing an eco-driving course. Learn more>> n v 40 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age ironment environ ment environmen t environment e ironment environ ment environmen t environment e Environment ironment environ 42 Environmental Impact 44 Environmental Initiatives Around the World Sustainability in the Human Age ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report 41 Environmental Impact ManpowerGroup’s tradition of responsibility to the communities we serve means that we conduct our business with respect and consideration for the environment. As a service organization, our operations are entirely office-based. Our environmental impact primarily takes the form of energy used in our offices, and business travel to deliver our services. Our environmental impact is small compared to that of manufacturing companies. Yet, even office-based businesses have the opportunity In 2012, we ranked 16th among 500 U.S. public companies on to impact the environment in a positive way—especially a business with offices in Newsweek’s Green Rankings (up 80 countries and territories. from 26th in 2011), and remain number one in the professional At ManpowerGroup, we take a practical approach to environmental responsibility. services industry. In 2011, we published the first draft of our global Environment, Health and Safety Management System (EMS) based on ISO 14001 standards. The EMS outlines our environmental policy, and provides framework and guidance for our initiatives, most of which are realized at the local level in response to local and national needs. Also in 2011, we began piloting an Enablon system to help us more systematically gather consistent environmental data across our key markets. We focused on quantitative data in three areas: energy consumption in our offices, carbon emissions from energy consumption and business travel, and recycling and waste management. RELATED RESOURCES • Environment, Health and Safety Management System 42 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Energy Consumption Reducing in Our Offices Energy Unit: MWh Consumption and Emissions Reducing 35,433 Energy 31% Reduction Consumption 12% Reduction Natural Gas Electricity Energy Consumption 28,564 in Our Offices 19% Unit: MWh Unit: MWh 23,693 31% Reduction 12% 35,433 Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction in Energy Consumption 20,498 Natural Gas Natural Gas Electricity Electricity 28,564 23,693 23,693 19% Electricty 11,740 8,066 Reduction Reduction in in Energy Energy Consumption Consumption 20,498 20,498 Natural Gas ’11 ’12 Datascope = 3 key markets, representing 25% of total employees 11,740 11,740 Electricty 8,066 8,066 Natural Gas Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Energy ’11 Consumption ’12 and Business Travel 10% Unit: Metric Tons Datascope = CO2markets, e Reduction Datascope =33 key key markets, representing representing 25%25% of total employees of total employees Direct Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Energy Consumption and Business Travel 10% 6% 12,416 Reduction Reduction Unit: Unit: Metric Metric Tons CO22e Tons CO e Indirect Emissions Direct Emissions 8,687 5,556 5,234 Scope 3: Business Travel 6% 30% 12,416 12,416 Scope 2: Indirect Reduction Indirect BusinessEmissions Travel 4,867 8,687 8,687 4,403 Scope1: Direct ’11 ’12 Scope 3: Business Travel 30% 5,556 5,556 5,234 5,234 Datascope = 3 key markets, representing 25% of total employees Scope 2: Indirect Reduction Scope 1 includes emissions from fuel consumption by ﬂeet cars Business Travel 4,867 4,867 4,403 4,403 Scope 3 includes emissions from air, rail Scope1: Directcar travel for business and personal ’11 ’12 Datascope = Datascope =33 key markets, representing key markets, representing 25%25% of of total total employees employees Waste and Water Management Scope 1 Scope 1 includes includes emissions from fuel emissions from fuel consumption consumption by by ﬂeet ﬂeet cars cars Scope Scope 3 3 includes includes emissions emissions from from air, rail and air, rail and personal personal car car travel travel for for business business Recycling and Waste Water Consumption at HQs Management at Global HQ Unit: Metric Tons Waste and Water Management Unit: Cubic Meters 22,540 Recycling and Waste Water Consumption 18,280 at HQs Management 87 at Global HQ Unit: Unit: Cubic Cubic Meters Meters Unit: Metric Unit: Metric Tons Tons 68 22,540 18,280 166 87 87 159 68 68 ’11 ’12 ’11 ’12 166 166 159 159 Non-Recycled Waste Datascope: Global, UK and France headquarters buildings, representing 7% of total employees Recycled Waste ’11 ’12 ’11 ’12 Non-Recycled Waste Datascope: Global, Datascope: UK and Global, UK and France France headquarters headquarters buildings, buildings, representing representing 7% of total 7% of total employees employees Environmental Initiatives Around the World 43 Recycled Waste Responsible Management Responsible Management Creation/Conservation Creation/Conservation Certiﬁcation of Certiﬁcation Buildings of Buildings of Electronic Waste of Electronic Waste of Green Green Spaces of Spaces Environmental or Environmental or Management Systems Management Systems Environmental Initiatives Around the World Reducing Energy Reducing Energy Consumption Consumption REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION 200kWh Saved Every Saved kWh Every Month Month 100%of 100% ManpowerGroup’s ManpowerGroup’s operations in Germany, ofelectricity electricityused Norway usedby operations Germany, Norway and Sweden isis and by Sweden in Philippines conservingenergy Philippinesisisconserving energyby by sourcedfrom sourced sources, renewablesources, fromrenewable turningoff turning lightsduring duringlunch offlights breaks lunchbreaks like wind and water. like wind and water. Programmableheating Programmable heatingdevices devicesand and andshutting and shuttingdown downoffice officeequipment equipment energy efﬁcient light bulbs energy efﬁcient light bulbs save energy save energy atatthe theend endof ofthe thebusiness businessday, saving day,saving UKoperations operationshave reduced havereduced UK inour in officesin ouroffices inBulgaria. Bulgaria. upupto to200200kWh kWhper month.Vietnam, permonth. Vietnam, gasand andelectricity electricity gas Chinaand China andSwitzerland Switzerlandare arepursuing pursuing Finland decreasedits Finlanddecreased itselectricity electricity consumptionby consumption byover over20% 20% similarstrategies: similar strategies:automatically automatically usageby usage by5%5%from 2011. from2011. acrossbranch across branchnetworknetworkand and poweringdown downnon-essential non-essentialdevices devices 20 powering headquarterssince headquarters sincethe the and and/orat duringthe lightsduring andlights atthe theendendof thelunch ofthe hour lunchhour businessday. thebusiness day. beginningof beginning of2010. 2010. % Reduction Reduction and/or in Emissions in Emissions $23,000 Saved Saved In 2012,Italy Italyreplaced In2012, multi-functionunits multi-function replacedall units(MFUs) 280 all280 (MFUs)at at Whenrelocating When pursued relocatingour strategyof pursuedaastrategy ouroffices officesin ofchoosing inSweden, choosingnewer Sweden,we newerand we and Energyreduction Energy measureshave reductionmeasures have Headquarterswith Headquarters latest thelatest withthe moreenergy energyefficient more decreasing spaces,decreasing efficientspaces, savednearly saved $230,000at nearly$230,000 atour LEED ourLEED generationequipment, generation equipment,ensuringensuring energy usageby energyusage bynearly nearly20%20%overover2011. 2011. GoldGlobal Gold Headquartersbuilding. GlobalHeadquarters building. lower energyconsumption. consumption. lowerenergy Theresult: The result:aa20% reductionin 20%reduction emissions. inemissions. Reducing Impact Reducing Impact of of Business Business Travel Travel REDUCING IMPACT OF BUSINESS TRAVEL 10 % Netherlandsisispurchasing Netherlands purchasingonly onlythethemost most energy-efficientcars energy-efficient forits carsfor itsfleet. Theaverage fleet.The averageemissions emissions forfleet for fleetvehicles vehiclesisis106 gramsCO 106grams CO22/km, /km,about about20% 20% Reduction Reduction lowerthan lower thanthe benchmarkfor thebenchmark forthis thismarket. market. in Company Car Mileage in Company Car Mileage 30%% 8%% Finlandhas Finland hasreduced reduced overalltravel, overall travel,including including Swedenisisproviding Sweden providing 10%reduction 10% reductionin in low-emissions low-emissions company company companycar company carmileage. mileage. Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction in RailJourneys inRail Journeys inNumber in Numberof Flights ofFlights vehicles and encouraging vehicles and encouraging 2008 since2008 from2011 2011to to2012 2012 Romaniahas hasgreatly greatly since from theuseuseof ofrail railfor business forbusiness Romania the increasedthe increased theuse useof of Franceachieved France achievedits itsgoal goalto toreduce emissionsfrom reduceemissions from travel, reducing travel, reducing the the webinarsand webinars andconference conference businesstravel business travelbyby8%8%fromfrom2008 levels.As 2008levels. Asof of2011, 2011, distancetravelled distance travelledby byair air calls toreduce callsto reducethe the wewere we were¾ ¾of ofthe thewaywayto tomeeting meetingthat thatgoal, goal,andandwewe by 500,000 miles by 500,000 miles in 2012 in 2012 environmentalimpact environmental impactof of continueto continue makeprogress tomake againstthat progressagainst goal,further thatgoal, further asascompared comparedto to2011. 2011. businesstravel. business travel. reducingthe reducing numberof thenumber ofﬂights ﬂightsby by8%8%from from 22 Tons 2011to 2011 2012,and to2012, andthethenumber numberof ofrail railjourneys journeys In2009, In 2009,Italy Italybegan began by30% by 30%sincesince2008. 2008. introducingLPG introducing LPG(liquid (liquid petroleumgas petroleum gasor orautogas) autogas) COCOee saved 2 2 saved each each yearyear carsinto intoits cars fleet.As itsfleet. Asof 2012, of2012, In2011, 2011,the In theUKUKbegan replacingolder beganreplacing olderfleet fleetcars with carswith InInGermany, Germany,our emission lowemission ourlow 80%of 80% ofthe ﬂeetis theﬂeet LPG, isLPG, lower emissions vehicles. The average lower emissions vehicles. The average CO22emissions CO emissions fleetvehicles fleet vehiclessavesave22 tons 22tons reducingemissions reducing emissionsby 540 by540 thefleet forthe for nowunder under120 fleetisisnow gramsCO 120grams CO22/km, whichisis /km,which ofofCOCO22eeeach year. eachyear. metrictonnes metric tonnesCO CO22e.e. 15%below 15% belowthe thecurrent currentnational average. nationalaverage. Reducing Paper Reducing Paper Consumption Consumption 40% 44 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability In2012, In 2012, Finland Finland in the decreased Humandecreased Age its its Canadaintroduced Canada introducedonlineonlineperformance performancereviews reviewsin in paperconsumption paper consumptionby 40%. by40%. 2012, saving 1300 sheets of 2012, saving 1300 sheets of paper annually. paper annually. Since 2009, France has reduced In 2012, Australia and New Zealand introducing LPG CO In of Germany, CO 2 e 2saved e eachoureach year low emission year. 80% cars metricinto petroleum the oftonnes ﬂeet fleet. its gas orAs CO isofLPG, e. 2autogas) 2012, lower In 15%2011, emissions the UK below the vehicles. began The replacing current average national older CO2 cars fleet average. emissions with CO fleet In e saved vehicles Germany, save oureach 22 tons year low emission 80% reducingof the ﬂeetAs emissions isby LPG, 540 for lower the In 2011, fleet emissions is now the UK began under vehicles. 120 The average replacing grams CO CO2 emissions older fleet2 /km, which cars with is 2 cars into its fleet. of 2012, of CO 2 e each year. save tons low22emission 15% below the current national average. fleet vehicles In Germany, our 80% oftonnes metric reducing emissions the CO2 e. ﬂeet isbyLPG, 540 for lower fleet is now theemissions under 120 vehicles. The grams average COCO 2 /km, which is 2 emissions of 2 e each COvehicles fleet year.22 tons save metric reducing tonnes CO2 e. by 540 emissions 15% for the fleet isthe below now current 120 gramsaverage. under national CO2 /km, which is Reducing of CO2 e eachPaper year. Consumption metric tonnes CO2 e. 15% below the current national average. 40 Reducing Paper Consumption % Reducing Paper Consumption In 2012, Finland decreased its Canada introduced online performance reviews in 40 paper consumption by 40%. 2012, saving 1300 sheets of paper annually. % Reducing Paper Consumption In 2012, Finland decreased its Canada introduced online performance reviews in 40 % REDUCING PAPER CONSUMPTION paper Since In consumption 2009, 2012, FinlandFrance has by decreased reduced 40%. its In 2012, 2012, Canada saving Australia introduced 1300 and sheets online of paper annually. Zealand Newperformance reviews in 40 Reduction the consumption of by paper for % paper consumption 40%. introduced 2012, saving an1300 online candidate sheets of registration paper annually. In 2012, Finland decreased its Canada introduced online performance reviews in in Paper Consumption Since printing 2009, 40%. has reduced byFrance In 2012,that system Australia and cut paper New Zealand usage in half. Reduction paper the Since consumption consumption 2009, France has by 40%. of paper reduced for 2012, introduced In saving 2012, Australia 1300 an online sheets and Newcandidate of paper Zealand annually. registration Reduction in Paper Consumption printing the Online Since paybyslips consumption 2009, 40%. France of paper conserve has reduced paper forin Thailand system introduced and In 2012, thatthe cut an Australia paper online andcandidate UK. New usage in Zealand half. registration Reduction in Paper Consumption in Paper Consumption printing the consumption of paper for Online printing by 40%. paybyslips 40%. conserve paper in Thailand system system and that that cut thecut paper usage introduced an online candidate registration UK.paper usage in half. in half. Online pay slips conserve paper in Thailand and the UK. Managing ElectronicOnline Waste pay slips conserve paper in Thailand and the UK. Managing Electronic Waste In the US and Canada, ManpowerGroup is partnering with Intechra to ensure More Than 90 Tons Managing Electronic Waste that all electronic waste (e-waste) from our branch offices is disposed of in a MANAGING Managing In theELECTRONIC Electronic US and Waste Canada,An ManpowerGroup WASTE initial clean-up isbeginning partnering in with 2011 Intechra to ensure and running More Than 90 responsible manner. Tons that In through electronic theallUS 2012Canada, and waste resulted (e-waste) in more from ManpowerGroup thanour 90 branch tons ofoffices is partnering withisIntechra obsolete disposed to of electronic in a ensure of Obsolete More Than Electronic Equipment 90 Tons Prevented From Entering the Solid Waste Stream responsible that all equipment In the US andprevented manner. electronic waste An initial (e-waste) from entering is Canada, ManpowerGroup clean-up from ourthe beginning branch partnering in offices solid waste 2011 is withstream. and disposed Intechra In running of in toterms ensurea More Than 90 Tons of Obsolete Electronic Equipment through responsible of that 2012 greenhouse resulted manner. all electronic gas reductions, waste in more An (e-waste) initial this than clean-up fromis equal90 our tons beginning to removing branch ofoffices obsolete in 2011 is1,090 electronic and disposed running of in a Prevented From Entering the Solid Waste Stream equipment through passenger 2012 responsible manner. prevented resulted cars from An thefrom in more initial entering road than per year. clean-up the 90 solid tons beginning of The ongoingwaste obsolete in 2011 stream. program electronic and withIn terms running of Obsolete Electronic Equipment Prevented From Entering the Solid Waste Stream equipment of greenhouse through Intechra 2012 will prevented gas reductions, resulted ensure that fromin newly all moreentering is equal thisgenerated than thetons 90 to removing solid e-waste ofwaste obsolete is either 1,090 stream.recycledIn terms electronic or of Obsolete Electronic Equipment Prevented From Entering the Solid Waste Stream passenger of greenhouse equipment reused. An added cars gas from prevented the reductions, benefitfrom road of the this per enteringis programthe year. equal to The solid is the removing ongoing waste freeing 1,090 program up stream. of valuable with office In terms passenger Intechra space, willused once of greenhouse cars ensure from gasto that storethe allobsolete reductions, road newly thisper generatedyear. The is equal equipment, e-wasteongoing towhich iscan either removing program now1,090 be withor recycled reused. Intechra passenger cars rededicatedAn will added ensure benefit that all to revenue-generatingof the newly from the road per program generated year. The ongoing program with activities. is the freeing e-waste is up either of valuable recycled office or space, reused. once An used added to store benefit obsolete of the equipment, program is the Intechra will ensure that all newly generated e-waste is either recycled or which freeing can up now of be valuable office rededicated space, reused.onceAn added to revenue-generating used tobenefit store obsolete of the program activities. equipment, is thewhichfreeing can upnow be of valuable office rededicated to revenue-generating activities. Conserving Green space, onceSpaces used to store obsolete equipment, which can now be rededicated to revenue-generating activities. Conserving Green Spaces Conserving Green Spaces CONSERVING GREEN SPACES In 2011, China adopted 50 trees and Conserving Green Spaces 200 square meters of grassland. 2006 2012 In 2011, China adopted 50 trees and 200 In 2011,square China adoptedof50 meters grassland. trees localand Since 2006, we have2006 maintained 575 square 2012 Colombia is partnering with meters of green space on the median 200 square Chinameters plant of 50grassland. trees trees in eachand city 2006 2012strip in In 2011, government toadopted Since our we 2006, have maintained 575City. square Colombia 200 is partnering meters ofwith local front of headquarters in Mexico that itsquare operates. grassland. meters of green2006space 2012strip in Since 2006, we have maintained 575 square on the median government Colombia to plant trees is partnering in each city with local meters front of Since 2006,of green our we have space headquarters in Mexico on the median maintained City. 575 square strip in that governmentit operates. to plant Colombia is partnering with local trees in each city front meters of our headquarters of green space in onMexico the medianCity. strip in that it operates. government to plant trees in each city Certiﬁcation and Recognition front of our headquarters in Mexico City. that it operates. CERTIFICATION Certiﬁcation and Recognition AND RECOGNITION Certiﬁcation and Recognition LEED Gold In March 2012, ManpowerGroup Belgium is recognized as an Eco-dynamic Company Certiﬁcation and Recognition Germany's new headquarters building by the Brussels Environment Institute for all aspects of LEED Certified Gold In March was 2012, ManpowerGroup the nation's first office space to be Belgium is recognized environmental management,as an Eco-dynamic including energy, Companywater, LEED Gold Certified Germany's In LEED was March Gold newManpowerGroup headquarters 2012, certified due to its green building by quality, Belgium air the Brussels Environment is recognized noise, an Eco-dynamic greenasspaces, Institute for all Company and purchases aspects of goods of the Germany's construction,nation's In March 2012, ManpowerGroup to be new first office headquarters energy-efﬁcient spacebuilding environmental by the Brussels management, Environment including Institute forenergy, all aspectswater,of LEED Gold Certified LEED was Gold the lighting, Germany's certified nation's heating first due and new headquarters officeto space coolingits green buildingto be Belgium is recognized as an Eco-dynamic Company and services. by quality, air environmental the Brussels noise, green spaces, management, Environment and purchases including Institute forenergy, all aspects goods ofwater, of Certified construction, LEED systems,Gold energy-efﬁcient certified and reducing due to was the nation's first office space to be its water green and air A services. quality, number noise, of our green spaces, operations have environmental management, including energy, water, and purchases received ISO of goods 14001 lighting, LEED Goldheating construction, consumption. and duecooling energy-efﬁcient Germany certified its green tomarks the and services. certiﬁcation air quality, for green their environmental noise, spaces, and purchasesmanagement of goods systems, lighting, construction, energy-efﬁcient to third of heating our and reducing and headquarters water cooling buildings A numberincluding systems, of our operations Australia/Newhave Zealand, received Netherlands, ISO 14001 and services. consumption. systems, receive and reducing heating lighting,environmental Germany water marks the and certification. cooling certiﬁcation ASweden, numberand of our Brook their for operations environmental Street have received Bureau management in the UK.ISO 14001 consumption. third of our headquarters Germany systems, and reducing water buildings marks the to certiﬁcation systems, including for Australia/New A number of our operations have received Netherlands, their environmental Zealand, managementISO 14001 receive third of environmental our consumption. Germany marks theto headquarters certification. buildings Sweden, systems, certiﬁcation and Brook including Street BureauZealand, Australia/New for their environmental in the UK. Netherlands, management receive third ofenvironmental our headquarters certification. buildings to systems, and Sweden, in the UK.Netherlands, Street Bureau Zealand, BrookAustralia/New including receive environmental certification. Sweden, and Brook Street Bureau in the UK. Environmental Initiatives Around the World 45 FEATURE STORY STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STORY FEATURE STO v references that he needed. He stated, “If you leave a good impression with the employer, it might provide stepping stones to a new career.” Sometimes working temporary jobs takes n c patience as one waits for the next opportunity. But Byron’s patience was soon rewarded when DVIP (Domestic Violence Intervention Program), Byron’s contacted Manpower in the fall of 2012 in search of a temporary accountant. Manpower immediately Story knew they had the right man for the job. Sometimes a door opens to a career opportunity DVIP’s Executive Director related that the when a job candidate accepts a temporary responsibilities for the fiscal documentation placement. Byron Waite, a diabetic with multiple and grants management of a nonprofit can be amputations, was referred to such an opportunity challenging, but “Byron has brought a range of through a partnership between Iowa Vocational knowledge and experience that benefits DVIP, and Rehabilitation Services (IVRS) and Manpower he has the professional demeanor and capacity to (part of ManpowerGroup’s national Access2Ability succeed in this unique environment.” o program) that provides workforce solutions and When asked what he likes about working at DVIP, talents of qualified candidates with disabilities to Byron responded that he loves the variety of the local business and industry. work but, “what I enjoy most are the people I work Byron, a job candidate from Iowa City with a with!” He specifically mentions being proud to work Bachelors in Business Administration, became a for an organization that has so many innovative and stay-at-home Dad for his five children for seven forward-thinking administrators and staff. years. When he was ready to return to his career During the spring of 2013 Byron’s medical n he began working with his local IVRS office to condition required a below-the-knee leg obtain career counseling and to take additional amputation. However, with some additional classes to upgrade his IT skills/certifications. accommodations provided by DVIP, he returned However, as Byron began applying for jobs he to his position within 2 weeks, noting that his was not getting the interviews he had hoped for desire to return to work was a positive motivator in because he lacked current work experience. his recovery: “I want to get back to work as soon In an effort to help offset that long period of as possible because there’s so much to be done c unemployment, IVRS referred Byron to Manpower and I know they need me there.” in 2012, where he was quickly placed into a oneThis three-way partnership—utilizing the expertise week temp position as an administrative assistant. of Access2Ability, Byron’s talent, and the DVIP’s He approached this temporary placement with a openness to try something new—made this story positive attitude. Byron knew that opportunities a success for everyone. In the spring of 2013 like this would help him build the professional Byron was offered a full-time position as the Controller of DVIP. 46 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age ernance Govern ance Governan e Governance G Governance Gov vernance Gover ance Governan Governance e Governance G 48 Governance Talent Sustainability 47 b t Governance Our principles are underscored by a strong governance framework that extends from our FCPA compliance, integrity of financials and transparency, to our compensation For more information, please refer to the Corporate Governance philosophy and practices. We keep current and aligned to best governance practices Guidelines and our other and have implemented many changes over the years. We have adjusted our executive governance documents, available pay practices to expand the portion that is performance-based. We have adopted a R on our corporate website, and to our 2012 Annual Report. “clawback” policy, and tightened our stock ownership requirements for our executive offices. In 2012, our Board has recommended that we move toward a declassified Board structure. We are proud of our approach to governance and compensation, which we believe serves our shareholders well. Values Rooted in the Intersection of r RELATED RESOURCES • Corporate Governance Guidelines • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics u • Policies • Annual Report • Board of Directors “This winning combination comes from being principle-based and empowering our people to be great brand ambassadors, committed to the company’s long-term t p profitability and sustainability within a well-governed framework.” JEFFREY A. JOERRES Chairman and CEO ManpowerGroup 48 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age out this Report this Report Abo eport About Thi t About this Rep t this Report Ab this Report Abo About this Report ort About Th 50 About this Report Reporting Approach 50 Environmental Performance 51 Stakeholder Engagement 52 Client Engagement and Satisfaction 52 Materiality of Reporting Topics 53 Commitments to External Initiatives and Strategic Memberships 54 Sustainability in the Human Age ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report 49 About this Report Our 2012-2013 Sustainability Report focuses our thinking about sustainability in the Human Age around Talent Sustainability. The report defines the critical need to ensure the sustainability of the world’s workforce ecosystem; and highlights our ongoing contributions to the agility, employability, and vitality of the world’s workforces. The report also outlines our environmental performance during fiscal years 2011 and 2012. We used Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines as a framework for our reporting approach, and self-declare this report at Application Level B. This report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), of which we have been an active member since 2006. The complete GRI/UNGC Index is available here>> Current financial information about ManpowerGroup can be found in our recent Annual Report>>. Please send your questions and feedback to sustainability@manpowergroup.com 50 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Reporting Approach Since publishing our 2010 Social Responsibility Update, we have taken a number of steps to strengthen our reporting approach. Global Reporting Initiative We have fully incorporated the GRI G3 framework into our reporting approach, and self-declare this report at Application Level B. The complete GRI Index can be found here>> United Nations Global Compact We have been a participating member of the UN Global Compact since 2006. This report serves as our seventh Communication on Progress. We have provided references to the relevant UNGC Principles in our GRI/UNGC Index, available here>> Environmental Performance We strive to be transparent in reporting our environmental impact. In addition to the GRI framework, we use a number of tools and resources to help us determine the areas of most materiality for our business, including such questionnaires and assessments as the Carbon Disclosure Project, EcoVadis, FTSE4Good, and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, as well as client-specific questionnaires. For those areas that we deemed material, we have focused on collecting data from key business operations. A high percentage of our business operations are carried out in leased spaces in large buildings, where it is not cost effective (or in some cases possible) to obtain hard data on environmental indicators such as energy use or water consumption. We have therefore limited data collection to the real estate which we either own or fully control, typically headquarters buildings in our key markets. We collected environmental data for the 2011-2012 fiscal year using a pilot of Enablon—a web-based sustainability data management system. We then used tools provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate emissions based on that data. As we develop simple and efficient ways to manage and report on the environmental impact of our largest operations, we expect to apply those best practices across more of our markets in future. About this Report 51 Stakeholder Engagement We have engaged a number of internal and external stakeholders in discussion around a number of topics related to CSR, sustainability and reporting: • In-depth analysis of assessments and questionnaires from clients and analysts • Interviews with analysts • Research around world of work trends • Regular interaction with governments, labor organizations, industry associations, clients and candidates • Feedback from employees • Internal multi-departmental stakeholder taskforce This engagement process resulted in the development of a new sustainability platform, as well as an approach to reporting that is both simpler and more comprehensive. Shareholder Topics/Concerns Our Response Clients do not clearly understand how Crystalize our approach and atriculate a new best to partner with us around CSR and platform, focused on talent sustainabilitiy, to sustainability. clearly highlight our contribution in terms of the areas that are most relevant to our business and where we create the most value. Materialize & focus areas—by trying to report Create a detailed materilality matrix, mapping on everything in the GRI framework, we all GRI topics by importance to stakeholders were losing focus on the areas that are most vs. relevance to/impact of our business. relevant to our business and where we have Concentrate our reporting on those areas that the most impact. are most relvant and significant. Questions about our decision-making Begin developing a fixed and flexible process around investing in CSR programs framework that will provide guidance highlighted the need to create more structure to our operations on investing in CSR and in this area. measuring and reporting outcomes Inability to provide global consolidated Focus on the data that we are able to data; unclear scoping of partial data when provide, and consistently scope that data provided. to enable year-over-year comparisons and tracking of progress. Client Engagement and Satisfaction Because of the nature of our business—providing workforce solutions to enterprises—we are in constant contact with a large number of stakeholders, including clients, candidates and associates (individuals we place on assignment with clients). In a typical year, ManpowerGroup will interact with and/or interview more than 10 million people and connect up to 4 million people with work opportunities while 52 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age we serve some 400,000 clients across 80 countries and all industry sectors, including businesses of all size, governments and NGOs. ManpowerGroup actively and continuously measures satisfaction among our clients, candidates and associates. The satisfaction programs are directed at the country level and differ by line of business to allow for customization unique to geography and business line. One common metric that is collected throughout the majority of ManpowerGroup’s operations is the Net Promoter Score (NPS). NPS and overall satisfaction scores are tracked and analyzed by business line and by country, where they are most meaningful and actionable. Each geographic region and business line sets improvement targets on an annual basis for NPS scores, and in some regions for the overall satisfaction score, and cascades these throughout the organization as part of overall business planning process. Materiality of Reporting Topics People are at the core of our business. As a service business that specializes in workforce solutions, our focus areas are around talent, labor and human rights. We also want to ensure that we are a good influence on the communities and environments in which we operate. We took a two-step approach to determining the topics that we would include in our report. First, using the results of our dual-focus stakeholder engagement we gave each of the GRI performance indicators 2 scores: the first based on perceived importance to our stakeholders, and the second based on relevance to—and potential impact of—our business strategy. Using these scores, we developed overall scores for each reporting category, which we then used to prioritize our reporting focus. We then chose the indicators within the categories that were most relevant to our business. Highest Significance Moderate Significance Lower Significance Economic Performance Labor Practices Environment • Direct & Indirect Impacts • Occupational Health & • Energy & Emissions Safety • Water Society • Waste & Recycling • Ethics & Compliance Human Rights • Public Policy • Investment & • Local Communities Procurement Practices Labor Practices • Child & Forced Labor • Diversity & Equal Opportunity • Talent Development • Employment Practices Human Rights • Non-discrimination About this Report 53 d Commitments to External Initiatives and Strategic Memberships During 2011 and 2012, ManpowerGroup was involved with a number of external initiatives and charters, and our executives held strategic memberships in various organizations, including: • Athens Ethical Principles, Founding Signatory • Carbon Disclosure Project x • China International Council for the Promotion of Multinational Corporations, Vice President • Committee for Economic Development, Director, Committee Co-Chair • Competitive Wisconsin, Strategic Partner • End Human Trafficking Now, Founding Member • French Economic, Social and Environmental Council, Member n • Global Business Coalition Against Human Trafficking, Founding Member • Global Reporting Initiative • HR 50, Member • HR Policy Association, Board Member • Human Capital Institute, National Advisory Board Member • International Confederation of Private Employment Agencies (CIETT), R Board Member • International Organization for Migration, Stakeholder • Personnel Roundtable, Member • The Hague Process on Refugees and Migration, Board Member • United Nations Global Compact, Participating Member • United Nations High Commission on Refugees, HR Advisory Committee e Member • World Economic Forum (WEF), Strategic Partner • WEF Global Agenda Council on New Models of Leadership • WEF Global Agenda Council on Women Leaders and Gender Parity • WEF Global Agenda Council on Youth Unemployment ManpowerGroup also partners with local governments, NGOs, and other I organizations to develop, support and manage programs that contribute to the employability of underserved populations. Learn more>> 54 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age GRI Index GRI Ind ex GRI Index G GRI Index GRI I dex GRI Index G I Index GRI Inde x GRI Index GRI GRI Index ndex GRI Index G Sustainability in the Human Age ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report 55 Global GRI Compact Code Description Reference or Short Answer Principle Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker CEO’s Message 1-10 of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 2012 Annual Report opportunities. pp. 11-18, 25-27 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. ManpowerGroup Inc. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2012 Annual Report p. 25 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, 2012 Annual Report including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA 2.5 Number of countries where the organization 2012 Annual Report p.84 operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2012 Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic 2012 Annual Report breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2012 Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period In 2011, the acquisition of 3 entities regarding size, structure, or ownership. in Asia and 1 entity in Europe added nearly 1% revenue growth to our consolidated results. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Recognition Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 2011 – 2012 calendar years information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Materiality of Reporting Topics 3.6 Boundary of the report. About This Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or About This Report boundary of the report. 56 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Global GRI Compact Code Description Reference or Short Answer Principle 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, About This Report subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases About This Report of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of About This Report, Materiality information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting About This Report periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Index Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to Our Annual Report has been assured seeking external assurance for the report. by external auditors. 2012 Annual Report p. 48 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, Corporate Governance including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board Corporate Governance structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Corporate Governance to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Corporate Governance the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organization’s performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Corporate Governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. GRI Index 57 Global GRI Compact Code Description Reference or Short Answer Principle 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Corporate Governance qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Vision & Values; Code of Business or values, codes of conduct, and principles Conduct & Ethics relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Corporate Governance overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Corporate Governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Each year, as part of our strategic precautionary approach or principle is addressed three year planning process, we by the organization. undertake an enterprise risk analysis and outline global and regional mitigation strategies to address significant risks. This process demonstrates our commitment to a precautionary approach. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Commitments to External Initiatives and social charters, principles, or other initiatives and Strategic Memberships to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/ Commitments to External Initiatives international advocacy organizations in which and Strategic Memberships the organization: • Has positions in governance bodies; • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; • or Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder Engagement organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders with whom to engage. 58 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Global GRI Compact Code Description Reference or Short Answer Principle 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder Engagement including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Stakeholder Engagement through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Performance Indicators DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 2012 Annual Report; Addressing the Issue; What’s Humanly Possible; Community Investment EC1 Direct economic value generated and Addressing the Issue; 2012 Annual distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Report p. 22 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit 2012 Annual Report p. 40 plan obligations. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Supplier Diversity 6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Diversity 6 of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Addressing the Issue, investments and services provided primarily for What’s Humanly Possible, public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or Community Investment pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Addressing the Issue, economic impacts, including the extent of What’s Humanly Possible, impacts. Community Investment Environmental Performance Indicators DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Environment EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Environment 8 source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Environment 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Environment 8-9 improvements. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Environment 8-9 and reductions achieved. GRI Index 59 Global GRI Compact Code Description Reference or Short Answer Principle EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Environment 8 emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Environment 7-9 and reductions achieved. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Environment 8 method. Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Diversity, Human Rights & Fair Labor, Health & Wellbeing, Training & Development LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Diversity employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Employees: 16.38 incidents per million 1 and absenteeism, and number of work-related hours worked in 2012, reduced from fatalities by region and by gender. 19.03 incidents per million hours worked in 2011 Associates: 83.19 incidents per million hours worked in 2012, reduced from 88.88 incidents per million hours worked in 2011 (based on data from 4 key markets, representing 40% of employees and 55% of revenues) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, Wellness at Work 1 and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Our Development Philosophy, by gender, and by employee category. Leadership Development LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Our Development Philosophy, learning that support the continued employability What’s Humanly Possible of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 100% of employees participate in performance and career development reviews, performance and career development by gender. reviews at least annually. Our Development Philosophy, Leadership Development LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Diversity; 1, 6 breakdown of employees per employee category Board of Directors according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 60 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age Global GRI Compact Code Description Reference or Short Answer Principle Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights & Fair Labor HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors Supply Chain Integrity 1-5 and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified Human Rights & Fair Labor, 1, 2, 5 as having significant risk for incidents of child Supply Chain Integrity labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Human Rights & Fair Labor, 1, 2, 4 having significant risk for incidents of forced or Supply Chain Integrity compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Social Performance Indicators: Society DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Addressing the Issue, What’s Humanly Possible, Community Investment, Ethics; Corporate Governance SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Community Investment community engagement, impact assessments, What’s Humanly Possible and development programs. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units As part of our annual enterprise risk 10 analyzed for risks related to corruption. assessment, we analyze all business units for potential risks related to corruption, and develop mitigation plans for significant risks. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 100% of employees are trained 10 organization’s anti-corruption policies and annually on our Code of Business procedures. Conduct and Ethics, which broadly outlines our policies related to bribery and corruption, antitrust and competition, insider trading, and conflicts of interest. In addition, a sub-set of employees in key roles (approximately 5%) undergoes annual training and certification on detailed policies and procedures regarding bribery and corruption awareness/ FCPA compliance, competition/ antitrust, and insider trading/securities trading. GRI Index 61 Global GRI Compact Code Description Reference or Short Answer Principle SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Insight and Expertise, Commitments 1-10 policy development and lobbying. to External Initiatives and Strategic Memberships SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions Our Code of Business Conduct to political parties, politicians, and related and Ethics prohibits contributions institutions by country. to political parties, politicians and related institutions. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Stakeholder Engagement; Data Privacy Policy PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Stakeholder Engagement 8 including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints 0 1 regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 62 ManpowerGroup 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the Human Age
