Communication on Progress 2012 History • 1969 Datascrip started out as a humble stationery store with an expanding product line from stationery to office equipment, office machines, drafting machines, office furniture, computers and printers. • 1979 The company’s core business was Office System. • 1985 The company’s core business developed into System for Business. • 1997 Datascrip became known as Office Solution Company. • 2000 Repositioned itself as the Business Solutions Provider. Datascrip’s foray into information technology is strengthened by its existing product portfolio and 43 years of management experience. The One Stop Business Solutions Statement of Support We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies and corporate culture. They are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance through our philosophy of Succeed above Success. Joe Kamdani Founder & Mentor PT. Datascrip Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • The year 2012 marked the turning point of our more aggressive effort to instill our corporate culture to benefit not only the company but also our employees as well. The core values of our corporate culture (Catur Sila) are: – Succeed above success – CARE (Customer Interest, Attentive, Responsive, Efficient) – SMILE (Share, Motivate, Improve, Lead, Efficient) – CoCoCoCo (Communication, Cooperation, Coordination, Commitment) • On February 3, 2012 and December 21, 2012, Datascrip held its bi-annual blood donation with the cooperation of Indonesian Red Cross. Enthusiasm was in the air as the management and staff of Datascrip are aware that every drop of blood counts. • As part of its initiative to support the surrounding neighborhood, Datascrip donated cows to be distributed to the surrounding underprivileged residents during Eid alAdha on October 24. 2012. • Datascrip donated 5 units of ASUS netbook and 3 units of Wacom Bamboo Fun Pen and Touch to foster children of the Mr. Dewandra Djelantik, the great grandson of the last King of Karangasem, Bali. Labor • Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip collaborated with Indonesian Global Compact Network through a program called “Tjahaya – Curhat Buat Sahabat – A Story for Best Friends” (2009-2012) to develop children as role models and agents of change for a better quality of life. • Datascrip provides its employees in-house medical benefits and Jamsostek pension benefits. • Achievements made by Datascrip’s employee are generously rewarded with bonus, incentive, promotions and/or recognitions. • Datascrip’s Employee Guidelines clearly stated its position as an equal opportunity employer against any discrimination on race, religion, sex, age, nationality, disability and veteran status. • Datascrip supported Aksi Sinergi Untuk Indonesia (AKSI UI), a non-profit organization aimed to create synergy among different entities to create a comprehensive solution to the poverty issue in Indonesia. Environment • Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Canon Care Center (CCC) continues its recycling initiatives through. – Customer Loyalty Program. CCC collect used cartridges and toners from customers which are sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. – Canon Recycle Program. CCC recycles used and worn out digital cameras, printers and scanners which are sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. • Energy-efficient lighting and ventilation system was incorporated into Datascrip’s new warehouse in Pulogadung, Jakarta. • As part of Datascrip’s initiative to lower its carbon footprint, the HVAC system used in Datascrip Building is only activated Monday through Friday, from 07:00 to 17:30. Environment • Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continually develops IT solutions and software to streamline business process and progress closer toward a paperless office. • Datascrip was one of the sponsors for the Save our Earth Exhibition which was held by Institut Teknologi Bandung (ITB) on May 22-23, 2012. • Datascrip continues its commitment to bring more environmentally-friendly products into the market. – Kedacom, a video conference system to reduce travel needs. – Maped Kiddy Grip ruler is made from 67% recycled materials. – Portable Solar Charger converts energy from the sun into electricity. – Colortrac, a wide-format scanner with new LED system to eliminate the need for warm-up and reduce the overall electricity needed. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Datascrip encourages government and private sectors to use Priority Customer Online Order (eProcurement System ). The automated and transparent procurement process as well as the clearly listed price are designed to avoid potential for corruption. • Datascrip’s Company Rules and Regulation clearly stated its commitment against corruption.
