Integrated Annual Report 2013 Year Ended 31 March Umhlanga Ridge Town Centre/Cornubia 2013 Contents of the Integrated Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2013 INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE Focus Areas 2 Governance Overview 48 Highlights 3 Board of Directors 48 Tongaat Hulett and its Strategic Positioning 4 Audit and Compliance Committee 50 Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committee 53 Operations at a Glance 11 Remuneration Committee 55 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 12 Nomination Committee 56 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Executive Management Committee 56 Overview and Strategy 15 Accountability and Internal Control 56 Financial and Operations Review 21 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 57 Outlook and Conclusion 24 Remuneration Report 57 SUSTAINABILITY Other Governance Items and Assertions 58 Strategy and Analysis 27 DIRECTORATE 60 Sustainable Performance SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 63 Benchmarking 29 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 Environmental Stewardship 29 Independent Auditor’s Report 65 Third Party Certifications 34 Directors’ Statement of Responsibility and Approval of Annual Financial Statements 66 Social Performance 34 Certificate by Company Secretary 66 Safety 35 Directors’ Statutory Report 67 Health 36 Financial Statements 70 Human Capital 37 FIVE YEAR REVIEW 118 Stakeholder Engagement and Social Innovation 40 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Economic Sustainability 42 Share Ownership Analysis 120 Food Security 44 Corporate Information 121 Product Responsibility 45 Shareholders’ Diary 121 Request for Feedback 46 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 122 Independent Assurance Statement 47 Form of Proxy SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES OF REPORT This report covers Tongaat Hulett’s strategy, governance, sustainability, operational and financial performance for the 12 months ended 31 March 2013 and comparable data for the prior period. It covers the starch, land conversion and developments, animal feeds and the sugar operations in Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe. 2013 1 focus areas to further enhance Tongaat Hulett’s Strategic Position Evolving the starch and glucose Reducing the unit cost of production. operation’s market mixes and • A fundamental review to re-examine all bought-in costs and services has been new product portfolios in order launched to optimise earnings and increase • With a substantial part of the cost capacity utilisation. base being fixed, the unit cost of sugar production will continue to benefit from the growth in sugar volumes Optimising revenue from sugarcane Partnering with Governments and and progressing Tongaat Hulett’s other key stakeholders to develop renewable energy initiatives to small-scale private farmers, thereby meet the SADC region’s need for contributing to rural development agricultural development, job creation and job creation around the and energy security. business’s areas of operation. Prioritising the sustained increase Developing innovative models to of cane supplies to utilise the more create successful and sustainable than 850 000 tons of available neighbourhoods for communities in unutilised milling capacity. the lower socio-economic spectrum. Increasing the pace of land conversion Maximising the benefit of owning while establishing, maintaining the leading sugar brands and and entrenching appropriate value strong distribution networks in the benchmarks. SADC region. Developing and building Tongaat Continuing to make good Hulett’s human capital, while progress in the areas of health and meeting the business’s internal environmental management. transformation targets. Maintaining and developing strong Entrenching an “Organisational relationships with all of Tongaat Safety Culture” with a zero harm Hulett’s stakeholders. approach. 2 2013 HIGHLIGHTS Planted 11 554 FINANCIAL YEAR 2013 hectares of new cane in South Africa Revenue p 19,0% R14,373 billion Profit from Operations p 11,7% R2,145 billion Cash Flow from Operations p 56,0% R2,126 billion Headline Earnings p R1,058 billion 18,7% Annual Dividends p 17,2% 340 cents per share Growth in sugar Zimbabwe sugar production production of 104 000 increased by 28% with sugarcane supplies tons to 1 254 000 tons from private farmers growing by 60% Accelerating the pace of LTIFR reduced land sales in Cornubia to 0,094 per Industrial 200 000 hours worked 2013 3 Tongaat Hulett and its Strategic Positioning Tongaat Hulett is an agricultural and agri-processing business which includes integrated components of land management and property development. Through its sugar and starch operations, Tongaat Hulett produces a range of refined carbohydrate products from sugarcane and maize. Renewable energy, in the form of biofuel production and electricity generation, is of increasing importance to the business. The water-food-energy nexus is an evolving dynamic as the world contends with the growing impact of climate change. Tongaat Hulett balances the operational requirement for sugarcane supplies to its cane processing operations with other priority uses of agricultural land and its transition to higher value uses at the appropriate times. The current focus prioritises the business leveraging its asset base in six Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries. Tongaat Hulett is well placed to capitalise on the company’s unconstrained access to sugar markets and its independent position and established business platform and size. The business has, over the past century established a firm dynamics and regulatory environments underpins its activities base with operations in six SADC countries, namely Botswana, in the agriculture and agri-processing sectors. The growth and Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe. development of the company’s operations, in the selected regions A consequence of the agricultural seasonal nature of the business in which it operates, have involved establishing credible partnering is that employment numbers fluctuate during the year, and from relationships with farmers, local communities, governments and year to year. Tongaat Hulett normally employs more than 40 000 employees over many years. Tongaat Hulett’s independent status people and while it is difficult to estimate the exact number of and local ownership is important to the continuation of these people employed by private farmers who supply its starch and relationships. The company is building on its existing relationships sugar operations, there is a high probability that this number as Tongaat Hulett seeks to continue being viewed as the partner exceeds the company’s employee complement. of choice to all of its stakeholders. More than 300 000 hectares of land in the SADC region supply the business’s sugar and starch operations. In South Africa, Sugar Operations approximately 150 000 hectares of private land under maize, The global consumption of sugar for the 2012/13 year is supply the four starch operations. In Mozambique, South Africa, scheduled to amount to 174 million tons. As global demand for Swaziland and Zimbabwe more than 150 000 hectares of land sugar continues to grow at 2 percent per annum, this currently under sugarcane supply cane to eight Tongaat Hulett mills and equates to an additional 3,5 million tons of sugar. Traditionally, two 3rd party mills in the case of Swaziland. this growing worldwide demand has been met by Brazil but this Tongaat Hulett’s ability to engage innovatively with, and create position has changed. The Brazilian dynamic has been a significant stakeholder value within and from regional socio-economic contributor to the general rise in sugar prices when compared to Tongaat Hulett’s sugar production grew by 248 000 tons in the past 2 years. To establish a 200 000 ton Greenfield operation in Africa (including infrastructure, agricultural assets and a sugar mill) will cost between R5 billion and R6 billion. 4 2013 prices some 8-10 years ago. This has created opportunities for benefit from the reduction of the unit cost of production as the other regions including Sub-Saharan Africa, which has ample business further benefits from its growing sugar production. unutilised arable land and currently uses less than 10 percent of its available fresh water. The company’s leading sugar brands and Mozambique existing distribution networks will enable the business to benefit from the growing per capita consumption of sugar in the SADC The Mozambique sugar operations consist of the expanded region. sugar mills and estates surrounding Xinavane and Mafambisse. As at 31 March 2013, 22 072 hectares of Tongaat Hulett miller cum planter was farmed under sugarcane with 5 752 hectares under private grower and community-based schemes. Sugar production capacity at the Xinavane mill is now more than 240 000 tons in a 32 week crushing season while the Mafambisse mill has an existing 90 000 tons of sugar production capacity. The two Mozambique operations have a combined installed milling capacity to produce in excess of 330 000 tons sugar per annum. The sugar estates are irrigated and are generally located in areas with favourable growing conditions, resulting in high cane and sucrose yields. These favourable agricultural conditions, close proximity to ports, and the technical support from South Africa, Tongaat Hulett is assisting with the development of small-scale position the Mozambique operations well for further growth. private farmers in South Africa South Africa Tongaat Hulett’s strategy is to expedite an increase in sugarcane The company’s South African sugar operations, on the KwaZulusupplies to its operations in Mozambique, South Africa and Natal north coast and in the Zululand region have four sugar mills at Maidstone, Darnall, Amatikulu and Felixton. These mills Zimbabwe. Numerous cane supply initiatives that include the have an installed capacity to crush 8,5 million tons of cane per development of indigenous sugarcane farmers are underway annum which is equivalent to approximately 1 million tons of raw in all the sugar operations. In the 2012/13 season Tongaat sugar. The operation’s central refinery at Durban produces some Hulett grew sugar production by 104 000 tons and produced 600 000 tons of refined sugar per annum. The South African sugar 1,254 million tons raw sugar equivalent. This increase was product range offers a total sweetener solution including a range preceded by growth of 144 000 sugar tons in the previous of high intensity sweeteners. The value of the company’s Huletts ® season. One of the key requirements to increase the quantum of brand continues to be optimised in South Africa, the largest sugar sugarcane supplies to the mills is the replacement of old roots. market in the SADC region. The Huletts brand remains the ® This requirement, coupled with ongoing improvements in farming leading sugar brand in the South African direct consumer market. practice will have a significant impact on the sugarcane yields. The increased sugar volumes will also lead to a substantial reduction in the unit cost of production, as the use of existing milling assets will be optimised. This strategy will include extending the milling season lengths, optimising cane supply logistics, sweating the mills to optimise up-time and minimising mill downtime and debottlenecking the mills at a moderate cost, by upgrading or installing plant to remove capacity bottlenecks. The high cost of establishing greenfield enterprises in Africa, which currently ranges between R5 billion to R6 billion (including infrastructure costs agricultural assets and a sugar mill) for 200 000 tons sugar production per annum, supports Tongaat Hulett’s objective of maximising its sugar production through its existing asset base, as its continues to increase its sugarcane Global demand for sugar continues to grow supplies. at approximately 2% per annum A fundamental review has been launched to re-examine all bought-in goods and services in the business. Included in this Zimbabwe review is the company’s approach to strategic procurement, The sugar operations in Zimbabwe consist of Triangle and a which has been identified as having the potential to contribute to 50,3 percent stake in Hippo Valley Estates, representing the reduction of costs. In addition, with between 80-85 percent a combined installed sugar milling capacity of more than of sugar milling costs being fixed, Tongaat Hulett will continue to 640 000 tons. As at 31 March 2013, the Zimbabwe operations 2013 5 Tongaat Hulett and its Strategic Positioning continued The limiting of beet and iso-glucose production through quotas and the embedded domestic price support that this infers, means that any sugar production in excess of these quotas must be exported, but only to a maximum of 1,4 million tons in any year in terms of a WTO ruling. The ending of beet quotas is being considered as part of the review of the CAP, with September 2015, September 2017 and September 2020 being mooted by various institutions involved in the review. Whatever the outcome, the existing annual sugar consumption demand of some 17 million tons will need to be met and a number of high cost European sugar producers will not remain profitable close to the current world market price. Swaziland Tongaat Hulett’s sugarcane estate in Swaziland is situated in the north-east of the country and comprises 3 838 hectares of fully irrigated estates of which some 3 740 hectares is harvested annually. Tambankulu Estates is an agri-business based on two agricultural estates straddling the Umbuluzi River. The estate has consistently achieved excellent sucrose yields due to the good soils and growing conditions in the region and delivers its cane to the nearby Simunye and Mhlume sugar mills. Botswana and Namibia Eshowe KZN The Namibian operation has the capacity to pack and distribute 80 000 tons per annum using its market leading Marathon ® comprised 44 519 hectares of sugarcane land with a potential brand. In Botswana, Tongaat Hulett has a 60 000 tons per annum to produce in excess of 3,0 million tons of sugar cane. Private packing and distribution operation and markets the leading Blue farmers were initially allocated 15 880 hectares of land through Crystal sugar brand which continues to benefit from the growth ® the SusCo project which is ongoing. Based on Tongaat Hulett’s in per capita consumption. view of its existing mills, a further 600 farmers on 12 700 hectares could supply an additional 1,4 million tons of cane per annum. The Triangle and Hippo Valley Estate sugar mills have a combined Starch Operations annual milling capacity of about 4,8 million tons of cane. The total Tongaat Hulett’s wet-milling operation is the major producer of refined sugar installed capacity is 140 000 tons and the Triangle starch and glucose on the African continent. Established in 1919, Estates ethanol plant has an installed capacity of 40 million litres the starch operation has grown to be an important supplier to a over a 48 week production season. The lowveld in Zimbabwe, diverse range of South African and African industries. Operating with excellent topography, climate and established water storage four wet-milling plants, located in Kliprivier, Germiston and and conveyance infrastructures for irrigation, is recognised as a Meyerton in Gauteng and Bellville in the Western Cape, Tongaat globally competitive sugar producer. While the macro-economic Hulett converts more than 600 000 tons of maize per annum into environment in Zimbabwe has settled significantly, the political starch and starch-based products. The business manufactures environment remains turbulent as many political factions continue a wide range of products, from unmodified maize starch to to compete for ascendency, which may impact operations. highly refined glucose products, which are key ingredients for manufacturers of foodstuffs, beverages and a variety of industrial EU Market access products. The company’s Amryal corn starch, Hydex and Vaalgold Gluten 60, remain some of the leading starch, glucose The Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Swaziland operations and feed ingredient brands in South Africa. The business operates currently enjoy “duty and quota free” access into the EU, which a dedicated Sorbitol facility which is located in Chloorkop in is ongoing. The basis upon which sugar in the EU is managed in Gauteng and has distribution networks and facilities in Zimbabwe, terms of beet quotas and reference pricing, amongst others is Australasia and the Far East. generally referred to as the “EU sugar regime”, a component of the EU’s much broader Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). The The expansion of the economically active population in South CAP is currently under review including the sugar regime, with Africa is positive for the volume growth of these products and with the existing dispensation in respect of the latter in place until the ability to increase production, from installed milling capacity 30 September 2015. the company is well placed to benefit from increased demand. 6 2013 The world is continuing to evolve in terms of the selection of a feedstock for the production of sweeteners, with both maize and sugarcane being suitable alternatives. Tongaat Hulett’s significant investments in the production of sweeteners using both feedstocks will ensure that the business is well positioned to benefit from global developments in this area. The increased global demand for convenience food products has encouraged the development of modified waxy starch products and represents a growth opportunity for Tongaat Hulett. The starch operation is evolving its market mixes and is introducing new product portfolios which will assist in improving current capacity utilisation and provide an increase in the range of value added products. The commissioning of modified starches at the Meyerton facility and the increase of the enzyme syrup capacity for the coffee creamer sector are key projects to unlock improved capacity utilisation. Animal Feeds The company’s animal feeds operation, Voermol Feeds, is located at the Maidstone mill in Tongaat KwaZulu-Natal. Tongaat Hulett manufactures and markets a range of energy and supplementary feeds to the livestock farming community through its Voermol® brand. The production and marketing of high quality, cost effective products over the past 50 years, combined with the development of long-term relationships with farmers, agricultural companies and suppliers, has established Voermol Feeds as the market leader in the molasses and pith-based animal feeds industry in South Africa. The animal feeds manufacturing process is a cornerstone of the downstream value-added activities using both bagasse and molasses, and with the established platform that exists, there is potential to expand this footprint into the SADC region, with Zimbabwe being the first possible phase in this expansion. The co-products that are produced during the starch and glucose manufacturing process in South Africa, supply feed into this industry. Renewable energy The global sugar industry has seen a fundamental shift take place, as increasing quantities of sugarcane are directed at renewable electricity generation and ethanol production as an effective carbon dioxide (CO2) mitigation strategy and an alternative to crude oil based fuels. The need to create jobs and the crisis in electricity supply in South Africa, together with the carbon mitigation drive, will continue to maintain the focus on the development of renewable energy. The electricity planning of the South African Department of Energy focusses on the development of renewable electricity and energy efficiency such as cogeneration through Independent Power Producers (IPPs). No additional coal based power stations by ESKOM are included in the 2010 to 2030 plan. The electricity Kliprivier Mill procurement through IPPs continues to gain momentum and is being aligned with the government objectives to grow the 2013 7 Tongaat Hulett and its Strategic Positioning continued economy significantly and create the potential for job creation on the scale government is targeting. A further key component of the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme (RE IPPPP) and Green Economy is localisation of supply and the associated development and growth in the manufacturing sector of South Africa. The first round of 28 RE IPPPP projects generating 1 400 MW and valued at R47 billion was concluded in November 2012. The Ministerial Determination which accommodates power generation from sugarcane fibre was published in December 2012. It is likely that the Request for Bids is expected to be completed by the end of 2013. In the medium term, ethanol is perhaps the largest expansion opportunity which the sugar industry in SADC faces. This offers governments of the region an excellent opportunity to create Employees at Darnall Mill jobs and improve the lives of rural communities. If SADC were to follow the Brazilian model over the next 20 years, with 60 for the South African market will be finalized and implemented percent of petrol being derived from ethanol and all growth in by the end of 2013. Tongaat Hulett has continued to engage with demand captured by ethanol, it would require the construction various key government departments in terms of the design and of about 120 mills the size of the Felixton mill, create 1,8 million implementation of the support mechanisms. new direct jobs, and create at least as many indirect jobs. The associated power generation would be equal to Medupi and The company’s aspiration over some 10 years is to complete the Kusile combined. For South Africa, it would provide between construction and commissioning of a large scale electricity plant at 13 and 25 percent of the required carbon footprint reduction each of its South African mills and to install at least one large scale needed to meet the target which South Africa has committed to. bio-ethanol plant at one of its mills. Given the current anticipated program for procurement of electricity from sugarcane fibre, it is Unlike electricity generation, which can be started from a South anticipated that Tongaat Hulett will commence investment in its African perspective large scale ethanol production as described first electricity plant in 2014/15. above requires a regional ethanol regime. Some 70 percent of the market for ethanol lies in South Africa, with the bulk of the production potential lying within other SADC countries such Developing Private Farmers as Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Angola. The starting Tongaat Hulett’s land footprint in the region provides the business point therefore is a biofuels strategy within South Africa which with an opportunity to interact and partner with governments takes into account these dynamics. Tongaat Hulett is continuing and rural communities in the development of innovative practical to work with the South African Government to promote this approaches that transform society and the environment thereby regional strategy. uplifting communities. To date, these partnerships have seen During 2012, the regulations for blending biofuels in South Africa the company working with governments and communities in where published, and it is planned that the support mechanisms Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe in developing farming models with sugarcane as the primary crop and staple foods like maize and vegetables as secondary crops. The existing models include the provision of procurement support for key raw material inputs. As the company continues to work with its stakeholders in this area, further opportunities including the use of technology and improving the level of financial acumen of small-scale private farmers will be explored and progressed. Land Conversion Tongaat Hulett has placed a major emphasis on the need to increase the pace of conversion while establishing, maintaining and entrenching appropriate value benchmarks and value contribution for all stakeholders. In South Africa, some 8 500 developable hectares (some 13 500 gross hectares) have been identified for conversion to other uses when conditions are Ministerial Determination which accommodates appropriate. This conversion process takes place over a number power generation from sugarcane fibre was of years and the land remains under sugarcane until the transition published in December 2012 to development takes place. The company recognises the social, 8 2013 economic, ecological and political significance of this land to many stakeholders and hence is committed to ensuring that this land is optimally utilised as productively as possible and in accordance with the relevant local context. The rising expectation for affordable housing in South Africa will continue to impact the business as it transitions from agricultural land with development potential to property development. Durban/eThekwini, South Africa’s third largest city has a current population of approximately 3,5 million people and a housing backlog of some 400 000 units. These factors are contributing to ongoing expansion into Tongaat Hulett’s land holdings both to the north and west. This creates opportunity within the eThekwini Municipality and surrounding local and district municipalities for the business to respond proactively within its land conversion portfolio in formulating and implementing responses that maximises delivery, in respect of the needs of communities of lower socio-economic status. The King Shaka International Airport, with its ability to attract direct international flights and the development of the surrounding Dube TradePort are providing further impetus for this growth. Tongaat Hulett shares with Government, communities and other stakeholders a pressing need for an increased number of hectares to be available in an “active development” state, meaning that investment or building work could commence on such land with a high level of confidence and within a short timeframe (“shovelready”). Getting land to such a condition involves a number of overlapping processes involving local, provincial and national government departments and community stakeholders. A primary objective of the development operation is a significant increase in the number of hectares of land in such an “active development” state. The process employed consists of aligning planning with Government policies and objectives and community aspirations; achieving EIA approvals and release from agricultural and other restrictions over large land parcels; thereafter in a phased manner, obtaining final zoning and subdivisional approvals over portions of land in anticipation of projected demand for different land uses as informed by interface with market players. The extent and pace of these processes has increased substantially and it is anticipated that by December 2014, Tongaat Hulett will have more than 1 000 additional developable hectares of active development land (before land sales). Social Sustainability and Innovation With a significant number of the business operations being located in rural communities including Mozambique, Zimbabwe and the north coast of KwaZulu-Natal, there is a strong focus on facilitating the development of successful indigenous private farmers. This process, which is ongoing, will ensure that private farmers receive the support required for them to be sustainable into the future and include actions related to unlocking land for sugarcane development and grant funding from Government. Tongaat Hulett is of the view that as the business continues to empower indigenous private farmers, it is positively impacting Izinga Ridge the communities that surround these cane growing operations. 2013 9 Tongaat Hulett and its Strategic Positioning continued In keeping with this objective, the company has already seen the benefit of partnering with private farmer communities and BancABC in developing indigenous sugarcane farmers through its SusCo project in Zimbabwe. The recent signing of a cooperation agreement between Tongaat Hulett and the Ingonyama Trust Board (ITB), which is the custodian of some 2,7 million hectares of communal land in KwaZulu-Natal, is an important indicator of the business’s ongoing commitment to partnering with key stakeholders in the development of successful indigenous private farmers. The evolution of Tongaat Hulett, in continuing to be regarded as a responsible corporate citizen, has over many years seen the business grow to the place where it embraces: Corporate Governance, through continuing to adhere to legal and accepted business practices as embodied in the principles of the King III corporate governance framework; Corporate social responsibility, through demonstrating responsibility to society by minimising any negative impacts and extending philanthropic and charitable inputs to the communities that the business operates in; and, Social sustainability and innovation, by developing innovative practical approaches to transform society and the environment, thereby uplifting communities. Tongaat Hulett follows a philosophy of creating value for stakeholders and continues to make good progress in entrenching and enhancing the various programmes and initiatives that it has in place in the areas of safety, health, environment, shareholder, farmer, community, government, employees and other relationships. The business has made substantial progress from the time when every part of the company had their stand-alone initiatives in place to uplift business excellence. Tongaat Hulett will continue to build on the momentum that has been developed in this area. It has become evident that the company operates far more productively within a “one-company culture” as opposed to multiple operating companies. This has also been evident in relation to interchangeable products that are manufactured from sugarcane and maize. Capital structure (equity, debt and empowerment initiatives) continues to be developed and evaluated within the context of the “one-company culture”. The safety and the welfare of all employees remains a key priority, as the business strives towards establishing an organisational culture with a zero harm approach. Tongaat Hulett subscribes to principles of sustainable development, which encompasses safety, health and environment. The company’s participation in various sustainability reporting initiatives, including the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the CDP Water Disclosure Project, the Nedbank Green Fund and its listing on the JSE’s Social Responsibility Investment index for the ninth consecutive year, is testimony to Tongaat Hulett’s approach to sustainability and stakeholder value creation. Developing innovative and practical models to transform society and uplift rural communities 10 2013 Operations at a glance Sugar operations MOZAMBIQUE Starch operations Offices Harare ZIMBABWE 10 Tsumeb Beira 21 19 18 Windhoek 4 BOTSWANA Gaborone 11 NAMIBIA Lobatse 20 5 6 Walvis Bay 22 Maputo Johannesburg 3 17 7 SWAZILAND 8 12 14 13 15 1 Tongaat 2 SOUTH AFRICA Durban 16 LESOTHO 9 East London Cape Town Port Elizabeth OFFICES STARCH South Africa • Wet-milling operation Starch Mills 1 Amanzimnyama •R efines carbohydrates from maize 5 Chloorkop 2 Land and Property Developments 3 Meadowdale •T he largest producer of starch and 6 Germiston 4 Tongaat Hulett Namibia (THN) glucose on the African continent 7 Meyerton 8 Kliprivier 9 Bellville SUGAR OPERATIONS SUGAR PACKING AND DISTRIBUTION • Sugarcane is grown and sourced from private • Using existing distribution networks to ship sugar farmers and processed through milling operations. products. Mozambique Refinery Botswana Mill & Cane Estates 16 South Coast Refinery Packing & Distribution 10 Mafambisse 20 Tongaat Hulett Botswana 11 Xinavane Swaziland Cane Estates Namibia South Africa 17 Tambankulu Packing & Distribution Sugar Mills 21 THN Tsumeb 12 Felixton Mill Zimbabwe 22 THN Walvis Bay 13 Amatikulu Mill Mill & Cane Estates 14 Darnall Mill 18 Hippo Valley 15 Maidstone Mill 19 Triangle 2013 11 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT JB Magwaza, Chairman INTRODUCTION The period under review was a positive one for Tongaat Hulett. Revenue, earnings and cash flow have grown compared to the previous year and significant progress was made with many activities that contribute to the creation of value for all stakeholders. This integrated annual report provides an overview of the business environment, performance and strategic positioning, with all the relevant detail in the various sections of the report. SUSTAINABILITY Tongaat Hulett’s commitment to principles of business sustainability is entrenched in the organisation’s activities and practices. It is evidenced in the organisation’s deliberate efforts to conduct business in a responsible, ethical manner that acknowledges accountability and integrity, whilst creating value for its stakeholders. The sustainability report which commences on page 26 considers the key themes of Environmental Stewardship, Social Stewardship and Economic Sustainability, and demonstrates the various initiatives undertaken by the business. Tongaat Hulett’s corporate citizenship initiatives extend well beyond its own operations to the wider communities across the six SADC countries within which it operates. With some 40 000 employees (including seasonal employees) working with its customers, suppliers, partners, shareholders and other stakeholders, Tongaat Hulett takes great pride in sharing knowledge and expertise. The sustainability report and CEO’s review provide more detail in the efforts undertaken by the company to advance the needs of various stakeholders including private farmers in the region. The safety of employees across all operations continues to be an area of high priority, with the company currently having adopted a safety initiative termed “zero harm approach” to develop its workforce to the level that employees no longer solely depend on management support and systems, but rather individuals looking after each other to prevent injuries across the company. Despite all continued efforts to ensure the highest standards of safety and occupational health, regrettably there were three fatalities recorded during the year under review, which the CEO expands upon in his report. Our heartfelt condolences go out to all affected families, friends and colleagues. Management conducted an analysis of the fatalities that occurred across the organisation in the past five years, and the findings are articulated in the sustainability report on page 35. As a proponent of environmental stewardship, Tongaat Hulett continues on the crucial journey of advancing various initiatives in this arena, which include renewable energy, carbon management, water resource management, effluent and waste management, climate change and promoting sustainable agriculture. The CEO’s 12 2013 review highlights in detail the significant progress made on these APPRECIATION and other key strategic thrusts for the year to 31 March 2013. Tongaat Hulett’s shareholder base includes many Southern The board is confident of the company’s ability to meet the many African and international long-term institutional investors, whose challenges and exciting opportunities in achieving its business continued support to the business as it continues to deliver on its sustainability objectives, given its clear strategic platform, strategic objectives is greatly appreciated. sustainable agricultural and business practices and astute I conclude by recording my appreciation to the board for its stakeholder engagement. continued guidance, support and wise counsel. To Peter Staude, the executive directors and executive team, the board joins me DIVIDEND in thanking you for the sterling work in managing the business and positioning it for greater success now and into the future. A final dividend of 190 cents per share has been declared. The Finally, I also wish to express our sincere appreciation to all our final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 150 cents stakeholders for their continued support and commitment. per share, amounts to a total dividend of 340 cents per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2013, which compares with the 290 cents per share of the previous year, reflecting an increase of 17,2% . STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Tongaat Hulett has an established history of maintaining J B MAGWAZA constructive relationships with a wide range of stakeholders. CHAIRMAN The process to improve the company’s understanding of its stakeholders is ongoing and includes various proactive Amanzimnyama engagements that are already in place as the business seeks to Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal further strengthen and build on these existing relationships. Tongaat Hulett interfaces regularly, in an open and honest 23 May 2013 manner with the investment community, shareholders, governments, small-scale and commercial private farmers and their representative bodies, communities, employees and people impacted by company operations or expansion activities. Through a structured and evolving approach to stakeholder engagement and using internal knowledge and expertise on stakeholder management, the business is able to prioritise the most important aspects which require management attention and focus. BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Effective implementation of corporate governance principles and ethical leadership form part of the fabric of Tongaat Hulett. The board, as the custodian of corporate governance, continues to maintain its commitment to principles of corporate discipline, ethical leadership, transparency, integrity and accountability. The board confirms that it effectively applies the principles embodied in King III and its recommendations as appropriate for the business, as can be seen in the corporate governance section of this integrated report. The company complies with the listing requirements of the JSE, the Companies Act 2008 and other pertinent legislation by which it is bound. At the last AGM held in 2012, my term of office was extended for a further period of two years, to lapse in July 2014 when I will retire from the board of directors. A succession process is well underway in terms of the board chairmanship and to add to the non-executive director skill-set on the board. 2013 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Tongaat Hulett CEO Peter Staude and Human Settlements Executive Karen Petersen at Cornubia 14 2013 Tongaat Hulett’s revenue grew by 19 percent to R14,373 billion for the 2012/13 year and headline earnings increased by 18,7 percent to R1,058 billion. Total sugar production increased by 104 000 tons (9 percent) to 1,254 million tons, after increasing by 144 000 tons (14 percent) in the prior year. The cane supplied to all the sugar mills grew to 10,3 million tons, with various on-going cane supply initiatives. The advantage of higher overall sugar production volumes with the related benefits in the unit costs of production, were offset partially by margin pressure in the relationship of selling price movements, versus higher input costs. The starch operations benefitted from higher coproduct realisations and world competitive maize costs, particularly with the new season maize in the second half of the year. An increasing number of hectares of land are moving towards becoming active developments in the land conversion activities. Overall, Tongaat Hulett’s profit from operations increased by 11,7 percent to R2,145 billion (2012: R1,921 billion), exceeding R2 billion for the first time. The company continued to make substantial further progress on the water systems which supply these operations, including a number of multiple focus areas during the year to 31 March the Mutirikwi-Tokwe and the Manjirenji-Siya systems return 2013. Achievements in the recent past provide a strong indicator to sustainable levels. of the benefits that will flow to the business and its stakeholders, as it continues to enhance its strategic position: • The business is continuing to use emerging possibilities for cane development, to prioritise the establishment of Prioritising the sustained increase of cane supplies to indigenous black farmers, in collaboration with governments utilise the more than 850 000 tons of available unutilised and other relevant stakeholders. milling capacity. • In the South African sugar operations, there is a focused task • In the 2012/13 season Tongaat Hulett grew sugar production to accurately map the actual area under cane supplying the by 104 000 tons and produced 1,254 million tons raw four mills. To date, the process of flying over the cane supply sugar equivalent. This increase was preceded by growth of area has been completed and the operations are in the process 144 000 sugar tons in the previous season. of verifying the information obtained with its small-scale and commercial private farmer community. This mapping process • The Zimbabwean operations, with a 28 percent increase includes verifying hectares under cane, cane varieties used, in sugar production, were the major contributors to the land locations and private farmer details. The information will overall increase in sugar tons for the 2012/13 season. This be used to populate a database that will be a reliable source increase follows the 42 percent growth in sugar production of base data, for both Tongaat Hulett and the private farmers by the Mozambique operations in the 2011/12 season. It is that supply its mills. anticipated that, for the 2013/14 season, the South African sugar operations will substantially grow sugar production. • The increase in revenue that will flow to private farmers as they increase the supply of sugarcane to Tongaat Hulett mills • Sugar production growth of 100 000 tons per annum from will continue to have a positive impact on the towns and the existing mills is equivalent to half a typically sized sugar communities that surround company operations. During mill, which costs, together with infrastructure and agricultural the year to 31 March 2013, R2,5 billion was paid to private assets, between R5 billion to R6 billion. The replacement farmers who supplied the business’s sugar operations with value of the available unutilised milling capacity of more than cane. 850 000 tons is R13,6 billion for the milling assets alone. • The focus remains on increasing the sugar that is contained in • Tongaat Hulett’s strategy is to facilitate an increase in cane and extracted from the cane stalk, through improved farming supplies to grow sugar production. New plantings in the past practices, suitable fertilizer application, appropriate irrigation year increased the area under cane by 14 103 hectares and of cane, harvesting of cane at the correct age which is normally the replanting of existing roots for the benefit of future milling every 12-13 months and better mill performance. seasons is ongoing, subject to suitable weather conditions prevailing. The early season forecast anticipates that these Reducing the unit cost of production. additional hectares, together with improvements in cane yields and the cane to sugar ratio, will assist the business • Generally 90 percent of overhead costs are fixed, between to grow its sugar production by some 114 000 tons in the 80-85 percent of sugar milling costs are fixed and 2013/14 season. approximately 90 percent of on-farm agricultural costs are fixed or directly linked to the extent of hectares being farmed. • Weather conditions, specifically the availability of water in the The business will continue to ensure that it optimises the tons Zimbabwe operations, negatively impacted on the planting of cane per hectare (tcph) that is derived from land that is of new roots and the replacement of existing roots in the under sugarcane. Loading and transport costs vary depending 2012/13 season. The planting of cane will resume as soon as on the distance to the sugar mill, and generally mills are 2013 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued supplied by sugarcane that is farmed within a 100 kilometer radius. The growth in sugarcane supplies, and subsequently sugar production, will lead to a substantial reduction in the unit cost of production. • A comprehensive process is underway to re-examine all bought-in costs and services, which currently amounts to more than R4 billion, excluding maize and cane purchases, per annum. This process will include an examination of the quantum, value add, in house or outsource and possible longer term procurement arrangements. Optimising revenue from sugarcane and progressing Tongaat Hulett’s renewable energy initiatives to meet the SADC region’s need for agricultural development, job creation and energy security. • Regulatory Frameworks that are conducive to sustainability and growth of the sugar industries in which the business operates are essential. Tongaat Hulett is continuing to promote regulatory changes that will benefit all industry stakeholders in the long-term. • The Ministerial Determination published in South Africa in December 2012 does create space for electricity from sugarcane fibre. The South African Government has indicated its intention to set up a separate program for the Sugar Industry. • Every 3,5 hectares of additional sugarcane planted typically creates one new job. This is an important consideration particularly when viewed within the context of the need for job creation and rural development. • Obtaining an attractive capital return on an electricity plant and ensuring that bagasse is given the appropriate value, will contribute to an increase in the sugarcane price, which will positively impact sugarcane supplies and therefore sugar production. • Progress is being made with the South African Government in terms of the procurement process for renewable electricity. Tongaat Hulett currently produces 52 MW at its four South African mills and this can be increased to between 320 MW 360 MW. The capital cost of converting one sugar mill, together with making it energy efficient will currently cost some R4 billion and the coming year should see the company bid for its first 80 MW power station. • In terms of the business’s strategic approach to ethanol production in South Africa, Tongaat Hulett is advocating a framework which would see 4 to 5 of the industry’s existing sugar mills attach a large scale ethanol plant to the back-end of the mill and possibly draw some sugar streams from other mills within close proximity. This would allow the industry to convert all export sugar to ethanol and would provide sufficient ethanol for approximately an E6 blend provided that Optimising revenue from sugarcane all of South Africa’s sugar mills are running at full capacity. 16 2013 Increasing the pace of land conversion while establishing, of buildings on this land, nor does it seek to develop a long maintaining and entrenching appropriate value term property portfolio. This positioning offers significant benchmarks. opportunities to entities whose profile is complementary to Tongaat Hulett’s; namely entities that do not have a • Tongaat Hulett maximises the value of its landholdings to significant stake in land in South Africa, more specifically, near all stakeholders, by optimising land use between agriculture Durban and on the KwaZulu Natal coast; have little appetite supplying its agri-processing operations and other uses or capacity to develop the methodologies and relationships through its property development activities, as competition required to evolve and acquire support for a long-term for alternative land usage increases. The transition of prime strategy for such landholdings, but who see value in having land from agriculture to property development, with the such a strategy in place prior to acquisition; who have a longestablished conversion platform and expertise, generates term investment view and seek to, over time, unlock real both capital and operating profits. capital value appreciation, access to building development • This transition to other uses in the current year resulted in and investment opportunity and recurring future cash flows 65 hectares being sold for property development, while the from property investment in this region. business’s South African sugar operations planted 11 554 new • A key driver of demand north of Durban and around the hectares to cane in the 2012/13 season. airport specifically lies in the strong alignment that has been • The business has some 8 500 developable hectares (13 500 achieved with provincial, local and national Government on gross hectares) in South Africa, that can be converted to other driving investment into the region immediately surrounding uses through sales, including bulk deals / partnerships / own the airport. This is giving rise to interest in bulk sales and developments and it is anticipated that this transition will take partnerships, infrastructure investment at scale and joint place over at least 20 years. promotion of investment into the region. • The extent of active, “shovel ready” land will be substantially Evolving the starch and glucose operation’s market mixes increased from the current base of 490 developable hectares, and new product portfolios in order to optimise earnings representing over R3 billion worth of profit potential, by the and increase capacity utilisation. addition of at least a further 831 developable hectares by • The increased global demand for convenience food products March 2014. This additional land brings into play a significantly has encouraged the development of modified waxy starch wider portfolio in terms of land uses and geographic spread. products and represents a growth opportunity for Tongaat • Tongaat Hulett is actively seeking and is increasingly finding Hulett. The business will continue to focus on the selection of interest in bulk land sales and partnerships from entities market mixes and the development of new product portfolios whose interests in land are complementary to its own. The to maximise contribution and increase capacity utilisation. company has large, concentrated and high value landholdings Production, from installed milling capacity, can be increased around Durban and on the KwaZulu Natal coastline. Large by a further 20 percent, creating opportunities for growth scale, long-term strategies for these landholdings are into Africa. increasingly supported and approved by key governmental and other stakeholders and there is a fundamental strategy • The past year has seen the starch operation continue to to realise cash value from this land portfolio on an accelerated capitalise on the improved competitiveness of South African basis. The business does not undertake the development maize, the key raw material for the operation. Partnering with Governments and other key stakeholders to develop small-scale private farmers, thereby contributing to rural development and job creation around the business’s areas of operation. • Tongaat Hulett is continuing in its efforts to grow the number of indigenous sugarcane farmers. In Mozambique, some 1 947 indigenous private farmers on 3 900 private and leased hectares supplied sugarcane to Tongaat Hulett operations. The SusCo project in Zimbabwe is ongoing and currently, at least 670 of the 872 farmers that have been allocated land in terms of the project supplied some 850 000 tons of sugarcane to the mills in the 2012/13 season. • The company is continuing with its efforts to increase the support that it provides to small-scale sugarcane private Ingonyama Trust Board signing ceremony farmers in South Africa. The business’s partnership through Operation Vuselela is an example of the model underway in 2013 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued order to contribute to skills transfer and the development of indications from high level agronomic assessments indicate previously unemployed rural community members. that the land currently available under the control of the ITB far exceeds the land required by Tongaat Hulett to fill its mills, Maintaining and developing strong relationships with all both in terms of its availability and suitability for cane farming. of Tongaat Hulett’s stakeholders. • The commercial private farmers in South Africa currently • Tongaat Hulett has a shareholder base that includes many account for 70 percent of the cane that is milled in these Southern African and international long-term investors. The operations. A detailed review undertaken in conjunction business has, over many years, established strong relationships with commercial farmers confirmed that transport logistics with its shareholders and continues to participate in both was a major input cost. Tongaat Hulett and its commercial local and international roadshows in order to ensure that farmers have identified that significant savings could be both current and potential shareholders are kept informed of achieved, if transport logistics was streamlined. This process, developments within the company. together with a range of initiatives, including the seed cane •  Assisting with the development of small-scale private subsidy, replant assistance scheme and ripening scheme are farmers in rural communities is an important component indicative of the activities that Tongaat Hulett is undertaking of increasing sugarcane supplies to Tongaat Hulett’s South as it seeks to contribute to the sustainability of this important African mills. The signing of a co-operation agreement stakeholder. between Tongaat Hulett and the Ingonyama Trust Board • The business values the constructive relationships that it (ITB) has formalised a framework within which the respective has developed with a range of trade unions that represents parties can collaborate on the enhancement of the economic a significant component of its employees in the various and social wellbeing of rural people residing on ITB land. countries of operation. The recent minimum wage increase Based on its sugar production in the current year, the South in South Africa for agricultural employees, and the 18 percent African operations would require at least an additional increase in wages during the 2012/13 years for Zimbabwean 46 000 hectares producing cane at reasonable yields, in order agricultural employees is contributing to a reduction in the to utilise its existing 1 million tons of milling capacity. Early wage gap. The company has concluded its wage negotiations Umhlanga Ridge Town Centre and Ridgeside Developments 18 2013 for the 2013/14 year with increases of 9,04 percent, 8,5 percent and 6,6 percent being concluded in Mozambique, South Africa (sugar milling operations) and Zimbabwe respectively. • As part of the company’s Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment deal in 2007, the Ayavuna and Sangena consortiums, rural communities via the Masithuthukisane and Mphakhathi trusts and company employees via the ESOP and MSOP trusts, became shareholders of Tongaat Hulett. The ESOP and MSOP trusts vested in August 2012, while vesting of the remaining trusts is scheduled for August 2014. Developing innovative models to create successful and sustainable neighbourhoods for communities in the lower socio-economic spectrum. • Tongaat Hulett acknowledges the urgency to create visible progress in the sustainable delivery of successful neighbourhoods for communities of lower socio-economic standing in South Africa. Presently, this is a stated priority of all spheres of government and the focus of numerous disparate initiatives throughout government and by many other role players; NGO’s, businesses and civil society. The issues are complex and with many interrelationships requiring effective coordination between many stakeholders, interests and considerations. Frequently the issue is reduced to a need for housing however it is much broader than this, including housing as a source of shelter and wealth, access to education, transportation and linkage to economic opportunity, healthcare, security and other social services and effective community organisation. • Tongaat Hulett has committed to making a significant impact in this area through its land conversion operations. The approach is firstly to build on relationships with a broad cross section of the role players in the key sectors that can have a significant impact on the issue all spheres of government, the financial services industry, major employers, developers, the construction sector, property managers and key NGO’s. In parallel with this, a portfolio of opportunities is being identified in the available landholdings. • Acknowledging the complexity and the present lack of a working model for this delivery, the planned approach is one of implementing proof of concept pilot initiatives at appropriate scale to create symbolic and meaningful successes, while moving progressively towards improved models of integrated best practice for delivery. • Early pilot phases are underway or being initiated in Cornubia, while other short term opportunities are being moved towards concept adoption around King Shaka International Airport and the greater Tongaat area. The aspiration is to move towards a portfolio of 1 000 hectares of development On-going management focus that could ultimately yield as much as 100 000 well located on manufacturing efficiency at the Starch operations and serviced homes. 2013 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued Developing and building Tongaat Hulett’s human capital, capita consumption of sugar in South Africa has grown by while meeting the business’s internal transformation 14 percent since the 2007/08 season. Tongaat Hulett with targets. its leading Huletts brand is well positioned to continue ® benefiting from any further growth in domestic consumption. • Building capacity and capability includes the continuous assessment of the capability profiles of teams and individuals • The company is poised to benefit from future growth in against the required competencies, and appropriate action is consumption in Botswana and Namibia with its leading Blue taken to address the gaps that are identified. Interventions Crystal and Marathon brands. ® ® that have been implemented include the clarification of roles and responsibilities, making key appointments, leadership • The Huletts Sunsweet brand is the leading sugar brand in ® development, talent management, job rotation and Zimbabwe, and is well positioned to benefit when domestic encouraging employees to embark on self-directed structured consumption levels return to rates seen prior to hyperinflation development programmes. in the country. • The company is seeing the benefit of its diverse employee Entrenching an “Organisational Safety Culture” with a base, with a number of Zimbabwean employees currently zero harm approach. making a significant contribution to key areas across the • The company is involved in an ongoing process, termed business. as a “zero harm approach”, to develop its workforce to the • Tongaat Hulett was noted as one of eight companies that were level where employees are no longer solely dependent commended by the Department of Labour for surpassing its on management support and systems, but rather where numerical targets and goals, thereby showing good progress individuals look after each other to prevent injuries across the towards achieving its approved Employment Equity Plan. company. Maximising the benefit of owning the leading sugar brands • In addition to the activities currently underway within the and strong distribution networks in the SADC region. business, Tongaat Hulett is focusing more attention on unsafe behaviour in the communities around its operations, with a • The South African sugar market is the largest in the view to training and equipping these stakeholders and thereby Southern African Customs Union (SACU) and the per improving safety levels. • Tongaat Hulett achieved a Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIFR) of 0,094 per 200 000 hours worked in 2012/13. This was the company’s best safety performance since the formal introduction of SHE management systems. • The ongoing progress in the area of safety was further demonstrated by the Xinavane Agricultural and Mafambisse operations which achieved 27 678 600 and 16 761 567 Lost Time Injury (LTI) free hours respectively by 31 March 2013. • Regrettably three employees lost their lives in three separate work related accidents. Afonso Chipumbo, a mill workshop employee and Reinnicio Santos, who was employed as a security guard were killed in two separate incidents at the Xinavane operation. A third employee, Tamukaneyi Shumba, who was employed as a loading zone clerk at Hippo Valley Estates in Zimbabwe, succumbed to injuries sustained in a vehicle accident. Continuing to make good progress in the areas of health and environmental management. • The year to 31 March 2013 saw the company exceed its internal target of employees knowing their HIV status, with 83 percent of its headcount now knowing their status. • Tongaat Hulett activities pertaining to water stewardship, were noted in a number of instances in the CDP Water Zero harm approach to safety Disclosure South Africa Report, which was released in April 2013. 20 2013 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEW • R  evenue grew by 19 percent to R14,373 billion (2012: R12,081 billion) with improved sugar volumes and increased land conversion sales. • P  rofit from operations increased by 11,7 percent to R2,145 billion (2012: R1,921 billion), reflecting an increase for the eighth time in the past nine years. • C  ash flow from operations, before tax, grew by 56 percent to R2,126 billion (2012: R1,363 billion) which is in line with operating profit. • H  eadline earnings increased by 18,7 percent to R1,058 billion (2012: R891 million), exceeding the R1 billion level for the first time. • A  nnual dividends per share totalled 340 cents per Headline earnings exceeded R1 billion for the first time share (2012: 290 cents per share), an increase of 17,2 percent. of maize at a level relative to the international price continues to be pursued. Utilising a combination of the three methods has resulted in the maize price, on approximately 72 percent of the Profit from the starch operations increased to R388 2013/14 financial period’s maize requirements, being hedged at million for the year (2012: R363 million). Starch and glucose levels close to the international price of maize at March 2013. processing margins were favourably influenced by higher coThese maize prices combined with a weaker currency environment product realisations and local maize costs that were close to are expected to result in an improvement in margins during the international prices, over the course of the full year. Domestic first half of the 2013/14 year compared to the comparative prior market volumes reflected depressed consumer demand and period. were similar to the prior year. Manufacturing plant performance Commercialisation of modified food starch production for the has continued to improve. domestic and export market is expected during the first half The final maize crop for the 2011/12 season amounted to of the 2013/14 year allowing the starch operation to capture a 12,1 million tons (2010/11: 10,4 million tons). The larger crop was share of these value added products. Following the growth in attributable to increased plantings following higher international the coffee creamer sector plans to increase the supply of the maize prices and global supply concerns. New season (2012/13) existing enzyme and acid syrup capacity to support the coffee plantings increased to 2,78 million hectares (2011/12: 2,70 million creamer sector are well advanced. This project is expected to be hectares) as high international prices continued to encourage commissioned during the 2015 financial period. local market plantings. The expected crop for the current season of 11,6 million tons represents the sixth consecutive year in On-going management focus in all areas of manufacturing which local supplies are expected to exceed local demand. In efficiency yielded positive results and resulted in cost reductions, international markets, the key US market is expected to see an particularly in the area of feed and protein recoveries. The good increase in production for the current season despite planting progress made in the area of steam generation in the prior delays due to wet weather. This has resulted in a reduction in year experienced a setback during the current year following international prices to US$210-US$220 per ton (2012: US$280the commissioning of new coal fired boilers in Bellville and US$300 per ton). These local and international market conditions coal supply quality issues. Work on the benchmarking exercise combined with a weaker currency are expected to continue to that commenced during the prior year to highlight further support South African maize production ensuring that local prices opportunities is continuing. remain close to international prices. The two Zimbabwean sugar operations generated Physical maize requirements of non-genetically modified maize for operating profit of R630 million (US$74 million) compared Tongaat Hulett continue to be secured through a combination of to R621 million (US$84 million) last year. Sugar production contracting directly with farmers and contracting for delivery with increased by 28 percent to 475 000 tons (2012: 372 000 selected grain traders. Physical stock of maize for the remainder tons) as cane deliveries from private and third party of the season to June 2013 is in place and the requirements for farmers grew substantially. A cost increase of some 10 the period July 2013 to May 2014 have been contracted. Maize percent was experienced in the milling operations and in the pricing is delinked from the physical supply utilising either a toll own estate agricultural activities. In addition, the quantum of manufacturing arrangement or a back-to-back pricing approach. increase in cane values reported in 2011/12 was not repeated The use of a third pricing mechanism which secures the local price in 2012/13. Planting activities were curtailed in the latter part of 2013 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued the season due to dry weather conditions culminating in fewer hectares under cane at the end of the year. The weaker Euro/US$ exchange rate impacted negatively on export proceeds while the weaker average Rand/US$ impacted positively on the conversion of US$ profits into Rands. Tongaat Hulett embarked on a comprehensive private farmer rehabilitation programme named Successful Rural Sugar Cane Farming Community Project (SusCo), a number of years ago, with the goal of rehabilitating private farmers, with the support and expertise of Tongaat Hulett, to increase their supply of sugarcane. The SusCo project will re-establish the private farmer sugarcane production area from just over 11 200 hectares at present, to 15 880 hectares, with the direct beneficiaries including hundreds of private sugarcane farmers from the Hippo Valley, Triangle and Mkwasine Mill Group areas. The SusCo project will be followed by a number of private farmer development projects as the business progresses its objective of meaningful stakeholder value creation, while demonstrating the value that can be derived from partnering with governments, private funding institutions like BancABC and rural communities. Project Kilimanjaro (Phase 1) is the first private farmer development project and will entail the development of some 3 300 hectares of new sugarcane land in the Southern Lowveld region. The project will result in 165 new farmers employing some 1 600 employees. Based on the current cane price, this project will result in revenue of some US$18,5 million flowing into these private farmers and the surrounding rural communities. At the current low dam levels, irrigation has been reduced and cane expansion and root replanting for both private farmers and Tongaat Hulett’s estates have been curtailed, to be resumed once dam levels recover. The business remains optimistic that the water mitigation measures put in place and the likely completion of the Tokwe-Mukorsi dam in the latter part of 2013 will enable the Zimbabwe sugar operations to sustain current levels of production, with an early season estimate that 460 000 tons sugar will be produced in 2013/14. Operating profit in Mozambique was R421 million compared to R402 million in 2012. Sugar production in Mozambique consolidated in the year under review, following the record 42 percent increase in the prior year, and amounted to 235 000 tons (2012: 233 000 tons). Rainfall conditions in the irrigation catchment area at Mafambisse led to a reduction in that harvest. The relative strength of the Metical impacted negatively on Euro export realisations while it had a favourable effect on converting Metical earnings into Rands. The Mozambique operations had identified the need to make significant improvements in the agricultural performance of its operations and consequently it implemented “Agriculture Improvement Plans” at both Xinavane and Mafambisse. At Mafambisse these initiatives included inter alia, improving the bulk water supply from irrigation, converting the fields from Sweating the sugar mills to optimise capacity utilisation 2 mm per day to 8 mm per day, improving field drainage and 22 2013 gapping up poorly germinated areas. The Xinavane initiatives The operation’s sugarcane planting interventions were primarily included improvements in irrigation control and water application, driven through planting initiatives on communal land that addressing concerns around weed control and improvements to involved seed cane subsidies, Project Vuselela (revival in Zulu) as drainage on the estate fields. While some of these initiatives are well as leases and farm management contracts on commercial still ongoing, a number of them have been completed and the farms. The company has identified additional expansions of the operations are now beginning to see improvements in yields. area under cane, with at least 10 500 hectares being planned for the 2013/14 planting period. Following the progress made with the agriculture improvement plans, the operations will for the foreseeable future focus their The achievement of the actions to increase cane planting attention on reducing costs. Initiatives to be implemented include requires effective stakeholder engagement and focus. The enhancements in the procurement and the stocking of major primary stakeholders are the existing and potential small-scale supplies like herbicides, fertilizers and spares. Attention is also and commercial private farmers, rural communities, traditional being directed to reducing fuel usage through the implementation authorities, development finance institutions and local and of controlled refuelling. With between 80-85 percent of sugar national Government. Tongaat Hulett, with an appropriately milling costs being fixed, there will be a reduction in unit costs resourced team, is seeking to position itself through these with the early season estimate that 245 000 tons sugar will be initiatives as the partner of choice with these key stakeholders. produced in 2013/14 compared to the 235 000 tons produced in Additionally the signed co-operation agreement with the the previous year. Ingonyama Trust Board (ITB) which is the custodian of some 2,7 million hectares of communal land in KZN augurs well for the Of the 5 752 privately farmed and leased hectares, 3 900 business’s ability to execute its cane expansion activities. hectares are farmed by 1 947 small and medium scale farmers. To date, 151 hectares of food crops have been developed as Focus remains on developing and implementing models that part of the cane expansion initiatives in Xinavane. As part of its ensure sustainability of the cane growth plans, particularly with respect to cane development in the communal areas. plans to increase cane supply at Xinavane, the estate intends to This requires direct Tongaat Hulett involvement in obtaining develop an additional 1 945 hectares of sugarcane. This will all be financing, transport, procurement of inputs and harvesting of developed for small and medium scale private farmers as a way of cane from communal areas, together with corporate social and economically empowering the local communities. economic investment in these areas. Involvement on training and Operating profit from the South African sugar operations skills transfer lend further support to Government’s objective of including the downstream sugar value added activities rural development and job creation. amounted to R308 million (2012: R354 million). The Tongaat Hulett is continuing in its efforts to ensure the agriculture, sugar milling and refining operations recorded sustainability of its small-scale and commercial private farmers, operating profit of R52 million (2012: R93 million) and through its support of the Sugar Industry’s request to increase the various downstream sugar value added activities duty on imported sugar to the equivalent of 35 USc/lb. contributed R256 million (2012: R261 million). The season concluded with sugar production of 486 000 tons which was In Swaziland, the Tambankulu sugar estate’s operating unchanged from the prior year. Local market sales were 3% below profit increased to R76 million (2012: R51 million). last year and consequently lower value export sales increased Higher sucrose prices arose from a recovery in European Union accordingly. With increased cost pressures, margins were under realisations received by the Swaziland sugar industry. A raw sugar pressure. Production was impacted by the national transport production equivalent of 58 000 tons was achieved for the year strike in South Africa followed by unusually heavy rains in the (2012: 59 000 tons). The early season estimate is that production last three months of the crushing season. There has been an (raw sugar equivalent) for the 2013/14 year will be 58 000 tons. increased level of carry-over cane from the current season into Operating profit from land conversion and development the next season. grew to R350 million (2012: R215 million) with a further Since the 2009/10 season the South African operations have R16 million in capital profits (2012: R3 million) being planted 29 937 hectares of new cane as the business sought to realised. In the past year, 65 developable hectares were improve cane age and crop positioning for optimal harvesting, sold. Revenue was generated from sales in the Cornubia Industrial, generate better yields and increase the crop’s ability to withstand Umhlanga Ridge Town Centre, Ridgeside, La Lucia Ridge Office variable weather conditions. This progress was partially offset by Estate, Izinga, Kindlewood, Mount Moriah and Zimbali areas. the losses of cane to competitor mills, and using the 2007/08 Fundamental drivers of land demand over the medium to longer season as a base, the cumulative impact of new cane planting term, including affordable housing backlogs, rising industrial land versus cane losses will result in new plantings exceeding cane demand, major infrastructural initiatives such as the Durban Port losses for the first time in the 2013/14 season. The ongoing and the King Shaka International airport and Dube TradePort, focus on increasing sugarcane supplies to the mills will see sugar expanding tourism markets and the growing economy, continue production grow by 24 percent, with an early season estimate to reinforce the transition from agricultural land to property that sugar production will reach 605 000 tons in 2013/14 year. development. 2013 23 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued Tongaat Hulett has over an extended period of time developed the OUTLOOK AND CONCLUSION necessary skill and expertise required to enhance the value of land Focus Areas as it transitions from agricultural land to property development. Preparing agricultural land to becoming an active development In the year ahead, Tongaat Hulett expects to make substantial requires a number of overlapping processes involving local, progress in the multiple focus areas that will further enhance its provincial and national government departments. These include strategic position. strategic spatial planning by the local authorities, framework Tongaat Hulett is in the fortunate position, in a world of sugar planning, environmental impact assessments, rezoning, release consumption growth of 2 percent per annum, new sugar milling from agriculture and from mining, water licensing by the capacity being costly, with good electricity and ethanol prospects, department of water affairs, confirmation of all necessary bulk to still have more than 850 000 tons per annum of unutilised infrastructure and sub-divisional approvals. sugar milling capacity, after the growth of sugar production of 14 The centrally accounted and consolidation items percent and 9 percent in the past two years respectively. A major component of the income statement includes a gain focus remains on how to rapidly increase cane supplies to utilise of R68 million in respect of a pension fund employer surplus the available milling capacity. account allocation in the conversion from a defined benefit to a The on-going strategy to increase cane supply in South Africa is defined contribution arrangement in South Africa. focused on commercial farmers, small-scale farmers and increasing Finance costs increased to R560 million from R507 million Tongaat Hulett’s influence in cane development through leasing in the 2011/12 year and are commensurate with the level of additional land and collaborating with Government to rehabilitate borrowings. cane supply on land reform farms that have gone out of cane. Of significance, is the co-operation agreement recently concluded Cash flow from operations, before tax, increased to with the Ingonyama Trust, which controls some 2,7 million R2,1 billion (2012: R1,4 billion) which is in line with the hectares of land in KwaZulu-Natal. growth in operating profit. The increase in operating cash flow follows the absorption of cash totalling more than R6 billion Tongaat Hulett’s two operations in Zimbabwe will continue to in the numerous expansion and new sugar cane establishment develop their positive socio-economic impact on the country. programs over the past 6 years. Tongaat Hulett’s net debt at These operations employ 18 000 people and are in an important the end of March 2013 was R4,6 billion. The replacement recovery, growth and expansion phase, which should create of significant portions of short term debt with appropriately sustainable value for all stakeholders. A central part of this structured long term debt has been successfully concluded. recovery is the substantial development of indigenous private cane farmers. As at the end of the 2012/13 season, at least 670 Total net profit before the deduction of minority interests active indigenous private farmers, farming some 11 200 hectares was R1,170 billion (2012: R1,021 billion). Headline earnings and employing more than 5 600 people, supply 850 000 tons of attributable to Tongaat Hulett shareholders amounted to cane which generates US$56 million in annual revenue for them. R1,058 billion compared to R891 million in 2012. Zimbabwe, with Tongaat Hulett as a partner, has the potential to further develop indigenous private cane farmers substantially. A final dividend of 190 cents per share has been declared, This potential is linked to how much annual production can be bringing the annual dividend to 340 cents per share achieved from the existing sugar mills. Based on Tongaat Hulett’s (2012: 290 cents per share), a 17,2 percent increase. view of its existing mills, a further 600 farmers on 12 700 hectares could supply an additional 1,4 million tons of cane per annum. In total, all these indigenous private cane farmer developments could earn more than US$140 million gross revenue per annum and employ more than 12 000 people. A fundamental review has been launched to re-examine all bought-in goods and services, which currently total more than R4 billion per annum for Tongaat Hulett excluding cane and maize purchases. The review is, inter alia, examining the quantum, “value add”, “in house or outsource” and possible longer term procurement arrangements. Generally 90 percent of overhead costs are fixed, between 80-85 percent of sugar milling costs are fixed and approximately 90 percent of on-farm agricultural costs are fixed or directly linked to the extent of hectares being farmed. Higher volumes and yield improvements will contribute to the reduction in the unit costs of sugar production. Blackburn Estate, KZN The drive to optimise revenue earned from sugarcane is one of the most important strategic positioning issues. The coming year 24 2013 should see the compilation of a bid for the first 80MW power modest growth with depressed local market demand being offset station following the Ministerial Determination for 800MW by a growth in export volumes, with continued improvements in issued in December 2012. Planning for the project, including manufacturing performance. the environmental impact assessments and plant construction A number of new land developments are likely to become contracting processes, is well advanced. The diversion of world active and “shovel ready” before the year end. These new market export sugar to a regional ethanol regime remains a key developments, together with existing active developments, are focus area with serious interest from the oil industry to use bio attracting increasing market interest. Various sales strategies ethanol as part of their options for Clean Fuels 2. (bulk sale, partnership or own development) continue to be In South Africa, Tongaat Hulett is building on its good progress reviewed for each land holding and implemented as appropriate. to date to accelerate land conversion. It has targeted some 8 500 The number of hectares converted to development in a specific developable hectares (13 500 gross hectares) for development. time period remains variable. The next period looks promising for There are on-going processes on most of the targeted land to own development sales. There are good prospects for substantial enhance its usage and value to all stakeholders. The extent and bulk sales, with an increase in both land available and interest by pace of planning, in collaboration with Government, has increased prospective purchasers. Significant bulk and semi-bulk land sale substantially. At present, some 1 900 developable hectares are the offers received in the last two years have been turned down on subject of well advanced environmental and planning processes. the grounds that they did not represent optimal value. Financial Results The Year Ahead ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Tongaat Hulett’s financial results remain sensitive to movements in exchange rates, which impact particularly on export realisations Tongaat Hulett’s 27 sites in Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, and the conversion of profits from Zimbabwe and Mozambique South Africa, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe have benefitted from the into Rands. energy, effort, loyalty and commitment that its more than 40 000 employees contribute on a daily basis. I take this opportunity to The results will benefit from the projected growth in sugar acknowledge and commend you for all that you continue to do for production. The early season forecast is for total sugar production the company as we progress delivery on our business objectives. to grow by some 114 000 tons, with the increase coming from Being an agricultural and agri-processing business means that South Africa in this year. With the low dam levels in Zimbabwe, Tongaat Hulett has a significant footprint in the rural communities irrigation levels have been reduced and cane expansion and root that surround its operations. The business is committed to working replanting for both private growers and own estates have been together with small-scale and commercial private farmers, rural curtailed, to be resumed once the dam levels recover. communities and Governments to grow its contribution to rural The increased current focus and progress to date on reducing development, job creation and skills transfer and, in so doing input costs should, to some extent, counter cost pressures. Wage creating sustainable value for Tongaat Hulett stakeholders. increase agreements have been concluded at reasonable levels in During the year, Menanteau Serfontein, the executive responsible Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe. for Human Resources, retired from the company after almost 30 Current dynamics point towards pressure on sugar prices in years of dedicated service. Tongaat Hulett values the commitment general. World prices are currently at their lowest point in 3 years. and contribution that he made to the organisation during his Sugar prices that will be achieved by Least Developed / African career. Caribbean Pacific Countries (LDC/ACPs) into the European The business values the support that it has received from its Union for the coming year are uncertain. The market is currently existing long-term shareholders and endeavours to regularly over-supplied. The white sugar price is well above the world update the investment community as it progresses delivery on its price. Sugar is being released into the market from out of quota strategic objectives. EU beet sugar at reduced levies and from world market sugar at reduced duties. For the first time since the introduction of the Tongaat Hulett has in its Chairman a leader whose calmness, current duty and quota free regime in 2009 for LDC/ACPs, the strategic acumen and insight on, particularly, socio-economicbenefits of selling into the EU are being eroded. In the regional political matters, continues to highlight the contribution that he markets, a period of pressure on selling prices and pressure from is making to the organisation. The ongoing support and guidance imports could prevail if the world price remains low and pricing that we have received from the Board is highly valued. into Europe remains under pressure. The starch operations remain well positioned. The current South African maize crop outlook of 11,4 million tons should result in another surplus production year and combined with a weakening in the currency will ensure that maize continues to be priced Amanzimnyama at levels close to international prices supporting margins in the PETER STAUDE Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal business. Starch and glucose volumes are expected to show CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 23 May 2013 2013 25 sUSTAINABILITY Entrance to Kliprivier Mill ACHIEVEMENTS PRIORITIES • The South African Department of Labour commended • Facilitating the development of successful indigenous Tongaat Hulett for surpassing its numerical goals in terms of sugarcane farmers and contributing to job creation and rural race and gender per its Employment Equity Plan development in the regions which the company operates • The Product Water Footprint for 1kg of refined sugar in South • Working with indigenous private farmers to develop farming African operations is lower than the global average models that enable efficient sugarcane growing and meet the food security imperative • Hippo Valley Estate’s HIV/AIDS management program has been acknowledged as a globally commended program by the • Energy efficiency and reduction of GHG emissions Global Business Coalition • Achieved a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of 0,094 • Efficient water resources management per 200 000 hours worked • Focus on safety improvement • Xinavane Agriculture operations, with an average of 6 590 employees, completed 27 678 600 lost time injury (LTI) free hours • Mafambisse achieved 16 761 567 LTI free hours, surpassing the previous record of 10 million LTI free hours 26 2013 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS • Effectively managing the opportunities and risks created by Tongaat Hulett has a significant presence in agriculture and climate change and responsible carbon management. agri-processing sectors in the Southern African Development • Ensuring that management is able to address sustainability in Community (SADC). The business works with communities, all areas of the business. Governments and other partners to meet some of SADC’s pressing challenges: including job creation, food security, • Managing water resources and increasing resource efficiency rural development and the provision of renewable energy. in a responsible manner. The company places value on being regarded as a responsible • Playing an active role in the renewable energy sector in the corporate citizen and therefore continues to strive towards region. creating value for its stakeholders in a responsible manner, that considers relevant legislation and key sustainability themes • Ensuring that its products meet required food safety of safety, health and environment. Tongaat Hulett is of the standards. view that good communication and open dialogue are vital components of understanding and meeting the expectations of • Creating sustainable cities, towns and rural settlements. the investment community, small-scale and commercial private • Creating operational efficiencies, cost management and farmers, local communities, governments, its employees and all effective strategic procurement. other stakeholders. The business is committed to creating value for its stakeholders in an ethical manner, that takes cognisance The attainment of these parameters is underpinned by the of ongoing developments in its environment and therefore the company’s employees who play a significant role in implementing organisation aims to report on its activities in a transparent way. various strategies over the medium term. In order to ensure that Tongaat Hulett delivers on its strategic objectives, the company The company joined the United Nations (UN) Global will continue to create an enabling environment that allows high Compact in 2012. This initiative was started in 1999 by the UN to promote good corporate citizenship and companies performing employees to excel, while offering equal opportunities can, on a voluntary basis, comply and report on the principles for growth and development. The company is on an evolving published on the website of the UN Global Compact journey to play a significant role in transforming the region and www.unglobalcompact.org. The Compact comprises ten major meeting future growth opportunities in a sustainable manner. principles from the areas of human rights, labor standards, Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities environmental protection and measures to combat corruption. Tongaat Hulett is committed to implementing the principles The current operating environment has many challenging embodied in the Global Compact into its operations. As such, and changing elements, especially in the context of the global part of the communication on progress is included in some of the economy, peculiar localised dynamics and evolving environmental elements in this integrated annual report. and social factors. Maximising the emerging opportunities from these risks is possible once the appropriate risk mitigation The company is in its fourth year of focusing on the following key strategies and processes have been developed and implemented. strategic sustainability related parameters: Further information regarding the business’s approach to risk • Contributing to the development of successful rural management has been included in the governance section of this communities, including indigenous farmers of sugarcane integrated annual report. and other staple food crops, within the areas that surround Reporting Boundaries business operations. Following the previous integrated annual report, published for • Training and support for private farmers on better farming the period 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012, this report covers all of practices and resourceful land use to ensure food security. This Tongaat Hulett’s operations in Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, includes training youth from rural sugarcane communities on South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe for the 12 months ended relevant agronomy techniques. 31 March 2013. Tongaat Hulett’s geographical presence is contained on page 11 of this integrated annual report. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and meets the requirements of their B+ reporting level and has been independently assured by Integrated Reporting & Assurance Services (IRAS). Tongaat Hulett is committed to the principles of sustainability which encompass the organisation doing business in a responsible manner that acknowledges accountability to its stakeholders. This report considers the key themes of Environmental Stewardship, Social Stewardship and Economic Sustainability. External recognition There have been no re-statements of any data previously reported by Tongaat Hulett. 2013 27 sUSTAINABILITY continued Where We Operate Organisational Profile Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, The company is an agricultural and agri-processing business, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe which includes integrated components of land management and property development. With its established and growing Leading Brands operations, it has considerable expertise in downstream Some of Tongaat Hulett’s most popular agricultural products, biofuel production and electricity brands are Amyral maize starch, generation. Voermol, Hyclear glucose syrup, Zimbali, As at, 31 March 2013, Tongaat Hulett had 39 246 employees, Izinga, Huletts, Blue Crystal, Marathon, working in 27 locations in 6 SADC countries, Botswana, Equisweet, SUGAlite and Sugar Joule. Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe. The water-food-energy nexus is an evolving dynamic that presents both opportunities and risks. The business is well positioned to deliver integrated solutions that will transform the way that sugarcane and maize is grown in the region, and extend its contribution beyond increased yields. The company evolved from a diversified business, previously known as The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited, to a focused business with the final step being the listing of Hulamin and the renaming to Tongaat Hulett Limited. The business was originally formed when the Tongaat Group Limited merged with the Huletts Corporation Limited. The Tongaat Group Limited evolved from a partnership between Edward Saunders and W J Mirrlees, which dates back to 1875, while the Huletts Corporation has its beginnings in the 1850’s. Tongaat Hulett has a primary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, which dates back to 1952, and a secondary listing on the London Stock Exchange, which dates back to 1939. Value Chain Raw materials and Production Employees Natural ingredients such as sugarcane and maize are Tongaat Hulett grown or sourced to produce products. employs more than 40 000 people at its operations in SADC Small-scale and Commercial Packaging and Private Farmers Distribution Suppliers of sugarcane and maize. The products are then Reduce, Reuse, Recycle packaged and shipped The company recycles the through various distribution majority of its waste and many channels to customers waste by-products are used as raw material in animal feed and fertilizer production Consumers Customers purchase brands from a variety of retail outlets 28 2013 Sustainability Indicators INDICATOR 2010/11 (12 months) 2011/12 (12 months) 2012/13 (12 months) Performance Revenue R9,681 bn R12,081 bn R14,373 bn Annual Dividend per share (cents) 250 290 340 Number of employees at year end 39 314 41 777 39 246 Fatalities 4 2 3 LTIs 50 61 56 Water used in manufacturing 10 258 167 m3 8 400 685 m3 Carbon footprint (total tons of CO2-e) 1 120 634 1 027 569 1 246 234 The business’s key focus areas of sustainability include stakeholder • Tongaat Hulett has been identified as one of the leading value creation, safety, health, environment, developing successful companies in surpassing targets for its Employment Equity indigenous farmers, broad-based black economic empowerment, Plans by the Department of Labour. human resources and skills development, talent management, employment equity, socio-economic development, stakeholder ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP engagement and corporate governance. Business Approach The company is committed to ensuring the safety of its Tongaat Hulett is dependent on constrained natural resources. employees. In spite of this commitment, there were unfortunately It is therefore in its best interest to protect the environment for three fatalities for the year ended 31 March 2013. Tongaat Hulett future generations. The business is improving its environmental continues to roll out its safety plans, which focus on high risk areas, efficiency and is involving its stakeholders in activities to optimise including the identification of high risk activities and additional environmental performance along the value chain. The company’s interventions in order to minimise a recurrence of these types of environmental approach is premised on the concept of building incidents. value for all stakeholders while working in harmony with nature. Tongaat Hulett‘s corporate office is located in Amanzimnyama, It works towards achieving integration between the environment Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal. During the reporting period there and its agri-processing and property development operations. were no significant changes in the size, structure or ownership Research is regularly undertaken to measure and monitor the of the company and the business grew the extent of land under impact of operations on the environment and implement systems sugarcane supplying its mills and the number of people that it to ensure that resources are used in a sustainable manner. employs. There was a reduction of some one thousand four Effectively dealing with the impacts that climate change and hundred seasonal and contract employees during the current water security could have directly on Tongaat Hulett and period. In addition, changes in operational requirements resulted indirectly, through its value chain, remains a key challenge. When in the retrenchment of 43 employees. viewed within the context of a growing and increasingly affluent global population that is consuming more natural resources SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE and producing more waste, there is increasing pressure on the BENCHMARKING environment. Key potential impacts include ecosystem disruption, food scarcity and rising energy costs, which further highlights the External Recognition need for the business to constructively engage with the relevant • Tambankulu Estate, Swaziland and Voermol Feeds retained stakeholders to identify solutions to mitigate these risks. NOSCAR status rating in the NOSA based integrated occupational Health, Safety and Environment management Policies and practices are in place to ensure that operations are systems. managed within the relevant statutory and legal parameters as a minimum and Tongaat Hulett’s self-defined best practice • Tongaat Hulett Mozambique’s agriculture operation was requirements. The business continues to evaluate its carbon and recommended for ISO14001 certification by a third party water footprint and is identifying new approaches to understand certifying body. and deal with potential opportunities and consequences of both • The Investment Analysts Society of Southern Africa voted climate change and constrained water supplies in the future. Tongaat Hulett as the winner of the Best Reporting and Climate Change Communication Award in the Consumer Products category in Climate change has the potential to impact on the availability of 2012, for the fifth consecutive year. clean water and hence the long-term provision of continuous, safe, • In 2012, Tongaat Hulett was included in the JSE’s Socially high-quality raw materials. Tongaat Hulett believes society must take Responsible Investment (SRI) Index for the ninth year in a row. measures to reduce air emissions and to adapt to climate change. 2013 29 sUSTAINABILITY continued The company has identified potential risks and opportunities due footprint analysis and the analysis was conducted according to the to climate change and is taking action to mitigate and adapt to Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a widely used international accounting these risks whilst taking advantage of emerging opportunities. tool. Details of the company’s actions underway are provided in The business is committed to lowering the greenhouse gas the public response to the CDP (www.cdproject.net). Tongaat (GHG) emissions associated with the production and distribution Hulett tracks and monitors its GHG emissions and will continue of its products. Tongaat Hulett is focused on working to improve to improve the accuracy and reporting of its carbon footprint. the energy efficiency of its operations which includes switching to cleaner fuels, where necessary. The generation of renewable Direct or Scope 1 emissions are those arising directly from owned electricity from bagasse and the blending of biofuel with petrol or company controlled sources. These include, for example, and diesel will help consumers to lower their own GHG emissions. emissions from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, The business continues to work with private farmers to improve furnaces, vehicles and emissions from chemical production in their resilience to climate change. owned or controlled process equipment. During the year, business operations emitted 885 976 tons CO2 (Scope 1 emissions). Tongaat Hulett’s property development activities make use of Indirect, or Scope 2, emissions are those emissions from the both mitigation and adaptation measures towards proactively generation of purchased electricity consumed by Tongaat Hulett. responding to climate change realities. These measures include The company purchased electricity that emitted 360 258 tons appropriate and sensitive land use and spatial planning, compact of CO2. Scope 3 covers all other indirect emissions that arise city approach to density and intensity, appropriate stormwater as a consequence of the business’s activities. The total Scope 3 management, extensive rehabilitated and managed natural habitat emissions were 7 571 tons CO2 covering business travel, supply and water and energy demand management measures. chain transport and distribution by third party companies. In the Tongaat Hulett’s climate change policy recognises the importance reporting period, employees booked nearly 3 219 business trips, of proactively managing the impacts of climate change, and flying more than 6 142 746 kilometers, resulting in 1 179 tons CO2 positively commits the business to implementing both mitigation being emitted from business travel. All 2012 Scope 3 emissions and adaptation programs where appropriate. The business is were offset with a project based in Durban. The total Scope 1 committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 5 percent and Scope 2 CO2 emissions for the period under review was per annum for the next 5 years and is targeting at least a 20 1 246 234 tons equivalent (-e) and the turnover was percent reduction by 2020 from a 2011 baseline. R 14,373 billion, which equates to 86 grams of CO2 emitted per rand generated. Carbon Management Carbon tax legislation in South Africa is currently evolving. Climate change is integrated into the business’s company-wide The South African sugar operations could benefit from the risk management processes and a detailed discussion on this carbon capture and storage of CO2 in the growing of sugarcane. important topic is included in Tongaat Hulett’s latest submission to Consequently this part of the business should be well placed to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP is an independent offset a substantial part of its emissions on this basis. initiative encouraging transparency on all climate change related issues and providing details of emissions performance. As part Total South African emissions of 763 578 tons CO2-e include of the CDP process, the company conducted its fourth carbon emissions of 539 429 tons CO2-e emanating from the South Carbon Footprint 2011 2012 2013 710 379 mt 885 976 mt 409 447 mt 360 254 mt 808 mt ... 7 571 mt 413 mt 433 837 mt 593 732 mt SCOPE 1 Combustion Fuels SCOPE 2 Purchased Electricity SCOPE 3 Business Travel & Other 30 2013 African sugar operations. In factoring carbon sequestration, a For the period to 31 March 2013, Tongaat Hulett used 774 302 possible offset of 12 tons per hectare from sugarcane produced MWh of electricity in all its operations and offices. It generated on 27 659 hectares (grown from Tongaat Hulett owned and 427 376 MWh from its sugar mills, predominantly from bagasse leased land) equates to 207 521 tons CO2-e. The GHG emissions and sold 36 323 MWh. In the previous reporting period ended have been verified by a third party service provider. 31 March 2012, Tongaat Hulett used 530 249 MWh of electricity, generated 392 202 MWh and sold 29 223 MWh. Other sources Energy of fuel that are used include coal, diesel, petrol, gas and wood. Tongaat Hulett is continuously identifying and where appropriate, implementing opportunities to reduce the energy and water Air Quality footprints in each of its operations, with its factory operations Since sugar mills primarily burn bagasse as a fuel, the flue gases being prioritised. The imminent introduction of a suitable from the boilers do not contain harmful levels of contaminants. regulatory framework in South Africa will result in Tongaat Hulett Wet scrubbing technology is used to remove fly-ash from the expanding the business’s ability to generate electricity from flue gas to ensure that emissions meet the required standard. The bagasse, a renewable resource produced as a co-product with recent South African legislative changes to air quality standards sugar. As an integral part of these projects, the energy efficiency of are far more stringent and present a challenge for the sugar the sugar mill which supplies the fuel to the electricity generating industry as a whole and an appropriate action plan to ensure plant is targeted to be improved by some 30 percent. This energy compliance with new standards has been formulated. The South efficiency improvement will be critical to enable full utilisation of African sugar operations have submitted applications for their air the bagasse for electricity generation. emission licenses, particularly in the context of the new standards. Sugarcane is a highly effective convertor of sunlight into biomass, Some sugar mills and in particular the central sugar refinery in and globally is a key raw material for a rapidly growing industry the Durban South Industrial Basin burn coal as a boiler fuel and in biofuel and renewable electricity generation. Tongaat Hulett’s therefore have a greater challenge in terms of emission reduction, mills have produced renewable electricity for the supply of power as required by the recent legislative amendments. The refinery to run the mills for many years and have routinely supplied is currently in negotiation with the authorities regarding revised electricity into selected national grids, albeit on a small scale. In line emission targets in line with the development of innovative with global trends, the focus is now on upgrading the generation process technology, which will have significant energy efficiency of renewable electricity using highly efficient technology to benefits. An R18 million budget for a plant to test this technology produce substantially more electrical power from the same has been approved and the project is targeted for commissioning amount of fibre, thereby increasing the quantity of renewable in 2014. electricity available to the national grid. The central sugar refinery uses coal, while the starch operation uses coal and gas to generate At present, air quality is monitored on a daily basis at the refinery steam used in the production processes. Electricity is either due to the significance of the emissions generated (sulphur dioxide purchased or generated for use in initiating production purposes (SO2) and particulates), with all relevant stakeholders receiving and to supply power to offices and other support services. Energy access to regular performance reports, as well as an annual efficiency projects include lighting, heating, variable speed drives, emissions report. Installation of on-line monitoring equipment process efficiency improvements, ventilation and air conditioning. to further enhance emission monitoring accuracy was completed Motion sensors are installed in some administrative offices such during 2012. as the Meadowdale office, resulting in a 20 percent saving on electricity costs. Biodiversity and Land Management Tongaat Hulett controls over 20 000 gross hectares of land in Electricity Electricity Purchased (MWh) South Africa of which some 13 500 hectares have been assessed Electricity Generated (MWh) as having high potential for conversion from agriculture to other uses at the appropriate time. This conversion is carefully managed 530 249 in a coordinated and planned manner in line with broader Government objectives and spatial policies. At the same time the business continues to rehabilitate currently unproductive land to agriculture in support of government’s agricultural and rural 427 376 development goals and objectives, while also securing additional 418 210 sugarcane supply to its mills. 329 202 383 249 These conversion activities are based fundamentally around sustainable development principles and will see over 322 245 5 000 hectares of land being rehabilitated into natural habitat, with formal management models being created to ensure the long term sustainable maintenance of these assets for the 2011 2012 2013 benefit of the broader region. In terms of the socio-economic 2013 31 sUSTAINABILITY continued facilitating the most appropriate activities and uses of its land in line with the region’s needs and government’s spatial planning policies and objectives. Water Resource Management Tongaat Hulett continues to address water challenges with key partners that include private farmers, local communities and the relevant authorities. The business is a signatory of the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate and is committed to effective water resource management throughout its operations. A growing population in the SADC region, demographic shifts from rural areas to cities and the impacts of climate change are contributing to concerns related to fresh water availability. With two-thirds of all fresh water used in agriculture and demand for water set to rise by some 50% by the year 2030, water scarcity is a possible scenario for a third of the world’s population. The Water Policy which documents Tongaat Hulett’s view on Improving enviromental performance metrics key elements include: prioritising sustainable management and effective use of water resources, local water resource optimisation legs of the sustainable development philosophy, conversion of and protection. It continues to identify opportunities for water this land will also see the creation of new employment, housing, recycling, efficient use and responsible waste water disposal. social, recreational and commercial opportunities as well as Tongaat Hulett’s sugar operations are in various locations within the associated new capital investment. These development the SADC region and different water techniques are applied opportunities will be facilitated as an integral component of the across operations. As a result of the fact that the sugar cane growth of sustainable cities premised on appropriate densities, plant comprises approximately 70 percent water, sugar mills in public transportation, mixed and multi uses and integration of South Africa are net producers of water. Most of the sugarcane surrounding communities. cultivated in South Africa is dependent on natural rainfall, while operations in Mozambique, Swaziland and Zimbabwe, practice The business continues to work closely with communities, large-scale irrigation via purpose-built canal systems with water authorities and Non-Government Organisations in its land being extracted from rivers. The management of these canals and management, planning and conversion activities towards irrigation systems is in keeping with the highest agronomy and safety standards. Water Usage m3 During the reporting period, Tongaat Hulett completed the Product Water Footprint for 1kg of refined white sugar in South Africa using a global standard. This assessment was performed Water Produced Water Used in Product on behalf of the business by an external service provider and from Sugarcane Manufacturing confirmed that the water required by Tongaat Hulett to produce 10 258 167 1kg of refined white sugar is lower than the global average as stated by the Water Footprint Network. Tongaat Hulett reported its water usage in the product 8 400 685 manufacturing process for the period under review as 7 277 506 8 400 685m3, with a further 6 007 061m3 being purified at 7 050 746 various mills and supplied to local Municipalities as potable water. This metric, reported for the second time, provides a 5 628 725 single, aggregated overview of water demand across company operations. The company continued its engagement with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to identify future rainfall patterns and water scarcity due to the evolving impact of climate change. In the previous year ended 31 March 2012, Tongaat Hulett used 10 258 000m3 with a further 65 851 291m3 sold to municipalities as potable water. 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 32 2013 Fresh water is an important resource for Tongaat Hulett Effluent In line with the legal requirements in Zimbabwe, boiler ash has Subsequent to the “zero effluent” philosophy that has been been re-classified as hazardous waste, during the reporting period, adopted by several operations to minimise the quantity of liquid thereby resulting in the growth of this number when compared to effluent leaving each mill or plant, most of Tongaat Hulett’s sugar the prior period. Initiatives are continuing to improve the level of mills recycle and re-use water within the factories, while the reporting. remaining effluent undergoes biological treatment (aerobic and anaerobic) to reduce its chemical oxygen demand to acceptable PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE levels before being discharged in accordance with the relevant Tongaat Hulett is using sustainable sugarcane agriculture practice environmental requirements. The remaining mills are developing to promote and increase good practices that are environmentally environmental management programmes to adopt best practices sustainable. The practices seek to protect the natural resource and ensure legal compliance as a minimum. Water that is produced base, prevent degradation of soil and water, conserve biodiversity, as part of the sugar milling process is largely used for the irrigation ensure a safe and high-quality supply of agricultural products of sugar cane on adjacent estates and effluent produced at the and consequently safeguards the livelihood and wellbeing of central sugar refinery is disposed of into the municipal sewer for agricultural private farmers, employees and their families. treatment, and both the quantity and quality thereof is monitored to ensure compliance with the relevant specifications. To meet the needs of the growing population, agricultural production must double by 2050. This challenge is made even more Waste Management daunting by the combined effect of climate change and increasing Some company operations have re-engineered and refined services competition for land, water and energy sources. Tongaat Hulett in order to reduce waste and increase resource productivity, supports a multi-stakeholder approach to sustainable agriculture and these initiatives have yielded savings through offering new that will help to protect its supply chain, as well as create revenue streams from the sale, exchange and recycling of waste successful farming communities. It has direct relationships with products. A significant increase in recycle material volumes was numerous private farmers in three countries to whom it provides noted for this reporting period. agronomy support. This support includes providing quality seed The starch operations have contributed to the considerable cane as well as guidance on crop management, soil and water increase in recycled waste volumes. Some of the new practices protection and environmental best practice. Where appropriate, implemented included the recycling of coal ash into block making the World Wildlife Fund standards are used to facilitate training and the recycling of the fats and proteins generated from the of private farmers in order to ensure that sustainable principles glucose manufacturing process into farming material. In addition, are employed. the implementation of onsite separation of general waste into recyclable and non-recyclable waste has also contributed to the growth in this number. Period General Waste (tons) Scrap Metal (tons) Hazardous Waste (tons) Recycled Waste (tons) 2012 11 853 1 815 302 36 466 2013 11 436 4 152 3 084 53 694 2013 33 sUSTAINABILITY continued There is ongoing interaction with the South African Sugar dumping at the South Africa agricultural operations remain the Association and South African Sugarcane Research Institute, major contributor to Level 1 incidents. to ensure that sustainable farming methods are practiced at Tongaat Hulett operations. Fertile soils are important for carbon The Maidstone complaint related to an irrigation pipe burst. storage and by employing good farming practices, soil erosion The remedial actions implemented included clean-up and and greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. Through cropland remediation of area affected, together with a repair of the pipeline. management and modern soil conservation methods the Implemented action plans were communicated to relevant agriculture department is able to ensure increased yields and the authorities and stakeholders and a long term plan regarding the sustainable supply of sugarcane to its mills. future of irrigation in this area is currently under review. The second Level 2 complaint related to environmental issues raised through a media broadcast at the Xinavane operation. There were allegations regarding water pollution of the river system emanating from mill effluent discharge. Xinavane currently conducts regular water testing both upstream and downstream of the mill operations, as well as of some of the agricultural locations. The operation uses the services of an external third party laboratory, which has confirmed that the results of the water tests continue to fall within the business’s minimum standards. THIRD PARTY CERTIFICATIONS Tongaat Hulett subscribes to various management systems that are certified by third party certifying bodies with reputable Promoting sustainable agriculture accreditation in line with international standards. In this regard, annual targets have been set for third party audits and certifications associated with NOSA, OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001, ISO 9001 The company practices different conservation methods, such as and HACCP/GMP. All operations in all countries are certified minimal tillage, implementing land use plans and every field that under the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System with is planted is assessed to ensure that soil conservation structures the exception of Botswana, Namibia and Mafambisse, which are are maintained in the field. In selected areas, depending on soil at different stages of the certification programme. Xinavane’s conditions and other agronomic influences, a range of cover agriculture operation was recommended for certification to crops are used to improve soil conditions at planting, provide ISO 14001, while its mill operation was scheduled to go through assistance with the control of weeds and in certain cases improve Stage 2 of the certification audit in June 2013. Tongaat Hulett’s nitrogen availability to the subsequent sugarcane crop. This sugar and development operations were audited by NOSA on results in improved cane yields and improved soil conditions in a the integrated star rating system and are all certified. All four sustainable fashion. starch mill operations are certified as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 compliant. The Zimbabwe operations are NOSA Environmental Compliance and ISO 14001 certified, with Hippo Valley Estates having an There were no material incidents, fines or non-monetary sanctions additional OHSAS 18001 certification. The Swaziland operation is for non-compliance with applicable environmental regulations certified to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and NOSA. Some of the starch during the year under review. The established community and sugar operations have embarked on HACCP/ISO 22000 liaison forums between Tongaat Hulett and interested parties food safety assessments. Germiston and Kliprivier are continue to address environmental related complaints. Level HACCP/ISO 22 000 certified and the Maidstone Mill and the 1 environmental complaints are those that are deemed ‘minor’ Refinery are partly certified. Plans are in place to pursue the and refer to the number of times operational activities resulted ISO 14001 as well as HACCP/ISO 22 000 within the next five years. in isolated public complaints. Although a response is triggered, Level 1 complaints do not require remediation plans. Level 2 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE complaints refer to operational activities that result in widespread Business Approach public complaints or attention from media. Both a response and remediation plan is triggered in the event of a Level 2 complaint. Tongaat Hulett continues to promote a core value of providing a safe and healthy workplace combined with good environmental During the reporting period, Tongaat Hulett experienced 559 stewardship. Safety, health and environmental (SHE) matters Level 1 complaints and two Level 2 complaints. One of the Level 2 being components of an integral part of Tongaat Hulett’s business, complaints was received at the Maidstone Sugar Mill and another have specific plans with clear deliverables that are implemented one was received at the Xinavane Sugar Mill. Incidents of illegal within defined timeframes. The focus is on ensuring operational 34 2013 eleven in 2009/10 to four in 2010/11 and two in 2011/12, fatality risk controls in place are deemed to be appropriate. An analysis of fatalities recorded at Tongaat Hulett operations during the past five years revealed that 79 percent of them were related to vehicle operations, 13 percent to safety fundamentals, 4 percent to working at heights and another 4 percent to material handling activities. All of these causal factor categories form part of Tongaat Hulett’s six main fatality risk control standards, commonly known as Huley Rules. Additional interventions that include peer review exercises are being applied to complement the effectiveness of these controls and thereby eliminate fatalities. More focus Safety in action is being directed at managing the highest risks associated sustainability against risks of occupational SHE liability. Guided by with vehicular operation, where specific interventions include the fundamental principle of ‘zero harm’, Tongaat Hulett’s efforts enhancing Tongaat Hulett customised defensive driver training, in managing SHE issues are a consolidation of the participation increasing vehicle performance monitoring devices on high risk of several stakeholders. Employees, contractors, suppliers, service vehicles and introducing a ‘Safe Driver Competition’ with a view providers, private farmers involved with Tongaat Hulett and to encouraging safe driving performance by employees whose surrounding communities in areas where Tongaat Hulett operates occupations entail driving. were identified as key stakeholders who have an important role to play in promoting SHE values. The Tongaat Hulett Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committee oversees the performance of the company against set SHE targets and objectives. Progress on SHE plans and performance is monitored by the Chief Executive Officer and senior management through the various SHE Executive Steering Committees and established reporting systems. SAFETY Mill start-up Tongaat Hulett’s labour intensive operations reflect a workforce complement rising to nearly 40 000 during the season’s peak period and consequently exposes the company to occupational A Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate of 0,094 was achieved for safety risks, considering that the bulk of the workforce would be the first time since formal SHE management systems were engaged in manual activities and the operation of machinery. The established. The LTIFR of 0,094 reflects an improvement from a company is driving a ‘zero harm’ campaign that seeks to transform stagnant LTIFR of 0,10 recorded in the previous two years. its organisational culture from one that influences stakeholders to be dependent on management support and systems, to an Tongaat Hulett continues to work towards influencing interdependent culture where individuals look after each other stakeholders with a view to encouraging safe behaviour and and prevent injuries across the company’s stakeholder society. participation in various SHE initiatives, so as to realise ‘zero harm’. Private cane farmers were identified as some of Tongaat Hulett’s During the past decade, the company’s safety performance important stakeholders, with an almost direct impact on the safety improved significantly in terms of fatalities and serious injuries that performance of the organisation considering their continuous result in loss of time. While three fatalities recorded in 2012/13 involvement with Tongaat Hulett’s operations, particularly in seem to have reversed a fatality reduction trend observed from cane delivery where farmers’ vehicles enter Tongaat Hulett’s Actual 12 months to Actual 12 months to Actual 12 months to Limits 12 months to PERIOD 31 December 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 LTIs LTIFR LTIs LTIFR LTIs LTIFR LTIs LTIFR Sugar 42 0,08 45 0,09 47 0,08 0,07 Starch 8 0,53 8 0,40 8 0,58 4 Developments 0 0,00 0 0,00 0 0,00 0 0,00 Consolidated 50 0,10 61 0,10 56 0,094 0,095 2013 35 sUSTAINABILITY continued premises. A structured engagement process to secure buy-in Treatment (ART) being offered in one way or another, varying and subsequent take up of Tongaat Hulett’s SHE management models of HIV and AIDS management are employed at the systems will be enhanced in the coming year. various centres. The company is working towards introducing a single HIV and AIDS Management Standard which will ensure Food Safety uniformity throughout the various operations. The South African Tongaat Hulett has, over many decades developed a reputation National Standard for Wellness and Disease, including TB and as being a producer of high quality products. In order to ensure HIV Management System (SANS 16001: 2013) is being evaluated that this reputation is maintained, the company manages its and plans are underway to implement this standard throughout maize requirements on a non-genetically modified basis using a Tongaat Hulett. sophisticated identity preservation system. The use of this system enables the company to meet the needs of its customers in the Male Medical Circumcision (MMC) in combination with other food industry. HIV preventative measures, has been shown to reduce the transmission of HIV in men by sixty percent and in light of this, In addition, ongoing attention is paid to the requirements of ISO the business is encouraging MMC to its employees. Chronic 9001, the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point system (HACCP) non-communicable or “lifestyle” diseases, such as diabetes and ISO 22000, in terms of quality and food safety standards at all and hypertension, are noted to be an issue of concern. The operations. These systems are in various stages of being certified introduction of SANS 16001:2013 will also assist in developing a by the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS). systematic approach to managing these conditions. Sugar is a natural carbohydrate sweetener of plant origin. Sugars The VCT / HCT campaign is well entrenched as demonstrated made by plants are classified as sucrose, glucose and fructose. by an uptake by 83 percent of the company’s employees during All three are found in varying amounts in most fruits and many the year under review. The company’s commitment to the ART vegetables. All carbohydrate rich foods, once digested, provide program is reflected through spend of R1 926 793 extended to glucose, the primary fuel for the body. The source of the this exercise for employees participating in 2012/13. carbohydrate is not significant in a dietary context. The sucrose Malaria from sugar cane is identical to the sucrose present in fruits and vegetables. In Mozambique, Swaziland and Zimbabwe, malaria remains a significant health risk. The operations in Swaziland and Zimbabwe The growing incidence in chronic lifestyle diseases such as continue to successfully implement integrated malaria control diabetes, cardio-vascular disease and obesity, especially in programmes that include vector control, awareness, personal children, has focused the attention of policy makers and the media protection, diagnosis and treatment. The prevention of mosquito on the consumption of sugar, and the potential contribution of bites is one of the key elements in the fight against malaria, this essential ingredient to the lifestyle disease epidemic. Certain and in this regard, every affected operation is facilitating antireporting on sugar consumption has led to excessive and negative malaria spray programmes and access to mosquito bed nets by speculation regarding the value of sugar as part of a balanced diet. every household member at Tongaat Hulett operations. The effectiveness of current malaria interventions was demonstrated Eminent bodies such as the World Health Organisation and the by a 55 percent reduction realised in malaria cases attended to at Food and Agricultural Organisation (2003) and the European Food the Zimbabwe operation medical facilities between 2011/12 and Safety Authority (2010) have examined the scientific evidence 2012/13 fiscal years. relating to the consumption of sugar and other carbohydrates. These bodies have concluded, from a summary of the available evidence, that sugar is not the direct cause of lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, obesity or cancer. During 2010 the International Food Information Council Foundation (IFIC) stated that “consumers can continue to enjoy modest amounts of sweetened foods and beverages as part of a healthy diet and lifestyle”. HEALTH Tongaat Hulett continues to provide comprehensive healthcare programmes that include environmental health, occupational health, primary health and general wellness. HIV and Aids HIV and AIDS still remains the single biggest health challenge. While all operations now have Voluntary Counseling and Testing Starch and glucose are used in a range of food products ((VCT) / HIV counseling and Testing (HCT)) and Anti-Retroviral 36 2013 Occupational Health Occupational health risk assessments identified noise, dust and chemicals as principal risks requiring effective interventions. Active steps are being taken to prevent the occurrence of occupational diseases, particularly those resulting from exposure to principal risks. All operations have established occupational health management systems that are certified to either NOSA systems or OHSAS 18001. Medical surveillance programmes are revised every year and continuously being monitored to ensure that employees exposed to high risk activities are not negatively affected by inherent occupational health risks. Surveillance programmes also provide an opportunity for urgent medical interventions to be taken and reverse early detection of symptoms of occupational illnesses. Resources are being mobilised at operations to provide for reliable and effective emergency Medical Response systems, which are essential for ensuring appropriate early management of injuries to potential workplace accident victims. HUMAN CAPITAL Talent Management and People Development Tongaat Hulett seeks to attract, employ, retain and develop high calibre and diverse employees who are able to contribute to the achievement of the business’s strategic goals. Building capacity and capability include the continuous assessment of the capability profiles of teams and individuals against the required competencies and appropriate actions taken to address the gaps that are identified. Some of the interventions include the clarification of roles, responsibilities and relationships, making key appointments, dealing with transformation and employment profile requirements and addressing succession planning gaps by ensuring an appropriate pipeline of skilled people to meet longer term strategic capability requirements, leadership, management and supervisory development, talent management processes coupled with fast tracked development, focused technical and engineering skills upliftment, coaching and mentoring, project assignments, job rotation and encouraging employees to embark on self-directed as well as structured development programmes. Effective skills development practices at all levels is a priority and continues to be strengthened, including supervisory, management and leadership development, learnerships, in-service training, operator training, general skills development of shop floor employees and effective coaching and mentoring processes. Competency gaps and individual training and development needs are being identified and action plans developed to address these needs. Action plans are developed to address the needs of high performing and highly talented individuals, with particular emphasis on black employees in the case of South Africa. Existing Skills Appropriate organisational transformation is encouraged to facilitate Tongaat Hulett being managed as one company across all countries, where functionality is based on expertise instead Health and Safety of employees is a priority of hierarchy / function and the encouragement of multi-skilling 2013 37 sUSTAINABILITY continued and multiple relationships. This transformation includes improved In South Africa there continues to be a need to address the region wide communication and instilling a sense of belonging imbalances of the past and a strong employment equity culture amongst all employees in all operations. Task-based processes has been fostered over many years. Actions are continuing and the encouragement of dynamism, decentralisation, growth, to improve the representation of designated groups, with results-orientation, indigenisation, innovation and sustainability particular emphasis on Africans, black women and persons with are being reinforced. In addition, an organisational climate is disabilities, with the intention to align the workforce profile with being nurtured to unlock the emotional energy and company the underlying demographics of the country. As at 31 March commitment of employees and to assist in building Tongaat 2013, 61,2 percent of management and 84,6 percent of skilled Hulett into an employer of choice. and supervisory positions are filled by black employees. Women constitute 36,2 percent of the workforce across South African Bursaries, scholarships, trainee programmes and learnerships operations. Within the South African operations, 74,2 percent continue to be sponsored by the company, to assist with sourcing of the 609 graduates and diplomates employees are black, with and developing young talent in anticipation of future skills women constituting 46,1 percent. requirements. To support these programmes, strong partnerships have been formed with select educational institutions and Sector The Tongaat Hulett Employment Equity Committee is chaired by Education and Training Authorities (SETAs). Workplace skills plans the CEO and the broad composition of this committee ensures and implementation reports are submitted to the relevant SETA that it benefits from company wide experience and expertise on an annual basis. in achieving its objectives. Its main objective is to review target setting and progress on all employment equity related matters Recruitment strategies include the use of psychometric and to make recommendations on the implementation of assessments and web-based recruitment linked to Career employment equity policies. These policies are based on equal Junction. Partnerships and relationships with education opportunity for all within a diverse workforce with a substantial institutions continue to be strengthened with institutions such number of members of designated groups at all levels. The as the University of Witwatersrand Electrical Engineering/ implementation of these policies is facilitated by appropriate Process Control, the University of KwaZulu-Natal, Mangosuthu performance and talent management processes, recruitment Technikon and the Durban University of Technology. targets, development and training programmes, coaching and Employment Equity and Indigenisation mentoring and innovative management development practices. The total workforce as at 31 March 2013 across all countries was The employment equity report for Tongaat Hulett’s South 39 246 compared to a total of 41 777 the previous year (full time African operations, as at 31 December 2011, as submitted to the employees, casuals and contractors). Department of Labour (DoL) is available online. CASE STUDY KAREN PETERSEN Karen (or Nomsa, as she is often referred to by her colleagues) was the first female project manager appointed at the then Moreland in 2006, as part of its drive to include more women in its project management operations in the company. Appointed as the Development Manager for the Cornubia project, in the former Commercial and Industrial portfolio, she was promoted to Development Executive in 2009. This move meant greater responsibilities across the overall project as well as other smaller landholdings in and around Tongaat. In January 2013, she was promoted to her present position as Human Settlements Executive, also the first woman ever appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Developments Board. “In this role, I am providing leadership on all aspects relating to Human Settlements by improving the quality of living conditions of those at the lower end of the socioeconomic strata” and says “it was the best 41st birthday present ever!”. To read more about Karen go to: www.tongaat.com/2013/talent_case.pdf 38 2013 Training related information in respect of the Formal Training Programmes South African operations for the period Actual as at 31 March 2013 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 Total training spend R36,2 million Student 55 Development Programme 1 percent skills levy R13,6 million 8 Learnerships Training spend as a % of Graduate 2,7 % (excluding 1% skills) 31 leviable amount Trainees 222 Apprenticeships Number of person days Bursaries 10 040 29 trained Number of person days Workplace 1 660 830 available 53 Experience % trained person days 0,6 % Learners/Trainees (general) Number of persons trained 1 740 In Service 90 Trainees 67 Expenditure on African, R22 389 863 Coloured & Indian Employees Expenditure on African, R9 690 162 Coloured & Indian Women Expenditure on Employees 24 624 employees sent on 148 employees on 25 327 in TOTAL R198 934 with Disabilities training Company Assisted Study Aid Schemes The overall proportion of black representation in management Human Rights as at 31 March 2013 was 61,2 percent of permanent staff Within its sphere of influence, Tongaat Hulett implements at this level, compared to 57,4 percent at 31 March 2012. protection for basic human rights. The company is a signatory to It is envisaged that by 2015, black representation at management the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in which it commits, level (D band and above) will be approximately 65,0 percent. among others, to supporting the freedom of association and Females at senior management level increased from 12,3 percent to 14,5 percent as at 31 March 2013, the proportion of black collective bargaining at its locations, as well as preventing child females in top management increased from 19,2 percent to 22,2 and/or forced labour. Tongaat Hulett has incorporated human percent as at 31 March 2013 and black females in management rights principles in its practices, and operates within a Code of increased from 19,6 percent to 20,9 percent in March 2013. Business Conduct and Ethics, which supports its commitment to There were 80 employees with disabilities as at 31 March 2013, a policy of fair dealing, honesty and integrity in the conduct of its which constituted 1,2 percent of the employee complement (81 business. employees with disabilities as at 31 March 2012). Existing Skills In All Countries Number Average Age Number Terminated Number Appointed Period (as at 31 March 2013) (as at 31 March 2013) (1 April 2012 31 March 2013) (1 April 2012 31 March 2013) Degrees/Diplomas 1 107 40 42 76 Artisans 520 40 25 38 2013 39 sUSTAINABILITY continued • Zimbabwe – Zimbabwe Sugar Milling Industry Workers Union (ZSMIWU); Zimbabwe Hotel and Catering Workers Union (ZHCWU) There were two strike incidents which resulted in one day lost in Swaziland and at the Sugar Refinery, 438 employees went on strike, which resulted in five days lost with a financial cost implication of R7,9 million for the period under review. Disciplinary Procedures The disciplinary codes and procedures make provision for corrective behavior and have been drawn up in order to apply discipline in a just, equitable, non-discriminatory and consistent manner, in line with the relevant labour legislation. If any employee feels unjustly treated, they are entitled to exercise their rights in terms of the particular operation’s internal appeal procedure and the relevant legislation. Disciplinary codes and procedures have been implemented at local operations, after negotiations with the relevant trade unions. Grievance Procedures The company’s grievance procedures are intended to create Creating an enabling enviroment for employees to develop an environment that is conducive to good employee relations, This is based on a fundamental belief that business should be by facilitating prompt and fair action by the company when conducted honestly, fairly and legally. The company expects all employees raise legitimate complaints. The intention of the grievance procedures is to ensure that grievances are resolved as employees to share its commitment to high moral, ethical and near to their point of origin as possible, and within a reasonable legal standards. The company has always strived to maintain a time frame. constructive relationship with unions and a climate of industrial peace has generally prevailed. There are recognition agreements Child Labour, Forced and Compulsory Labour with 12 different unions as at 31 March 2013 and approximately Tongaat Hulett does not make use of child labour and does not 74 percent of permanent employees are members of unions. tolerate the inhumane treatment of employees, including any Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining form of illegal forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse. Tongaat Hulett employees have the right to freedom of Anti-Bribery and Corruption association. This right is also entrenched in the company’s code of The upholding of Tongaat Hulett’s core values requires that ethics, business principles and policies. the business actively works to prevent corruption and bribery. The organisation has procedures in place that provide guidance Trade unions formally recognised are: on areas such as dealing with gifts and donations. Employees of • Botswana – Botswana Beverages and Allied Workers Union Tongaat Hulett who do not comply with the company’s Code (BBAWU) of Ethics policy face disciplinary action, including dismissal or termination of their contract. • Mozambique – Sindicato Nacional dos Trabalhadores da Industria Do Açucar e Afins (SINTIA) Stakeholder Engagement and • Namibia – Namibian Food and Allied Workers Union Social Innovation (NAFAU) Tongaat Hulett has a well-established history of maintaining constructive relationships with a range of stakeholders. The • South Africa – Food and Allied Workers Union (FAWU); process to improve Tongaat Hulett’s understanding of its National Sugar and Refining and Allied Industries Employees stakeholders is ongoing. It includes confirming the identity of Union (NASARAIEU); South African Agricultural Plantation stakeholders based on their impact / significance / influence and Allied Workers Union (SAAPAWU); United Association etc. on the business, and documenting the various proactive of South Africa (UASA) National Union of Democratic and engagements that are already in place, as the business seeks to Progressive Workers (NUPDW); Chemical Energy Paper further strengthen / build on these existing relationships. The Printing Wood and Allied Workers Union (CEPPWAWU) business interfaces regularly, in an open and honest manner with a range of shareholders, governments, private farmers and • Swaziland – Swaziland Agriculture and Plant Workers Union their representative bodies, communities, employees and people (SAPWU) impacted by company operations or expansion activities. 40 2013 Through meaningful discussion, the business is able to understand and address potential impacts and concerns about operations and create opportunities that are aligned with the interest of all parties. Through a structured and evolving approach to stakeholder engagement, and using internal knowledge and expertise on stakeholder management, the business is able to prioritise the most important issues requiring management attention and focus. The feedback that Tongaat Hulett sought from a range of stakeholders, during 2012/13, followed the release of its 2012 Integrated Annual Report, and has been integrated into this report. A broad overview of key stakeholders and the general approach to interfacing with each of them is briefly presented below. The expectations of shareholders, investors and analysts are to ensure that sustainable and profitable long-term growth is achieved through ethical and responsible business practices. It is the company’s responsibility to clearly and openly communicate its business strategy and financial results. Communication takes place through meetings with management, telephonic conversations, internet and email. A well-entrenched investor relations team exists, with a focus on communicating with all Infrastructure improvement in stakeholders and ensuring adherence to corporate disclosure communities where the company operates requirements. Annual and interim results presentations are held Local communities are engaged in order to develop a broader in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban plus roadshows are understanding of their concerns and to align priorities in areas undertaken in the United Kingdom and North America, in order where there will be maximum impact. Particularly within to articulate the company’s performance and prospects. the context of sugarcane developments in the rural areas of Private farmers of sugarcane in the various countries of operation Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe, the business’s ongoing who supply the business’s cane requirements want to ensure that, Enterprise Development and Socio-Economic Development in addition to maximising the price that they receive for the supply initiatives create regular opportunities for stakeholder of their product, Tongaat Hulett is able to provide the necessary engagement opportunities with this constituency. support to ensure their long-term sustainability. Tongaat Hulett Engagement with the media takes place on a formal and informal works with this grouping to unlock grant funding and facilitate basis, with media briefings, press releases, SENS announcements maximum saving in key inputs like fertilizer, good quality seed and publishing of relevant information on the Tongaat Hulett cane and herbicides. In so doing it contributes to the sustainability, website. Shareholders are also encouraged to attend the growth and profitability of this stakeholder. In all the countries company’s Annual General Meeting. The company publishes of operation, private farmers are organised according to their highlights of its annual and interim results in the key South African logistical areas of operation, and as the business continues to daily newspapers. increase the level and quality of its interactions, further growth and development opportunities for both Tongaat Hulett and Employees are interested in a stable employment relationship these stakeholders are being identified. and a good working environment that guarantees health, safety, fairness and equal opportunity. It is the company’s Expectations of government authorities and regulators’ are that responsibility to ensure that ethical and responsible management the business operates in accordance with all local, provincial procedures are in place to protect employees, support diversity and national laws and regulations, as well as subscribing to and and reward performance. It is therefore important to ensure demonstrating support for articulated government objectives regular collaboration on these topics. A variety of internal and policies. The company works to establish and maintain media is used, such as the intranet, internal newsletters constructive relationships with governments of the countries and briefings, and the company regularly interacts with within which it operates. It seeks to identify the impacts of employees, striving to achieve a high level of engagement. The government policy on its growth plans, as well as identifying bi-annual results presentations are made available to staff by how the company’s strategy can support the growth strategies invitation and also through the company intranet and internet. of these countries. This approach ensures that there is alignment Specifically with regard to sustainability matters, during 2012 of community, government and business operations of Tongaat a roadshow was conducted in all operating facilities in order to Hulett. Ongoing engagement with government takes place at a build awareness. The company will report on progress in this provincial level and where necessary a national level. regard in its next report. 2013 41 sUSTAINABILITY continued Expections of customers, suppliers and service providers’ are B-BBEE Scorecard Score to grow their business by supplying quality products that are desired by their customers. It is the company’s responsibility to Element 2011 2012 2013 continuously improve the quality, taste and innovative features Equity Ownership 18,16% 17,34% 18,34% of its products at a reasonable price. Tongaat Hulett is in regular Management & Control 8,43% 8,43% 8,81% contact with its largest customers, to ensure exceptional customer service levels. It seeks to work with these stakeholders on areas of Employment Equity 11,54% 11,69% 9,15% mutual concern. We plan to engage with suppliers in responsible Skills Development 10,19% 12,14% 9,99% sourcing standards through regular procurement processes. Preferential Procurement 18,17% 15,58% 15,17% Managers in all company operations interact with trade unions Enterprise Development 15,00% 15,00% 15,00% on relevant employment issues, with collective bargaining taking place on a need to have basis. The sugar and starch operations are Socio Economic Development 5,00% 5,00% 5,00% the most labour intensive businesses and structures are in place to Total 86,49% 85,18% 81,46% engage with various unions. BEE Level Rating 2 2 3 It is anticipated that the evolving approach to improving the Data within the table above is sourced from AQRate as per their B-BBEE company’s understanding of its key stakeholders will include verification process Tongaat Hulett being able to communicate matters of importance to the business. This includes its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and other items of relevance which are specific to each of private farmer land. There are currently 670 active farmers, who stakeholder. Tongaat Hulett’s approach to ethical behaviour employ some 5 500 people. By the time that phase 1 is completed, is an important aspect to be understood and communicated, there will be 870 farmers employing just under 8 000 people. particularly within the context, of the high degree of importance that is placed on this underlying business principle by both In Mozambique, Xinavane estate has a total of 3 520 hectares management and the Board. under sugarcane, for small and medium scale farmers delivering cane to its factory for crushing. The areas are comprised of groups Social innovation makes reference to organisations that are and/or associations of farmers. Prior to the recently completed developing innovative practical approaches to transform society private grower developments, there have been three longand the environment, thereby uplifting communities. standing associations with a total of 478 hectares under sugarcane that had been developed under Government-supported donor projects. The Mafambisse private farmer development program ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY has developed 380 hectares involving 14 farmers. Business Approach to Empowerment and Indigenisation Preferential Procurement in South Africa Transformation, equal opportunity and the creation of a diverse The objective of Preferential Procurement under the Department employee base remain key performance areas for the SADC of Trade and Industry’s current Codes of Good Practice includes geographical region where Tongaat Hulett operates. The the promotion of BEE compliance by all entities and targets for company is committed to the development of successful rural procurement from Exempted Micro Enterprises (EME’s), Qualified communities in the regions that surround its operations and Small Enterprises (QSE’s), black-owned and black women-owned the business will continue to identify how best it can further enterprises. Furthermore, with enhanced recognition given partner with farmers, communities and governments, in order for Preferential Procurement from value adding suppliers and to achieve this objective. Tongaat Hulett believes that agriculture enterprise development beneficiaries, the procurement of locally is the foundation of developing economies. The health of the produced goods and services is actively supported, to assist in agricultural sector depends on the sustainability of farming developing sustainable income streams for such new entities. methods. Farming practices must therefore not only protect Tongaat Hulett is committed to supporting suppliers, improving the long-term productivity of the land, but must also ensure their empowerment credentials and introducing Small to profitable yields and the well-being of farmers and farm workers. Medium Enterprises (SME’s), black-owned and black womenFrom a South African perspective, the fifth B-BBEE rating audit owned suppliers to the business. The preferential procurement by AQRate was conducted in 2012, with Tongaat Hulett being score element was set at 15,17. In respect of the Procurement categorised as a Level Three Contributor. The drop from Level Scorecard for Tongaat Hulett, and based on the expenditure for Two is a result of the second set of five year targets becoming the period ending 31 March 2012, out of a total available spend applicable on Employment Equity and Skills Development. (defined as total procurement spend less spend on parastatals and the importation of goods not locally produced) of R7,650 In Zimbabwe, Tongaat Hulett embarked on a comprehensive private billion, BEE procurement spend from all suppliers based on BEE farmer rehabilitation program to increase sugarcane production procurement recognition levels as a percentage of total measured substantially, with the objective being to rehabilitate 15 880 hectares spend, was R6,044 billion (79 percent). 42 2013 Spend with companies which are more than 50 percent black owned totaled R252 million, whilst spend with QSE’s or EME’s CASE STUDY totaled R1,680 billion. Spend with companies which are more NDWEDWE REGION than 30 percent owned by black women was R79 million. Within the Tongaat Hulett context, the activities Socio-Economic Development undertaken by the business in the Ndwedwe region on Socio-Economic Development within the context of Tongaat the North Coast of KZN, demonstrate a relevant example Hulett operations forms an integral part of the businesses of the company working towards its strategic objective activities, and is closely linked to the company’s overall objective of increasing sugarcane supplies, while contributing of contributing to the creation of successful rural communities. towards stakeholder value creation. The business’s SocioThe business has traditionally focused its SED spend (particularly Economic Development initiatives and its approach to in the case of Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe) on stakeholder engagement are fundamental elements that improving the quality of life of communities that surround are contributing to the overall success of this project. company operations and its employees. Tongaat Hulett is now To read more about Ndwedwe go to: www.tongaat. in the process of shifting this focus, to its private farmers. This com/2013/ndwedwe_case.pdf shift, which is ongoing, will ensure that private farmers receive the support required for them to be sustainable into the future, and includes actions related to unlocking land for sugarcane development and grant funding from Government. The reporting period highlighted the significant contribution that Tongaat Hulett continues to make towards the welfare of private farmers, rural communities that surround company operations and its employees in Zimbabwe, Swaziland and Mozambique. Consequently, some 86 percent of total SED spend was invested in these countries. During the reporting period, R62,8 million was spent on health and welfare activities, which includes costs associated with the two company managed medical facilities, the Hippo Valley Medical Centre and the Colin Saunders Hospital in Triangle, Zimbabwe. These facilities provide both preventative and curative health services to the surrounding communities and, on average, some 200 000 patients are seen on an annual basis. Environmental for repairs to schools, stationery and education support. The health programmes to reduce the incidence of malaria and Zimbabwe operations provide support for 21 schools, with an bilharzia through routine spraying campaigns were undertaken enrolment of just under 12 000 pupils, the Swaziland operation in the communities that surround company operations. The supports two schools, while the Xinavane and Mafambisse business continues to ensure that safe drinking water is available operations provide support to the local schools that are in close for local communities and the provision of refuse collection proximity to company operations. services is undertaken by Tongaat Hulett. Tongaat Hulett regards its Socio-Economic Development Numerous schools are located in and around the operations and initiatives as an important component to ensuring the some R9,6 million was spent on education, which included costs sustainability of the private farmers that supply its operations. Land under cane 2013 43 sUSTAINABILITY continued In addition, these initiatives continue to support the business’s Value Added Analysis objective of rural development in the communities that For the Year Ended 31 March 2013 surround company operations. The total SED spend for the 12 months to 31 March 2013, including the cost of company Rmillion 2013 2012 sponsored occupational and primary health care services, was Revenue 14 373 12 081 R142,7 million. This was above the company’s commitment to Bought-in materials and services (9 327) (7 893) allocate one percent of annual headline earnings to SED on a VALUE ADDED BY OPERATIONS 5 046 4 188 company wide basis annually. Dividends and other income 358 203 Capital profit on land 16 3 Capital loss on other fixed assets (1) FOOD SECURITY Tongaat Hulett is of the view that a sustainable food system TOTAL VALUE ADDED 5 419 4 394 should be “reliable, resilient and transparent,” producing food Applied as follows: within ecological limits, developing food producers, and ensuring TO PAY EMPLOYEES Salaries, wages and benefits 2 748 2 081 accessible and sufficient food supply. The company is a principal TO PAY PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL 953 815 member of the World Wildlife Fund and is looking at the I nterest on borrowings 596 527 operational and reputational challenges that face businesses in Distributions to shareholders 357 288 the food sector. The business has identified that there is potential TAX 389 351 to make unconventional approaches, such as inclusive agriculture RE-INVESTED IN BUSINESS 1 329 1 147 through the Operation Vuselela Project, more commercially Depreciation 472 366 viable. The business is of the view that it can partner with R  etained earnings after distribution governments and communities, towards building a sustainable to shareholders 857 781 food system, in the areas that it is able to impact. Delivery of this objective will require the implementation of new techniques and collaboration among farmers, rural communities businesses and TOTAL VALUE DISTRIBUTED 5 419 4 394 governments. The BEE IFRS 2 charge and transaction costs have been excluded from this schedule. The business continues to operate in an environment impacted by a number of external factors. Tongaat Hulett acknowledges Tongaat Hulett acknowledges that agriculture has a significant that energy security dynamics are closely linked to food security, role to play in opening the way for food security, while protecting water security and climate security. The Food and Agriculture precious natural resources and contributing to rural economic Organisation released a guide highlighting the need to move to growth. more sustainable practices, as intensive crop production since the 1960s has degraded soils, depleted ground water and caused pest At the same time, Tongaat Hulett appreciates the circumstances outbreaks. The food system is affected by environmental impacts experienced by many cities, around which it operates, as well as the including habitat degradation, greenhouse gas emissions and ever increasing issues of poverty, unemployment and inequality freshwater use and there is increasing evidence that crop yields that are prevalent throughout the region. In response to these are dropping. dynamics, Tongaat Hulett works closely with local and provincial Working with communities to provide water and ensure food security Luwamba community, Northern KZN 44 2013 municipalities in facilitating the conversion of agricultural land to other uses, at the appropriate time and in locations aligned with municipal and provincial spatial policies and plans. This land conversion enables the provision of new housing, employment, economic, social and recreational facilities for growing cities and increasing urbanisation but significantly, is carefully managed and undertaken in synergy with the extensive cane and rural development initiatives. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Business Approach Tongaat Hulett participates in a number of initiatives that promote product responsibility in agri-processing and land development. Product safety and quality assurance are embedded in the business’s core values and the company’s systems facilitate the commitment to not compromise on the safety of its products. Customer Health and Safety The company complies with all relevant safety, health, environmental and quality legislation in each of the countries of operation as well as striving for implementation of industry best practice. The production facilities have been certified under the ISO 9001:2008 quality management system. In South Africa, the operation, has adopted the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP). Downstream products supplied to the pharmaceutical industry are required to meet the Food and Drugs Act standards. Product and Service Labeling Tongaat Hulett ensures that appropriate information is provided to its customers. All products carry product labels describing information about the product, in compliance with the respective country legislation and labeling regulations. In addition to protecting Tongaat Hulett products, labeling informs consumers about the product’s nutritional composition and ingredients. Marketing Products Responsibly The business seeks to grow its market share in a responsible manner. Consequently the marketing of its product range is not aimed at misleading the public about any potential health or other risks related to products produced by Tongaat Hulett. The company’s objective is to grow its market share through product innovation and the production of high quality products. Supply Chain Sustainability Tongaat Hulett is developing a green procurement policy framework, with a view to optimising resource usage, increasing its product value and reducing its product carbon footprint and other negative environmental impacts. This is being achieved by collaborating with suppliers and customers throughout the value chain, to identify opportunities for adopting innovative technologies, products and business solutions with definitive potential for reducing environmental and climate change impacts, enhancing the safety and health of employees and communities, Increasing sugarcane supplies to Tongaat Hulett as well as reducing operational costs. 2013 45 sUSTAINABILITY continued Development at Kindlewood Estate Special attention is being given to packaging products, energy and water management, as well as industrial and agricultural chemicals. Robust initiatives are being developed to ensure alignment with critical activities involving procurement, transportation and logistics, storage, usage and disposal of sensitive products. Some of the key themes in this process include: • Focus on the total product life cycle impacts in the context of individuals and communities • Use of renewable resources including recycled products and extended life cycles • Encouraging use of eco-friendly products and use of transportation methods with minimum environmental impacts • Asset and resource optimisation initiatives, including emphasis on usage efficiencies, inventory and waste management • Increased research efforts into water conservation technologies and lean and clean production techniques. REQUEST FOR FEEDBACK Tongaat Hulett would like to hear from all stakeholders on their views of the 2013 Sustainability Report. The company is particularly interested in the information that was provided, information that was not included, the data reported on and the design of the report. Please Contact: Corporate Affairs Tongaat Hulett PO Box 3 Tongaat 4400 South Africa Telephone: +27 32 439 4114 Email: sustainability@tongaat.com GRI Index For detailed Global Reporting Initiative G3 sustainability reporting indicators: Refer to www.tongaat.com/annualreport2013/gri.pdf 46 2013 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Board and stakeholders of Tongaat Hulett: Integrated Reporting & Assurance Services (IRAS) was commissioned by Tongaat Hulett to provide independent third party assurance (ITPA) over the sustainability content within the sustainability section of their 2013 Integrated Annual Report (the ‘Report’, covering the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013). The assurance team comprised primarily of Michael H. Rea, our Lead Certified Assurance Practitioner (CSAP), with 14 years’ experience in environmental and social performance measurement, including sustainability reporting and assurance, and Lauren Stirling, an Associate CSAP with over two years of assurance engagement experience. AccountAbility AA1000S (revised, 2008) To the best of our ability and significant experience in sustainability report assurance, this engagement has been managed in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008) assurance standard, where the format of the engagement was structured to meet the AA1000AS Type II (Moderate) requirements. Independence Previously, IRAS provided ITPA over Tongaat Hulett’s 2010 through 2012 Annual Reports, but has not undertaken any other commissions that would compromise our independence, nor has IRAS been responsible for the preparation of any part of this Report. Responsibility for producing this report was the responsibility of Tongaat Hulett. Thus IRAS is, and remains, an independent assurer over the content and processes pertaining to this report. Assurance Objectives The objective of the assurance process was to provide Tongaat Hulett’s stakeholders an independent ‘moderate level assurance’ opinion on whether the sustainability content within the Corporate Responsibility section of Tongaat Hulett’s Report, in its printed format, meets the AA1000AS (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, as well as to assess the degree to which the Report has met the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines Application Level B reporting requirements (B+ with this assurance statement). Assurance Approach and Limitations The process used in arriving at this assurance statement is based on AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008) guidance, the GRI’s G3 Application Level requirements, as well as other best practices in sustainability reporting assurance. Our approach to assurance included the following: • A review of sustainability measurement and reporting procedures at Tongaat Hulett’s corporate offices to determine the context and content of sustainability management by the company; • A review of the information and/or data collection, collation and reporting procedures undertaken by Tongaat Hulett, to define the content of the Report by looking at the materiality of issues included in the Report, determination of sustainability context and coverage of material issues; • A review of Board and Committee meeting minutes, as well as media reports, to assess the accuracy and/or completeness of Tongaat Hulett’s materiality assertions; • A review of the approach of management to addressing topics discussed in the Report; • A review of drafts of the Report for any significant errors, anomalies and/or potentially unsupportable assertions; and, • GRI G3 gap analyses to determine whether the requisite numbers of profile and performance indicators were reasonably covered within the Report to meet Tongaat Hulett’s GRI G3 Application Level assertion (B+). The process was limited to the content and assertions made within Tongaat Hulett’s printed Report for the period under review, and did not extend to a comprehensive analysis of the accuracy, reliability, completeness and/or consistency of the data presented by Tongaat Hulett, either in the Report or on the internet. Rather, sustainability data presented within the Report was subjected to a series of reasonability tests during final proof editing. The process was further limited to reviewing policies and procedures for stakeholder engagements, and did not extend to physical engagement of any stakeholders to arrive at our assurance opinion. Findings Based on our review of the Report, as well as the processes employed to collect and collate information reported herein, it is our assertion that: • Tongaat Hulett’s 2013 Integrated Annual Report demonstrates year-on-year improvements in the form and function of the policies, procedures and systems deployed to meet reasonable integrated reporting expectations. These include, but are not limited to, significant improvements in the systems employed to collate, collate and report key sustainability performance indicator data. • Tongaat Hulett has demonstrated further improvement with respect to adherence to the principal of Inclusivity, and therefore continues to adequately adhere to the AccountAbility principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. However, the improvements in the formalisation of stakeholder engagement systems and controls are still a work-in-progress, and thus it is predicted that further improvement is yet to occur with respect to both proactive stakeholder engagement (i.e., Inclusivity) and feedback on stakeholder-specific concerns (i.e., Responsiveness). • The Report adequately meets the GRI G3’s requirements for Application Level B (responses to all required indicators, as well as no fewer than 20 Core indicators, with at least one from each of Economic, Environment, Human Rights, Labour, Society and Product Responsibility). The reporting of performance against some GRI G3 indicators continues to require either further detail in disclosure, or improvements in the quality and/or quantity of comparable data. Conclusions and Recommendations Based on the information reviewed, IRAS is confident that this report provides a reasonably comprehensive and balanced account of Tongaat Hulett’s environmental, safety and social performance for the period under review. The information presented is based on a systematic process and we are satisfied that the content of the Report adequately represents Tongaat Hulett’s adherence to the AA1000AS (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Moreover, and although the quality or quantity of data of some GRI G3 indicators can be improved, this Report appears to meet the GRI G3’s requirements for Application Level B (B+ with this assurance engagement). The following recommendations have however been identified: • Although significant improvement has been noted with respect to adherence to AccountAbility’s principle of Inclusivity, including the presence of more formalised stakeholder engagement systems and controls, Tongaat Hulett should continue to ensure that stakeholder engagement progresses towards the active inclusion of all significant stakeholders, and that systems and controls consolidate stakeholder concerns for consideration at the relevant management and/or board levels. Moreover, the Report should ultimately reflect how engagement is deployed throughout the organisation to affect – where necessary – business decision-making, processes and/or controls. • With respect to adherence to AccountAbility’s principle of Responsiveness, Tongaat Hulett should continue to ensure that feedback to stakeholders on sustainability matters occurs in line with King III’s recommendations for ‘Integrated Reporting’, including reasonable discourses regarding Tongaat Hulett’s most material sustainability issues. For more information about the assurance process employed to assess the sustainability section within the Report email michael@iras.co.za. Integrated Reporting & Assurance Services Durban 6 June 2013 2013 47 corporate governance The board of directors recognises the inextricable link between governance, the fiduciary duties and responsibilities of the board effective governance, sustainable organisational performance and individual directors toward the company, the approval of and creating long-term value for all stakeholders. It is this strategy and annual business plan, the governance of risk and understanding that has underpinned the board’s enduring information technology and succession planning. commitment to lead the organisation in accordance with principles based on transparency, accountability, integrity and Board Composition ethical leadership. Tongaat Hulett has a unitary board structure, which at 31 March 2013 comprised nine non-executive and three executive directors, Tongaat Hulett continues to apply the principles embodied drawn from a broad spectrum of the business community. in The King Report on Governance for South Africa and the Collectively, the directors possess a wide array of skills, knowledge King Code on Governance Principles 2009 (King III), and the and experience, and bring independent judgment to board recommendations relevant to its business. The King III compliance deliberations and decisions, with no one individual or group register articulating Tongaat Hulett’s level of application of the having unfettered powers of decision-making. principles contained in King III is available on the website www. tongaat.com. It includes detail of how each principle has been Board and Committee Composition applied and will be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the The roles of the independent non-executive Chairman, disclosures are current and remain relevant. J B Magwaza, and the Chief Executive Officer, P H Staude, are separate with a clear division of responsibilities. Throughout the period under review, the board evaluated its compliance with corporate governance principles and The board has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer implemented appropriate changes and improvements, including and other senior management authority to run the day-to-day the review of the effectiveness of the board’s governance affairs of the company. In addition to written board resolutions, structures and the company’s Corporate Governance Manual. levels of authority and materiality delegated to management The Corporate Governance Manual, which includes the board are approved by the board and are clearly recorded in charter, terms of reference of board committees, Code of Business the Authorities Framework contained in the Corporate Conduct and Ethics, and the company’s established policies and Governance Manual, which is utilised by all operations within practices on matters such as safety, health and environment, the Tongaat Hulett. solidarity with surrounding communities on socio-economic development initiatives and programmes on successful rural In accordance with the company’s memorandum of incorporation, living, broad based black economic empowerment transactions directors are required to retire either by rotation at intervals of and a commitment to employment equity, together reflect three years or at the close of business of the next annual general and reinforce the governance framework upon which Tongaat meeting (AGM) after a director attains the age of seventy years. Hulett’s business sustainability is anchored. Directors retiring by rotation who avail themselves may be reelected at the AGM at which they retire. New directors may only This corporate governance report depicts Tongaat Hulett’s hold office until the next AGM, at which they will be required to commitment to sustainable governance and adherence to retire and offer themselves for election. At the next AGM, Jenitha King III, the Companies Act, the Listings Requirements of the John, Rachel Kupara, Adriano Maleiane and Murray Munro will JSE Limited (JSE) and other pertinent statutes and regulatory retire by rotation and seek re-election as directors. requirements guiding the board’s and company’s conduct throughout the period under review. There are no term contracts of service between any of the directors and the company or any of its operations. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Charter Board Induction The board has an approved charter which records the board’s On appointment, new directors have the benefit of induction continued objective to provide responsible business leadership activities aimed at broadening their understanding of the with due regard to the interests of shareholders and other company and markets within which it operates. The Company stakeholders, whilst reflecting a demonstrable concern for Secretary ensures that directors receive accurate, timely and clear sustainability as a business opportunity that guides strategy information. The Chief Executive Officer and other executives formulation. The various communities and the environment provide directors with appropriate information on business within which the company operates have continued to benefit performance and strategic objectives and themes. This, together from this insight. The board charter regulates and addresses with business reports of prior board and committee meetings, inter alia, the role of the board as the custodian of corporate and discussions with heads of operations, provides directors 48 2013 Board of Directors Board Committees Year Risk, SHE, Name appointed Audit Remuneration Nomination Social and Ethics Independent Non-executive Directors J B Magwaza (Chairman) 1994 Member Chairman F Jakoet 2008 Member Member J John 2007 Chairman R P Kupara 2009 Member A A Maleiane 2009 M Mia (to 27 July 2012) 1996 N Mjoli-Mncube 2008 Member Member Chairman S G Pretorius 2011 Chairman Member Non-executive Directors C B Sibisi 2007 Member T N Mgoduso 2010 Member Executive Directors P H Staude (CEO) 1997 Member B G Dunlop 1997 M H Munro 2003 Member A full record of the biographical details of the directors is articulated on pages 60 62 of the integrated annual report. with sufficient insight of the company’s operating dynamics. of the board’s focus will be succession planning, including board Directors are also encouraged to update their skills, knowledge composition and the position of Chairman. The assessment of and experience through participation in relevant programmes as the independence of directors serving on the board for a period deemed appropriate from time to time. longer than nine years is conducted annually, following the criteria laid out in King III. Board Evaluation The board meets at least five times a year, with special or additional The formal self-evaluation process of the board and its committees, meetings convened as circumstances dictate. Comprehensive the assessment of the Chairman’s performance by the board and board documentation is prepared and distributed in advance the assessment of the performance of individual directors by the of each meeting, with an opportunity to propose additional Chairman, which are conducted annually, are an integral element matters for discussion at meetings. Independent professional of the board’s activities to review and improve its performance advice is available to directors in appropriate circumstances at the continually. During the period under review, this evaluation process company’s expense. included assessing the independence of non-executive directors as envisaged in the King III code. Of the nine non-executive directors, Company Secretary seven are considered independent, whilst two are not considered All directors have access to relevant information and to the advice independent by virtue of their involvement in the company’s and services of the Company Secretary, M A C Mahlari, who was black economic empowerment equity participation structure. In appointed in December 2009. Ms Mahlari holds a BA, LLB, has arriving at this conclusion, consideration is given amongst others, over 10 years’ experience as a company secretary and has worked to whether the individual non-executive directors are sufficiently in various private commercial law practices. After assessing independent of the company so as to effectively carry out their the Company Secretary in accordance with the JSE Listings responsibilities as directors, that they are independent in judgment Requirements, the board concluded that Ms Mahlari is suitably and character, and that there are no instances of conflicts of qualified, competent and meets the appropriate requirements interest in the form of contracts, relationships, share options, length in terms of experience to carry out the functions of company of service or related party disclosures that could appear to affect secretary of a public listed company. Furthermore, the board is independence. The outcome of the board evaluation process for satisfied that Ms Mahlari maintains an arms-length relationship the period under review has been positive and an ongoing element with the board of directors. She is not a director, nor does she 2013 49 corporate governance continued enjoy any related or inter-related relationship with any of the prescribed by the Companies Act, and as a committee of the board directors or executives of the company that could give rise to a in respect of all additional duties assigned to it by the board. The conflict of interest. committee was appointed by the shareholders at the last AGM and comprises three non-executive directors of the company, The attendance record of directors for the period under review is all of whom are independent and possesses the necessary skills, reflected in the table below. knowledge and expertise to direct the committee constructively in the execution of its responsibilities. The current members are J John (Chairman), F Jakoet and R P Kupara. The Chief Executive Director Board Officer, P H Staude, the Chief Financial Officer, M H Munro, the A B Head of Internal Audit, D K Young and representatives of the internal and external auditors attend by invitation. The Company J B Magwaza (Chairman) 5 5 Secretary, M A C Mahlari, is the secretary for this committee. The committee meets at least three times a year. P H Staude (CEO) 5 5 B G Dunlop 5 5 The Audit and Compliance Committee’s terms of reference, which have been updated in line with King III and the Companies Act F Jakoet 5 5 and approved by the board, include the overall objective of the J John 5 4 committee to assist the board in discharging its duties relating to R P Kupara 5 5 the safeguarding of assets, the operation of adequate systems and controls, the assessment of going concern status, ensuring that A A Maleiane 5 5 pertinent compliance and relevant risk management processes are T N Mgoduso 5 4 in place, reviewing the work performed by the external auditors M Mia1 1 1 and the internal audit function, and to review interim financial N Mjoli-Mncube 5 5 information and annual financial statements which are provided to shareholders and other key stakeholders. M H Munro 5 5 The committee provides a forum through which the external S G Pretorius 5 5 and internal auditors report to the board. It is responsible for the C B Sibisi 5 5 appointment and review of internal and independent external auditors, the maintenance of a professional relationship with A: Indicates the number of meetings held during the year while them, reviewing accounting principles, policies and practices the director was a member of the board. adopted in the preparation of public financial information and B: Indicates the number of meetings attended during the year examining documentation relating to the interim and annual while the director was a member of the board. financial statements. In addition, it reviews procedures and policies of internal control, including internal financial controls and internal 1: Retired from the board at the AGM on 27 July 2012. audit reports. The adequacy and capability of Tongaat Hulett’s BOARD COMMITTEE STRUCTURES AND RESPONSIBILITY external and internal audit functions are also subject to continuous In accordance with the board charter, the board has reserved review. The committee further considers the independence and certain matters for its exclusive mandate and has approved and objectivity of external auditors. delegated authority for specific matters to various committees, all Management is focused on continuous improvements to systems of which have formal terms of reference. Through transparency, of internal control. An external quality assurance review of the disclosure, review and regular reporting by the committees, the internal audit function was performed during the period under board is able to receive assurance that, inter alia, key risk areas, review, which concluded that the Tongaat Hulett internal audit operational, financial and non-financial aspects relevant to the function “generally conforms” to the standards recommended company’s various businesses are monitored. The formal terms of by the Institute of Internal Auditors, which is the highest rating in reference and the delegated authority regarding each committee terms of the standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors. The are set out in the Corporate Governance Manual, and are status of “generally conforms” continues to be applicable for a summarised as set out below. period of five years from the date of validation in terms of the Audit and Compliance Committee standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors. The Audit and Compliance Committee is constituted as a statutory The external and internal auditors have unrestricted access committee of Tongaat Hulett in respect of its statutory duties to members of the Audit and Compliance Committee and its 50 2013 Chairman at all times, ensuring that their independence is in no As part of an effort to review and ensure optimal performance and way impaired. Both the internal and external auditors have the delivery of its mandate, the committee conducted an assessment opportunity of addressing the committee and its Chairman at each of its performance for the period, with input from internal and of the meetings without management being present. The Audit external auditors, considering such factors as its composition and and Compliance Committee determines the purpose, authority authority, the execution of its role and responsibilities, its working and responsibility of the internal audit function in an Internal Audit relationship with both internal and external audit and its statutory Charter, which is in line with King III terminology and approved by obligations towards the company and its shareholders. The the committee and the board. The charter sets out the terms of outcome of the assessment process has been positive, reflecting reference of Tongaat Hulett’s internal audit function, its reporting that the committee meets best practice, and is functioning line to the Chairman of the committee, the working relationship effectively and efficiently. with the Head of Internal Audit and the fact that the internal Each major operational area has its own audit and compliance auditors have unrestricted company wide access to all functions, meeting processes which subscribe to the same company audit records, property and personnel. The committee also reviews philosophies and reports and leads to the Tongaat Hulett Audit the scope and coverage of the internal audit function. While the and Compliance Committee. internal audit function has been outsourced to a professional firm of registered accountants and auditors, co-ordinated by the Head The Audit and Compliance Committee is pleased to report as of Internal Audit, the company’s independent external auditors do follows for the financial year ended 31 March 2013: not assist in the performance of any internal audit assignments. 1. Statutory Duties The nature and extent of all non-audit services provided by the The committee confirms that it performed the following independent external auditors are approved and reviewed by the statutory duties as required by the Companies Act and in committee, to ensure compliance with the company’s policy. accordance with its terms of reference: The committee is also responsible for ensuring that the combined • Nominated for appointment as external auditor assurance model espoused in King III is applied to provide a of the company at the AGM, Deloitte & Touche, a coordinated approach to all assurance activities. Tongaat Hulett has registered auditor accredited to appear on the JSE adopted a Combined Assurance Strategy and Plan that provides List of Accredited Auditors who, in the opinion of the a framework for the various assurance providers to provide committee is independent of the company, and Mr Wentzel assurance to the board, through the Audit and Compliance and Moodley as the designated auditor, for the 2013/2014 Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committees, that all significant risks financial year; facing the company are adequately managed and that assurance • Determined the fees to be paid to the external auditor and activities are integrated and coordinated in the most efficient and agreed to the terms of their engagement and audit plan in proficient manner. The Combined Assurance Strategy and Plan is consultation with executive management; discussed further in the Risk Management Process section of the • Ensured that the appointment of the external auditor integrated annual report, starting on page 54. complies with the provisions of the Companies Act and any The committee’s focus on regulatory compliance is ongoing in other legislation relating to the appointment of auditors, line with the regular updates to the regulatory environment. The including consideration of criteria relating to independence framework of high priority laws and regulations applicable to or conflicts of interest as prescribed by the Independent Tongaat Hulett’s operations has continued to be refined during the Regulatory Board for Auditors; year with the aim of strengthening the culture of legal awareness • Determined the nature and extent of any non-audit services and compliance. The board-approved compliance policy confirms that the auditor may provide to the company; and firmly entrenches Tongaat Hulett’s commitment, through the combined efforts of various role players, to implement • Pre-approved any proposed agreement with the external controls and processes to manage regulatory compliance across auditor for the provision of non-audit services to the company. all operations. Management continuously assesses and reviews statutory and regulatory requirements and risks, and identifies The committee confirms that it did not receive any concerns appropriate processes and interventions to enhance compliance or complaints relating to the accounting practices and the with applicable legislation. No material infractions have come internal audit of the company; the content or auditing of the to management’s attention during the period under review that company’s financial statements; the internal financial controls indicates non-compliance with pertinent legislation and codes of of the company or any other related matter during the period good practice. under review. 2013 51 corporate governance continued 2. Terms of Reference management process. Based on the results of these reviews, The Audit and Compliance Committee has adopted and the internal audit function has confirmed to the Audit and operates within formal terms of reference that have been Compliance and Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committees and approved by the board of directors. The committee confirms to the board that no evidence came to light that the internal that for the period under review, it discharged its duties and control environment and risk management process for the responsibilities in accordance with the terms of reference. The company was ineffective. In addition, nothing indicated a summary of the role of the committee is as articulated on pages material weakness in internal financial controls, whether 50 to 51 of this integrated annual report. from design, implementation or operation (individually or in combination with other weaknesses). 3. Duties Assigned by the Board During the period under review, the committee performed The Audit and Compliance Committee is of the view, based its duties and responsibilities assigned to it by the board in on the representations made by internal audit, that the accordance with the terms of reference. The committee internal financial controls in place for the company were not specifically reviewed the financial statements of the company ineffective during the period under review. and was satisfied that they comply with International Financial 6. Sustainability and Governance Reporting Reporting Standards. The committee reviewed the assessment The committee has considered the sustainability and governance by management of the going concern statement of the information as disclosed in the company’s integrated annual company and concluded to the board that the company will be report to ensure its reliability and consistency with the annual a going concern in the foreseeable future. financial statements. The committee also considered the 4. Expertise and Experience of Financial Director and the various reports of the external assurance service providers Finance Function and is satisfied that the information is reliable and consistent During the period under review, the committee considered the with the financial results and other operational information at the disposal of the committee. Furthermore, the committee expertise and experience of the Tongaat Hulett financial director assessed and satisfied itself of the independence of the external in terms of the Listing Requirements of the JSE and satisfied assurance service provider for the sustainability report. itself that the financial director’s expertise and experience meet the appropriate requirements. The committee also evaluated 7. Approval of Integrated Annual Report the competence of the finance function as required by King At its meeting held on 16 May 2013, the committee III and concluded that the expertise, resources and experience recommended the integrated annual report for approval by the of the finance function of all operations, reporting into the board of directors, taking into account the combined assurance financial director of Tongaat Hulett, meet the appropriate model adopted by the company. requirements. 8. Attendance 5. Internal Audit The Audit and Compliance Committee had three meetings • The work performed by internal audit was in accordance during the period under review. The record of attendance of with the internal audit plan for the year ended 31 March members of this committee is contained in the table below. 2013 and included the review of general and application computer controls on the systems used for financial Director Audit and Compliance Committee reporting purposes. In addition, the committee approved A B internal audit’s coverage and work plan for the financial year commencing 1 April 2013. J John (Chairman) 3 3 • The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the committee primarily through the Chairman of the committee. During F Jakoet 3 2 the period under review, the Head of Internal Audit had R P Kupara 3 3 the opportunity to address the committee without the executive management of the company present. A: Indicates the number of meetings held during the year while the • Tongaat Hulett’s internal audit function, which is supported director was a member of the committee. by its internal audit service provider, KPMG, has as required B: Indicates the number of meetings attended during the year by its mandate, performed a review of the effectiveness while the director was a member of the committee. of the company’s internal control environment, including its internal financial controls, IT controls as they pertain (The biographical details of the members are given on pages 60 to to financial reporting and the effectiveness of its risk 61 of the integrated annual report). 52 2013 Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committee human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The The Risk and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) committee committee reviewed the company’s standing in terms of the was restructured and reconstituted as the Risk, SHE, Social and ten principles articulated in the Global Compact, noting that Ethics Committee (“the committee”) in 2012, and its terms of it is a voluntary initiative to promote sustainable development reference were formally approved by the board. The committee is and good corporate citizenship through a set of values based on constituted as a statutory committee in respect of its obligations universally accepted principles. It provided a good networking prescribed by the Companies Act, and as a committee of the opportunity for the company, and a forum for exchanging board in respect of all additional duties assigned to it by the board. key learning and experiences. The committee recorded its satisfaction that the ten principles were receiving due and The committee, comprising non-executive and executive directors, appropriate attention by the company on an ongoing basis. is chaired by an independent non-executive director, and meets at least twice a year. Its members are N Mjoli-Mncube (Chairman), A full report of Tongaat Hulett’s focus on social and economic P H Staude (CEO), F Jakoet, T N Mgoduso, C B Sibisi and development, particularly within the context of its relationship M H Munro (in his capacity as Chief Risk Officer). Several members with private farmers, communities and the link to the of the company executive and senior managers (responsible for business’ various stakeholder relationships can be found in the SHE, broader sustainability aspects, socio-economic development, sustainability report. stakeholder engagement and ethics, amongst others) attend Good corporate citizenship this meeting by invitation. M A C Mahlari is the secretary. The During the period under review, the committee monitored chairman of the committee reports to the board on all matters the company’s standing and commitment in terms of being discussed by the committee within its mandate as well as providing a responsible corporate citizen. This included the committee minutes of all its activities and decisions taken. reviewing in great detail the company’s stakeholder value The purpose and functions of the committee are to assist the creation framework which is linked to the strategic objectives board to discharge the statutory requirements of the Companies of the company. The framework covers inter alia, the Act articulated under regulation 43(5), covering amongst others company’s objective to assist with the development of smallareas of social and economic development, corporate citizenship, scale private farmers, partnering with key stakeholders to environment, health and employee and public safety, consumer progress renewable energy initiatives and creating successful relationships, labour and employment equity. The committee has rural communities within Tongaat Hulett’s cane catchment, additional responsibilities assigned to it by the board which include amongst others. Tongaat Hulett continues to be regarded as the total process of risk management and governance, including a responsible corporate citizen and the committee is satisfied amongst others overseeing the development and regular review of that this element continues to receive appropriate attention. a policy and plan for risk management for approval to the board; A full report of the various initiatives led by the company reviewing the implementation of the risk management strategy and the positive impact on surrounding communities can be and policies by means of risk management systems and processes. found in the sustainability section of this integrated annual report. During the period under review, the committee carried out a self-evaluation of its performance. The results the self-evaluation Safety, health and environment process reflected that the committee was satisfied with how it During the period under review, the committee discharged this executed its responsibilities and fulfilled its mandate during the responsibility and considered the company’s performance in period under review. terms of safety, health and the environment, as can be seen in paragraph 3 below. The Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committee submits its report to the shareholders as required by the Companies Act and Consumer relationships recommended by King III, illustrating how it discharged Through the Audit and Compliance Committee, a compliance its statutory responsibilities and acted in accordance with review of Consumer Protection laws was conducted on a company-wide basis across all countries of operation. The the requirements of its terms of reference for the period committee satisfied itself that appropriate systems and to 31 March 2013: processes were in place in terms of sale agreements, marketing 1. Statutory Duties material, packaging and labeling, as well as the commercial Social and economic development conduct of the company to ensure compliance with these laws. In June 2012 Tongaat Hulett became a signatory to and Through the establishment of customer care lines, operations participant of the United Nations Global Compact, a are able to monitor customer relationships and any potential corporate citizen initiative espousing principles in the areas of complaints that may arise. 2013 53 corporate governance continued 2. Terms of Reference 5. Sustainability Reporting The committee has adopted and operates within formal The committee reviewed and accepted the framework terms of reference that have been approved by the board of for the sustainability report contained in this integrated directors. The committee confirms that for the period under report, noting the various themes of the report including review, it discharged its duties and responsibilities in accordance Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability, Sociowith these terms of reference. The summary of the role of economic development, Enterprise development and the committee is as articulated on page 53 of this integrated Stakeholder engagement. As detailed above, the Audit and annual report. Compliance Committee has considered the sustainability and governance information as disclosed in the company’s 3. Duties Assigned by the Board integrated annual report to ensure its reliability and During the period under review, the committee fulfilled its consistency with the annual financial statements. The Audit responsibilities assigned to it by the board in accordance with and Compliance Committee also considered the various its terms of reference. The committee assisted the board reports of the external assurance service providers to to fulfill its risk governance and SHE objectives by ensuring, ensure that the information is reliable and consistent with amongst others, that the company has implemented effective the financial results and other operational information at policies and plans for risk management and safety, health and the disposal of the committee. Furthermore, the Audit and environment that enhance the company’s ability to achieve its Compliance Committee assessed and satisfied itself of the strategic objectives. The committee also ensured that disclosures independence of the external assurance service provider and communication between the board and the Audit and for the sustainability report. Compliance Committee regarding risk management processes 6. Attendance and activities pertaining to safety, health and environment The committee had two meetings during the period under were comprehensive and adequately facilitated. Whilst the review. The record of attendance is contained in the table committee had specific duties relating to risk governance, the below. role of the Audit and Compliance Committee was retained in Director Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics terms of some aspects of risk management, including financial Committee reporting risks, internal financial controls and fraud and IT risks relating to financial reporting. The committee performed the A B responsibility of overseeing the performance of the company against its set safety, health and environment targets and N Mjoli-Mncube (Chairman) 2 2 objectives, and considering reports relating to substantive SHE PH Staude (CEO) 2 2 risks and liabilities that could potentially face the company. F Jakoet 2 2 4. Relationship with Other Board Committees TN Mgoduso 2 2 The committee acknowledges the inextricable link between MH Munro 2 2 certain of its responsibilities with those of other committees of CB Sibisi 2 2 the board. Some of these include the relationship with the Audit A: Indicates the number of meetings held during the year and Compliance Committee, which retains the responsibility while the director was a member of the committee. for risk management as it relates to financial reporting risks, B: Indicates the number of meetings attended during the year internal financial controls and fraud and IT risks relating to while the director was a member of the committee. financial reporting. Risk Management Process Further, the company’s standing on the recommendations While the board is ultimately responsible for risk management, espoused in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and company management has designed and implemented a risk Development (OECD) regarding corruption and employment management framework and has committed the company equity, are reviewed and covered by the Audit and Compliance to a process of risk management that is aligned to King III Committee (which ensures the company has adopted effective and to the company’s corporate governance responsibilities. systems of internal control, has an independent external auditor This commitment is reflected in management’s continued and operates within an approved code of ethics, amongst attention to the importance of effective risk management in others) and the Remuneration Committee (which considers ensuring that business objectives and strategies are met and the company’s employment equity report). that continued, sustained growth and profitability is achieved. 54 2013 The framework, which incorporates the risk management policy, Committees, that all significant risks are adequately managed. The strategy and plan, aims to ensure that risk management processes Plan consists of “three layers of defence”, being management, are embedded in critical business activities and functions, and functional oversight and independent assurance providers, wherein that risks are undertaken in an informed manner and pro-actively the assurance on the risk management and related controls for the managed in accordance with the business risk appetite. This company is reported. includes identifying and taking advantage of opportunities as well Appropriate business continuity plans and resources have been as protecting intellectual capital and assets by mitigating adverse identified in order to ensure the implementation of recovery impacts of risk. procedures, where potential risks have been identified as having The risk management review process seeks to achieve the correct the possibility of constituting a disaster. balance between the issues that are specific to, and appropriately The Tongaat Hulett internal audit function, which is supported by managed in, an operational area and those issues that are its internal audit service provider, KPMG, has performed a review significant enough or cross cutting enough to be considered, and of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control environment, managed in an appropriate way, on a Tongaat Hulett wide basis. including its internal financial controls, and the effectiveness of its The approach to risk management includes being able to identify, risk management process. The evaluation of the company’s risk describe and analyse risks at all levels throughout the organisation, management processes included a review undertaken by KPMG. with mitigating actions being implemented at the appropriate It noted Tongaat Hulett’s positioning, for the review period, point of activity. The very significant, high impact risk areas and the on the KPMG Risk Maturity Continuum as “mature” out of a related mitigating action plans are monitored at an executive level. possible range of “basic – mature – advanced”. Consequently, Risks and mitigating actions are given relevant visibility at various the company’s internal audit function has provided independent appropriate forums throughout the organisation. assurance to the Audit and Compliance and Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committees and the board on the effectiveness of its risk Tongaat Hulett has documented its approach towards Information management processes. and Communication Technology (ICT) in various documents such as the ICT governance framework (including the company’s For the period under review, the Tongaat Hulett board, assisted by policy and charter), disaster recovery plans, business continuity the abovementioned committees, is of the view that the internal plans, acceptable use policy and a record of the approach to the control environment and the risk management processes in place protection and control of ICT documentation. The IT systems for the company are effective. and application controls in the multiple computer systems in the Remuneration Committee various operations are, inter alia, subject to internal audit processes The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a on an ongoing basis, integral to the audit of the overall control year, is chaired by an independent non-executive director and environment. comprises only non-executive directors. The current members are S G Pretorius (Chairman), J B Magwaza and N Mjoli-Mncube. The current business environment is recognised as having many P H Staude, as CEO, attends by invitation and M A C Mahlari is the changing and challenging elements, particularly in the context of secretary. the volatile global economy and specific localised dynamics. Most of Tongaat Hulett’s business platforms and operational areas are The reward philosophy, which has been approved by the not considered to be in a static, steady state. Consequently, rather board, is formulated to attract, motivate and retain executive than relying purely on periodic reviews, there is a continued and directors, executives and employees needed to manage and increasing adoption of a project management approach and use run the company successfully. The Remuneration Committee of project management skills in various management processes, is responsible for considering and making recommendations including risk management. The ongoing, routine risk management to the board on the policy and on the quantum, structure and processes are thus coupled with change management and specific, composition of remuneration packages of executive directors and task based, project driven risk management initiatives. senior executives. In addition, it reviews general salary increases for management and the operation of the company’s management Company-wide systems of internal control exist in all key operations incentive schemes. Rewards are linked to both individual to manage and mitigate risks and a Combined Assurance Strategy performance and the performance of the company. From time to and Plan has been implemented to further enhance the cotime, independent external studies and comparisons are used to ordination of assurance activities. Tongaat Hulett’s Combined ensure that compensation is market related. As a general principle, Assurance Plan provides a framework for the various assurance good performers are remunerated in line with the market median, providers to work together to provide assurance to the board, with high achievers and exceptional performers being rewarded through the Audit and Compliance and Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics towards the market upper quartile. 2013 55 corporate governance continued The Remuneration Committee had two meetings during the The current members are P H Staude (Chairman), J D Bhana, period under review. The record of attendance is contained in the R D S Cumbi, M Deighton, N P Dingaan, B G Dunlop, B R Gumede, table below. M C Gwala, M M Jean-Louis, G P N Kruger, G Macpherson, V C Macu, M A C Mahlari, M N Mohale, S D Mtsambiwa, Director Remuneration Committee M H Munro and S J Saunders. The Company Secretary, A B M A C Mahlari is the secretary of this committee. S G Pretorius (Chairman)1 1 1 ACCOUNTABILITY AND INTERNAL CONTROL The directors are required by the Companies Act to maintain J B Magwaza 2 2 records and prepare financial statements, which fairly present the state of affairs of the company as at the end of the financial N Mjoli-Mncube 2 2 year and the results of its operations for that year, in conformity M Mia (Chairman)2 1 1 with International Financial Reporting Standards. The financial statements are the responsibility of the directors and it is the 1: Appointed as a member and Chairman of the Remuneration responsibility of the independent external auditors to report Committee in September 2012. thereon. 2: Retired from the board at the AGM on 27 July 2012. To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities, standards A: Indicates the number of meetings held during the year while have been set, including the application of the company’s the director was a member of the committee. Internal Control Framework. Tongaat Hulett Limited’s Internal Control Framework is based on the Committee of Sponsoring B: Indicates the number of meetings attended during the year Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) Integrated while the director was a member of the committee. Framework, which has emerged as the leading framework that Nomination Committee companies and auditors use to evaluate controls. The Nomination Committee, which comprises only independent Systems of internal control are implemented to reduce the risk non-executive directors, meets as required. Its current members of error, loss or failure to achieve corporate objectives in a cost are J B Magwaza (Chairman),N Mjoli-Mncube and S G Pretorius. effective manner. These controls include the proper delegation P H Staude, as CEO, attends by invitation and M A C Mahlari is of responsibilities within a clearly defined framework of prudent the secretary. This committee’s terms of reference ensure that and effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation for board appointments a rigorous, fair and open nomination and of duties. They are monitored throughout the company and all appointment process is established which will provide a balance employees are required to maintain the highest ethical standards of appropriate skills, knowledge and experience in the boardroom in ensuring that the company’s business practices are conducted in and support strong corporate performance. The committee makes an appropriate manner, which is above reproach. recommendations to the board on the size, composition and demographics of the board, particularly in relation to the balance The company’s internal audit function operates independently between executive, non-executive and independent directors, in all operations to appraise and evaluate the effectiveness of the ensuring that there is a diversity of experience and backgrounds operational activities and the attendant business risks. Where to create a cohesive and effective board. The committee also gives necessary, recommendations are made for improvements in the consideration to succession planning, and ensures that processes systems of internal control and accounting practice based on and plans are in place for orderly succession and for appointments internal audit plans and reports which take cognisance of relative to the board and to senior management. degrees of risk of each function or aspect of business. MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Tongaat Hulett’s internal audit function, which is supported by its Executive Management Committee internal audit service provider, KPMG, has as part of its mandate, The Executive Management Committee consists of senior Tongaat performed a review of the effectiveness of the company’s internal Hulett executives. It deliberates on matters of strategy, budget and control environment, including its internal financial controls, and business planning, the effective operation of the business and to the effectiveness of its risk management process. Based on the provide leadership on key issues. The committee’s focus is on the results of these reviews, the internal audit function has confirmed alignment of activities and initiatives throughout the company’s to the Audit and Compliance and Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics operations. Committees and the board that no evidence came to light that 56 2013 the internal control environment, including its internal financial No material infractions of the Code have been reported during controls and the risk management process for the company were the period under review. ineffective. REMUNERATION REPORT Comprehensive management reporting disciplines are in place, The major principles of the company’s remuneration philosophy which include the preparation of annual budgets by all operating and policies are set out below together with the relevant details of entities. The operating boards approve individual operational the remuneration of directors, officers and executives. budgets, while the company budget is reviewed and approved by EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION the Tongaat Hulett board. Monthly results and the financial status The remuneration of senior management is determined by of the operations are reported against budgets and forecasts and taking into consideration market comparisons and an assessment compared to the results of the prior year. Profit projections and of performance related to the achievement of documented cash flow forecasts are regularly updated, taking into account measurable performance targets. Strategic and business objectives, various economic scenarios and working capital and borrowing which are reviewed periodically, as well as a general assessment of levels are monitored on an ongoing basis. performance, are taken into account. The remuneration structure CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS at senior management level consists of guaranteed pay, variable The company operates within a Code of Business Conduct and pay in the form of short term incentive bonus schemes and long Ethics, which supports its commitment to a policy of fair dealing, term incentives in the form of employee share incentive schemes. honesty and integrity in the conduct of its business. The Code of Basic Salary Business Conduct and Ethics has been reviewed and approved by The cash package of senior management is subject to annual the board, communicated and distributed to all employees across review by the Remuneration Committee and the board and is all levels in the company. The Code is based on a fundamental set with reference to relevant external market data as well as the belief that all business transactions should be legal and conducted assessment of individual performance. beyond reproach in the spirit of honesty and fairness. The company has a zero tolerance approach to any violation of the Incentive Bonus Scheme law or unethical business dealing by any employee. The Code also The incentive bonus scheme is based on a combination of the addresses conflict of interest situations and encourages employees achievement of pre-determined targets, and an assessment of the to report on any conflict or perceived conflict of interest situation. individual’s overall performance. These targets include measures of corporate and, where applicable, operational performance as This may arise due to employees being offered and receiving well as the achievement of individual performance against pregifts in return for favours, employees not being independent determined objectives related to key business strategies and from business organisations having a contractual relationship or requirements. providing goods or services to Tongaat Hulett, and employees’ personal investments taking priority over transactions for the Share Incentive Schemes company and its clients. The objective of the share incentive schemes is to strengthen the alignment of shareholder and management interests and assist in Compliance by directors and all employees to the high moral, the attraction, retention and appropriate reward of management. ethical and legal standards of the Code is mandatory, and if employees become aware of or suspect a contravention of the The Share Appreciation Right Scheme 2005 (SARS), Long Term Code, they must promptly and confidentially report it to the Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP) and Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 (DBP) Company Secretary or senior officials at management level. (collectively referred to as “the Plans”) were amended at the AGM Tongaat Hulett has engaged the services of an independent on 27 July 2010 to ensure compliance with Schedule 14 of the JSE whistle blowing service provider to provide mechanisms to report Listing Requirements and, where appropriate King III. Under these on unethical behavior or non-compliance with the Code. The share incentive schemes, senior management and employees of Audit and Compliance Committee assists the board in overseeing the company are awarded rights to receive shares in the company the consistent application of and compliance with the Code, whilst based on the value of these awards (after the deduction of management ensures its implementation across all operations employees’ tax) when performance conditions have been met, in a day to day context. Appropriate action is taken in respect the awards have vested and, in the case of the SARS, when the of all reported instances of non-compliance with the Code by share appreciation rights have been exercised. The amendment to employees. the LTIP scheme also included the introduction of retention shares 2013 57 corporate governance continued that may be awarded on the condition that the employee remains As required by the Companies Act, the remuneration of nonin the service of the company. The purpose of such awards of executive directors will be authorised by special resolution at the unconditional LTIPs is to assist with targeted key and high potential AGM and is set out on pages 124-125. employee retention. Further details of remuneration share schemes and The accounting charges to the income statement required by interest in share capital IFRS 2 Share-based Payment are accounted for as equity-settled instruments. The costs associated with the settlement of awards Page No. under the share schemes qualify for a tax deduction by the company. Executive directors’, officers and non-executive directors’ remuneration 107-108 Details of the schemes and awards made from 2005 to 31 March 2013, after approval by the Remuneration Committee and the Declaration of full disclosure 108 board, are detailed in the notes to the annual financial statements. The share incentive scheme in operation prior to 2005 was discontinued in 2005, with the previous awards continuing to run Interest of directors of the their course and no new awards being made. company in share capital 108 Performance conditions governing the vesting of the scheme Details of share schemes instruments are set at the time of each annual award and currently (including performance conditions) 109-113 (in allocations made previously and currently being made) relate to growth in earnings per share, total shareholder return, share Interest of directors of the price, return on capital employed, sugar production, a regulatory company in share-based instruments 114-116 framework for electricity generation in South Africa and bulk land sales, relative to targets that are intended to be challenging but achievable. Targets are linked, where applicable, to the company’s Non-binding advisory vote medium term business plan, over three year performance periods, on the company’s remuneration policy 126 with actual grants being set each year considering the job level and cash package of the participating employee, their individual THIRD-PARTY MANAGEMENT performance, and appropriate benchmarks of the expected No part of the company’s business was managed during the year combined value of the awards. King III refers to the application of by any third party in which any director had an interest. company performance conditions to govern the vesting of awards RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS under the Plans, and precludes the application of retesting. The The company has a process in place whereby the directors and key application of company performance conditions has been applied management have confirmed that, to the best of their knowledge, since the approval of the Plans. New awards thus have relevant the information disclosed in Tongaat Hulett Limited’s annual performance conditions, do not provide for retesting, and apply financial statements fairly represents their shareholding in the the principle of graduated vesting as recommended by King III. company, both beneficial and indirect, interest in share options of Other Benefits the company and the compensation earned from the company for Membership of an approved company pension fund is compulsory the financial year. In addition, the directors and key management for all senior management and pension and life insurance benefits have confirmed that all interests have been declared. are provided. Other benefits constitute the provision of medical INSIDER TRADING aid, gratuity at retirement and death and disability insurance. No director, officer or employee may deal either directly or NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION indirectly in the company’s shares on the basis of unpublished priceNon-executive directors receive fees for their services as directors sensitive information regarding its business or affairs. In addition, on the company board and board committees, on the basis of no director, officer or employee may trade in the company’s a fixed retainer fee and an attendance fee. Directors’ fees are shares during closed periods. Closed periods are from the end of recommended by the Remuneration Committee taking into the interim and annual reporting periods to the announcement of account market data, considered by the board, and proposed to financial and operating results for the respective periods, and while the shareholders for approval at each AGM. the company is under a cautionary announcement. 58 2013 GOING CONCERN ASSERTION roadshows in South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the company has States of America, in addition to its participation in selected adequate strategic, financial and operational resources to continue national and international conferences. Through the company’s in business for the foreseeable future. The basis upon which this website, a wide range of information is available to all shareholders assessment is made is recorded at the time of approval of the and other stakeholders, including the integrated annual report, annual financial statements. The board continues to adopt the information on investor relations, and updates of the company’s going concern basis for preparing the financial statements. activities and its many initiatives to promote stakeholder value RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS creation and sustainability. Tongaat Hulett remains committed The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the to principles of transparency, and copies of presentations given Investor Relations and Communications Executive interface to the investment community are available on the company’s regularly with institutional investors on key strategic themes and website. The company encourages the attendance of shareholders the performance of the company, through various presentations at AGMs and welcomes fruitful discussions and questions arising and scheduled meetings as per the company’s investor relations from the agenda and any additional issues of interest or concern program. The current program includes management conducting to the shareholders. 2013 59 DIRECTORATE CHAIRMAN J B Magwaza JB (71) joined Tongaat Hulett in 1975, becoming Personnel Director for Hulett Refineries in 1988. He was appointed Personnel Independent Non-Executive Director for Hulett Aluminium in 1992 and became an Executive Chairman and Director of Director on the Tongaat Hulett Board in 1994. He retired in 2003 Companies but remained on the Board in a non-executive capacity. He was BA (Psychology and appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 29 April 2009. Soc Anthropology), MA (Ind Rel) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER P H Staude Peter (59) lectured at the University of Pretoria before joining Tongaat Hulett in 1978. In 1990 he became Managing Director Chief Executive Officer of Hulett Aluminium Rolled Products and in 1996 Managing BSc (Ind Eng)(Hons) Director of Hulett Aluminium. He was appointed to the Tongaat (Cum Laude), MBA (Pretoria) Hulett Board in 1997 and became Chief Executive Officer in May 2002. He was the Chairman of Hulett Aluminium from 2002 to July 2007. He is the former Chairman of Trade and Investment KZN and a Non-Executive Director of Hulamin. INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS F Jakoet Fatima (52) has in-depth experience in various facets of large corporate business, from both a strategic and operational Director of Companies perspective, including industrial relations, transformation and BSc, CTA, CA (SA) employment equity issues. She has worked in various industries, and in positions ranging from finance to general management. She is a Non-Executive Director of MMI Holdings Ltd, Clicks Group Ltd MTN (West and Central Africa Region), Rand Refinery (Pty) Ltd and AfriSam (SA) Pty Ltd. Fatima was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2008. J John Jenitha (41) has held various financial and audit related roles at, inter alia, Discovery Holdings Ltd, Telkom SA (Ltd), Eskom, Toyota Chief Audit Executive, FirstRand SA and RMBT Property Services (Marriott Group) prior to joining Group the FirstRand Group. Jenitha has served on many Boards and Hons BCompt, CTA, CA (SA) Audit Committees of both Public and Private sector entities and is Senior Executive Program currently a Non-Executive Director of Business Connexion where Diploma in Company Direction she is also a Chairman of the Audit Committee. She was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2007. 60 2013 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS continued R P Kupara (Zimbabwean) Rachel (53) is a business woman, Executive Director of Auzano Capital Management and Chairman of Anchor Holdings Limited. Executive Director, Auzano Capital She previously also worked in the financial services sector, having Management (Pty) Ltd spent 3 years in the banking sector and 12 years in the insurance B.Acc (Hons), CA (Z), MBA sector at various senior levels, including as the Managing Director of Zimnat Insurance Company Limited and Zimnat Life Assurance Zimbabwean Company Limited. Until 2008, Rachel was a Non-Executive Director of Triangle Limited, a wholly owned Zimbabwean operation of Tongaat Hulett. She has served on the boards of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, Air Zimbabwe and as a Vice Chairman of the Zimbabwe Open University Council. She was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2009. A A Maleiane (Mozambican) Adriano (63) is a CEO and majority shareholder of MALEFINANCEIRO, Lda, a company specializing in financial Financial Analyst consultancy and MALEseguros, Lda an insurance broker. He is BSc, MSc, Dip (Acc) also CEO of BNI Banco Nacional de Investiment (Moz) (National Mozambican Investiment Bank) since February 2011. Prior to these positions he worked in the banking sector for more than 33 years where he held various key positions, including Governor of the Central Bank of Mozambique for 15 years. He also worked as National Director for Agrarian Economy in the Ministry of Agriculture. He is Lecturer of Financial Systems at Universidade Eduardo Mondlane – Faculty of Economics. He is a member of AMECON Mozambican Association of Economists and AMAI Mozambican Association of Auditors. He was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2009. N Mjoli-Mncube Nonhlanhla (54) is a business woman, and former Economic Advisor to the former Deputy President of South Africa. She has Director of Companies worked as a town and regional planner in South Africa, a survey BA, MSc, Spurs Fellowship research supervisor at Washington State University, an Executive (Massachusetts Institute of Director at a subsidiary of Murray & Roberts, Chairman of the Technology) USA National Urban Reconstruction and Housing Agency (NURCHA), Chairman of the Rural Housing Loan Fund, Women for Housing and the Open Society Institute in South Africa. She has certificates in Leadership (Harvard and Wharton Universities USA), and Technology Management (Warwick University, UK). She was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2008. S G Pretorius Brand (65) currently serves as a non-executive director on the boards of ABSA, Reunert, Italtile, RGT Smart and Tata Africa Director of Companies Holdings. He is also a member of the advisory boards of the MCom (Business Economics) National Business Initiative, Business Against Crime, the Free Market Foundation, the READ Educational Trust and the Motor Industry Ombudsman of South Africa. Prior to this he had a long and distinguished career in the motor industry at Toyota South Africa and McCarthy Limited. He retired as CEO of McCarthy and as an executive director of Bidvest on 1 March 2011. He was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2011. 2013 61 DIRECTORATE continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS T N Mgoduso Thandeka (57) is a Non-Executive Director of Ayavuna Women’s Investments and provides continuity in respect of Tongaat Director of Companies Hulett’s BEE equity participation. She is also a Non-Executive MA (Clin Psych) Board member and Chairman of the Remuneration committee of the South African Reserve Bank and Non-Executive Board member of Air Traffic Navigation Systems (ATNS). She has held various previous positions, including Executive Director of human resources at the University of Johannesburg, Executive Director of Imperial Logistics and Chief Executive Officer of Freightdynamics, a division of Transnet. She was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2010. C B Sibisi Bahle (49) is currently the Chairman of SABS and Roadcrete Chief Executive Sangena Africa (Pty) Ltd. He is a former deputy Director General of the Investments (Pty) Limited Department of Trade and Industry. He was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 2007. MA (Econ Dev) EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS B G Dunlop Bruce (59) joined Tongaat Hulett in 1980, becoming Financial Director of Tongaat Oil Products in 1983 and Managing Director Executive Director of the Maize, Animal Feeds and Poultry Division of Tongaat Foods BCom (Hons), PMD (Harvard) in 1988. He was appointed Managing Director of Hulett Refineries in 1993 and Managing Director of Tongaat Hulett Sugar in 1995. In February 2008, he was appointed the Tongaat Hulett Executive responsible for Sugar operations outside South Africa, International Sugar Marketing, the Sugar Technology Engineering Group, Renewable Energy and Animal Feeds. In September 2010, he was appointed the Tongaat Hulett Executive responsible for the Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Swaziland operations. He was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in 1997. M H Munro Murray (47) commenced full-time employment by Tongaat Hulett in 1992, having been involved with the business since 1984. Chief Financial Officer He has held a number of senior financial, commercial, market and BCom, CA (SA) general management positions in various operations. He assumed responsibility as the Financial Director and was appointed to the Tongaat Hulett Board in October 2003. 62 2013 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BUSINESS SEGMENT ANALYSIS Revenue Operating Total Total Capital Capital Depreciation Profit Assets Liabilities Employed Expenditure Rmillion 2013 Starch operations 2 859 388 1 674 443 1 231 59 93 Agricultural Land Conversion and Developments 658 350 1 762 670 1 073 1 Sugar 17 650 1 780 16 185 907 377 Zimbabwe operations 3 222 630 Swaziland operations 207 76 Mozambique operations 1 688 421 SA agriculture, milling and refining 3 920 52 Downstream value added activities 1 819 256 Centrally accounted and consolidation items (28) 215 5 908 149 51 1 14 373 2 145 21 301 8 801 18 638 1 017 472 Bulk sales/capital profit on land 16 Other capital items (1) BEE IFRS 2 charge and transaction costs (44) 722 Other valuation adjustments 3 Consolidated total 14 373 2 119 21 301 9 523 18 638 1 017 472 2012 Starch operations 2 580 363 1 691 382 1 284 71 97 Agricultural Land Conversion and Developments 366 215 1 631 446 1 214 1 Sugar 14 322 1 491 13 181 581 268 Zimbabwe operations 2 266 621 Swaziland operations 163 51 Mozambique operations 1 437 402 SA agriculture, milling and refining 3 465 93 Downstream value added activities 1 804 261 Centrally accounted and consolidation items (85) 138 5 249 87 22 12 081 1 921 17 782 7 568 15 766 674 366 Bulk sales/capital profit on land 3 BEE IFRS 2 charge and transaction costs (48) 737 Other valuation adjustments 2 Consolidated total 12 081 1 878 17 782 8 305 15 766 674 366 GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS OF REVENUE Rmillion 2013 2012 South Africa, Mozambique and Zimbabwe 11 069 9 676 Europe 2 195 1 568 Rest of Africa 767 528 Australasia 209 177 Asia and other 83 72 North America 50 60 14 373 12 081 The aggregate effect of intra-group transactions is immaterial. Geographical location of segment assets: South Africa R6 041 million; Other countries R15 260 million (2012 South Africa R6 068 million; Other countries R11 714 million) Expenditure on property, plant and equipment by geographical location of assets: South Africa R382 million; Other countries R635 million (2012 South Africa R227 million; Other countries R447 million) 2013 63 Annual Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited CONTENT S Independent Auditor’s Report .......................................................................................................................... 65 Directors’ Approval of Annual Financial Statements ............................................................................... 66 Certificate by Company Secretary .................................................................................................................... 66 Directors’ Statutory Report / Audit Committee Report ....................................................................... 67 Statements of Financial Position ....................................................................................................................... 70 Income Statements .................................................................................................................................................. 71 Statements of Other Comprehensive Income ........................................................................................... 72 Statements of Changes in Equity ...................................................................................................................... 73 Statements of Cash Flows ..................................................................................................................................... 74 Accounting Policies and Framework ............................................................................................................... 75 Notes to the Financial Statements ................................................................................................................... 83 F I NANC IA L H IG H L IG H T S 2013 2012 Revenue (Rmillion) 14 373 12 081 Profit from operations (Rmillion) 2 145 1 921 Operating profit (Rmillion) 2 119 1 878 Headline earnings (Rmillion) 1 058 891 Headline earnings per share basic (cents) 959,9 838,9 Annual dividends per share (cents) 340,0 290,0 CURRENC Y CONVER S ION GU I D E Closing rate at 31 March 2013 2012 2011 Rand/US dollar 9,21 7,67 6,80 Rand/Metical 0,30 0,28 0,22 Rand/Euro 11,82 10,24 9,66 US dollar/Euro 1,28 1,34 1,42 Average rate for year 2013 2012 2011 Rand/US dollar 8,48 7,44 7,19 Rand/Metical 0,30 0,27 0,21 Rand/Euro 10,95 10,24 9,49 US dollar/Euro 1,29 1,38 1,32 Pr epar at io n o f A nnual Fi n anci al S tat em ent s These annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards under the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer, M H Munro CA (SA) and have been audited in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa. 64 2013 Independent Auditor’s Report to the shareholders of Tongaat Hulett Limited We have audited the consolidated annual financial statements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the separate annual financial statements of Tongaat Hulett and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Limited, set out on page 63 and pages 70 to 117, which comprise the consolidated and separate statements of financial position as at Opinion 31 March 2013, the consolidated and separate income statements, In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material the consolidated and separate statements of other comprehensive respects, the consolidated and separate financial position of income, the consolidated and separate statements of changes in Tongaat Hulett Limited as at 31 March 2013, and its consolidated equity and the consolidated and separate statements of cash flows and separate financial performance and its consolidated and for the year then ended, a summary of significant accounting separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with policies and other explanatory information. International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa. Directors’ Responsibility for the Financial Statements The company’s directors are responsible for the preparation and Other reports required by the Companies Act fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with As part of our audit of the financial statements for the year ended International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements 31 March 2013, we have read the Directors’ Statutory Report, the of the Companies Act of South Africa, and for such internal Audit and Compliance Committee’s Report and the Certificate control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the by Company Secretary for the purpose of identifying whether preparation of financial statements that are free from material there are material inconsistencies between these reports and the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. audited financial statements. Auditor’s Responsibility These reports are the responsibility of the respective preparers. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial Based on reading these reports we have not identified material statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in inconsistencies between these reports and the audited financial accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those statements. However, we have not audited these reports and standards require that we comply with ethical requirements accordingly do not express an opinion on these reports. and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, Deloitte & Touche including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of Audit KZN the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making Registered Auditors those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control Per W Moodley relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the Partner financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of 2 Pencarrow Park expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal Pencarrow Crescent control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of La Lucia Ridge Office Estate accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting La Lucia, 4051 estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 23 May 2013 National Executive: LL Bam Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Office GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Risk Advisory NB Kader Tax TP Pillay Consulting K Black Clients & Industries JK Mazzacco Talent & Transformation CR Beukman Finance M Jordan Strategy S Gwala Special Projects TJ Brown Chairman of the Board MJ Comber Deputy Chairman of the Board. Regional Leader: GC Brazier A full list of partners and directors is available on request. 2013 65 Directors’ Statement of Responsibility and Approval of Annual Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited The directors are responsible for the preparation and integrity of The company’s independent external auditors, Deloitte & Touche, the consolidated annual financial statements of the company and have audited the financial statements and their unqualified report other information included in this report that has been prepared appears on page 65. in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa. The annual financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 23 May 2013 and are signed on its behalf by: The directors, supported by the Audit and Compliance Committee, are of the opinion, based on the information and explanations given by management and the internal auditors and on comment by the independent external auditors on the results of their statutory audit, that the company’s internal accounting controls are adequate, so that the financial records may be relied upon for preparing the financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets and liabilities. The directors believe that the company’s assets are protected and used as intended in all material respects with appropriate authorisation. Nothing has J B Magwaza Peter Staude come to the attention of the directors to indicate that any material Chairman Chief Executive Officer breakdown in the functioning of these controls, procedures and systems has occurred during the year. Amanzimnyama Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal In preparing the financial statements, the company has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, and has complied with all 23 May 2013 applicable accounting standards. The directors are of the opinion that the financial statements fairly present the financial position of the company at 31 March 2013 and the results of its operations for the year then ended. The directors are also of the opinion that the company will continue as a going concern in the year ahead. The independent external auditors concur with the above statements by the directors. Certificate by Company Secretary I certify that the company has lodged with the Companies of South Africa in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 and Intellectual Properties Commission all such returns as are and that all such returns are true, correct and up to date. required of a public company in terms of the Companies Act M A C Mahlari Company Secretary Amanzimnyama Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal 23 May 2013 66 2013 Directors’ Statutory Report The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual financial issued ordinary share capital as at 23 May 2013 is 108 647 700 statements for the year ended 31 March 2013. shares. NATURE OF BUSINESS SHARE CAPITAL Tongaat Hulett is an agri-processing business that includes There was no change in the listed authorised share capital of the integrated components of land management, property the company. The unlisted authorised B ordinary share capital development and agriculture. The activities are dealt with in has ceased to exist following the vesting of the employee share detail in this integrated annual report. ownership plans, as explained below. FINANCIAL RESULTS During the period, 146 894 shares were allotted (4 900 shares The net profit attributable to shareholders for the year were allotted to executive directors) in respect of options ended 31 March 2013 amounted to R1 070 million (2012: R889 million). This translates into a headline earnings exercised in terms of the company’s employee share incentive per share of 959,9 cents (2012: 838,9 cents) based on the schemes for a total consideration of R5 million. Details of the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. unissued ordinary shares and the company’s share incentive schemes are set out in notes 11, 33 and 34. DIVIDENDS An interim gross cash dividend number 170 of 150 cents per The employee (ESOP) and management (MSOP) share share was paid on 24 January 2013. A final gross cash dividend ownership plans, which were created in 2007 through the issue number 171 of 190 cents per share has been declared and is of unlisted B ordinary shares, vested in the trusts during the payable on 18 July 2013 to shareholders registered at the close current financial year, being the fifth anniversary of the issue and of business on 12 July 2013. allotment of the B ordinary shares. The financial implications and impacts of the vesting are as follows: The salient dates of the declaration and payment of this final dividend are as follows: • 9 740 908 B ordinary shares were originally issued in 2007. Last date to trade ordinary • Tongaat Hulett repurchased from the ESOP and MSOP shares “CUM” dividend Friday 5 July 2013 Trusts a total of 6 383 283 B ordinary shares, as determined Ordinary shares trade in accordance with the repurchase formulae set out in the “EX” dividend Monday 8 July 2013 Record date Friday 12 July 2013 2007 Circular to Shareholders, at an acquisition price of one Payment date Thursday 18 July 2013 cent per share, for a total amount of R63 833. • The repurchased shares were cancelled immediately. Share certificates may not be dematerialised or re-materialised, • The 3 357 625 remaining shares were converted into nor may transfers between registers take place between Tongaat Hulett ordinary shares of R1 each, ranking pari Monday 8 July 2013 and Friday 12 July 2013, both days inclusive. passu with the existing ordinary shares. • These converted shares were listed on the Johannesburg The dividend is declared in the currency of the Republic of South Stock Exchange Limited on 25 September 2012. Africa. Dividends paid by United Kingdom transfer secretaries • Set out below is a summary of the above: will be paid in British currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the close of business on Friday 5 July 2013. Shares Share Remaining issued buyback shares The dividend has been declared from income reserves. There B1 Ordinary shares 5 422 829 4 293 825 1 129 004 are no STC credits available for utilisation. A net dividend of B2 Ordinary shares 3 296 657 1 990 618 1 306 039 161,5 cents per share will apply to shareholders liable for the B3 Ordinary shares 1 021 422 98 840 922 582 local 15% dividend withholding tax and 190 cents per share for 9 740 908 6 383 283 3 357 625 shareholders exempt from paying the new dividend tax. The 2013 67 Directors’ Statutory Report CONTINUED At the previous AGM, a general authority was granted by • the assets of the company and of the group will be in excess shareholders for the company to acquire its own shares in of the liabilities of the company and the group for a period terms of the Companies Act. The directors consider that it will of 12 months from 23 May 2013. For this purpose, the assets be advantageous for the company were this general authority and liabilities will be recognised and measured in accordance to continue. Such authority will be used if the directors consider with the accounting policies used in the company’s and the that it is in the best interests of the company and shareholders group’s latest audited annual financial statements; to effect any such acquisitions having regard to prevailing • the ordinary capital and reserves of the company and circumstances and the cash resources of the company at the the group will be sufficient for the company’s and the relevant time. Shareholders will be asked to consider a special group’s present requirements for 12 months from resolution to this effect at the forthcoming AGM with the 23 May 2013; proviso that the number of ordinary shares acquired in any • the working capital of the company and the group for a one financial year may not exceed five percent of the ordinary period of 12 months from 23 May 2013 will be adequate for shares in issue at the date on which this resolution is passed. the company’s and the group’s requirements. In compliance with the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES (“JSE”), the acquisition of shares or debentures (“securities”) The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the company are pursuant to a general authority may only be made by a company reflected in note 26. subject to such acquisitions: The attributable interest of the company in the results of its • being effected through the order book operated by the JSE consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures for the year ended trading system; 31 March 2013 is as follows: • being authorised thereto by the company’s articles of 2013 2012 association; In the aggregate amount: • being authorised by the shareholders of the company in Net profit (Rmillion) 1 079 877 terms of a special resolution of the company in general Net losses (Rmillion) 6 23 meeting which will be valid only until the next AGM of the company; provided that such authority will not extend DIRECTORATE beyond 15 months from the date of the resolution; During the period, M Mia retired from the Board at the AGM • not being made at a price greater than ten percent above in July 2012. The composition of the Board at 31 March 2013 the weighted average of the market value for the securities is as follows: J B Magwaza (Chairman), P H Staude (CEO), for the five business days immediately preceding the date B G Dunlop, F Jakoet, J John, R P Kupara, A A Maleiane, on which the transaction is effected. The JSE should be T N Mgoduso, N Mjoli-Mncube, M H Munro, S G Pretorius consulted for a ruling if the company’s securities have not and C B Sibisi. traded in such five business day period. Directors retiring by rotation at the AGM in accordance with Further, in terms of the listings requirements of the JSE, the article 61 of the memorandum of incorporation are J John, directors consider that in their opinion, taking into account the R P Kupara, A A Maleiane and M H Munro. These directors are effect of the maximum acquisition by the company of shares eligible and offer themselves for re-election. Details of each of issued by it as referred to above: these retiring directors are set out on pages 60 to 62. • the company and its subsidiaries (together “the group”) will DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS be able, in the ordinary course of business, to pay its debts At 31 March 2013, the present directors of the company for a period of 12 months from 23 May 2013; beneficially held a total of 387 042 ordinary shares equivalent to 68 2013 0,36 percent in the ordinary listed share capital of the company that during the period under review it carried out its functions (2012: 320 520 shares equivalent to 0,30 percent). Details responsibly and in accordance with its terms of reference as of the directors’ shareholdings and interests in the share detailed in its report contained in the Corporate Governance incentive schemes are provided in notes 32 and 33. There has section of this integrated annual report on pages 51 to 52. In been no change in these holdings between 31 March 2013 and addition, the committee is satisfied that the designated auditors 23 May 2013. of the company are independent of the company. AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The Audit and Compliance committee has considered the There were no material events between the balance sheet date provisions of the Companies Act 2008 and has taken the and the date of this report. necessary steps to ensure compliance. The committee confirms 2013 69 STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited Company Consolidated 2012 2013 Rmillion Note 2013 2012 ASSETS Non-current assets 2 439 2 578 Property, plant and equipment 1 10 287 9 026 613 1 003 Growing crops 2 4 583 3 575 Long-term receivables, pension fund asset 474 485 and prepayments 3 455 409 Goodwill 4 300 260 64 77 Intangible assets 5 78 65 Investments 6 14 12 4 545 4 541 Subsidiaries and joint ventures 7 8 135 8 684 15 717 13 347 1 342 1 589 Current assets 5 584 4 435 471 556 Inventories 8 1 858 1 483 699 795 Trade and other receivables 2 301 1 976 131 182 Major plant overhaul costs 508 380 4 Derivative instruments 9 4 37 56 Cash and cash equivalents 10 917 592 9 477 10 273 TOTAL ASSETS 21 301 17 782 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves 140 134 Share capital 11 134 140 1 528 1 539 Share premium 1 539 1 528 BEE held consolidation shares 12 (747) (799) 1 062 856 Retained income 6 596 5 888 432 393 Other reserves 859 (48) 3 162 2 922 Shareholders’ interest 8 381 6 709 Minority interests in subsidiaries 1 371 1 087 3 162 2 922 Equity 9 752 7 796 2 232 4 075 Non-current liabilities 6 808 4 706 462 492 Deferred tax 13 1 951 1 663 1 419 3 202 Long-term borrowings 14 3 481 1 732 Non-recourse equity-settled BEE borrowings 15 722 737 351 381 Provisions 16 654 574 4 083 3 276 Current liabilities 4 741 5 280 1 112 1 353 Trade and other payables 17 2 572 1 997 2 970 1 907 Short-term borrowings 14 2 078 3 264 1 16 Derivative instruments 9 16 1 Tax 75 18 9 477 10 273 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 21 301 17 782 70 2013 INCOME STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited Company Consolidated 2012 2013 Rmillion Note 2013 2012 7 006 7 643 REVENUE 14 373 12 081 672 733 Profit from operations 2 145 1 921 104 53 Bulk sales/capital profit on land 16 3 Capital profit on other items (1) (45) (41) BEE IFRS 2 charge and transaction costs (44) (48) Valuation adjustments 3 2 731 745 Operating profit after corporate transactions 18 2 119 1 878 Share of associate company’s profit 1 (374) (457) Financing costs 20 (596) (527) 7 6 Finance income 20 36 20 364 294 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 1 559 1 372 (62) (41) Tax 21 (389) (351) 302 253 NET PROFIT 1 170 1 021 Attributable to: 302 253 Shareholders of Tongaat Hulett 1 070 889 Minority (non-controlling) interest 100 132 302 253 1 170 1 021 EARNINGS PER SHARE (cents) 23 Basic 970,7 837,0 Diluted 953,0 817,6 2013 71 Statements of Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited Company Consolidated 2012 2013 Rmillion 2013 2012 302 253 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1 170 1 021 (2) (5) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 138 1 360 Movement in non-distributable reserves: Foreign currency translation 1 143 1 362 (3) (6) Hedge reserve (6) (3) 1 1 Tax on movement in hedge reserve 1 1 300 248 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 2 308 2 381 Total comprehensive income attributable to: 300 248 Shareholders of Tongaat Hulett 2 014 2 125 Minority (non-controlling) interest 294 256 300 248 2 308 2 381 72 2013 Statements of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited Share Capital Share BEE Held Capital Share-based Hedging Retained Shareholders’ Minority Total Ordinary B Ordinary A Preferred Premium Consolidation Redemption Payment and Income Interest (nonOrdinary Shares Reserve Reserve Translation controlling) Rmillion Funds Reserves Interest CONSOLIDATED Balance at 1 April 2011 105 10 25 1 524 (868) 33 376 (1 710) 5 305 4 800 840 5 640 Share capital issued 4 4 4 Amortisation of BEE IFRS 2 charge 42 42 42 Share-based payment charge 47 47 47 Settlement of share-based payment awards (30) (30) (30) Reallocation 27 (27) Dividends paid (279) (279) (279) Dividends paid minorities (9) (9) Total comprehensive income for the year 1 236 889 2 125 256 2 381 Retained earnings 889 889 132 1 021 Movement in hedge reserve (2) (2) (2) Foreign currency translation 1 238 1 238 124 1 362 Balance at 31 March 2012 105 10 25 1 528 (799) 33 393 (474) 5 888 6 709 1 087 7 796 Share capital issued 5 5 5 Vesting of ESOP / MSOP shares 4 (10) 6 Amortisation of BEE IFRS 2 charge 37 37 37 Share-based payment charge 57 57 57 Settlement of share-based payment awards (94) (94) (94) Reallocation 15 (15) Dividends paid (347) (347) (347) Dividends paid minorities (10) (10) Total comprehensive income for the year 944 1 070 2 014 294 2 308 Retained earnings 1 070 1 070 100 1 170 Movement in hedge reserve (5) (5) (5) Foreign currency translation 949 949 194 1 143 Balance at 31 March 2013 109 25 1 539 (747) 33 356 470 6 596 8 381 1 371 9 752 COMPANY Balance at 1 April 2011 105 10 25 1 524 29 383 3 1 143 3 222 Share capital issued 4 4 Share-based payment charge 47 47 Settlement of share-based payment awards (28) (28) Dividends paid and accrued (383) (383) Total comprehensive income for the year (2) 302 300 Retained earnings 302 302 Movement in hedge reserve (2) (2) Balance at 31 March 2012 105 10 25 1 528 29 402 1 1 062 3 162 Share capital issued 5 5 Vesting of ESOP / MSOP shares 4 (10) 6 Share-based payment charge 57 57 Settlement of share-based payment awards (91) (91) Dividends paid and accrued (459) (459) Total comprehensive income for the year (5) 253 248 Retained earnings 253 253 Movement in hedge reserve (5) (5) Balance at 31 March 2013 109 25 1 539 29 368 (4) 856 2 922 2013 73 Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited Company Consolidated 2012 2013 Rmillion 2013 2012 Cash generated from operations 650 648 Operating profit before dividends 2 119 1 878 81 97 Dividends received 731 745 Operating profit 2 119 1 878 (113) (59) Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (24) (10) Adjustments for: (73) (148) Growing crops and other non-cash flow items (385) (352) 164 172 Depreciation 472 366 709 710 Cash generated from operations 2 182 1 882 Cash required by operations (35) (74) Inventories (264) (53) (64) (139) Trade and other receivables (292) (454) 4 243 Trade and other payables 500 (12) (95) 30 (Increase)/decrease in working capital (56) (519) 614 740 Cash flow from operations 2 126 1 363 (38) (10) Tax payments (239) (125) (367) (451) Net financing costs (560) (507) 209 279 Cash flow from operating activities 1 327 731 Cash flows from investing activities Expenditure on property, plant and equipment (75) (119) New (447) (329) (163) (212) Replacement (477) (336) 10 (51) Major plant overhaul cost changes (93) (9) (20) (15) Expenditure on intangible assets (15) (20) (57) (125) Capital expenditure on growing crops (157) (57) 116 72 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 40 19 Investments (1) (4) (189) (450) Net cash used in investing activities (1 150) (736) 20 (171) Net cash flow before dividends and financing activities 177 (5) Dividends paid (383) (459) Ordinary and preferred ordinary shares (347) (279) Minorities (10) (9) (383) (459) Dividends paid (357) (288) (363) (630) Net cash flow before financing activities (180) (293) Cash flows from financing activities 976 720 Borrowings raised 503 516 Non-recourse equity-settled BEE borrowings (15) (24) 4 5 Shares issued 5 4 (24) (88) Settlement of share-based payment awards (94) (30) (629) 12 Inter-group loans 327 649 Net cash from financing activities 399 466 (36) 19 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 219 173 73 37 Balance at beginning of year 592 350 Foreign exchange adjustment 106 69 37 56 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 917 592 74 2013 Accounting Policies and Framework for the year ended 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited The consolidated annual financial statements have been Assets held under finance lease agreements are capitalised prepared in accordance with International Financial at fair value and the corresponding liabilities to the lessor Reporting Standards (IFRS), Interpretations issued by the are raised. Lease finance charges are charged to profit or IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), the requirements of loss over the term of the relevant lease using the effective the Companies Act of South Africa and the SAICA Financial interest rate method. Land and capital work in progress Reporting Guides as issued by the Accounting Practices are not depreciated. All other fixed assets, including major Committee. factory overhaul costs, are depreciated and charged to profit or loss over their expected useful lives to estimated residual BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION values at rates appropriate to their use. Maintenance The consolidated financial statements include the financial expenditure on the company’s sugar mills following the statements of the company and of its subsidiaries. The cessation of crushing for the season is carried forward as results of subsidiaries are included from the date effective a current asset and charged against the following season’s control was acquired and up to the date effective control income. Where significant parts of a fixed asset item have ceased. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for on different useful lives to the item itself, these component the proportionate consolidation method from the effective parts are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal. methods of depreciation, useful lives and residual values are All material inter-company balances and transactions are reviewed annually. eliminated. Special purpose entities which were established in a recent black economic empowerment transaction have During the year under review, property, plant and equipment been and will continue to be consolidated while Tongaat were depreciated on the straight line basis using the rates Hulett carries a residual risk in these entities. set out below: Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated Agricultural land improvements 50 to 99 years subsidiaries are identified separately from Tongaat Hulett’s Buildings 30 to 50 years equity therein. The interests of minority shareholders is Plant and equipment 4 to 40 years initially measured at the date of acquisition at the minority’s Vehicles 4 to 12 years proportion of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities Furniture and equipment 3 to 10 years consolidated and thereafter, the minority’s share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition. Losses applicable On the disposal or scrapping of property, plant and to the minority in excess of the minority’s interest in the equipment, the gain or loss arising thereon is recognised in subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests of profit or loss. Tongaat Hulett except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and the financial ability to cover such INTANGIBLE ASSETS losses. An intangible asset is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance. Intangible assets are measured PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT initially at cost. After initial recognition, an intangible asset Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, including is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation. An refurbishment, less accumulated depreciation and intangible asset with a finite useful life is amortised on the impairment. Cost includes the estimated cost of dismantling straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: and removing the assets. Interest and other costs incurred software over four years, patents and licenses over four to on major capital projects are capitalised until all the twenty years and cane supply agreements over three to ten activities necessary to prepare assets for their intended use years. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not are substantially complete. amortised, but is tested annually for impairment. When an 2013 75 Accounting Policies and Framework CONTINUED intangible asset is disposed of, the gain or loss on disposal is The carrying value of investments in associates represents recognised in profit or loss. the cost of each investment including goodwill, the share of post acquisition retained income or losses and other GROWING CROPS movements in reserves. Growing crops comprise roots and standing cane. The carrying value is determined as follows: INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable Roots at current replacement cost of planting and value determined in general on the first-in-first-out and establishment, amortised over the period of their average methods. The cost of finished goods and work in productive life; progress comprises direct materials, labour and appropriate Standing cane at the estimated cane price and sucrose overhead costs. Progress payments are deducted from work content less harvesting, transport and over the in progress where applicable. Development properties weighbridge costs. comprise land valued at cost and development expenditure attributable to unsold properties. Livestock and game are GOODWILL valued at fair value less costs to sell, in accordance with Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as IAS 41. Obsolete and slow moving inventories are identified an asset at the date that control is acquired (the acquisition and suitable reductions in value are made where necessary. date). Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonMAIZE PURCHASE CONSTRUCTIVE OBLIGATIONS controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of Certain maize purchase commitments are recognised the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree as constructive obligations. Maize that relates to such a (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the constructive obligation is recognised as inventory, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, related liability is recognised as a current liability and to after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value the extent that the final purchase price includes a financing of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets exceeds the sum element, this is recognised as interest over the period of of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonthe obligation. controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the DEFERRED TAX acquiree (if any), the excess is recognised immediately in Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. On disposal of a temporary differences and deferred tax assets are subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. profit will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not ASSOCIATE COMPANIES recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill Associates are those companies, which are not subsidiaries (or negative goodwill) or from the initial recognition (other or joint ventures, over which Tongaat Hulett exercises than a business combination) of other assets and liabilities significant influence. Results of associates are equity in a transaction, which does not affect either taxable profit accounted. Any losses of associates are brought to account or accounting profit. until the investment in, and loans to, such associates are written down to a nominal amount. Thereafter losses are IMPAIRMENT accounted for only insofar as Tongaat Hulett is committed At the date of each statement of financial position, to providing financial support to such associates. Tongaat Hulett reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible 76 2013 and intangible assets to determine whether there is any economic environment in which that entity operate. indication that those assets have suffered an impairment Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount currency are recognised at the rates of exchange ruling on of the asset, being the higher of its net selling price and its the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities value in use, is assessed in order to determine the extent of denominated in such currencies are translated at the rates the impairment loss, if any. ruling at the date of the statement of financial position. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less Gains and losses arising on exchange differences are than its carrying amount, its carrying amount is reduced to recognised in profit or loss. its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately and are treated as exceptional The financial statements of entities whose functional items. currencies are different to Tongaat Hulett’s presentation currency which, because of its primary operating activities, is South African Rand, are translated as follows: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Expenditure on research is charged to profit or loss in Assets, including goodwill, and liabilities at exchange the year in which it is incurred. Development costs are rates ruling at the date of the statement of financial reviewed annually and are expensed if they do not qualify position; for capitalisation. The amount of development cost Income and expense items at the average exchange rates recognised as an asset is amortised over the estimated for the period; and useful life of the related development but not exceeding Equity items at the exchange rate ruling when they arose. five years. Resulting exchange differences are classified as a foreign REVENUE currency translation reserve and recognised directly Revenue comprises sales arising from normal trading in equity. On disposal of such an entity, this reserve is activities excluding intra-group transactions and is recognised in profit or loss. recognised when the significant risks and rewards of the goods are transferred to the buyer. In respect of the sale FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS of township properties, sales are recognised when the Recognition relevant agreements are unconditional and binding on the A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the purchaser, the purchaser has paid a meaningful deposit or statement of financial position for as long as Tongaat Hulett has made arrangements to secure payment of the purchase is a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. price, zoning and final conditions of establishment have Purchases of derivatives are recognised on trade date and been obtained and servicing arrangements and costs are sales are recognised on settlement date. Gains or losses on substantially finalised. Bulk land sales are recognised when derecognition of financial assets or liabilities are recognised the relevant agreements are unconditional and binding on in profit or loss. the purchaser and the purchaser has paid a meaningful deposit or has made arrangements to secure payment of Measurement the purchase price. In the determination of revenue, cash Financial instruments are initially measured at cost, including and settlement discounts, rebates and VAT are excluded. directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition these instruments are measured as follows: FOREIGN CURRENCIES The functional currency of each entity within Tongaat Trade and other receivables originated by Tongaat Hulett Hulett is determined based on the currency of the primary are held at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate 2013 77 Accounting Policies and Framework CONTINUED method, after deducting accumulated impairment losses. carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in profit Receivables with no fixed maturity are held at cost. or loss for the period. Held-to-maturity investments are held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method after deducting In relation to cash flow hedges, which meet the conditions accumulated impairment losses. for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the Fair value through profit or loss financial assets, available hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective for sale and cash equivalent investments are held at fair hedge is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity and the value. ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss for the Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except period. For cash flow hedges affecting future transactions, for held-for-trading financial liabilities and derivatives, the gains or losses, which are recognised in shareholders’ which are held at fair value. equity, are transferred to profit or loss in the same period in Unlisted investments are recorded at cost. which the hedged transaction affects profit or loss. Where the hedged transaction results in the recognition of an Gains or losses on subsequent measurement asset or a liability, then at the time the asset or liability is Gains or losses on subsequent measurement of financial recognised, the associated gain or loss that had previously instruments that are carried at fair value, and are not part of been recognised in shareholders’ equity is included in the a hedging relationship, are accounted for as follows: initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. Fair value through profit or loss financial assets are recognised in profit or loss for the year. Set-off Available for sale and cash equivalent investments are Where the redemption of debt, raised for major capital taken to equity until the financial asset is disposed of, or projects, is provided for by sinking funds or financial determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative instruments which allow for the legal right of set-off against gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the debt on the repayment date, and it is expected that the profit or loss for the year. debt will be settled in this way, the related income statement, statement of cash flows and statement of financial position For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified items are set off. into two categories: Financial guarantee contracts Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes Where financial guarantee contracts are entered into, these in the fair value of a recognised asset, liability or firm are regarded as insurance contracts and accounted for as commitment; and insurance arrangements. Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular GOVERNMENT GRANTS risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a Government grants are assistance by government in the forecasted transaction. form of transfers of resources to an entity in return for past or future compliance with certain conditions relating to In relation to fair value hedges, which meet the conditions the operating activities of the entity. When the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring attaching to government grants have been complied with the hedging instrument to fair value is recognised in profit they are recognised in profit or loss. When they are for or loss for the period. Any gain or loss on the hedged item expenses or losses already incurred, they are recognised attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the immediately in profit or loss. 78 2013 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The pension fund accounting disclosures are detailed in Retirement funds note 31. The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of Tongaat Hulett Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged and are administered and controlled by trustees. to profit or loss when incurred. A defined benefit scheme in South Africa for employees Post-retirement medical aid benefits and retirement previously covered The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited gratuities and in 2010/11 covered Tongaat Hulett and Hulamin. In Provision is made for post-retirement medical aid benefits December 2010 approval was granted by the trustees for and gratuities payable on retirement and is based on the the filings with the Financial Services Board on the detail present value of those liabilities for services rendered to and basis of the splitting of the old fund into two new date as determined by independent actuaries. Actuarial funds one for Tongaat Hulett and one for Hulamin. gains and losses are amortised over ten years beginning in the year that the actuarial gain or loss arises. An actuarial valuation of liabilities, based on the existing benefits, carried out as at 31 March 2012 in accordance with SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS IAS 19, showed the present value of the obligations to be The company enters into share-based payment transactions adequately covered by the fair value of the scheme assets. in terms of the employee share incentive schemes. The The IFRS standard IAS 19 required that the employer charge to profit or loss required by IFRS 2 Share-based recognise on its statement of financial position the Payment is accounted for in terms of the scheme on the relevant “defined benefit asset” relating to the accounting basis that the instruments are equity-settled. The total surplus, with a corresponding increase in earnings at amount to be expensed on a straight line basis over the the time of recognition in 2011/12. The details of the vesting period is determined with reference to the fair value accounting standards on this matter are contained in IAS 19, of the awards determined at the grant date. Non-market IFRIC 14 and AC 504. Where an asset is to be recognised, vesting conditions are included in assumptions about IAS 19 limits the amount that should be recognised. the number of awards that are expected to become due, IFRIC 14, updated in January 2010, provides guidance on this including taking into account the forfeiture of instruments matter. AC 504, issued in October 2010, provides guidance due to resignation and these assumptions are reviewed on on the application of IFRIC 14. an annual basis. The fair value of the share-based payment is measured using a binomial tree model and/or a Monte The application of these standards confirms the recognition Carlo Simulation model, as is appropriate for the various of the amounts currently and previously allocated to the schemes. Tongaat Hulett Employer Surplus Account in the Fund and recognised in Tongaat Hulett’s financial statements. The CORPORATE TRANSACTIONS CONCLUDED IN 2007 employer surplus account is being utilised for a contribution 25% BEE EQUITY PARTICIPATION TRANSACTIONS holiday and, within the regulatory framework, there is a “loan” from the pension fund to the company in respect of the employer surplus account. Broad based 18% interest held by strategic partners, cane and infrastructure communities The abovementioned defined benefit arrangement has The broad based BEE equity participation of 18%, involving been converted to a defined contribution arrangement strategic partners, cane and infrastructure communities, is with the outsourcing of existing pensioner liabilities to an held by two SPVs – the TH Infrastructure SPV (10%) and insurer. the yoMoba SPV (8%). 2013 79 Accounting Policies and Framework CONTINUED The cost related to this 18% broad based BEE equity charge incurred by the SPV is reflected in the consolidated participation was measured and recognised at the grant income statement. This BEE debt does not have recourse to date in June 2007, resulting in a once-off IFRS 2 cost of Tongaat Hulett and will effectively be equity-settled. At the R320 million being recognised in profit or loss in 2007. end of the seven year period, the preferred ordinary shares will convert into Tongaat Hulett listed ordinary shares. The BEE Infrastructure SPV participation interest, concluded in 2007, of R1,289 billion was funded through a combination Vesting of the BEE 7% employee interest of notional vendor financing (R821 million), preference The 7% BEE employee transaction of 2007, which comprises share funding (R458 million) and equity and shareholders’ the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) and the loans of R10 million. The BEE yoMoba SPV participation Management Share Ownership Plan (MSOP) reached a interest of R1,031 billion was funded through a combination point in August 2012 where vesting in the trusts took place. of notional vendor financing (R657 million), preference share funding (R367 million) and equity and shareholders’ The ESOP scheme consisted of a share appreciation right loans of R8 million. The SPVs participation interests are in scheme and participants shared in 50% of the dividend the form of preferred ordinary shares which are entitled to payable to ordinary shareholders. The MSOP scheme receive a fixed coupon every year for a period of seven years. consisted of two components, namely a share appreciation Thereafter the preferred ordinary shares will cease to receive right scheme and a share grant scheme. The ESOP Trust and MSOP Trust were established to acquire and hold preferred ordinary dividends. Tongaat Hulett has therefore Tongaat Hulett Limited shares for the benefit of designated committed to pay a fixed coupon on these preferred ordinary employees. These shares had specific repurchase terms at shares of R112 million in aggregate on an annual basis and maturity on 1 August 2012. They were a separate class of the preferred ordinary shares will not receive any ordinary restricted shares which, other than for the repurchase terms, dividends for the duration of the seven year period. In terms rank pari passu with ordinary shares and become ordinary of the notional vendor finance arrangement between the shares on maturity. respective SPVs and Tongaat Hulett (R821 million in respect of the BEE TH Infrastructure SPV and R657 million in respect The IFRS 2 costs relating to the 7% BEE employee transaction of the BEE yoMoba SPV), Tongaat Hulett will be entitled is amortised over 5 years from date of grant. The initial grant to repurchase, at a price of R0,01 per share, such number of awards occurred on 1 August 2007 and the amortisation of shares as determined in accordance with a repurchase of the IFRS 2 cost relating to this award commenced in formula, subject to the external funding claims in the SPV. the second half of 2007. These initial awards vested on The number of shares repurchased will be a function of the 1 August 2012. value of the shares subscribed for at par, the notional return required by Tongaat Hulett and the success of the earn-in The BEE employee equity participation trusts’ subscription initiatives by the respective BEE partners. In compliance consideration for the original issue in 2007 of 9 740 908 with IFRS, the two BEE SPVs are consolidated by Tongaat B ordinary shares was funded through contributions by the Hulett and consequently the preferred ordinary shares are respective operating entities in Tongaat Hulett. The notional reflected as treasury shares in the consolidated financial vendor finance provided to the employees was recovered statements and are taken into account where relevant at the maturity of the scheme through the repurchase by when calculating earnings per share. The external debt Tongaat Hulett of 6 383 283 B ordinary shares (as determined of the SPVs, amounting to R722 million in aggregate at in accordance with predetermined repurchase formulae) 31 March 2013 (2012 – R737 million), is thus reflected on the on the fifth anniversary of the effective date, at R0,01 consolidated statement of financial position and the funding per B ordinary share. These B ordinary shares were 80 2013 repurchased by Tongaat Hulett for a consideration of and consulting engineers for services infrastructure. These R63 833 and immediately cancelled. The remaining 3 357 625 costs are reviewed by management three to four times a year B ordinary shares were converted to listed ordinary shares during the forecasting process and if necessary, estimates in Tongaat Hulett Limited. Of these listed ordinary shares, are revised accordingly. At the outset as well as during the 1 880 431 shares were delivered to beneficiaries who had life of a project, judgement is applied in determining the participated in the initial award on 1 August 2007. Of the sales prices per saleable sites or bulk square metres, which is MSOP participants whose shares vested, 70% elected to hold supported with input from estate agents, external property their shares in Tongaat Hulett. A further 159 469 ordinary valuers and management on an ongoing basis as well as shares became available for delivery to employees who during the forecasting process. For phased developments, were awarded shares on 1 February 2008 and 4 057 shares judgement is applied to allocate common costs including were released in respect of those employees who had died bulk infrastructure expenditure to development phases, before expiry of their 5 year service period. The remaining taking into account factors such as expected sales values, 1 313 393 listed ordinary shares are still time constrained for land areas and development intensity. Thereafter, cost of up to five years. sales allocation to sites is determined in proportion to sales values after making allowance for site and phase specific infrastructural requirements. In accordance with IFRS, the ESOP Share Trust and MSOP Share Trust are consolidated by Tongaat Hulett and Asset lives and residual lives consequently the remaining 1 313 393 listed ordinary shares Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their are reflected as treasury shares in the consolidated financial useful lives taking into account residual values. The actual statements. These shares are taken into account for the lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually purposes of the earnings per share and headline earnings and are influenced by factors such as technological per share calculations. innovation, product life cycles and maintenance programmes. Residual value assessments consider issues JUDGEMENTS MADE BY MANAGEMENT such as market conditions, the remaining life of the asset Preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS and projected disposal values. requires estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Certain accounting policies Impairment of assets have been identified as involving complex or subjective Ongoing assessments are made regarding any potential judgements or assessments. The items for consideration impairment of assets across Tongaat Hulett, using valuation have been identified as follows: models prescribed under IFRS. Growing crop valuation Decommissioning and rehabilitation obligations in Growing crops are required to be measured at fair value respect of the environment less harvesting, transport and over the weighbridge costs. Tongaat Hulett monitors and assesses its obligations arising In determining fair value an estimate is made of the yield from decommissioning of plant and rehabilitation of the of the standing cane as well as the estimated cane price. environment on an ongoing basis. These estimates can vary from the actuals when the cane is harvested. Post-retirement benefit obligations Post-retirement benefit obligations are provided for certain In Tongaat Hulett Developments, project cost of sales existing and former employees. Actuarial valuations are determination and cost allocation to sites includes a based on assumptions which include employee turnover, future development expenditure accrual mortality rates, the discount rate, the expected long-term Judgement is applied in determining total project costs, which rate of return of retirement plan assets, healthcare costs, are supported by estimates from professional consultants inflation rates and salary increments. 2013 81 Accounting Policies and Framework CONTINUED Pension fund defined benefit asset and employer IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement surplus account IAS 19: Employee Benefits IAS 19 requires that the employer recognise on its IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements statement of financial position the relevant “Defined IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Benefit Asset” and employer surplus account allocations relating to the accounting surplus in the defined benefit Amendments to IFRS 1: Government Loans pension fund, with a corresponding increase in earnings Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures Offsetting Financial at the time of recognition. This recognition takes into Assets and Financial Liabilities account, inter alia, trustee decisions, allocations and Amendments to IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial regulatory approvals. Where an asset is recognised, Statements, IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12: IAS 19 provides certain limits (asset restrictions) on Disclosure of Interests the amounts that may be recognised. Further detail is Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Items of Other provided in note 31. Comprehensive Income Valuation of financial instruments Annual Improvements to IFRSs (2009 – 2011 cycle): The value of the derivative instruments fluctuates on a IFRS 1: First time Adoption of IFRS daily basis and the actual amounts realised may differ IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements materially from their value at the date of the statement IAS 16: Property, Plant and Equipment of financial position. IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 34: Interim Financial Reporting KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY There are no key assumptions concerning the future and Effective for annual periods beginning on or after other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the date 1 January 2014: of the statement of financial position that management Amendments to IAS 32: Offsetting Financial Assets and have assessed as having a significant risk of causing Financial Liabilities material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the Investment Entities: Amendments to IFRS 10: assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests and IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements NEW OR REVISED IFRS STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO FUTURE PERIODS Effective for annual periods beginning on or after The following relevant new and revised standards and 1 January 2015: interpretations were also in issue but not effective for IFRS 9: Financial Instruments the current period. Tongaat Hulett is in the process of Amendments to IFRS 9 (2009), IFRS 9 (2010) and evaluating the effects of these new and revised standards IFRS 7: Mandatory Effec tive Date of IFRS 9 and and interpretations but they are not expected to have Transition Disclosures a significant impact on Tongaat Hulett’s results and disclosures: Effective for the next financial year: IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 82 2013 Notes to the Financial Statements 1. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Rmillion) Consolidated Total Land, Plant and Vehicles Capitalised Capital improvements equipment and other leases work in and buildings progress Carrying value at beginning of year 9 026 2 420 4 344 1 816 63 383 Additions 924 92 284 416 2 130 Disposals (15) (10) (2) (3) Depreciation (472) (59) (272) (138) (3) Transfers 10 94 21 (125) Currency alignment 831 345 258 200 5 23 Transfer to intangible assets (7) (7) Carrying value at end of year 10 287 2 798 4 706 2 305 67 411 Comprising: 31 March 2013 At cost 13 952 3 281 7 061 3 101 98 411 Accumulated depreciation 3 665 483 2 355 796 31 10 287 2 798 4 706 2 305 67 411 31 March 2012 At cost 12 171 2 796 6 455 2 446 91 383 Accumulated depreciation 3 145 376 2 111 630 28 9 026 2 420 4 344 1 816 63 383 Company Carrying value at beginning of year 2 439 477 1 629 166 1 166 Additions 331 9 108 48 2 164 Disposals (13) (10) (3) Depreciation (172) (7) (139) (25) (1) Transfers 8 61 12 (81) Transfer to intangible assets (7) (7) Carrying value at end of year 2 578 477 1 659 191 2 249 Comprising: 31 March 2013 At cost 4 729 581 3 456 437 6 249 Accumulated depreciation 2 151 104 1 797 246 4 2 578 477 1 659 191 2 249 31 March 2012 At cost 4 435 574 3 293 398 4 166 Accumulated depreciation 1 996 97 1 664 232 3 2 439 477 1 629 166 1 166 Plant and machinery of Mozambique and Zimbabwe subsidiaries with a book value of R748 million (2012: R957 million) are encumbered as security for the secured long-term borrowings and certain short-term borrowings of R92 million (2012: R132 million). The register of land and buildings is available for inspection at the company’s registered office. 2013 83 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 2. GROWING CROPS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Carrying value at beginning of year 3 575 2 608 613 363 Gain arising from physical growth and price changes 418 375 164 102 Increase due to increased area under cane 107 135 107 122 Expenditure on new area 157 57 125 57 Decrease due to reduced area under cane (57) (45) (6) (31) Currency alignment 383 445 Carrying value at end of year 4 583 3 575 1 003 613 The carrying value comprises: Roots 2 289 1 668 705 367 Standing cane 2 294 1 907 298 246 4 583 3 575 1 003 613 Area under cane (hectares): South Africa 34 011 25 013 34 011 25 013 Mozambique 25 352 24 675 Swaziland 3 838 3 840 Zimbabwe 27 978 28 432 91 179 81 960 34 011 25 013 In terms of IAS 41: Agriculture, sugar cane growing crops are accounted for as biological assets and are measured and recognised at fair value. Changes in the fair value, replanting and agricultural operating costs incurred are included in profit or loss. · The fair value of roots is determined on a current amortised cost basis, which is adjusted for cost increases. The amortisation takes place over the life of the roots (between approximately 6 and 12 years). · The fair value of standing cane is determined by the growth of the cane, the yield, sucrose content, selling prices (including specifics such as European Union exports), less costs to harvest and transport, over-the-weighbridge costs and costs into the market. The statement of financial position reflects the following in respect of growing crops: 2013 2012 South Africa Swaziland Zimbabwe Mozambique Total Roots Hectares under cane 34 011 3 838 27 978 25 352 91 179 81 960 Amortised root value (Rand per hectare) 20 732 13 658 24 418 33 475 25 108 20 355 Cane Hectares for harvest 27 659 3 740 26 947 24 623 82 969 77 739 Standing cane value (Rand per hectare) 10 763 31 279 38 663 33 996 27 644 24 522 Yield Tons cane per hectare 66 125 100 86 86 86 Statement of Financial Position (Rmillion) Roots 705 52 683 849 2 289 1 668 Standing cane 298 117 1 042 837 2 294 1 907 Total 1 003 169 1 725 1 686 4 583 3 575 84 2013 The statement of financial position reflects the following in respect of growing crops: continued Rmillion 2013 2012 Carrying value at beginning of year 3 575 2 608 Change in fair value * 468 465 Foreign currency translation 383 445 Expenditure on new area 157 57 Carrying value at end of year 4 583 3 575 The IAS 41 fair value change included in profit or loss for the year ended 31 March 2013 is as follows: Rmillion 2013 2012 Rmillion 2013 2012 Roots 303 201 South Africa 265 191 Swaziland 15 21 Standing cane 165 264 Zimbabwe 78 214 Mozambique 110 39 Change in fair value * 468 465 Change in fair value * 468 465 * This represents the gross change in fair value. The agricultural costs actually incurred in generating this increase in fair value are charged to cost of sales. 3. LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES, PENSION FUND ASSET AND PREPAYMENTS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Long-term receivables Defined benefit pension fund asset and employer surplus account (refer to note 31) 515 469 515 469 Less current portion of employer surplus account allocation (60) (60) (60) (60) Carrying value at end of year 455 409 455 409 Prepayments Contribution to the BEE Employee Share Ownership Plan 136 136 132 132 Contribution to the BEE Management Share Ownership Plan 91 91 78 78 227 227 210 210 Less accumulated amortisation at end of year (193) (156) (180) (145) At beginning of year (156) (114) (145) (106) Charge for the year (37) (42) (35) (39) Less BEE share ownership plan consolidation shares (34) (71) 30 65 Carrying value at end of year 455 409 485 474 The prepayment relates to awards made in terms of the company’s BEE employee share ownership plans, details of which are set out in note 34. 2013 85 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 4. GOODWILL (Rmillion) Consolidated 2013 2012 Carrying value at beginning of year 260 230 Currency exchange rate changes 40 30 Carrying value at end of year 300 260 Goodwill is attributable to the Mozambique and Zimbabwe sugar operations and a Botswana and a Namibian subsidiary. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The recoverable amount of goodwill was determined from the “value in use” discounted cash flow model. The value in use cash flow projections, which cover a period of five years, are based on the most recent budgets and forecasts approved by management and the extrapolation of cash flows, which incorporate growth rates consistent with the average long-term growth trends of the market. As at 31 March 2013, the carrying value of goodwill was considered not to require impairment. 5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Cost: At beginning of year 89 50 83 45 Additions 15 20 15 20 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 7 18 7 18 Currency alignment 1 At end of year 111 89 105 83 Accumulated amortisation: At beginning of year 24 18 19 14 Charge for the year 9 5 9 5 Currency alignment 1 At end of year 33 24 28 19 Carrying value at end of year 78 65 77 64 The carrying value comprises: Software 59 28 59 27 Patents and licences 17 34 16 34 Cane supply agreements 2 3 2 3 78 65 77 64 6. INVESTMENTS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Unlisted shares at cost 13 11 Loans 1 1 Carrying value of investments (Directors’ valuation) 14 12 A schedule of unlisted investments is available for inspection at the company’s registered office. 86 2013 7. SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES (Rmillion) Company 2013 2012 Shares at cost, less amounts written off 4 397 4 397 Indebtedness by 809 514 Indebtedness to (665) (366) 4 541 4 545 Details of principal subsidiary companies and joint ventures are included in note 26. Tongaat Hulett’s proportionate share of the assets, liabilities and post-acquisition reserves of joint ventures, which comprise in the main, Effingham Development (33%) and Tongaat Hulett/IFA Resort Developments (50%) and which are included in the consolidated financial statements are set out below. Consolidated 2013 2012 Property, plant and equipment 6 7 Current assets 208 238 Current liabilities (47) (52) Interest in joint ventures 167 193 Tongaat Hulett’s proportionate share of the trading results of the joint ventures is as follows: Revenue 4 18 Profit before tax (2) 6 Tax 1 (2) Net (loss)/profit after tax (1) 4 Tongaat Hulett’s proportionate share of cash flows of the joint ventures is as follows: Cash flows from operating activities 1 18 Net cash used in investing activities (6) (2) Movement in net cash resources (5) 16 8. INVENTORIES (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Raw materials 389 251 269 217 Work in progress 17 21 16 20 Finished goods 217 192 135 103 Consumables 637 492 136 131 Development properties 493 441 Livestock and game 105 86 1 858 1 483 556 471 Included in raw materials is an amount of R209 million (2012: R157 million) that relates to the constructive obligation that has been recognised on maize procurement contracts. 2013 87 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 9. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 The fair value of derivative instruments at year end was: Forward exchange contracts hedge accounted (6) 2 (6) 2 Futures contracts hedge accounted (10) 1 (10) 1 (16) 3 (16) 3 Summarised as: Derivative assets 4 4 Derivative liabilities (16) (1) (16) (1) (16) 3 (16) 3 Further details on derivative instruments are set out in note 25. 10. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash on deposit and cash advanced, repayable on demand and excludes bank overdrafts. 11. SHARE CAPITAL (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Authorised: 150 000 000 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 150 150 150 150 30 000 000 A preferred ordinary shares of R1,00 each 30 30 30 30 Nil (2012: 6 000 000) B1 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 6 6 Nil (2012: 10 500 000) B2 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 11 11 Nil (2012: 3 200 000) B3 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 3 3 10 redeemable preference shares of R1,00 each 180 200 180 200 Issued and fully paid: 108 647 700 (2012: 105 143 181) ordinary shares of R1,00 each 109 105 109 105 25 104 976 A preferred ordinary shares of R1,00 each 25 25 25 25 Nil (2012: 5 422 829) B1 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 6 6 Nil (2012: 3 296 657) B2 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 3 3 Nil (2012: 1 021 422) B3 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 1 1 134 140 134 140 Under control of the directors: for the purposes of the employee share option schemes in accordance with previous shareholder authority: 10 604 926 shares (2012: 10 086 316 shares). in terms of a shareholders’ resolution: 5 257 159 shares (2012: 5 250 709 shares). The employee (ESOP) and management (MSOP) share ownership plans, which were created in 2007 through the issue of unlisted B ordinary shares, vested in the trusts during the current year, being the fifth anniversary of the issue and allotment of the B ordinary shares. Tongaat Hulett repurchased from the ESOP and MSOP Trusts a total of 6 383 283 B ordinary shares, as determined in accordance with the repurchase formulae set out in the 2007 Circular to Shareholders, at an acquisition price of one cent per share, for a total amount of R63 833. The repurchased shares were cancelled immediately. The 3 357 625 remaining shares were converted into Tongaat Hulett ordinary shares of R1,00 each, ranking pari passu with the existing ordinary shares and listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited on 25 September 2012. Shares in issue Share buyback Remaining shares B1 ordinary shares 5 422 829 4 293 825 1 129 004 B2 ordinary shares 3 296 657 1 990 618 1 306 039 B3 ordinary shares 1 021 422 98 840 922 582 9 740 908 6 383 283 3 357 625 88 2013 11. SHARE CAPITAL (continued) Details of the employee share incentive schemes are set out in note 33. Following the unbundling of Hulamin in 2007, the options granted to employees in terms of the original employee share option schemes, which had not been exercised at the unbundling date, were converted into two components, a Tongaat Hulett Limited component and a Hulamin Limited component, as described in note 33. At 31 March 2013, employees have an option to subscribe for 191 900 shares, at an average price of R33,86 per share (2012: 338 794 shares at an average price of R32,96 per share) in respect of the Tongaat Hulett component, and the equivalent of approximately 68 000 shares in respect of the Hulamin component (2012: 90 000 shares). The original share option schemes were replaced in 2005 with a new share incentive scheme comprising the Share Appreciation Right Scheme 2005, the Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 and the Deferred Bonus Plan 2005. In 2010, shareholders approved that retention awards be included within the Long Term Incentive Plan 2005. 12. BEE HELD CONSOLIDATION SHARES (Rmillion) Consolidated 2013 2012 25 104 976 A preferred ordinary shares of R1,00 each 839 839 1 313 393 (2012: nil) ordinary shares of R1,00 each 34 Nil (2012: 5 422 829) B1 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 136 Nil (2012: 3 296 657) B2 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 46 Nil (2012: 1 021 422) B3 ordinary shares of R1,00 each 45 873 1 066 Less amount attributable to A preferred ordinary shareholders (126) (111) Less amortisation of IFRS 2 charge on shares relating to the employee share ownership plans (notes 3 and 34) (156) 747 799 13. DEFERRED TAX (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at beginning of year 1 663 1 365 462 447 Currency alignment 194 94 Accounted for in equity (1) 1 (1) 1 Current year Income Statement charge / (relief) on: Earnings before capital profits 88 189 28 15 Capital profits 3 3 3 3 Rate change adjustment 5 16 Prior year (1) (5) (4) Balance at end of year 1 951 1 663 492 462 Comprising temporary differences relative to : Property, plant and equipment 1 345 1 264 517 483 Growing crops 842 598 281 172 Long-term receivables and pension fund asset 144 132 144 132 Current assets 151 126 8 8 Current liabilities (124) (95) (38) (32) Tax losses (279) (269) (260) (161) Other (128) (93) (160) (140) 1 951 1 663 492 462 A deferred tax asset has been raised in respect of the tax losses of foreign subsidiaries only where these losses may be utilised in the short term or will not expire in terms of applicable tax legislation. 2013 89 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 14. BORROWINGS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Long-term 3 481 1 732 3 202 1 419 Short-term and bank overdraft 2 078 3 264 1 907 2 970 5 559 4 996 5 109 4 389 Long-term borrowings comprise: Effective interest rate (%) Secured: SA Rand Repayable 2020/2021 8,20 308 339 Finance leases (refer to note 28) 7,00 3 2 3 2 Foreign Finance leases (refer to note 28) 5 311 346 3 2 Unsecured: SA Rand 3 month Bond repayable 2018/19 JIBAR + 2,60 350 350 350 350 3 month Bond repayable 2016/17 JIBAR + 2,43 400 400 400 400 3 month Repayable 2014/15 JIBAR + 1,35 668 736 668 736 3 month Repayable 2017/18 JIBAR + 2,33 500 500 3 month Repayable 2016/17 JIBAR + 2,17 250 250 3 month Repayable 2015/16 JIBAR + 2,20 600 600 3 month Repayable 2014/15 JIBAR + 2,50 500 500 Foreign Indefinite nil 5 5 3 273 1491 3 268 1 486 Long-term borrowings 3 584 1 837 3 271 1 488 Less current portion included in short-term borrowings 103 105 69 69 3 481 1 732 3 202 1 419 Plant and machinery of Mozambique and Zimbabwe subsidiaries with a book value of R748 million (2012: R957 million) are encumbered as security for the secured long-term borrowings and certain short-term borrowings of R92 million (2012: R132 million). Short-term borrowings comprise call loans and bank overdrafts with various South African financial institutions at interest rates linked to the prime overdraft rate, as well as short-term borrowings in Mozambique equivalent to R43 million (2012: R148 million) and in Zimbabwe equivalent to R79 million (2012: R108 million). Summary of future loan repayments by financial year: Year 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Thereafter Rmillion 1 138 640 694 547 401 61 90 2013 15. NON-RECOURSE EQUITY-SETTLED BEE BORROWINGS (Rmillion) Consolidated 2013 2012 The non-recourse equity-settled BEE borrowings comprise: Effective interest rate (%) 4 122 000 Class A redeemable preference shares 9,335 nacs 98 167 4 122 000 Class B redeemable preference shares 11,960 nacs 605 551 Accrued dividends 20 20 723 738 Less BEE cash resources 1 1 722 737 These borrowings relate to Tongaat Hulett’s black economic empowerment partners, yoMoba SPV (Pty) Limited and TH Infrastructure SPV (Pty) Limited, which have been fully consolidated in terms of IFRS. yoMoba SPV (Pty) Limited owns 11 157 767 A preferred ordinary shares and TH Infrastructure SPV (Pty) Limited owns 13 947 209 A preferred ordinary shares in Tongaat Hulett. The preference shares are redeemable by no later than 30 June 2014 and have a fixed coupon payable semi-annually on 2 January and 1 July each year. The total debt due will be settled by the SPVs utilising preferred ordinary dividends received from Tongaat Hulett and by the shares that they hold in Tongaat Hulett and will have no further impact on the cash flows of Tongaat Hulett. These SPVs will continue to be consolidated while Tongaat Hulett carries a residual risk in these entities. 16. PROVISIONS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Post-retirement medical aid obligations 396 357 298 274 Retirement gratuity obligations 136 116 83 77 Other 122 101 654 574 381 351 Further details on provisions are set out in note 31. 17. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Accounts payable 2 356 1 836 1 137 951 Maize obligation interest bearing 216 161 216 161 2 572 1 997 1 353 1 112 The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value. 2013 91 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 18. OPERATING PROFIT (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenue 14 373 12 081 7 643 7 006 Cost of sales (11 223) (8 885) (6 788) (6 030) Administration expenses (1 508) (1 664) (510) (449) Marketing and selling expenses (287) (259) (201) (180) Other income (including growing crops fair value change *) 790 648 589 325 Profit from Tongaat Hulett operations 2 145 1 921 733 672 Bulk sales/capital profit on land (refer to note 19) 16 3 53 104 Other capital items (refer to note 19) (1) BEE IFRS 2 charge and transaction costs (44) (48) (41) (45) Valuation adjustments 3 2 Operating profit after corporate transactions 2 119 1 878 745 731 Disclosable items included in operating profit: Income from subsidiaries: Dividends received 97 81 Management fees 78 51 Amortisation of intangible assets 9 5 9 5 Depreciation charged: Buildings 59 41 7 6 Plant and equipment 272 219 139 135 Vehicles and other 141 106 26 23 Growing crops: change in fair value * 468 465 265 192 Profit/(loss) on disposal of plant and equipment (2) 1 (1) Management fees paid to subsidiaries 1 1 Management fees paid to third parties 4 4 Technical fees paid 13 12 13 12 Operating lease charges (property, plant and vehicles) 48 43 43 38 Share-based payments: IFRS 2 charge on share options, SARS, LTIP and DBP 57 47 47 32 BEE IFRS 2 charge 37 42 35 39 Auditors’ remuneration: Fees 13 11 5 5 Other services 1 2 1 1 Net (losses)/gains on: Fair value hedges, losses on the hedged item (7) (40) (7) (40) Fair value hedges, gains on the hedging instrument 7 40 7 40 Valuation adjustments on financial instruments and other items: Translation of foreign currency: foreign cash holdings 3 3 other 7 (15) (2) (1) Other financial instruments 9 (1) 9 (5) * This represents the gross change in fair value. The agricultural costs actually incurred in generating this increase in fair value are charged to cost of sales. 92 2013 19. CAPITAL PROFITS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Comprises: Surplus on sale of land 16 3 53 104 Other (1) Capital profits before tax 15 3 53 104 Tax (refer to note 21) (3) (3) (3) (3) Capital profits after tax 12 50 101 20. NET FINANCING (COSTS)/INCOME (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Net financing costs comprise: Interest paid external (596) (528) (416) (332) Interest capitalised 1 Interest paid subsidiaries (41) (42) Financing costs (596) (527) (457) (374) Interest received external 36 20 4 5 Interest received subsidiaries 2 2 Finance income 36 20 6 7 Net financing costs (560) (507) (451) (367) 21. TAX (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Earnings before capital profits: Current 294 108 10 7 Deferred 88 189 28 15 Rate change adjustment (deferred) 5 16 Secondary tax on companies 36 36 Prior years (1) (1) 1 386 348 38 59 Capital profits: Deferred 3 3 3 3 Tax charge for the year 389 351 41 62 Foreign tax included above 250 225 10 7 2013 93 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 21. TAX (Rmillion) (continued) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Tax charge at normal rate of South African tax 436 384 82 102 Adjusted for: Non-taxable income and permanent allowances/deductions (63) (112) (50) (87) Assessed losses of foreign subsidiaries 1 (3) Non-allowable expenditure 29 23 1 1 Foreign tax rate variations (30) Foreign withholding tax 9 3 5 3 Rate change adjustment (deferred) 5 16 Secondary tax on companies 36 36 Capital gains 3 5 3 5 Prior years (1) (1) 2 Tax charge 389 351 41 62 Normal rate of South African tax 28,0% 28,0% 28,0% 28,0% Adjusted for: Non-taxable income and permanent allowances/deductions (4,0) (8,2) (17,0) (23,9) Assessed losses of foreign subsidiaries 0,1 (0,2) Non-allowable expenditure 1,9 1,7 0,3 0,3 Foreign tax rate variations (1,9) Foreign withholding tax 0,5 0,2 1,7 0,8 Rate change adjustment (deferred) 0,3 1,2 Secondary tax on companies 2,6 9,8 Capital gains 0,2 0,4 1,0 1,4 Prior years (0,1) (0,1) 0,6 Effective rate of tax 25,0% 25,6% 14,0% 17,0% 22. HEADLINE EARNINGS (Rmillion) Consolidated 2013 2012 Profit attributable to shareholders 1 070 889 Less after tax effect of: (12) 2 Capital profit on sale of land (16) (3) Capital loss on other items 1 Loss on fixed assets and other disposals 2 (15) (1) Tax charge on profit on sale of land 3 3 Headline earnings 1 058 891 Headline earnings per share (cents) Basic 959,9 838,9 Diluted 942,3 819,4 94 2013 23. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of relevant ordinary shares and qualifying preferred ordinary shares in issue during the year. In the case of basic earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year was 110 225 436 (2012: 106 208 909). In respect of diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is 112 274 481 (2012: 108 738 956) and includes 2 049 045 (2012: 2 530 047) shares that relate to employee share award schemes. 24. DIVIDENDS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Ordinary share capital Final for previous year, paid 19 July 2012: 170 cents (2012: 140 cents) 179 147 179 147 Interim for current period, paid 24 January 2013: 150 cents (2012: 120 cents) 163 126 163 126 B ordinary share capital Final for previous year, paid 19 July 2012: 170 cents (2012: 140 cents) 16 14 16 14 Interim for current period, nil (2012: 120 cents) 12 12 A preferred ordinary share capital Interim for current period, paid 30 June 2012: 223 cents (30 June 2011: 203 cents) 56 51 56 51 Final for current period, paid 31 December 2012: 223 cents (31 December 2011: 203 cents) 56 51 56 51 Accrued for three months to 31 March 2013: 223 cents (2012: 223 cents) 28 28 28 28 498 429 498 429 Less dividends relating to BEE treasury shares (151) (150) (11) (19) 347 279 487 410 The final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 190 cents per share, declared on 23 May 2013 and payable on 18 July 2013, has not been accrued. 2013 95 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 25. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (Rmillion) Financial instruments consist primarily of cash deposits with banks, unlisted investments, derivatives, accounts receivable and payable, and loans to and from associates and others. Financial instruments are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate fair value. Categories of financial instruments Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Financial assets Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 4 4 Unlisted shares at cost 14 12 Loans and receivables at amortised cost 3 672 2 683 1 305 851 3 686 2 699 1 305 855 Financial liabilities Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 16 1 16 1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 8 077 6 905 6 393 5 440 Non-recourse equity-settled BEE borrowings 722 737 8 815 7 643 6 409 5 441 Risk management is recognised as being dynamic, evolving and integrated into the core of running the business. The approach to risk management in Tongaat Hulett includes being able to identify and describe / analyse risks at all levels throughout the organisation, with mitigating actions being implemented at the appropriate point of activity. The very significant, high impact risk areas and the related mitigating action plans, are monitored at a Tongaat Hulett risk committee level. Risks and mitigating actions are given relevant visibility at various appropriate forums throughout the organisation. In the normal course of its operations, Tongaat Hulett is, inter alia, exposed to capital, credit, foreign currency, interest, liquidity and commodity price risks. In order to manage these risks, Tongaat Hulett may enter into transactions, which make use of derivatives. They include forward exchange contracts (FECs) and options, interest rate swaps and commodity futures and options. Separate committees are used to manage risks and hedging activities. Tongaat Hulett does not speculate in or engage in the trading of derivative instruments. Since derivative instruments are utilised for risk management, market risk relating to derivative instruments will be offset by changes in the valuation of the underlying assets, liabilities or transactions being hedged. The overall risk strategy remains unchanged from previous years. Capital risk management Tongaat Hulett’s overall strategy around capital structure remains unchanged from previous years and is continually reviewed in budgeting and business planning processes. Tongaat Hulett manages its capital to ensure that its operations are able to continue as a going concern, while maximising the return to stakeholders through an appropriate debt and equity balance. The capital structure of Tongaat Hulett consists of debt, which includes borrowings (long-term and short-term bank debt and bonds issued in the debt capital market), cash and cash equivalents and equity. Credit risk Financial instruments do not represent a concentration of credit risk, because Tongaat Hulett deals with a variety of major banks, and its accounts receivable and loans are spread among a number of major industries, customers and geographic areas. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited, because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international creditrating agencies. In addition, appropriate credit committees review significant credit transactions before consummation. Where considered appropriate, use is made of credit guarantee insurance. A suitable provision is made for doubtful debts. Financial guarantee contracts are accounted for as insurance arrangements. 96 2013 25. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (Rmillion) continued Past due trade receivables Included in trade receivables are debtors which are past the expected collection date (past due) at the reporting date and no provision has been made, as there has not been a significant change in credit quality, and the amounts are still considered recoverable. No collateral is held over these balances. A summarised age analysis of past due debtors is set out below. Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Less than 1 month 41 44 26 20 Between 1 to 2 months 15 12 7 4 Between 2 to 3 months 11 8 1 1 Greater than 3 months 224 353 9 2 Total past due 291 417 43 27 Provision for doubtful debts Set out below is a summary of the movement in the provision for doubtful debts for the year: Balance at beginning of year 20 17 5 6 Currency alignment 2 2 Amounts written off during the year (1) (1) (1) (Decrease)/increase in allowance recognised in profit or loss (1) 2 (2) (1) Balance at end of year 20 20 2 5 Foreign currency risk In the normal course of business, Tongaat Hulett enters into transactions denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, Tongaat Hulett is subject to transaction and translation exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A variety of instruments are used to minimise foreign currency exchange rate risk in terms of its risk management policy. In principle, it is the policy to cover foreign currency exposure in respect of liabilities and purchase commitments and an appropriate portion of foreign currency exposure on receivables. There were no speculative positions in foreign currencies at year end. All foreign exchange contracts are supported by underlying transactions. Tongaat Hulett is not reliant on imported raw materials to any significant extent. The fair values of the forward exchange contracts were established by reference to quoted prices and are categorised as Level 1 under the fair value hierarchy. Forward exchange contracts that constitute designated hedges of currency risk at year end are summarised as follows: Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Average Commitment Fair value Fair value Average Commitment Fair value Fair value contract of FEC of FEC contract of FEC of FEC rate (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) rate (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) Imports Euro 11,74 8 11,74 8 US dollar 9,32 6 9,32 6 14 14 Exports US dollar 9,26 331 (6) 2 9,26 331 (6) 2 Net total 345 (6) 2 345 (6) 2 The hedges in respect of imports and exports are expected to mature within approximately one year. The fair value is the estimated amount that would be paid or received to terminate the forward exchange contracts in arm’s length transactions at the date of the statement of financial position. 2013 97 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 25. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (Rmillion) continued Forward exchange contracts that do not constitute designated hedges of currency risk at year end are summarised as follows: Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Average Commitment Fair value Fair value Average Commitment Fair value Fair value contract of FEC of FEC contract of FEC of FEC rate (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) rate (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) Imports US dollar 8,70 6 8,70 6 UK pound 13,70 1 13,70 1 Total 7 7 Although not designated as a hedge for accounting purposes, these forward exchange contracts represent cover of existing foreign currency exposure. Tongaat Hulett has the following uncovered foreign receivables: Consolidated Company Foreign Foreign amount 2013 2012 amount 2013 2012 (million) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (million) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) US dollar 5 45 10 4 42 8 Australian dollar 6 53 43 6 53 43 New Zealand dollar 2 2 100 55 95 51 The impact of a 10% strengthening or weakening of the Rand on the uncovered Australian dollar receivable will have a R5 million (2012: R4 million) impact on profit before tax and a R4 million (2012: R3 million) impact on equity. The impact of a 10% strengthening or weakening of the Rand on the uncovered US dollar receivable will have a R5 million (2012: R1 million) impact on profit before tax and a R4 million (2012: R1 million) impact on equity. Commodity price risk Commodity price risk arises from the risk of an adverse effect on current or future earnings, resulting from fluctuations in the prices of commodities. To hedge prices for Tongaat Hulett’s substantial commodity requirements, commodity futures and options are used, including fixed and spot-defined forward sales contracts and call and put options. Tongaat Hulett Starch has secured its maize requirements for the current maize season to 31 May 2013 and a significant portion of its requirements for the period to 31 May 2014, by using a combination of unpriced procurement contracts and purchases and sales of maize futures. The fair values of the commodity futures contracts, which are set out below, were established by reference to quoted prices and are categorised as Level 1 under the fair value hierarchy. Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Tons Contract Fair Fair Tons Contract Fair Fair value value value value value value (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) (Rmillion) Futureshedge accounted: Maize futures sold 2 900 7 (15) 2 2 900 7 (15) 2 Maize futures purchased 28 200 65 5 (1) 28 200 65 5 (1) (10) 1 (10) 1 Period when cash flow is expected to occur 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 When expected to affect profit 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 (Loss)/gain recognised in hedge reserve during the year (4) 1 (4) 1 (Gain) transferred from hedge reserve and recognised in profit or loss (1) (3) (1) (3) 98 2013 25. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (Rmillion) continued Interest rate risk Tongaat Hulett is exposed to interest rate risk on its fixed rate loan liabilities and accounts receivable and payable, which can impact on the fair value of these instruments. Tongaat Hulett is also exposed to interest rate cash flow risk in respect of its variable rate loans and short-term cash investments, which can impact on the cash flows of these instruments. The exposure to interest rate risk is managed through the cash management system, which enables Tongaat Hulett to maximise returns while minimising risks. The impact of a 50 basis point move in interest rates will have a R29 million (2012: R26 million) effect on profit before tax and a R21 million (2012: R19 million) impact on equity. Liquidity risk Tongaat Hulett manages its liquidity risk by monitoring forecast cash flows on a weekly basis. There are unutilised established banking facilities of R1,75 billion (2012: R2 billion and 2011: R1,5 billion). Tongaat Hulett continues to meet the covenants associated with its long-term unsecured South African debt facilities. Borrowings inclusive of interest projected at current interest rates: Weighted average Due Interest Consolidated effective interest rate (%) within 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years After 5 years adjustment Total 2013 Bank loans 6,9 2 244 1 348 2 211 489 (891) 5 401 Foreign loans 10,0 138 (7) 131 Other borrowings 6,3 242 (7) 235 Financial lease liability 7,0 1 1 1 3 Other non-interest bearing liabilities 2 302 5 2 307 Net settled derivatives 16 16 Total for Tongaat Hulett 4 943 1 349 2 212 494 (905) 8 093 Non-recourse equity-settled BEE borrowings 82 856 (216) 722 Total including SPV debt 5 025 2 205 2 212 494 (1 121) 8 815 2012 Bank loans 7,0 3 259 210 1 203 401 (724) 4 349 Foreign loans 10,0 346 60 179 181 (157) 609 Other borrowings 6,8 185 (6) 179 Financial lease liability 5,1 6 1 1 (1) 7 Other non-interest bearing liabilities 1 747 14 1 761 Net settled derivatives 1 1 Total for Tongaat Hulett 5 544 271 1 383 596 (888) 6 906 Non-recourse equity-settled BEE borrowings 87 87 732 (169) 737 Total including SPV debt 5 631 358 2 115 596 (1 057) 7 643 2013 99 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 26. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES (Rmillion) Interest of Holding Company Equity Indebtedness 2013 2012 2013 2012 Tongaat Hulett Starch (Pty) Limited 15 15 51 36 Tongaat Hulett Developments (Pty) Limited (578) (269) Tongaat Hulett Estates (Pty) Limited Tongaat Hulett Sugar South Africa Limited 4 328 4 328 730 440 Tambankulu Estates Limited (Swaziland) Tongaat Hulett Acucareira de Mocambique, SA (Mozambique) (85%) Tongaat Hulett Acucareira de Xinavane, SA (Mozambique) (88%) Tongaat Hulett Acucar Limitada (Mozambique) Triangle Sugar Corporation Limited (Zimbabwe) Triangle Limited (Zimbabwe) Hippo Valley Estates Limited (Zimbabwe) (50,3%) The Tongaat Group Limited 54 54 (59) (59) 4 397 4 397 144 148 Except where otherwise indicated, effective participation is 100 percent. A full list of all subsidiaries and joint ventures is available from the company secretary on request. 27. GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Guarantees in respect of obligations of Tongaat Hulett and third parties 38 14 7 7 Contingent liabilities 10 10 38 24 7 17 100 2013 28. LEASES (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Amounts payable under finance leases Minimum lease payments due: Not later than one year 1 6 1 1 Later than one year and not later than five years 2 1 2 1 3 7 3 2 Less future finance charges Present value of lease obligations 3 7 3 2 Payable: Not later than one year 1 6 1 1 Later than one year and not later than five years 2 1 2 1 3 7 3 2 Operating lease commitments, amounts due: Not later than one year 41 36 38 32 Later than one year and not later than five years 58 59 52 50 Later than five years 5 4 104 95 94 82 In respect of: Property 86 78 78 68 Plant and machinery 4 9 4 9 Other 14 8 12 5 104 95 94 82 29. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS (Rmillion) Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Contracted 175 132 60 56 Approved but not contracted 312 210 202 114 487 342 262 170 Funds to meet future capital expenditure will be provided from retained net cash flows and debt financing. 2013 101 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 30. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Rmillion) During the year Tongaat Hulett, in the ordinary course of business, entered into various related party sales, purchases and investment transactions. These transactions occurred under terms that are no less favourable than those arranged with third parties. Intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation. Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Goods and services: Transacted between operating entities within the company 1 1 Between the company and its subsidiaries 706 588 Transacted between subsidiaries within Tongaat Hulett 260 400 Tongaat Hulett Pension Fund contribution cost 56 55 53 53 Administration fees and other income: Transacted between operating entities within the company 5 9 Between the company and its subsidiaries 82 55 Transacted between subsidiaries within Tongaat Hulett 119 109 Transacted with/between joint ventures within Tongaat Hulett 8 4 Paid to external related parties 4 4 Interest paid: Transacted between operating entities within the company 9 12 Between the company and its subsidiaries 41 42 Transacted with/between joint ventures within Tongaat Hulett 4 2 Interest received: Transacted between operating entities within the company 458 391 Between the company and its subsidiaries 2 2 Transacted between subsidiaries within Tongaat Hulett 57 50 Transacted with/between joint ventures within Tongaat Hulett 5 1 Sales of fixed assets: Between the company and its subsidiaries 55 110 Loan balances: Between operating entities within the company 6 054 5 606 Between the company and its subsidiaries 143 148 Pension Fund Loan Employer Surplus Account 69 96 69 96 Dividends received: Between the company and its subsidiaries 97 81 Transacted between subsidiaries within Tongaat Hulett 90 75 Other related party information: Total dividends paid refer to note 24 Directors refer to notes 32 and 33 Tongaat Hulett Developments is a guarantor for a Tongaat Hulett Limited South African long-term unsecured loan facility 102 2013 31. RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Rmillion) Pension and Provident Fund Schemes Tongaat Hulett contributes towards retirement benefits for substantially all permanent employees who depending on preference or local legislation are required to be a member of either a Tongaat Hulett implemented scheme or of various designated industry or state schemes. The Tongaat Hulett schemes are governed by the relevant retirement fund legislation. Their assets consist primarily of listed shares fixed income securities property investments and money market instruments and are held separately from those of Tongaat Hulett. The scheme assets are administered by boards of trustees each of which includes elected employee representatives. Defined Benefit Pension Scheme As explained in the Accounting Policies and Framework, a defined benefit scheme in South Africa which previously covered the old Tongaat-Hulett Group was split between Tongaat Hulett and Hulamin in 2012 and then, in 2013, the defined benefit arrangement was converted to a defined contribution arrangement with the existing pensioner liabilities being outsourced to an insurer. The following analyses are of the defined benefit arrangements: 2013 2012 Details of the IAS 19 valuation of the DB Fund (South Africa): Fair value of fund assets Balance at beginning of year 5 076 4 662 Expected return on scheme assets 366 416 Contributions by plan members 18 29 Benefits paid (192) (205) Actuarial (loss)/gain (72) 174 Settlements/conversion (4 459) Balance at end of year 737 5 076 Present value of defined benefit obligation Balance at beginning of year 3 794 3 519 Current service cost 56 91 Interest cost 261 321 Contributions by plan members 18 29 Benefits paid (192) (205) Actuarial loss 111 39 Settlements/conversion (4 048) Balance at end of year 0 3 794 Fund assets less member liabilities 737 1 282 Employer surplus account (515) (175) 222 1 107 Defined benefit pension fund asset (296) Provisions and reserves (2012: asset restriction) 222 811 Amounts included in the statement of financial position: Balance at beginning of year 469 510 Amounts recognised in profit or loss: 46 (41) Net expense in respect of defined benefit accounting (22) (41) Employer surplus account recognition 68 Balance at end of year 515 469 2013 103 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 31. RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Rmillion) continued Defined benefit pension scheme continued: 2013 2012 Amounts recognised in profit or loss: Service costs 56 91 Interest costs 261 321 Expected return on scheme assets (366) (416) Net actuarial losses recognised 183 45 Loss on settlement 411 Effect of change in asset ceiling (591) Net (income)/expense in respect of defined benefit accounting (46) 41 Asset information Equities 3 046 Fixed interest bonds 1 015 Property 102 Cash and other 737 913 737 5 076 Included in the assets of the scheme are ordinary shares held in Tongaat Hulett Limited, stated at fair value 105 Actual return on scheme assets 294 590 The principal actuarial assumptions are: Discount rate 8,00% 8,90% Salary cost and pension increase 5,75% 6,25% Expected rate of return on assets 8,00% 8,90% Experience gains/(losses) on: Plan liabilities: 55 Percentage of the present value of the plan liabilities 1,4% Plan assets: (72) 174 Percentage of plan assets (9,8%) 3,4% Basis used to determine the rate of return on assets The expected rate of return on assets has been calculated using the discount rate at the beginning of the year, which corresponds to that used in the previous valuation. This is a reasonably conservative approach, adopted on the basis that the additional returns anticipated on certain other asset classes in which the Fund is invested (e.g. equities) can only be achieved with increased risk. Estimated contributions payable in the next financial year Following the transfer of business from the Tongaat Hulett Defined Benefit Pension Fund to the Tongaat Hulett Pension Fund 2010, no further contributions are payable to the Tongaat Hulett Defined Benefit Pension Fund. The employer surplus account will be used for contributions to the Tongaat Hulett Pension Fund 2010, which is a defined contribution fund. The benefit in the next financial year is R60 million. Defined Contribution Pension and Provident Schemes The latest audited financial statements of the defined contribution schemes, including the scheme in Swaziland, reflect a satisfactory state of affairs. Contributions of R55 million, which include R23 million in respect of the Tongaat Hulett Pension Fund 2010 with effect from 1 November 2012, were expensed during the year (2012: R29 million). Zimbabwe Pension Funds The post-retirement benefit provisions for the Zimbabwe operations at 31 March 2013 amount to R269 million (2012: R219 million), including the post-retirement medical aid and the retirement gratuity provisions. 104 2013 31. RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Rmillion) continued Post-Retirement Medical Aid Benefits In the South African operations, the obligation to pay medical aid contributions after retirement is no longer part of the conditions of employment for employees engaged after 30 June 1996. A number of pensioners and current employees, however, remain entitled to this benefit. The entitlement to this benefit for current employees is dependent upon the employee remaining in service until retirement and completing a minimum service period of ten years. The Zimbabwe operations provide post-retirement medical benefits for pensioners and current employees. In Mozambique, Acucareira de Xinavane subsidises the medical contributions in respect of its pensioners. The unfunded liability for post-retirement medical aid benefits is determined actuarially each year and comprises: Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position: Present value of unfunded obligations 448 391 383 335 Unrecognised actuarial losses (52) (34) (85) (61) Net liability in the statement of financial position 396 357 298 274 The liability is reconciled as follows: Net liability at beginning of year 357 323 274 254 Currency alignment 16 9 Net expense recognised in income statement 50 49 47 42 Contributions (27) (24) (23) (22) Net liability at end of year 396 357 298 274 Amounts recognised in the income statement: Service costs 6 5 3 3 Interest costs 34 36 29 28 Net actuarial losses recognised 10 8 15 11 50 49 47 42 The principal actuarial assumptions applied are: Discount rate South Africa 8,00% 8,90% 8,00% 8,90% Mozambique 6,75% 8,00% Zimbabwe 7,60% 8,00% Health care cost inflation rate South Africa 6,75% 7,00% 6,75% 7,00% Mozambique 6,00% 6,00% Zimbabwe 6,35% 6,50% Sensitivity of healthcare cost trend rates: 1% increase in trend rate effect on the aggregate of the service and interest costs 2 2 1 1 1% increase in trend rate effect on the obligation 59 50 45 38 1% decrease in trend rate effect on the aggregate of the service and interest costs 1 1 1 1% decrease in trend rate effect on the obligation 50 42 38 32 Estimated contributions payable in the next financial year 29 26 25 23 Plan liabilities and experience gains/(losses): Plan Experience Plan Experience liability gain/(loss) liability gain/(loss) Year ended 31 March 2013 448 (17) 383 (15) Year ended 31 March 2012 391 (3) 335 (4) Year ended 31 March 2011 361 4 314 (5) Year ended 31 March 2010 (15 months) 346 3 289 (9) Year ended 31 December 2008 281 (22) 281 (22) 2013 105 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 31. RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Rmillion) continued Retirement Gratuities Tongaat Hulett has in the past made payments, on retirement, to eligible employees who have remained in service until retirement, and have completed a minimum service period of ten years. The benefit is applicable to employees in the South African and Zimbabwean operations. The unfunded liability for retirement gratuities, which is determined actuarially each year comprises: Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position: Present value of unfunded obligations 152 124 102 88 Unrecognised actuarial losses (16) (8) (19) (11) Net liability in the statement of financial position 136 116 83 77 The liability is reconciled as follows: Net liability at beginning of year 116 97 77 68 Currency alignment 8 4 Net expense recognised in income statement 21 20 15 14 Payments made (9) (5) (9) (5) Net liability at end of year 136 116 83 77 Amounts recognised in the income statement: Service costs 8 7 5 5 Interest costs 11 12 8 7 Net actuarial losses recognised 2 1 2 2 21 20 15 14 The principal actuarial assumptions applied are: Discount rate South Africa 8,00% 8,90% 8,00% 8,90% Zimbabwe 7,60% 8,00% Salary inflation rate South Africa 6,50% 7,00% 6,50% 7,00% Zimbabwe 5,60% 6,00% Estimated contributions payable in the next financial year 16 15 12 9 Plan liabilities and experience gains/(losses): Plan Experience Plan Experience liability gain/(loss) liability gain/(loss) Year ended 31 March 2013 152 (7) 102 (6) Year ended 31 March 2012 124 2 88 1 Year ended 31 March 2011 107 (1) 80 (4) Year ended 31 March 2010 (15 months) 155 (2) 71 (2) Year ended 31 December 2008 67 (9) 67 (9) 106 2013 32. DIRECTORS’ AND PRESCRIBED OFFICERS’ EMOLUMENTS AND INTERESTS (R000) Executive directors’ remuneration The executive directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2013 was as follows: Retirement Cash Cash and medical Name Package Bonus* contributions Total B G Dunlop 3 743 2 033 469 6 245 M H Munro 3 665 2 041 474 6 180 P H Staude 7 019 4 794 835 12 648 14 427 8 868 1 778 25 073 The executive directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2012 was as follows: Retirement Cash Cash and medical Name Package Bonus* contributions Total B G Dunlop 3 466 2 059 390 5 915 M H Munro 3 363 2 034 392 5 789 P H Staude 6 381 4 869 679 11 929 13 210 8 962 1 461 23 633 The requirement to include prescribed officers is covered by the above executive directors, as they exercise effective management and control. *Bonuses are reported to match the amount payable to the applicable financial period. Executive directors’ share incentive gains: 2013 2012 B G Dunlop 2 132 737 M H Munro 2 421 1 941 P H Staude 5 880 2 188 10 433 4 866 2013 107 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 32. DIRECTORS’ AND PRESCRIBED OFFICERS’ EMOLUMENTS AND INTERESTS (R000) continued Non-executive directors’ remuneration 12 months to 31 March 2013 12 months to 31 March 2012 Name Fees Other Total Fees Other Total F Jakoet 282 214 496 255 201 456 J John 258 277 535 255 253 508 R P Kupara 282 138 420 255 131 386 J B Magwaza 994 95 1 089 901 100 1 001 A A Maleiane 282 282 236 236 T N Mgoduso 255 95 350 255 103 358 M Mia (to 27 July 2012) 95 112 207 255 326 581 N Mjoli-Mncube 282 286 568 255 274 529 S G Pretorius 282 103 385 168 168 C B Sibisi 282 95 377 255 87 342 Directors who retired during the year 67 67 3 294 1 415 4 709 3 157 1 475 4 632 In the above table, “fees” relates to services as directors on the board and “other” relates to fees paid for services as committee members. Declaration of full disclosure Other than the remuneration disclosed in this note, which was paid by the company, no consideration was paid to, or by any third party, or by the company itself, in respect of services of the company’s directors, as directors of the company, during the year ended 31 March 2013. Interest of directors of the company in share capital The aggregate holdings as at 31 March 2013 of those directors of the company holding issued ordinary shares of the company are detailed below. Holdings are direct and beneficial except where indicated otherwise. Name 2013 2012 Executive directors: B G Dunlop 70 223 57 369 M H Munro 63 662 46 358 P H Staude 236 046 199 682 369 931 303 409 Non-executive directors: F Jakoet 5 000 5 000 J B Magwaza 12 111 12 111 17 111 17 111 108 2013 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES The adoption of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment (IFRS 2) in 2005 required that all awards made after 7 November 2002 be accounted for in the financial statements of the company. IFRS 2 has therefore been applied to The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited 2001 Share Option Scheme in respect of the awards made on 14 April 2003, 1 October 2003 and 21 April 2004 and to the Share Appreciation Right Scheme 2005 (SARS), the Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP), the Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 (DBP) and the Long Term Incentive Plan introduced in 2010 for retention awards. Details of awards in terms of the company’s share incentive schemes are as follows: As a result of the unbundling of Hulamin, participants in these share schemes who had not exercised their rights at the unbundling date converted their existing Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited instruments into two components, a Tongaat Hulett Limited component and a Hulamin Limited component, as detailed in the 2007 Annual Report. The obligation to settle these share schemes is in accordance with the following principles, which are in accordance with the Unbundling Agreement. Tongaat Hulett is obliged to settle all benefits under the SARS grants of 2005 and 2006 and the original share options for its own employees using Tongaat Hulett shares. It will settle the outstanding share scheme instruments that arise after the award adjustments for its own employees, by purchasing Tongaat Hulett shares in the market, or by issuing Tongaat Hulett shares. The benefit for the Hulamin component will be determined with reference to the Hulamin share price, and the Tongaat Hulett component with respect to the Tongaat Hulett share price, however, benefits arising from the Hulamin component will be settled using Tongaat Hulett shares. The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited 2001 Share Option Scheme (the Original Share Option Scheme) Under the original share option scheme, participating employees were awarded share options in the company. On vesting, the employee is entitled to purchase shares in the company and immediately sell the shares at the market price, thereby benefiting from the appreciation in the share price. The option price and number of unexercised options after the unbundling of Hulamin were apportioned into a Tongaat Hulett component (Tongaat Hulett) and a Hulamin component (Hulamin), as detailed in the 2007 Annual Report. Expiring Option price (Rand) Number of options Options exercised Options lapsed Number of options ten years from Apportioned at 31 March 2012 2012/13 2012/13 at 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Hulamin Hulett Hulett Hulett Hulett 13 May 2002 37,88 11,72 36 900 177 200 36 900 177 200 14 April 2003 24,37 7,53 67 994 144 100 58 894 9 100 144 100 1 October 2003 26,35 8,15 30 000 30 000 30 000 30 000 21 April 2004 35,90 11,10 203 900 392 100 51 100 152 800 392 100 338 794 743 400 146 894 177 200 191 900 566 200 The weighted average fair value costing of the combined Tongaat Hulett and Hulamin components of the outstanding share options granted in 2003 and 2004, determined using the binomial tree valuation model, was R11,14 per share and R16,06 per share respectively (2012: R11,14 and R16,06). No awards have been made since 21 April 2004 under the original share option scheme, which was replaced by share schemes based on equity-settled share appreciation rights, conditional shares, and a deferred annual bonus plan. The significant inputs into the model for the 2003/4 awards of the original share option scheme was: Exercise price The exercise price is the share price at grant date, as noted above, allocated between Tongaat Hulett and Hulamin. Expected option life 114 months (assume contractual plus a leaving percentage of 5%). Risk-free interest rate 9,84% Expected volatility Expected volatility of 35% is based on historical volatility determined by the statistical analysis of daily share price movements over the past three years. Expected dividends The measurement of the fair value of the share option did not take into account dividends, as no dividend payment was expected. A continuous dividend yield of 3,9% was used. Weighted average share price Tongaat Hulett component: R33,86 (2012: R32,96) and Hulamin component R10,04 (2012: R10,44) Expected early exercise Early exercise is taken into account on an expectation basis. Performance (vesting) conditions There are no performance (vesting) conditions other than the passage of time. Non-market performance conditions No non-market conditions. Market performance conditions No market conditions. Weighted average remaining life: Expected 10 months (2012: 19 months) Contractual 120 months 2013 109 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES continued Details of awards in terms of the company's share incentive schemes are as follows: continued Share Appreciation Right Scheme 2005 Under the share appreciation right scheme, participating employees are awarded the right to receive shares equal to the difference between the exercise price and the grant price, less income tax payable on such difference. The employee therefore participates in the after tax share price appreciation in the company. The vesting of the right is conditional on the achievement of Tongaat Hulett performance levels over a performance period. The grant price and number of unexercised rights after the unbundling of Hulamin were apportioned into a Tongaat Hulett component and a Hulamin component as detailed in the 2007 Annual Report. Expiring Grant price (Rand) Number of rights Rights granted Rights exercised Rights lapsed/forfeited Number of rights seven years from Apportioned at 31 March 2012 in 2012/13 in 2012/13 in 2012/13 at 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Tongaat Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Hulamin Hulett Hulett Hulett Hulett Hulett Hulett 10 May 2005 43,98 13,60 28 980 633 070 28 980 633 070 22 April 2006 73,39 22,70 504 197 796 962 459 627 3 860 44 570 793 102 20 August 2007 88,84 899 662 268 855 630 807 25 April 2008 92,74 1 129 163 322 587 806 576 22 May 2009 75,06 1 504 187 513 666 4 998 985 523 31 May 2010 97,49 1 230 462 4 390 8 366 1 217 706 31 May 2011 90,42 1 475 541 5 109 9 600 1 460 832 29 May 2012 110,21 1 376 435 8 989 1 367 446 6 772 192 1 430 032 1 376 435 1 603 214 31 953 636 930 6 513 460 793 102 The estimated fair value costing of these outstanding share appreciation rights was determined using the binomial tree valuation model and non-market performance conditions based on the following significant inputs: Exercise price The share price at grant date, as noted above. Expected option life 80 months (assume contractual plus a leaving percentage of 5%). Risk-free interest rate 2012 award: 7,26% (2011 award: 7,95%, 2010 award: 7,71%, 2009 award: 7,66%, 2008 award: 8,75%, 2007 award: 8,19% and 2006 award: 7,22%). Expected volatility Expected volatility of 28,51% (2011: 30%, 2010: 26,78%, 2009: 28%, 2008 and 2007: 27% and 2006: 35%) is based on historical volatility determined by the statistical analysis of daily share price movements over the past three years. Expected dividends The measurement of the fair value of the share appreciation rights did not take into account dividends, as no dividend payment was expected. A continuous dividend yield of 2,6% was used for the 2012 award (2011 award: 2,75%, 2010 award: 2,5%, 2009 award: 3,5%, 2008 and 2007 awards: 3,44% and 2006 award: 4,00%). Weighted average share price As above. Expected early exercise Early exercise is taken into account on an expectation basis. Time constraints Three years from grant date. Performance (vesting) conditions An increase in headline earnings per ordinary share as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Retesting of the performance condition is not allowed with effect from the 2010 award. Non-market performance conditions Growth in headline earnings per share. Market performance conditions No market conditions. Estimated fair value per right at grant date 2012 award: R21,73 (2011 award: R17,50; 2010 award: R20,00; 2009 award: R12,54; 2008 award: R16,93; 2007 award: R15,97 and the combined TH and Hulamin components: 2006 award: R18,11). Weighted average remaining life: Expected 2012 award: 74 months (2011 award: 62 months; 2010 award: 50 months; 2009 award: 38 months; 2008 award: 25 months; 2007 award: 17 months and 2006 award: 1 month). Contractual 84 months. 110 2013 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES continued Details of awards in terms of the company’s share incentive schemes are as follows: continued Long-Term Incentive Plan 2005 Under the long term incentive plan, participating employees are granted conditional awards. These awards are converted into shares on the achievement of performance conditions over a performance period. Number of Conditional Conditional awards Number of Expiring conditional awards Conditional awards awards settled lapsed/ forfeited conditional awards three years from Issue price (Rand) at 31 March 2012 granted in 2012/13 in 2012/13 in 2012/13 at 31 March 2013 22 May 2009 75,06 151 739 29 838 121 901 31 May 2010 97,49 171 916 171 916 31 May 2011 90,42 202 238 202 238 29 May 2012 110,21 342 992 1 503 341 489 525 893 342 992 29 838 123 404 715 643 The estimated fair value costing of these outstanding conditional share awards was determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation model and non-market performance conditions, based on the following significant inputs: Exercise price The share price at grant date, as noted above. Expected option life 34 months (assume contractual plus a leaving percentage of 5%). Expected dividends The measurement of the fair value of the conditional share awards did not take into account dividends, as no dividend payment was expected. A continuous dividend yield of 2,6% was used for the 2012 award (2011 award: 2,75% and 2010 award: 2,5%). Weighted average share price As above. Time constraints Three years from grant date. Performance (vesting) conditions For the 29 May 2012 award, 25% of the award will be subject to the TSR condition, 25% to the ROCE condition, 25% to a sugar production condition and 25% will be subject to the establishment of a regulatory framework for electricity in South Africa. For awards made up to 31 May 2011, 50% of the LTIP award will be subject to the TSR condition and 50% will be subject to the ROCE condition. No retesting of the performance condition is allowed. Non-market performance conditions For the 29 May 2012 award, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), sugar production and the establishment of a regulatory framework for electricity in South Africa. For awards made up to 31 May 2011, ROCE. Market performance conditions Total shareholder return (TSR). Estimated fair value per conditional award at grant date 2012 award: R47,69 (2011 award: R40,54 and 2010 award: R46,55). Weighted average remaining life: Expected 2012 award: 26 months (2011 award: 14 months and 2010 award: 2 months). Contractual 36 months. 2013 111 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES continued Details of awards in terms of the company’s share incentive schemes are as follows: continued Long-Term Incentive Plan 2005 Retention Awards Under the long term incentive plan participating employees are granted conditional awards which are converted into shares after the required service period is completed. Number of Conditional Number of Expiring conditional awards awards granted conditional awards four years from Issue price (Rand) at 31 March 2012 in 2012/13 at 31 March 2013 31 May 2011 90,42 13 200 13 200 14 November 2011 94,26 20 000 20 000 28 November 2011 90,86 20 000 20 000 16 November 2012 126,71 72 442 72 442 11 March 2013 139,39 15 000 15 000 53 200 87 442 140 642 The estimated fair value costing of these outstanding conditional share awards was based on the following significant inputs: Exercise price The share price at grant date, as noted above. Expected option life 46 months (assume contractual plus a leaving percentage of 5%) for the May 2011, 2012 and 2013 awards and 48 months (assume contractual plus a leaving percentage of 0%) for the November 2011 awards. Expected dividends The measurement of the fair value of the conditional share awards did not take into account dividends, as no dividend payment was expected. A continuous dividend yield of 2,6% was used for the 2012 and 2013 awards (2011 awards: 2,75%). Weighted average share price As above. Time constraints Four years from grant date. Performance (vesting) conditions There are no performance (vesting) conditions other than the passage of time. Non-market performance conditions No non-market conditions. Market performance conditions No market conditions. Estimated fair value per conditional award at grant date 16 November 2012 award: R92,88 and 11 March 2013 award: R102,18 (31 May 2011 award: R65,87; 14 November 2011 award: R84,31 and 28 November 2011 award: R81,27). Weighted average remaining life: Expected 16 November 2012 award: 44 months and 11 March 2013 award: 47 months (31 May 2011 award: 26 months; 14 November 2011 award: 31 months and 28 November 2011 award: 32 months). Contractual 48 months. 112 2013 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES continued Details of awards in terms of the company's share incentive schemes are as follows: continued Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 Under the deferred bonus plan, participating employees purchase shares in the company with a portion of their after tax bonus. These pledged shares are held in trust by a third party administrator for a qualifying period, after which the company awards the employee a number of shares in the company which matches those pledged shares released from the trust. Number of Conditional Conditional Number of conditional awards awards conditional Expiring Issue price awards at granted in settled in awards at three years from Rand 31 March 2012 2012/13 2012/13 31 March 2013 3 March 2010 97,32 39 651 39 651 1 June 2010 100,40 10 768 10 768 30 May 2011 93,35 37 885 37 885 30 May 2012 111,11 66 008 66 008 88 304 66 008 39 651 114 661 The estimated fair value costing of the outstanding deferred bonus share awards was based on the following significant inputs: Share price at grant date The price at which the deferred bonus share is issued, as noted above. Expected option life 34 months (assume contractual plus a leaving percentage of 5%). Expected dividends The measurement of the fair value of the deferred bonus shares did not take into account dividends, as no dividend payment was expected. A continuous dividend yield of 2,6% was used for the 2012 award (2011 award: 2,75% and the June 2010 award: 2,5%). Weighted average share price As above. Time constraints Three years from grant date. Performance (vesting) conditions There are no performance (vesting) conditions other than the passage of time. Non-market performance conditions No non-market conditions. Market performance conditions No market conditions. Estimated fair value per deferred bonus share at grant date 2012 award: R87,31 (2011 award: R71,30 and June 2010 award: R81,18). Weighted average remaining life: Expected 2012 award: 26 months (2011 award: 14 months and June 2010 award: 2 months). Contractual 36 months. The deferred bonus shares were purchased by the participating employees on 30 May 2012 in respect of the 2012 award (2011 award: purchased 30 May 2011 and the June 2010 award: purchased 4 June 2010). 2013 113 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES continued Interest of directors of the company in share-based instruments The interest of the directors in share options of the company are shown in the table below: The Original Share Option Scheme The option price and number of unexercised options after the unbundling of Hulamin were apportioned into a Tongaat Hulett component (Tongaat Hulett) and a Hulamin component (Hulamin) as detailed in the 2007 Annual Report. Option price (Rand) Number of options Number of options Apportioned at 31 March 2012 Options exercised Options lapsed at 31 March 2013 Expiring Tongaat Tongaat in 2012/13 in 2012/13 Tongaat Name ten years from Hulett Hulamin Hulett Hulamin Tongaat Hulett Hulamin Hulett Hulamin Executive directors: B G Dunlop 21 April 2004 35,90 11,10 1 100 1 100 M H Munro 14 April 2003 24,37 7,53 4 900 4 900 4 900 4 900 1 October 2003 26,35 8,15 30 000 30 000 30 000 30 000 21 April 2004 35,90 11,10 32 000 32 000 32 000 32 000 66 900 66 900 4 900 62 000 66 900 P H Staude 13 May 2002 37,88 11,72 17 000 17 000 21 April 2004 35,90 11,10 28 000 28 000 45 000 17 000 28 000 Non-executive director: * J B Magwaza 13 May 2002 37,88 11,72 6 000 6 000 Total 66 900 119 000 4 900 23 000 62 000 96 000 * The non-executive director’s share options were awarded when he was an executive director more than ten years ago. 114 2013 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES continued Interest of directors of the company in share-based instruments continued The interest of the directors in other share-based instruments of the company are shown in the table below: Share Appreciation Right Scheme 2005 The grant price and number of unexercised rights after the unbundling of Hulamin were apportioned into a Tongaat Hulett component (Tongaat Hulett) and a Hulamin component (Hulamin) as detailed in the 2007 Annual Report. Grant price (Rand) Number of rights Rights Rights Rights Number of rights Rights time Name of Expiring Apportioned at 31 March 2012 granted in 2012/13 exercised in 2012/13 lapsed in 2012/13 at 31 March 2013 constrained executive seven years Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat Hulamin Tongaat director from Hulett Hulett Hulett Hulett Hulett Hulett B G Dunlop 10 May 2005 43,98 13,60 40 597 40 597 22 April 2006 73,39 22,70 23 737 23 737 23 737 23 737 20 August 2007 88,84 25 382 25 382 25 April 2008 92,74 27 276 27 276 22 May 2009 75,06 32 736 32 736 31 May 2010 97,49 25 698 25 698 25 698 31 May 2011 90,42 29 552 29 552 29 552 29 May 2012 110,21 25 700 25 700 25 700 164 381 64 334 25 700 23 737 40 597 166 344 23 737 80 950 M H Munro 10 May 2005 43,98 13,60 21 185 21 185 22 April 2006 73,39 22,70 20 472 20 472 20 472 20 472 20 August 2007 88,84 23 830 23 830 25 April 2008 92,74 25 807 25 807 22 May 2009 75,06 30 857 30 857 31 May 2010 97,49 23 638 23 638 23 638 31 May 2011 90,42 28 669 28 669 28 669 29 May 2012 110,21 31 873 31 873 31 873 153 273 41 657 31 873 20 472 21 185 164 674 20 472 84 180 P H Staude 10 May 2005 43,98 13,60 92 810 92 810 22 April 2006 73,39 22,70 62 082 62 082 62 082 62 082 20 August 2007 88,84 71 073 71 073 25 April 2008 92,74 75 720 75 720 22 May 2009 75,06 91 120 91 120 31 May 2010 97,49 74 289 74 289 74 289 31 May 2011 90,42 87 397 87 397 87 397 29 May 2012 110,21 93 530 93 530 93 530 461 681 154 892 93 530 62 082 92 810 493 129 62 082 255 216 Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 Number of Conditional Conditional Conditional Number of Conditional Name of Expiring Original conditional awards awards awards conditional awards executive three years Issue price awards at granted in settled in lapsed in awards at time director from (Rand) 31 March 2012 2012/13 2012/13 2012/13 31 March 2013 constrained B G Dunlop 22 May 2009 75,06 9 421 1 853 7 568 31 May 2010 97,49 10 160 10 160 10 160 31 May 2011 90,42 11 734 11 734 11 734 29 May 2012 110,21 11 439 11 439 11 439 31 315 11 439 1 853 7 568 33 333 33 333 M H Munro 22 May 2009 75,06 8 880 1 746 7 134 31 May 2010 97,49 9 345 9 345 9 345 31 May 2011 90,42 11 384 11 384 11 384 29 May 2012 110,21 12 696 12 696 12 696 29 609 12 696 1 746 7 134 33 425 33 425 P H Staude 22 May 2009 75,06 26 316 5 175 21 141 31 May 2010 97,49 29 475 29 475 29 475 31 May 2011 90,42 34 829 34 829 34 829 29 May 2012 110,21 39 355 39 355 39 355 90 620 39 355 5 175 21 141 103 659 103 659 2013 115 Notes to the Financial Statements CONTINUED 33. EMPLOYEE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES continued Interest of directors of the company in share-based instruments continued The interest of the directors in other share-based instruments of the company are shown in the table below: Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 Number Conditional Conditional Number Conditional Original of conditional awards awards of conditional awards Name of Expiring Issue price awards at granted in delivered in awards at time executive director three years from (Rand) 31 March 2012 2012/13 2012/13 31 March 2013 constrained B G Dunlop 3 March 2010 97,32 3 838 3 838 1 June 2010 100,40 1 031 1 031 1 031 30 May 2011 93,35 3 383 3 383 3 383 30 May 2012 111,11 5 559 5 559 5 559 8 252 5 559 3 838 9 973 9 973 M H Munro 3 March 2010 97,32 3 609 3 609 1 June 2010 100,40 979 979 979 30 May 2011 93,35 3 492 3 492 3 492 30 May 2012 111,11 5 493 5 493 5 493 8 080 5 493 3 609 9 964 9 964 P H Staude 3 March 2010 97,32 11 959 11 959 1 June 2010 100,40 3 272 3 272 3 272 30 May 2011 93,35 10 856 10 856 10 856 30 May 2012 111,11 17 090 17 090 17 090 26 087 17 090 11 959 31 218 31 218 The deferred bonus shares were purchased by the participating employees on 30 May 2012 in respect of the 2012 award (2011 award: purchased 30 May 2011 and the June 2010 award: purchased 4 June 2010). The share awards were made and exercised at various times and the average share price for the period was R130,03 (2012: R95,46). The gains made by directors are reflected in note 32 under Directors’ and Prescribed Officers’ Emoluments and Interests. 116 2013 34. BEE EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS The BEE employee transaction, which comprises the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) and the Management Share Ownership Plan (MSOP), vested during the current financial year. The ESOP scheme consisted of a share appreciation right scheme and participants shared in 50% of the dividend payable to ordinary shareholders. The MSOP scheme consisted of two components namely a share appreciation right scheme and a share grant scheme. The ESOP Trust and MSOP Trust were established to acquire and hold Tongaat Hulett Limited shares for the benefit of designated employees. Tongaat Hulett Limited and its subsidiaries made contributions to the MSOP Trust and the ESOP Trust (refer note 3). Due to these shares having specific repurchase rights at maturity (five years from grant), they are a separate class of restricted shares which, other than for the repurchase terms, rank pari passu with ordinary shares and become ordinary shares at maturity of the scheme on 1 August 2012. Tongaat Hulett repurchased from the ESOP and MSOP Trusts a total of 6 383 283 B shares, as determined in accordance with the repurchase formulae set out in the 2007 Circular to Shareholders, at an acquisition price of one cent per share, for a total amount of R63 833. The repurchased shares were cancelled immediately. The 3 357 625 remaining shares were converted into Tongaat Hulett ordinary shares of R1,00 each, ranking pari passu with the existing ordinary shares and listed on the JSE on 25 September 2012. The tables below provide a detailed summary of the share buyback and the conversion to listed ordinary shares. Employee Share Ownership Plan Grant B1 ordinary Share Converted to Released Forefeited / Balance date shares buyback ordinary shares including deaths adjustments time in service constrained 1 August 2007 4 385 140 (3 477 644) 907 496 (907 496) 1 February 2008 207 940 (170 618) 37 322 (37 070) (252) 1 August 2008 252 460 (200 754) 51 706 (690) (1 862) 49 154 1 February 2009 141 230 (112 138) 29 092 (324) (204) 28 564 1 August 2009 113 480 (88 664) 24 816 (179) (1 113) 23 524 1 February 2010 116 430 (91 644) 24 786 (152) (304) 24 330 1 August 2010 56 600 (43 172) 13 428 (125) 133 13 436 1 February 2011 52 880 (39 763) 13 117 (93) (336) 12 688 1 August 2011 47 910 (35 216) 12 694 (252) (559) 11 883 Unallocated 48 759 (34 212) 14 547 4 222 18 769 5 422 829 (4 293 825) 1 129 004 (946 381) (275) 182 348 Management Share Ownership Plan Grant B2 ordinary B3 ordinary Share buyback Share buyback Converted to Released Awarded Balance time date shares shares B2 ordinary B3 ordinary ordinary shares including deaths constrained in service 1 August 2007 1 541 530 477 290 (971 175) (74 710) 972 935 (972 935) 1 February 2008 167 710 51 950 (95 971) (1 290) 122 399 (122 399) 1 August 2008 176 460 54 620 (107 959) (6 270) 116 851 116 851 1 February 2009 96 110 29 740 (68 158) (10 030) 47 662 (2 242) 45 420 1 August 2009 72 920 22 560 (45 263) (3 050) 47 167 47 167 1 February 2010 108 470 33 580 (63 690) (1 970) 76 390 76 390 1 August 2010 61 640 19 100 (34 600) 46 140 3 609 49 749 1 February 2011 36 250 11 210 (22 510) (1 520) 23 430 23 430 1 August 2011 110 440 34 190 (61 992) 82 638 82 638 1 February 2012 125 280 38 780 (70 323) 93 737 93 737 1 June 2012 58 620 18 170 (32 905) 43 885 43 885 1 July 2012 56 020 17 360 (31 445) 41 935 41 935 1 August 2012 2 782 2 782 1 November 2012 267 587 267 587 7 January 2013 5 000 5 000 1 March 2013 4 855 4 855 Unallocated 685 207 212 872 (384 627) 513 452 (283 833) 229 619 3 296 657 1 021 422 (1 990 618) (98 840) 2 228 621 (1 097 576) 1 131 045 2013 117 Five Year Review Financial Statistics 12 months to 12 months to 12 months to 15 months to 12 months to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 December 2013 2012 2011 2010 2008 TRADING RESULTS (Rmillion) Revenue 14 373 12 081 9 681 11 136 7 106 Profit from operations 2 145 1 921 1 338 1 691 1 132 Other net (expenses)/income (26) (43) 268 1 996# 40 Operating profit 2 119 1 878 1 606 3 687 1 172 Net financing costs (560) (507) (472) (452) (280) Share of associate company’s profit/(loss) 1 (2) 1 Profit before tax 1 559 1 372 1 132 3 236 892 Tax (389) (351) (261) (208) (212) Minority shareholders (100) (132) (38) (130) (31) Net profit attributable to shareholders 1 070 889 833 2 898 649 Headline earnings attributable to shareholders 1 058 891 806 858 583 SOURCE OF CAPITAL (Rmillion) Shareholders’ interest 8 381 6 709 4 800 4 573 3 059 Minority interests in subsidiaries 1 371 1 087 840 870 276 Equity 9 752 7 796 5 640 5 443 3 335 Deferred tax 1 951 1 663 1 365 1 272 582 Borrowings long and short-term 5 559 4 996 4 275 3 180 2 585 Non-recourse equity-settled BEE borrowings 722 737 761 787 792 Provisions 654 574 510 546 279 Capital employed 18 638 15 766 12 551 11 228 7 573 EMPLOYMENT OF CAPITAL (Rmillion) Property, plant, equipment, investments and intangibles 10 679 9 363 7 934 7 969 5 032 Growing crops 4 583 3 575 2 608 2 041 742 Long-term receivables, pension fund asset and prepayments 455 409 429 196 Inventories receivables and derivative instruments 4 667 3 843 3 170 3 218 3 358 Cash and cash equivalents 917 592 350 140 229 Total assets 21 301 17 782 14 491 13 368 9 557 Current liabilities (excluding short-term borrowings) 2 663 2 016 1 940 2 140 1 984 18 638 15 766 12 551 11 228 7 573 Ratios and Statistics EARNINGS Headline earnings per share (cents) 959,9 838,9 760,5 826,5 565,6 Dividends per share (cents) 340,0 290,0 250,0 275,0 310,0 Dividend cover (times) 2,8 2,9 3,0 3,0 1,8 PROFITABILITY Operating margin 14,9% 15,9% 13,8% 15,2% 15,9% Return on capital employed 12,8% 13,9% 11,5% 19,3% 18,8% FINANCE Debt to equity 57,0% 64,1% 75,8% 58,4% 77,5% Net debt to equity 47,6% 56,5% 69,6% 55,9% 70,6% SHARES Shares in issue (millions) issued 109 105 105 104 103 weighted 110 106 106 104 103 Market capitalisation Rmillion 15 586 10 934 10 238 10 679 6 556 Value of shares traded Rmillion 7 348 2 833 3 173 12 490 1 609 Share price (cents) balance sheet date 14 345 10 399 9 749 10 300 6 350 high 14 940 10 770 11 000 10 628 10 250 low 10 301 8 547 9 300 6 260 4 900 Volume of shares traded (millions) 56 30 34 138 21 # Other income includes the gain of R1,969 billion arising on consolidation of the Zimbabwe subsidiaries during the year ended 31 March 2010. 118 2013 Definitions PROFIT FROM TONGAAT HULETT OPERATIONS Profit from Tongaat Hulett operations comprises results of continuing operations, centrally accounted and consolidation items and included dividends from Triangle prior to the March 2010 reporting period. HEADLINE EARNINGS Headline earnings are calculated in note 22, in accordance with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants’ Circular 3/2009: Headline Earnings. HEADLINE EARNINGS PER SHARE Headline earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue. OPERATING MARGIN Profit from Tongaat Hulett operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED Profit from Tongaat Hulett operations expressed as a percentage of average capital employed, excluding capital work in progress. DEBT TO EQUITY Long and short-term borrowings divided by equity. NET DEBT TO EQUITY Long and short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents divided by equity. CAPITAL EMPLOYED Equity, minority interests, deferred tax, long and short-term borrowings and provisions. TOTAL LIABILITIES Long and short-term borrowings, provisions, trade and other payables and derivative liabilities. 2013 119 Share Ownership Analysis at 31 March 2013 Tongaat Hulett Limited Number of shareholders Spread Shares held % Held 8 464 1 1 000 shares 3 068 728 2,29 2 860 1 001 10 000 shares 8 045 134 6,02 590 10 001 100 000 shares 18 681 583 13,97 141 100 001 1 000 000 shares 39 806 465 29,76 16 more than 1 000 000 shares 64 150 766 47,96 12 071 Total 133 752 676 100,00 Category 117 Banks 12 604 071 9,42 2 BEE Infrastructure and yoMoba SPVs 25 104 976 18,77 2 BEE Share Ownership Plans 1 313 393 0,98 115 Close Corporations 148 508 0,11 128 Endowment Funds 830 600 0,62 8 458 Individuals 8 582 869 6,42 56 Insurance Companies 2 922 845 2,19 53 Investment Companies 1 312 744 0,98 20 Medical Aid Funds 398 784 0,30 205 Mutual Funds 32 816 102 24,53 2 144 Nominees and Trusts 6 718 329 5,02 68 Other Corporations 331 988 0,25 413 Pension Funds 39 147 396 29,27 280 Private Companies 1 355 036 1,01 6 Public Companies 30 537 0,03 4 Share Schemes 134 498 0,10 12 071 Total 133 752 676 100,00 Type of shareholder Non-public 5 Directors and associates of the company 387 042 0,29 4 BEE entities 26 418 369 19,75 4 Share Schemes 134 498 0,10 1 Issuer’s retirement funds 30 676 0,02 14 Total non-public 26 970 585 20,16 12 057 Public 106 782 091 79,84 12 071 Total 133 752 676 100,00 Beneficial shareholdings over three percent Public Investment Corporation (GEPF) 21 325 727 15,94 BEE TH Infrastructure SPV (Pty) Ltd 13 947 209 10,43 Allan Gray 11 771 871 8,80 BEE yoMoba SPV (Pty) Ltd 11 157 767 8,34 Investment Solutions 5 886 327 4,40 120 2013 Corporate Information Tongaat Hulett Limited Attorneys Securities Exchange Listings Registration Number: 1892/000610/06 JSE Share Code: TON Bowman Gilfillan South Africa (Primary): ISIN Number: ZAE 000096541 Cox Yeats JSE Limited Garlicke & Bousfield United Kingdom (Secondary): Company Secretary Shepstone & Wylie London Stock Exchange Taback & Associates M A C Mahlari Transfer Secretaries Independent External Auditors Business and Postal Address South Africa: Deloitte & Touche Computershare Investor Services Amanzimnyama Hill Road (Pty) Limited Tongaat Internal Auditors 70 Marshall Street KwaZulu-Natal Johannesburg 2001 P O Box 3 KPMG P O Box 61051 Tongaat 4400 Marshalltown 2107 Sponsor Telephone: +27 32 439 4019 United Kingdom: Facsimile: +27 31 570 1055 Investec Bank Limited Capita Registrars Limited Website: www.tongaat.com 100 Grayston Drive The Registry E-mail: info@tongaat.com Sandown 34 Beckenham Road Sandton 2196 Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Shareholders’ Diary Financial year end 31 March Annual general meeting July Reports and profit statements: Interim results November Annual results and final dividend declaration May Integrated annual report June Dividends: Interim Declared November Paid January Final Declared May Paid July 2013 121 Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twentySpecial Resolution Number 1 first annual general meeting of shareholders will be held at “Resolved as a special resolution that: the Corporate Office, Amanzimnyama Hill Road, Tongaat, a. the acquisition by the company of shares or debentures KwaZulu-Natal on Wednesday 31 July 2013 at 09h00. (securities) issued by it on such terms and conditions as the directors of the company may deem fit; and Order of business 1. To receive and adopt the annual financial statements of b. the acquisition by any subsidiary of the company of the company for the year ended 31 March 2013, such securities issued by the company on such terms and annual financial statements having been approved by the conditions as the directors of any such subsidiary may Board as required by Section 33(c) of the Companies Act deem fit; 2008 (“the Act”), including the reports of the directors, the Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committee, the Audit and Compliance Committee and the auditors, which are be and it is hereby approved as a general approval in terms of presented to the shareholders in the integrated annual JSE Listings Requirements; provided that: report. 1. the number of ordinary shares acquired in any one financial year shall not exceed five percent of the ordinary shares in 2. To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche (with Wentzel Moodley issue at the date on which this resolution is passed; as designated auditor) as external auditors. 2. such general approval 3. To re-elect directors in place of J John, R P Kupara, 2.1 shall be valid only until the next annual general meeting of A A Maleiane and M H Munro who retire by rotation in the company or the expiry of a period of 15 months from terms of article 61 of the memorandum of incorporation the date of this resolution, whichever occurs first, or until and who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Motions for re-election will be moved individually. varied or revoked prior thereto by special resolution at any Details of each of these retiring directors are set out on general meeting of the company; and pages 60 to 62 of the integrated annual report. 2.2 is subject to compliance with the requirements of sections 46 and 48 of the Companies Act 2008. 4. To elect the Audit and Compliance committee in terms 3. such acquisitions may not be made at a price greater than of the Companies Act 2008. The committee will comprise a minimum of three members. The proposed members ten percent above the weighted average of the market of the committee are J John (Chairman), F Jakoet and value for the securities on the JSE for the five business days R P Kupara. Details of each of these committee members immediately preceding the date on which the transaction are set out on pages 60 to 61 of the integrated annual for the acquisition is effected. The JSE will be consulted for report. a ruling if the company’s securities have not traded in such 5. To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without five business day period; modification, the following resolutions, subject to the 4. the acquisitions be effected through the order book approval of the JSE Limited (JSE): operated by the JSE trading system; 122 2013 5. the company appoints, at any point in time, only one agent The general information regarding the company, referred to effect any acquisition/s on the company’s behalf; to in paragraph 11.26(b) of the JSE Listings Requirements, 6. acquisitions will not be undertaken by the company or its is contained in the integrated annual report on the page subsidiaries during a prohibited period, as defined by the references as follows: JSE Listings Requirements; 7. when the company and/or its subsidiaries have cumulatively a. directors of the company: pages 60 to 62; repurchased three percent of the initial number (the b. major shareholders: page 120; number of that class of shares in issue at the time that c. directors’ interests in the company’s securities: page 108; general authority from shareholders is granted) of the d. directors’ responsibility statement: page 66; relevant class of securities, and for each three percent e. share capital: page 88. in aggregate of the initial number of that class acquired thereafter, a press announcement must be made giving the There have been no material changes since 31 March 2013. details required in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements, The company is not a party to any material litigation nor in respect of such acquisitions; is it aware of any pending material litigation to which it may 8. the company will ensure that its sponsor will provide the become a party. necessary letter on the adequacy of the working capital in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements, prior to the The directors collectively and individually accept full commencement of any purchase of the company’s shares responsibility for the accuracy of the information given and on the open market; certify, that to the best of their knowledge and belief, there 9. before entering the market to effect the general are no facts that have been omitted which would make any repurchase, the directors, having considered the effects of statement false or misleading, and that all reasonable enquiries the repurchase of the maximum number of ordinary shares to ascertain such facts have been made and that this notice of in terms of the foregoing general authority, will the annual general meeting contains all information required 9.1 authorize the general repurchase; by law and the JSE Listings Requirements. 9.2 resolve that the Company has passed the solvency and liquidity test described in Section 4 of the Act; and 9.3 resolve that they are satisfied that the company’s ordinary The effect of special resolution number 1 is to provide a general share capital, reserves and working capital will be adequate authority for the company and its subsidiaries to acquire shares for ordinary business purposes during the 12 month period issued by it in accordance with the provisions of the Companies referred to in Section 4 of the Act; Act and the JSE Listings Requirements. 10. this authority will be used if the directors consider that it is in the best interests of the company and shareholders Ordinary Resolution Number 1 to effect any such acquisitions having regard to prevailing “Resolved as an ordinary resolution that the directors be and circumstances and the cash resources of the company at are hereby authorised and empowered to do all such things and the relevant time.” sign all such documents and procure the doing of all such things 2013 123 Notice of annual general meeting CONTINUED and the signature of all such documents as may be necessary b. a paid press announcement giving full details, including or incidental to give effect to the approval granted in terms of the impact on net asset value and earnings per share, will special resolution number 1.” be published at the time of any issue representing, on a cumulative basis within one financial year, five percent or Ordinary Resolution Number 2 more of the number of ordinary shares of the company’s “Resolved as an ordinary resolution that the unissued shares in ordinary share capital in issue prior to such issues provided the capital of the company (other than the shares reserved for further that such issues shall not in any one financial year the purposes of The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited 2001 Share exceed five percent of the company’s issued ordinary share Option Scheme) be and are hereby placed under the control capital; and of the directors of the company who are hereby authorised c. in determining the price at which an issue of shares to allot and issue such shares at their discretion, including for will be made in terms of this authority, the maximum scrip dividend distribution or capital funding optimisation discount permitted shall be ten percent of the weighted if appropriate, upon such terms and conditions as they may determine, subject to the proviso that the aggregate number average traded price of the shares in question over the 30 of shares to be allotted and issued in terms of this resolution business days prior to the date that the price of the issue shall be limited to five percent of the number of shares in issue is determined or agreed by the directors. The JSE will be at 31 July 2013 and subject to the provisions of the Companies consulted for a ruling if the company’s securities have not Act and the JSE Listings Requirements.” traded in such 30 business day period.” Ordinary Resolution Number 3 Special Resolution Number 2 “Resolved as an ordinary resolution that subject to the passing “Resolved as a special resolution that the remuneration, as set of ordinary resolution number 2 and the approval of a 75 out in the table below, to be paid to directors for their service as percent majority of the votes cast by shareholders present in directors of the company for the ensuing year, as recommended person or represented by proxy at the annual general meeting by the Remuneration Committee and the Board, subject to at which this resolution is proposed, and the JSE Listings approval by the shareholders at the annual general meeting, be Requirements, the directors of the company be and are hereby and are hereby approved.” authorised and empowered to allot and issue for cash, without restriction, all or any of the unissued shares in the capital of Sections 66(8) and (9) of the Companies Act 2008 provide the company placed under their control in terms of ordinary that the company may pay remuneration to its directors for resolution number 2 as they in their discretion may deem fit (including for the reasons explained in ordinary resolution their service as directors in accordance with a special resolution number 2), provided that: approved by the shareholders. Any special committee meeting, if required, would earn the a. this authority shall not extend beyond 15 months from the same fees as the Remuneration Committee or Risk, SHE, Social date of this annual general meeting; and Ethics Committee. 124 2013 Proposed Directors’ Fees from 31 July 2013 to 2014 AGM Proposed annual fees Existing annual fees from July 2013 AGM to 2014 AGM Annual Attendance Annual Attendance Type of fee Fixed/Retainer Fee Per Fixed/Retainer Fee Per Fee Meeting Fee Meeting R R R R Tongaat Hulett Board: Chairman 617 717 82 361 660 957 88 126 Non-Executive Directors 174 905 23 321 187 148 24 953 Audit and Compliance Committee: Chairman 171 723 38 161 183 743 40 832 Non-Executive Directors 85 870 19 078 91 880 20 413 Remuneration Committee: Chairman 137 009 30 432 146 600 32 562 Non-Executive Directors 68 499 15 216 73 294 16 281 Risk, SHE, Social and Ethics Committee Chairman 137 009 30 432 146 600 32 562 Non-Executive Directors 68 499 15 216 73 294 16 281 Special Resolution Number 3 Act) that the directors may deem fit to any related or interThe company acts, inter alia, as treasury manager to its related company or corporation of the company (as defined subsidiary and associate companies providing financial in the Companies Act), on the terms and conditions and for assistance, including in the form of inter-company loans and amounts that the directors may determine.” the guaranteeing of their debts, as and when appropriate in the course of business. Prior to the commencement of the Companies Act 2008 on 1 May 2011, the directors were entitled in general to authorise “Resolved as a special resolution that the directors be and are the company to provide such financial assistance without hereby granted the authority, subject to and as required in the need to obtain shareholder approval. The above special terms of the provisions of section 45 of the Companies Act resolution number 3 (approved by shareholders for the first 2008, as amended, to authorise the company to provide direct time in 2011) grants the directors the authority (in place for a or indirect financial assistance (as defined in the Companies period of two years from the date of its adoption) now required 2013 125 Notice of annual general meeting CONTINUED by the Companies Act to authorise the company to provide attend the annual general meeting or timeously provide such financial assistance for purposes of funding group activities. shareholder’s CSDP or broker with such shareholder’s voting It does not authorise the provision of financial assistance to a instruction in order for the CSDP or broker to vote on such director or prescribed officer of the company. shareholder’s behalf at the annual general meeting. A proxy form is enclosed for use by shareholders holding certificated In order for this special resolution number 3 to be adopted, the ordinary shares in the company or dematerialised ordinary support of at least 75% (seventy-five per cent) of the voting shares in the company through a CSDP and who have selected rights exercised on the resolution is required. “own name” registration. Such proxy form, duly completed should be forwarded to reach the transfer secretaries of the Non-binding advisory vote on remuneration policy company, by no later than 09h00 on Monday 29 July 2013. The “Resolved to endorse, through a non-binding advisory vote, the completion of a proxy form will not preclude a member from company’s remuneration policy and its implementation as set attending the meeting. out in the Remuneration report contained on pages 57 to 58 of this integrated annual report.” By order of the Board 6. To transact such other business as may be transacted at a general meeting. Voting M A C Mahlari Any shareholder who holds certificated ordinary shares in the Company Secretary company or who holds dematerialised ordinary shares in the company through a Central Securities Depository Participant Amanzimnyama (CSDP) and who has selected “own name” registration, may Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting or may appoint any other person or persons (none of whom need be a 23 May 2013 shareholder) as a proxy or proxies, to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting in such shareholder’s stead. Should any shareholder who holds dematerialised ordinary shares in the company and has not selected “own name” registration, wish to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting, such shareholder should timeously inform his CSDP or broker for the purposes of obtaining the necessary letter of representation from such shareholder’s CSDP or broker to 126 2013 Registration Number: 1892/000610/06 Share Code: TON ISIN: ZAE000096541 FORM OF PROXY FOR ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Note: All beneficial shareowners that have dematerialised their shares through a CSDP or broker, other than those which are in “own name”, must NOT COMPLETE THIS FORM. Instead, they must either provide the CSDP or broker with their voting instructions, or alternatively, should they wish to attend the meeting themselves, they may request the CSDP or broker to provide them with a letter of representation in terms of the custody agreement entered into between themselves and the CSDP or broker. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting mentioned below is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend, speak and, on a poll, to vote in his stead. A proxy need not be a member of the company. I / We (Name in block letters) of (Address in block letters) being the holder/holders of ordinary shares in Tongaat Hulett Limited do hereby appoint or failing him, Mr J B Magwaza or failing him, Mr P H Staude as my/our proxy to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the annual general meeting of the company to be held at 09h00 on Wednesday 31 July 2013 for the purpose of considering and, if deemed fit, passing, with or without modification, the resolutions to be proposed thereat, at each adjournment thereof and to vote on the resolutions in respect of the ordinary shares registered in my/our name/s in accordance with the following instructions. Proposed resolution For Against Abstain Adoption of financial statements. Re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche as auditors (with Mr W Moodley as designated auditor). Re-election of directors: J John R P Kupara A A Maleiane M H Munro Election of Audit and Compliance Committee until the next AGM: J John F Jakoet R P Kupara Special Resolution Number 1 authorising the repurchase of issued ordinary shares to a maximum of five percent in any year. Ordinary Resolution Number 1 authorising directors to give effect to Special Resolution No.1 Ordinary Resolution Number 2 authorising the placing of unissued share capital under the control of directors to a maximum of five percent of the issued share capital. Ordinary Resolution Number 3 authorising directors to issue for cash unissued shares in terms of Ordinary Resolution No. 2. Special Resolution Number 2 authorising the remuneration payable to directors for their service as directors of the company. Special resolution Number 3 giving authority to directors to authorise the company, which acts, inter alia, as treasury manager to its subsidiaries and associates, to provide funding assistance as per section 45 of the Companies Act. Non-binding advisory vote endorsing the company’s remuneration policy. Signed this day of 2013 Signature Completed forms of proxy must be received at the office of the company’s transfer secretaries by not later than 09h00 on Monday, 29 July 2013. South Africa: Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107). United Kingdom: Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU. INCOME STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 March 2012 Tongaat Hulett Limited Notes: 1. A member’s instructions to the proxy must be indicated in the appropriate box provided. Failure to comply with the above will be deemed to authorise the proxy to vote or abstain from voting at the annual general meeting as he/she deems fit. A member may instruct the proxy to vote less than the total number of shares held by inserting the relevant number of shares in the appropriate box provided. A member who fails to do so will be deemed to have authorised the proxy to vote or abstain from voting, as the case may be, in respect of all the member’s votes exercisable at the annual general meeting. 2. Documentary evidence establishing the authority of a person signing this form of proxy in a representative capacity (e.g. for a company, close corporation, trust, pension fund, deceased estate, etc.) must be attached to this form of proxy unless previously recorded by the company’s share registrar or waived by the chair of the annual general meeting. 3. Any alteration or correction made to this form of proxy must be initialled by the signatory/ies. 4. A minor must be assisted by the minor’s parent or guardian unless the relevant documents establishing the minor’s legal capacity are produced or have been registered by the share registrars of the company. 5. The chairman of the annual general meeting may accept any form of proxy which is completed other than in accordance with these notes if the chairman of the annual general meeting is satisfied as to the manner in which the member wishes to vote. Sugarcane cutters Wellness Day Tongaat www.tongaat.com
