Communication on Progress in 2012 General 01-­‐01-­‐2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that MVOplossingen reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-­‐Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. MVOplossingen is a privately held consultancy, helping large companies to communicate better on Corporate Social Responsibility in annual reports. Accordingly, our vision the 10 principles of the Global Compact serves as a guideline for our business operations, containing as it does the core values that determine our day-­‐to-­‐day conduct. In addition, it serves as a blueprint for the future, for our continuous quest for sustainability. Therefore the foundation of our values for doing business is based on the 10 principles of the Global Compact. As we think companies should walk their talk, we frequently advise our customers to participate into the Global Compact. To our opinion the Global Compact is the global bottom-­‐line for doing business. Participation to the UN Global Compact is therefore a reachable goal for all Dutch companies. When it comes to responsible and sustainable business, we set the bar high. We believe growth is about more than investing in order to increase revenue – it is also about building an organisation that respects people, animals and the earth. Using this vision as a foundation, we can all make a contribution. We firmly believe that this both enhances our reputation and increases our work satisfaction. Sincerely yours, Menno Kuiper Owner of MVOplossingen Page 1 of 6 Communication on Progress in 2012 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses MVOplossingen operates in countries part of the European Union, that all signed the OECD Guidelines. Therefore we consider the risk of violations of the Human Rights in our operations as extremely limited. Our actions to improve the human rights MVOplossingen advocates the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights at its customers. These are multinationals that can make a difference, both in their operations and in their supply chain. It is our goal to seduce at least 1 customer to participate into the UN Global Compact each year. In 2012 our customer Beter Bed Holding started to participate into the UN Global Compact. Amnesty International distributes “Movies that Matter” in the Netherlands. This is an annually distributed set of 10 movies, concerning human rights. MVOplossingen helps the organisation in its hometown Arnhem, to attract more guests to the films. MVOplossingen considers it important that all people can be informed of violations of human rights in our global society. Page 2 of 6 Communication on Progress in 2012 Labour Principles Principle3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation MVOplossingen operates in countries part of the European Union, that all signed the OECD Guidelines. Therefore we consider the risk of violations of the Labour Principles as extremely limited. Our actions to improve the labour principles As MVOplossingen is a very small organization, our individual influence on labour principles is limited. Therefore MVOplossingen joins the association of Self-­‐employed entrepreneurs: FNV Zelfstandigen. Page 3 of 6 Communication on Progress in 2012 Environmental Principles Principle7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies MVOplossingen is a business consultant in CSR. We consider the environmental risk of our industry as extremely limited. Obviously we have an obligation and possibilities to enlighten our pressure on the environment. Our main goals are to reduce our environmental footprint and to manage waste as good as possible. Our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint MVOplossingen reduces its environmental footprint two ways. The most difficult task is to improve our behaviour. It is for example our policy to travel by bicycle within town, however the visits in the late ours are frequently done by car. Our KPIs prove however that our efforts are successful. Next to our behaviour, invest in environmental friendly alternatives is a key factor in reducing our footprint. These are the main investments that help us: Our workplaces are lit by 6Watt LED lamps. The company car is a B-­‐Label Suzuki Swift, with an measured average use of 1 liter for 18 kilometres. Our ecological footprint As a service provider our ecological footprint is mainly effected by our usage of electricity, heating and transport. Electricity: 973 kWh renewable electricity producing 212 kilo CO2. The electricity is Nuon Natuurstroom that is generated by wind, water and solar. Natural gas: 266 m3 Gas producing 501 kilo CO2. Litres patrol used by car: 1410 litre patrol producing 3202 kilo CO2. Kilometres driven by public transport is not administrated. Business travel by air was not applicable. Page 4 of 6 Communication on Progress in 2012 We are proud to say that our footprint is half of our peers. Nuon, our provider of Gas and Electricity provided this insight to us. Our efforts to reduce our waste The waste at MVOplossingen is collected separately for the streams for biological waste, paper, plastics, batteries and rest garbage. More important are our actions to reduce the total of waste. It is our policy to restrict the number of paper, not accepting paper advertisements, and choosing electronic bills when possible. Page 5 of 6 Communication on Progress in 2012 Anti-­‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. MVOplossingen operates in countries part of the European Union, that all signed the OECD Guidelines. Therefore we consider the risk of violations of the Anti-­‐Corruption Principles as limited. We strongly condemn both corruption in business and the practices to persuade government to change its politics into our favour. Page 6 of 6
