RYNKEBY FOODS CSR REPORT 2012 CSR report 2012 Page 2 CONTENTS Introduction ................................................. page 3 Our development .......................................... page 4 Our values .................................................... page 5 TOPIC 1: PROFIT Our general CSR policy ................................ page 6 CSR with success .......................................... page 7 Sustainability in an increasingly global juice industry ..................................... page 8 LEAN Leadership .......................................... page 10 Responsible marketing of healthy products ........................................................ page 12 Open debate on juice .................................... page 13 Quality and the surrounding world .............. page 14 Global Compact ............................................ page 17 TOPIC 2: PEOPLE Work environment policy .............................. page 18 Employee satisfaction .................................. page 20 TOPIC 3: HEALTH Our health policy .......................................... page 22 Job satisfaction and engagement ................ page 24 Team Rynkeby in Paris for the 11th time ..... page 26 An offer that Irma could not refuse ............. page 28 Team Rynkeby – the largest sponsor of Børnecancerfonden .................................. page 30 TOPIC 4: PLANET Environmentally friendlier trucks ................ page 33 The good trend in our factory continues....... page 34 Decreasing raw material and packacing waste ............................................................ page 36 Our CSR targets ........................................... page 38 Rynkeby Foods A/S Finances Board Board members elected Preparation 100% owned by Michael Kaalund Board members by the employees: Jens Agerholm Arla Foods. selected by the shareLeslie Lundehøj Journalist Procurement holders: Jørgensen, Product Carsten Pedersen Povl Krogsgaard, Developer. Management Arla Foods Vice CEO. Front page photo Johan Høst-Madsen, CEO Peter Giørtz-Carlsen, Michael Hansen, Production Assistant Mogih Fotografi Jørgen Dirksen Arla Foods, Vice President. Responsible for Supply Chain Kent Skovsager, this report Lars Petersen Arla Foods, Senior Carina Jensen, Sales/Marketing Vice President. Nordic Quality Mark Hemmingsen Patrik Hansson, Manager. Arla Foods, Vice President. CSR report 2012 Page 3 LONG-TERM THINKING IS ALSO IMPORTANT IN TIMES OF CRISIS 2012 was characterized by very high raw material prices and tight budgets. For that reason Rynkeby only launched the most important projects. Nevertheless, we succeeded in keeping our focus on our sustainable and responsible business – as this report should show. At Rynkeby Foods we all take responsibility. This means that we INTRODUCTION – starting with our values and employees – have an engagement that translates into a healthier lifestyle and work with healthier products. We also take responsibility for the surrounding world, both in environmental activities as for instance our engagement in charity and promotion of a healthy lifestyle. In 2012, we have scaled down our health activities – but from a very high level in 2011, where many of our employees found the enthusiasm in a healthy lifestyle with regular exercise. Those of our employees who needed support to change their dietary pattern still had that opportunity in 2012, and our fitness center still has a lot of active members. Again this year Team Rynkeby presented a record high donation to Børnecancerfonden and Barncancerfonden, Danish and Swedish foundations for children with cancer and their families. The bikers and service people collected more than 16 million DKK, which makes us both moved and proud. March 2013 Jørgen Dirksen CEO CSR report 2012 Page 4 THE LARGEST PLAYER IN THE NORDIC REGION In the autumn of 2012 Rynkeby Foods strengthened its position as absolute market leader within juice and fruit drinks in the Nordic region through the acquisition of the Swedish company Krogab AB, market leadership within Food Service in Scandinavia and takeover of the distribution of Tropicana in Finland. This offensive was in line with our strategy, which calls for continued expansion in Northern Europe in the coming years. Our strategy plan says that the expansion shall take place via continued organic growth, acquisitions and alliances, conquest of new neighbouring countries, new segments, and long-term innovation. We strive to strengthen our competitive power through efficiency improvement and focus on streamlining of processes and functions in the whole company. Furthermore we will maintain and strengthen focus on the Rynkeby values and winning culture as a part of the ambition to always be among the best. RYNKEBY – FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT Mill. DKK 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Net turnover 886.1 845.4 757.2 851.8 905.5 Production costs -713.3 -646.1 -540.4 -631.2 -732.5 Gross profit 172.8 199.4 216.8 220.6 172.9 Sales, distribution and admin. Costs -147.0 -138.6 -139.3 -138.0 -147.2 EBIT 25.8 60.8 77.5 82.6 25.8 Financial items -2.6 -2.0 -2.2 -4.6 -5.8 Net result before tax 23.2 58.9 75.2 78.0 19.9 Tax -4.6 -15.2 -19.5 -18.6 -6.0 Net result 18.6 43.7 55.8 59.4 14.0 Number of employees 208 234 243 256 245 CSR report 2012 Page 5 Rynkeby Values The five Rynkeby values that were dewe currently challenge our routines and to our social responsibility and have an fined in 2005 are still a strong cornerprocesses to become »best in class«. appropriate number of employees with stone in our company culture. All our Elements as »Best people« and »Folflexible contracts. employees know the values and their lowership« form part of our Winning substance is deeply rooted in the whole Culture project. This part of the project In 2012, one of our colleagues unfororganization. focuses on development and education tunately contracted a chronic disease of our employees and recruitment of that reduced his capacity to work. In Visually the values do not only appear new colleagues with great potential. Our such a situation we make an active effort in our employee manual and on pin-up Winning Culture project will be impleto help these employees to a tolerable boards in our company. Also in emmented in 2013. work life. ployee magazines, employee development dialogues, internet, info boards We secure quality We involve ourselves and in our employee satisfaction survey Rynkeby is a responsible and trustworRynkeby has an open company culture. our values live. thy food company with very ambitious We co-operate constructively and share quality standards – from farm to table. knowledge across the organization. In In 2012, we decided to give our fifth value All our employees are responsible for relation with projects and tasks flowing »We are winners« a more dominant securing that our internal processes and from our strategy it is very important to position – but without toning down our functions always comply with our strict make sure that this exchange of knowother four values. quality standards. ledge takes place in a structured way to obtain the requisite focus and momenWe are winners In 2012 we have had special focus on tum. This is secured by the Rynkeby The ambitious Rynkeby strategy 2012-15 flavour tests of our products and optiproject model. demands an organization with a strong mization of the packaging design of our winning culture! Therefore the Managechilled juice products. Our routines seWe develop ment decided to redefine the value »We cure that deviations are corrected – but Rynkeby shall continue to be a compeare winners« and boost it to match the we must to a larger extent find the root titive market leader with products worth ambition of our strategy. cause of the deviations, to avoid their paying extra for. Things develop faster recurrence. than ever and our need for employees Winning Culture means e.g. that our with potential and a desire to change is employees are good ambassadors of We respect each other increasing. Therefore we make an effort Rynkeby. We take responsibility and Rynkeby is an attractive place to work, to attract, maintain and develop qualified ownership and dare take the lead. We where all employees and functions are employees feeling good in a changing show initiative, are proactive and see equally important and where we make environment. opportunities instead of problems, and room for diversity. We want to live up CSR report 2012 Page 6 1. Topic: PROFIT In our previous reports we have described that our employees shall know and observe our CSR policies. At the same time we did not have clear isolated CSR policies. Basically, we want CSR to be a natural part of our business – and not an annex. In 2012, however, we decided to clarify several CSR policies – because we would like to emphasize our opinion on various issues that had not been clearly described yet. Thus, we have redefined our environment and work environment policies and defined policies within health, CSR, communication/marketing and supplier control. These policies are described in the report. We shall observe the UN conventions solve some of the problems we face at and principles defined in the UN Global home and abroad. Compact, among others. This means that we shall apply sustainable principWe have staff policies e.g. ensuring all les in our work and seek solutions taking our employees development dialogues, human and environmental conditions and our seniors senior dialogues to plan CSR Policy into account. Particularly, we commit the remaining work life. We want diverourselves to show consideration for sity, to reflect the surrounding society as issues concerning the local community to age, race, sex, religion and nationality. surrounding our company and the highWe include people, who despite wear, risk countries, with which we handicaps or accidents can still do a job co-operate. on the labour market. Rynkeby goes even further as to social We will not make promises that we responsibility. We play an active role in cannot keep and CSR should not be a a number of volunteer activities contrishowcase for all our good initiatives. It buting to an improvement of some social should be an objective tool to find weak and environmental fields. Small steps fields that we can contribute to develop are better than none and we believe that and improve. if everybody lends a hand it is easier to CSR report 2012 Page 7 CSR WITH SUCCESS This is the title of a new book pubcompanies in this book. Together lished in 2012. The book is written with the CSR top league (Novo, by Annabeth Aagard, MSc and PhD, Lego, Codan etc.) Rynkeby shows who for almost 20 years has been how theory can be converted into an adviser within communication practical implementation. and strategic leadership. At Rynkeby we are proud to be the Annabeth has written seven books, good example, and especially if we and the last one builds a bridge can inspire to an increase of CSR between CSR theory and practice. initiatives in other companies. Rynkeby is one out of six case CSR report 2012 Page 8 Sustainability in an increasingly global juice industry Rynkeby does want to focus on We maintain our demand and consustainable production, high tinue our work to secure that our Rynkeby makes demands quality, security of supply and – suppliers are members of SGFon our suppliers – both not at least – that our suppliers IRMA (Sure Global Fair), but we for ethics and for quality observe our Code of Conduct and must realize that as a small player Supplier policy – and we do our utmost to produce according to the prinon the global juice market we cannot secure that the internatiociples in the Global Compact. The drive this work alone. Therefore, in nal rights in the UN Global increasing globalization makes it 2013, we will seek alternative cerCompact and quality and necessary to constantly focus on tificates and standards that can give food safety agreements this issue to be able to give our us the same safety and on this basis are observed. customers and consumers conrevise our SGF-targets for 2014. fidence and safety. We demand from all our suppliers We are aware that our that they sign our Code of Conduct small company cannot Supplier authorization and we have made sure that all new solve the social problems and evaluation suppliers in 2012 have signed this of the global community During 2012 we have continued document. but our focus on human our co-operation with Arla Foods rights in high-risk counon responsible supplier control Example of product authenticity tries etc. contribute to as to supplier authorization and Over the last 40-50 years there have secure compliance with evaluation, which we expect to been several examples of adultthe requirements. implement in 2013. This first of all erated products – and there have means that we will have a supplier also been examples within the juice evaluation form, which is a condrink industry. The classic adultsiderable upgrade within the fields eration is berry syrup diluted with of ethics, environment, health and apple syrup and aromas – so that »It is a rare thing for us to safety. it looks and tastes like the original find adulterated products syrup. SGF/IRMA and the but in 2012 we unfortunately Code of Conduct At Rynkeby we currenly risk assess demonstrated the presence SGF (Sure Global Fair) is an orgaour different raw materials and supnization certifying fruit cultivators pliers and with support from SGF we of added sugar in a batch and suppliers of raw material for make various adulteration tests. of lemon concentrate. The the authenticity and quality of the raw material and the Code of It is a rare thing for us to find batch was returned and the Conduct (human rights, labour adult-erated products but in 2012 producer is no longer a standards and anti-corruption). we unfortunately demonstrated the However, we see that generally presence of added sugar in a batch Rynkeby supplier«, says more and more raw material supof lemon concentrate. The batch Carsten Pedersen, pliers opt out of a membership of was returned and the producer is no Procurement Director. SGF. In 2012 we have maintained longer a Rynkeby supplier. It is very our percentage of SGF suppliers important that we also in future risk whereas the share of raw material assess and test our raw materials, supplied by an SGF supplier has among other things because the decreased. These raw materials, increasing climate challenges and however, were supplied by comthe economic situation may tempt panies, with which we have good suppliers to produce adulterated and long partnership, and this products. contributes to the requisite confidence. CSR report 2012 Page 9 »The juice industry particularly is a global business. The (national) fruit production in the EU countries is insufficient and some specific fruits, e.g. exotic and tropical fruits, are not produced at all. Add to this the fact that fruit by nature is a seasonal product, which is a challenge as to security of supply throughout the year. For some products the imports to EU will represent a larger share in future. This for example applies to orange concentrate« Source: www.aijn.org Suppliers TARGETS IN 2014 TARGETS AND RESULTS 2010 2011 2012 2014 SGF supplier of fruit, berries and vegetables – 69.2% 70.7% 75.0% SGF raw materials (fruit, berries and vegetables) 80.5% 83.8% 75.8% 90.0% Suppliers supporting Code of Conduct 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% CSR report 2012 Page 10 LEAN Leadership Lean Leadership was established four meeting this demand are members of years ago as Rynkeby needed streamLean Leadership. lined leader development. In the Lean Leadership group our managers exchanArla Leadership Programme ge experiences from their work life to In parallel with our Lean Ledership obtain »best practice«. All these leaders leader development programme all meet 2-3 times a year and between these leaders have been theoretically these meetings they meet in small interupgraded in 2012. They have participated disciplinary groups. in the Arla Leadership Programme – an executive training that has given our As a result of the ambitious Rynkeby leaders valuable tools and theories and strategy 2012-15 and the increased not at least a common leadership lanfocus on winning culture our manageguage and a network with leader ment team decided in the spring of 2012 colleagues within the Arla group. to boost Lean Leadership by inviting external consultants to facilitate the Lean 2013 Leadership meetings when necessary. In 2013 our leadership focus will be on the implementing of performance-based To secure a sufficient focus on leadermanagement. Our employee satisship we strive to build our organization faction survey and employee developso that Rynkeby’s managers have at ment dialogues completed by the end of least four references. Only managers 2012 support this focus. Whistle blower system In April 2012, Arla Foods implemented a brand new Whistle blower system that is now accessible to Arla and subsidiaries – including all Rynkeby employees. This Whistle blower system enables our employees to report events in relation with issues described in the Code of Conduct (e.g. bribery, corruption, theft, breach of food safety, environmental issues, healthand safety issues). Reporting is possible via a weblink or a hotline at an external supplier. Reporting can be anonymous and will be treated by a few Arla caseworkers. CSR report 2012 Page 11 CSR report 2012 Page 12 Responsible marketing of healthy products The products from Rynkeby must be as natural and healthy as possible and marketed in a At Rynkeby we consider a responsible way. Therefore we have – among other financially healthy business as things – focused on the Danes’ knowledge of juice a prerequisite to long-term for some years now and informed them that juice sustainability. With no profit is 100% fruit, with no added sugar, and that one Communication and Marketing Policy our company cannot exist. glass a day can replace one out of the six fruits/ Therefore we apply markevegetables recommended. ting and communication as a means to generate a preferenFor financial reasons we have unfortunately had to ce for our products, to strengtlimit our spend on our TV commercial informing hen our business and image of these facts to a minimum, which we think is the – and thus to increase sales. principle reason for the fact that the Danes’ knowledge of juice has declined a little in 2012. We want our marketing and communication to our stakeNew products and initiatives holders to always be decent Despite the consumers’ slightly decreasing knowand honest. Generally, we call ledge of juice we continue our product developit »Fair Speak« and this term ment at Rynkeby based on the philosophy that our covers correct information preproducts shall be as natural as possible. Our 0% sented in an honest and decent concentrated fruit drinks (with no additives or adway, etc. ded sugar) are an example of this. In 2012 we have replaced Apple Blackcurrant with Apple ElderAs to marketing, communicaflower 0%, which is a more popular taste. Theretion and behavior in general fore a lot more people have had our 0% and thus we take an ethic precautionary avoided both added sugar and sweetening agents. approach. If law allows it we would also like to communiEarly in 2012 we also launched God Morgen Super cate healthy stories. However, C – a juice squeezed of orange and Acerola berwe do not promote high-calorie ries. Acerola berries have a very high content of Cproducts (e.g. syrups with advitamin. By drinking a small glass of God Morgen ded sugar) to children under Super C you cover your daily intake of C vitamin. 13 years. As the intake of calories/carbohydrates is a topic We apply Fair Speak in all engaging the consumers’ attention we launch types of communication with »Fruit likes Water« in the beginning of 2013 – our stakeholders and in this some refreshing fruit drinks with a low calorie way we can always face each value, approx. 30% lower than juice. A new product other. Our target is that Ryncategory that we are developing further. keby shall have no cases or accusations by the authorities Social media of having mislead the conRynkeby’s knowledge of and communication with sumers. the consumers is of course essential for our development. Therefore we maintain our open contact with the consumers via the social networks, and we present both positive and negative comments/questions from the public. CSR report 2012 Page 13 As mentioned before, we are clearly in favour of responsible Fair speak marketing, which we call »fair speak«. Despite our efforts we cannot always avoid situations where a consumer or an organization feels offended by our marketing. This is due to a legislation that is very complex but at the same time open in its interpretation of e.g. misinformation – and misinformation in Denmark is not necessarily the same as misinformation in other countries and vice versa. It is important to us that our products present a fine appearance and can be sold but the information should always be true and not mislead the consumers. Open debate on juice Since Rynkeby launched its first prosociety of active consumers), who sub»As far as I remember the taste file in a social media back in 2012 the jected one of our juice products to close of the right juice was ok. Neither aim has been to have a direct dialogue scrutiny in a blog for 24 hours. Unfortunately for Klaus Melvin and Rynkeby worse nor better than other juice with our consumers. Today, Rynkeby’s presence in social media concentrates the analysis was not of recent date products made from orange conon our official Facebook page (www.faceand the juice did no longer exist. It was centrate mixed with water. book.com/rynkebyfoods), where we have among other things criticized for its A questionable method securing more than 4000 followers. On this page concentrate basis and bad taste. But that the treat is reduced to a Rynkeby replies to consumer inquiries, the juice in question was never from concentrate. level, where even hardened comments proactively on issues concerning Rynkeby’s business and preculinary adherents of rindalism sents new products and other Rynkeby We had an open dialogue with this has a chance« news and novelties. society on Facebook and the »Aktive Forbrugeres blog/24 timer« and the case Klaus Melvin, Aktive Forbrugere. This initiative is based on three strategic had a positive outcome for Rynkeby. legs. Firstly, Rynkeby wants to give the consumers more knowledge on juice and juice drinks. Secondly, we want to inspire to well-being. And thirdly, we CONSUMERS’ KNOWLEDGE OF JUICE want to make it clearer to the consumers who Rynkeby is. The tone is always 2011 Result direct and personal when Rynkeby 33% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) communicate in social media – whether the quality manager handling a crisis or 29% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) the marketing department informing of 76% of all Danes know that one glass of juice can replace one out of 6 fruits/vegetables a day a new product. Rynkeby makes a virtue of always naming the employee talking 2012 Result to the consumer, and the answers are always quick and precise. 24% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) 28% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) In 2012, we have for instance had an 75% of all Danes know that one glass of juice can replace one out of 6 fruits/vegetables a day open debate with Klaus Melvin, President of Aktive Forbrugere (a Danish CSR report 2012 Page 14 Quality and the surrounding world Food safety complaints are about mold/yeast or wrong with the product and the bigger In August 2012 Rynkeby was audited by wrong taste. The typical cause is that the volume is probably due to the board Lloyds Register. No major deviations packaging is damaged during transport packaging becoming moist and soft. were found and Rynkeby still meets the or handling and in most cases the leaks This is only a problem concerning chilled demands of the ISO 22000 standard. are so microscopic that you cannot see products without alu board. In Denmark However, nine minor deviations are to be them with the naked eye. In 2012, we we have registered a flavour deviation corrected, and as a suggested improvereceived complaints about the taste of a of Blandet Saft RØD light (a light mixed ment we shall be better to seek the root »Blandet Saft Light« (a light mixed berberries syrup) and a colour difference of cause of a given problem. We will conries syrup). an orange juice. tinue our monitoring of hygiene and it must be ensured that the right resources The taste of all Rynkeby’s products is Local community are available. controlled in our lab and by the operaThe Rynkeby factory is placed in the tors manufacturing the product. Nevermiddle of a town, which is both an adA.I.J.N theless, certain slight differences can be vantage and a disadvantage. It is easy to The European Fruit Juice Association difficult to spot – but our focus has been recruit employees and the infrastructure (A.I.J.N.) is the European trade associaintensified so that we will spot more offers our employees easy transportation of juice manufacturers. The A.I.J.N. flavour deviations. tion to/from their job. safeguards the interests of the juice industry for more than 15 countries. In In 2012 we also had a serious consumer On the contrary, it can be a great 2011, Rynkeby suggested that a common complaint. A man happened to swallow disadvantage when we want to extend EU guideline for food safety within the the safety ring at the screw cap. The or recondition our buildings. In 2012 we juice industry should be made. safety ring was stuck in his throat and initiated the erection of a new, high cold had to be removed in hospital. The acstore. This has given our local commuWe did that to educate and boost the cident was due to the fact that the safety nity cause for concern about e.g. noise level of safety, especially for small rings in a consignment of screw caps pollution or a less attractive view from manufacturers who may not have were defect and could easily be sepaa house. In 2012 there has been a very resources to make complicated risk rated from the screw cap. In this case good dialogue between the citizens assessments. During 2012 Rynkeby – the consumer saw the ring fall into his and the Rynkeby management – e.g. a together with other delegates have can but he forgot to remove it. We quickly citizens’ meeting with representatives contributed to the elaboration of this succeeded in locating and removing from Rynkeby and the Faaborg-Midtfyn HACCP guideline. In December 2012 the the defect screw caps. It has not been Municipality has been held. guideline was approved by the A.I.J.N. possible for us to change the design of and it is now an official document. the screw cap but we have tightened our Unfortunately, a citizen in our neighcontrol so that we do no longer apply bourhood complained about noise In 2013, Rynkeby will participate in an defect screw caps. When new screw caps several times in the initial construcEU project lead by the A.I.J.N. about are designed in future we will carefully tion phase. Of course we take all such exchange of CSR experience and comrisk assess the safety ring before we complaints very seriously. As it is the munication of the good CSR initiatives start using a new screw cap. same neighbour, who complained among the members. The target is to several times we have only registered promote knowledge of CSR and to Unfortunately, claims in the three Nordic this occurrence once. Fortunately we launch even more CSR activities. countries are increasing. This is due to a also had good news. A happy neighbour few defects that have resulted in a lot of called us and welcomed that she has Claims consumer complaints. As to our Swedish had no further noise problems since she Foodstuffs without preservatives are and Finnish products we have noted contacted us in 2011. more vulnerable to micro-organisms like that many cartons bulge – and it looks mold and yeast etc. And at Rynkeby most like fermentation – but there is nothing CSR report 2012 Page 15 CLAIMS Target Claims per million litres 2010 2011 2012 2014 Consumer claims (DK retail) 351 304 429 300 Consumer claims (SE retail) 2042 908 1070 700 Consumer claims (FI retail) – 89 2161 7 Complaints/claims, local community 0 1 1 0 CSR report 2012 Page 16 CSR report 2012 Page 17 Global Compact Rynkeby still supports the UN Global observe the regulations. Add to this Rynkeby supports and respects the UN Compact and has in 2012 met with the the fact that we have risk assessed the principles on labour standards. We project group »The World’s Best News«. map of the world and pointed out the have shop stewards elected by the staff. The project/campaign is a unique cohigh-risk countries, in which we make These stewards conduct negotiations operation between the UN, Danida and an extra effort to make sure that rules concerning working conditions, wages more than 80 Danish development orand regulations are observed. We act in and other conditions related to the ganizations. The aim is to pass on more good faith and will anytime give notice to relationship between the employee and knowledge of concrete results of the terminate our co-operation/contract in the company. Our employees are free to development aid and the fight against cases where human rights are abused or organize in trade unions or other orgaglobal poverty to the population. not observed. nizations/associations. The campaign links with the 2015 targets Labour standards form part of our Code of the UN – the widely acknowledged of Conduct and therefore all our supstandard for the development of the pliers must guarantee that these conworld. Rynkeby wants to support »The ditions are under control. World’s Best News« and in 2013 look at our opportunities to support the camEnvironment paign. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental The Global Compact lays down ten challenges, principles within companies’ work with social responsibility. These principles 8. undertake initiatives to promote are a good basis for our work with CSR greater environmental responsibility, and sustainability. They are based on and internationally recognized conventions within human rights, labour standards, 9. encourage the development and environment and anti-corruption. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Human rights 1.Businesses should support and reEnvironment and climate are on the spect the protection of internationally Rynkeby agenda in relation to developproclaimed human rights, and ment of new products and projects. We permanently strive to reduce energy 2.… make sure that they are not comLabour standards resources and waste. plicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freeAnti-corruption Rynkeby supports and respects interdom of association and the effective 10. Businesses should work against nationally proclaimed human rights recognition of the right to collective corruption in all its forms, including and strives to make sure that we are bargaining, extortion and bribery. not complicit in human rights abuses. In practice this means that our company 4. the elimination of all forms of forced Usually, the juice business is not subject observes current rules and conventions and compulsory labour, to corruption, blackmail and bribery. on human rights. We make an effort to However, Rynkeby undertakes to ensure that the products we procure 5. the effective abolition of child labour, observe current UN conventions on antihave been produced in accordance with and corruption, human rights and labour and the UN conventions and international will counteract any offence at any time. resolutions. All suppliers must sign the 6. the elimination of discrimination in Rynkeby/Arla Code of Conduct being respect of employment and occupation. the first guarantee that the suppliers CSR report 2012 Page 18 2. Topic: PEOPLE Rynkeby manufactures fruit drinks Work environment organization and other liquid fruit-based proWe apply our work rules to know, ducts in our factory in Ringe. The control and reduce the work enwork is done in a responsible way vironmental impact caused by our and in consideration of the safeproduction. Furthermore, we make ty, health and well-being of our a risk assessment in co-operation employees. This also applies to our with our work environment organiWork Environment Policy external staff and guests. We cherish zation, on the basis of which we set our good work environment, which concrete goals and actions for the we believe is the basis of a good and improvement of our work with work efficient production. environment. A safe place to work Nearmiss and work accidents Rynkeby wants to be a responsible We will introduce and maintain procompany as to work environment cedures to efficiently handle nearand as a minimum we will conform miss situations and work accidents. to actual rules and regulations within We will also make sure that conthis area. We will make sure that we tractors and guests know and obare pro-active as to regulatory reserve relevant demands in our work quirements and other requirements environment management system. by having an open dialogue with our stakeholders, including authorities Well-being and partners, about the work enWe will make an effort to secure that vironment activities of our company. our employees are feeling good and that nobody feels mobbed when at Training and education work. We will inform, train and educate our employees to act in accordance All leaders and employees are inwith our work environment rules formed of the five Rynkeby values and to make an effort to secure a and all employees must observe work environmental mindset among them. Should there nevertheless be our employees. We will make sure employees feeling bad or discrimithat our work environment policy is nated we address a preventive and communicated to and understood by corrective action. our employees and we focus especially on departments with a higher risk potential. CSR report 2012 Page 19 CSR report 2012 Page 20 An important target: Satisfied employees Rynkeby wants a high employee satisA reasonable employee turnover also want to make room for people who faction as a high satisfaction supports Rynkeby wants to maintain a good and despite accidents, wear or handicaps a good working climate and a great stable staff with a certain exchange to can still do a job on the labour market. employee commitment. Therefore an currently add new inspiration and comTherefore we welcome employees with employee satisfaction survey with petences to our company. We estimate flexible contracts in cases where we can about 70 questions is carried out every an employee turnover of 12 per cent to offer them the right tasks. We do not year. After each survey we focus on imbe a reasonable rate. We measure our want to set a clear target for the number proving the satisfaction in the areas with employee turnover as the number of of employees with flexible contracts at the lowest score. On the basis of these employees, who have left the company, Rynkeby but by the end of 2012 we had actions the satisfaction of our employees in relation to the number of employees, three such employees which in our has increased over some years from and in 2012 this share was 18 per cent, opinion is a reasonable level. 3.6 to 4.2 in 2011 on a scale from 1 to 5. which is somewhat higher than our The goal of the company is an employee target of 12 per cent. This is due to the Senior policy satisfaction of at least 4.0. fact that in 2012 Rynkeby had to reduce An element of diversity is age. Rynkeby the average number of employees from wants to employ seniors with experiIn 2012, 99 per cent of our employees 234 in 2011 to 216 in 2012. This reduction ence. Therefore we have a senior policy. participated in the survey and the total in itself affects our employee turnover by From eight years before the retirement average satisfaction was 4.1 against 8 per cent so the corrugated employee age of the employee, at present his 57th 4.2 in 2011. The topics in the survey turnover would be 10 per cent. year, he is invited to an annual senior with a lower score than in 2011 are dialogue to discuss opportunities and within finances and management. We Diversity needs as to his future working hours, job will focus even more on these two topics At Rynkeby we want diversity and to function, senior-friendly jobs, pension in 2013 to raise the satisfaction back to reflect the surrounding society as to age, etc., to make the best possible plan for 4.2. race, sex, religion and nationality. We his senior age, counted from five years The biking Rynkeby enthusiasts It has become a tradition that the Rynkeby employees participate in »DHLStafetten« (a local run race) and »Søsletteløbet« (a local walk, run and bike race). Our many biking enthusiasts also have the opportunity to participate in the annual bike race »Alpetramp« – with routes of up to 125 km on undulating roads. Unfortunately, many of our employees had to prioritize a business meeting and could therefore not participate in the »DHL-stafetten 2012«. We hope this will not happen again in 2013. However, we are pleased that approx. 80 employees and their families participated in the »Søsletteløbet« – which is also being the race where the Team Rynkeby participants bike together. In 2012, the »Søsletteløbet«set a participants record, with more than 1100 participants. CSR report 2012 Page 21 Since 2006 Rynkeby has reduced the number of employees being mobbed from 16 to 3 per cent before his retirement age, taking both the employee and the company into consideration. It has not been possible to TARGETS AND RESULTS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 measure the effect of this senior policy yet as the number of employees over 60 Employee turnover 13% 17% 10% 18% 12% years of age has been stable on 3-4 per cent of the total number of employees. Employee satisfaction 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.1 >4.0 Mobbing »There is a good balance between 4.1 >4.0 3.9 4.2 4.2 2006, Rynkeby participated in a national your work life and your private life« analysis of the mental work environMental work environment (number 8% 4% 6% 3% 0.0 ment. The analysis revealed that 16 of employees mobbed) per cent of the Rynkeby employees felt mobbed. This surprisingly high number »In general, you feel happy and 4.3 4.5 4.5 4.4 4.5 forced us to make an extraordinary effort motivated« to solve our problem. Our works council adopted a policy about mobbing to secure that all our employees feel good, Number of education 2010: 1 week per employee/3 weeks per coordinator days per year (produc2011: 2 weeks with mutual respect and in a healthy and tion/warehouse) 2012: 1 week per employee and 1 day workshop per coordinator positive work environment. Target 2014: 1 week per employee/3 weeks per coordinator Through openness and by introducing some tools to prevent mobbing in the following years we have now succeeded in a considerable reduction of the number of employees mobbed. Our ambition the health profiles of our employees canoeing, and author of several books is to be a company with no mobbing in clearly indicate that in some areas our as a speaker. 2014. employees are more exposed than the average Dane. Therefore Rynkeby wants In 2012, our most important health In our employee satisfaction survey 2011 to support and inspire our employees to projects were the Body Age test, imwe had a negative development in the a healthy lifestyle, both at work and at plementation of our ergonomic pronumber of employees mobbed, from 4 to home. ject and a slimming diet programme. 6 per cent. Only one employee felt freFurthermore it has been possible to quently mobbed, whereas 14 employees We are convinced that a great focus from keep fit in Rynkeby step classes, on our felt »now and then« mobbed. On the our part leads to healthier employees biking teams or in our fitness center basis of this negative development we with more energy and engagement in and to participate in local run and bike intensified our focus on mobbing and the their everyday life. A healthier lifestyle races with our colleagues. result is satisfactory as our employee will prolong the life of the employee and satisfaction survey 2012 reveals that now the greater engagement and reduced For 2013 we expect our health activities »only« six employees feel mobbed »now absence due to illness will generate to be at a slightly lower level than 2011 and then« whereas no employees feel profit to the company. and 2012. We expect our focus to be on frequently mobbed. non-smoking, weight loss, biking, step, In 2011, Rynkeby implemented an amrunning, fitness center etc. and partiThe development has been very satisbitious health project »Et Yngre Ryncipating in various external exercise factory in 2012 and pays back the great keby« (A Younger Rynkeby) aiming at events with our colleagues. effort we have done. This makes us reducing the average Body Age of our believe that in 2013 we can improve this employees. We succeeded as the aveFurthermore we will focus on inspiratrend. rage Body Age was reduced by 1.7 years. tion to an improvement of our individual The success was celebrated in March Body Age in the period until the next Health 2012 at an internal health event, with Body Age analysis in the beginning of Diseases resulting from our lifestyle Arne Nielsson, tenfold world cham2014. are a threat to modern society, and pion and Olympic silver medalist in CSR report 2012 Page 22 3. Topic: HEALTH Unprocessed or semi-processed fruit food have a positive impact on both the and vegetables are often healthiest and work life and the private life and we supthe consumers should eat at least 600 port events contributing to a better state g fruit and vegetables every day. Many of health. Rynkeby products can form part of this Health Policy fruitand vegetable balance, as one We have set some health targets, e.g.: glass of juice equals 100 g of fruit/ vegetables (max.) and can therefore replace one of the six daily fruits or n Less physical inconveniences vegetables (100 g) recommended by the n Healthier food Danish National Board of Health. n Health check n Less overweight Water is the healthiest drink. Nevern More exercise and theless, many consumers drink different n Less smokers types of less healthy drinks. We see our products as a healthy alternative We realize that it takes time to improve health in our company. It will be a long Employees hard road that we will walk by currently We currently select focus areas to imselecting some actions to support our prove the health of our employees. We health targets. are convinced that exercise and healthy CSR report 2012 Page 23 CSR report 2012 Page 24 Job satisfaction and engagement We are convinced that job satisfaction Work environment and engagement is one thing. Therefore, In 2012, we have implemented an ergoin 2012, we have had several initiatives nomic project in our mixing, production to improve job satisfaction among our and warehouse departments and we will employees, who have paid back by a continue to observe the development satisfactory work presence. In our proof the physical inconveniences of these duction department, however, the work employees to see if their pains have presence has declined a little due to a been reduced at our next Body Age test. small increase in short-term absence, but in return the long-term absence has Again in 2013 we will maintain the decreased. methods of work that we have learned in the project to secure that our employees In 2013, we will continue our focus on are performing their job in a wise and care dialogues. correct manner so that we avoid unnecessary physical strain. Our canteen in 2012 Again last year we tried to make the food Focus on »nearmiss situations« even healthier but also tastier. The rye In 2013, we focus on »nearmiss situasandwiches are often without any butter tions«i.e. dangerous situations that at all and the hot meals are with a lot of could easily have had consequences – to interesting spices and a low content of solve the problems before an accident salt. occurs. We are convinced that this development Our target is 0 work accidents and is another step in the right direction both preferably more than 100 »nearmiss as to health and to the well-being of our situations«. employees. First aid in 2012 Smoking in 2012 In 2012, three Rynkeby employees have Again in 2012 a few employees stopped learned first aid for beginners, with smoking and some of these with help defibrillator (six lessons) and 11 emplofrom Rynkeby. yees have attended the advanced first aid training with defibrillator (three lessons). Smoking is very unhealthy and can in no way be connected to a healthy company. Again in 2013 we offer first aid training Therefore we will continue our support with defibrillator – both for beginners to smokers who want to stop smoking. and advanced participants. Again in 2013 we will therefore offer smoking employees a smoking cessation course. Accidents registered Year Nearmiss Small accidents Work accidents 2012 52 14 (Without absence) 6 2011 62 12 5 2010 18 19 6 Target in 2014 + 100 0 0 CSR report 2012 Page 25 CSR report 2012 Page 26 Team Rynkeby in Paris for the 11th time 17 teams – 13 in Denmark and four in exercise sport (an exercise for everySweden – about 800 bikers, 175 service body), and partly the responsibility to people and about 70 cars … do something good for others. Exercise is a fantastic part of a healthy lifestyle, In the summer of 2012 Team Rynkeby and to help others contributes to further performed their biking tour to Paris strengthen your self-esteem and give for the 11th time to collect money for you a meaningful life. Fine words … but Børnecancerfonden in Denmark and nevertheless true! Barncancerfonden in Sweden (foundations for children with cancer and their We do something good for ourselves in families). the form of exercise, fellowship, engagement and the positive in having a target 13 Danish and four Swedish teams – and reach it. And we do something exercised during the winter and spring fantastic for children with cancer and and the early summer, which culminated their families. This is a group of people with a fantastic common arrival on 20 who really do need help and support. July in the city of cities – Paris. The great amount of money that is the result of the efforts of Team Rynkeby, Several participants have said it before means: – and it is completely true: Participating in Team Rynkeby is a unique opportunity n Support to some important research to do something good for yourself and at projects the same time do something extremely n Support to important further training good for others. of the staff employed at the four Danish clinics for children with cancer In 2011 our many participants collected and support to similar Swedish prono less than DKK 9,772,000 distributed jects with DKK 8.8 million to Børnecancern Support to the participation in fonden and SEK 1.1 million to Barncommon Scandinavian development cancerfonden. Again in 2012 we broke projects all records with DKK 14.3 million to n Allocation of grants to individual Børnecancerfonden and SEK 2 million patient support to Barncancerfonden. – i.e. a total inn Sponsorship for the running of the crease of 64% in difficult times for global Ronald McDonald’s House and the economy. We interpret this as a very lending of holiday houses to families strong signal in relation to our positive with children with cancer … and sustainable project. Here we are all winners. … just to mention some of the initiatives. The continued great interest in partiAt Rynkeby it is a fact that Team Rynkeby cipating also confirms this assumption. is mentioned many times every day – When we closed the waiting list for 2013 both internally in the company and in the on 20 August it counted approx. 2700 many relations with customers and suppersons – and unfortunately we had to pliers. Everybody is proud of this project say no to more than 2000 persons. and supports it. Customers and suppliers appreciate the project and many of Actually, it is our view that we are serithem participate in the tour and support ously boosting a movement. A movement the project. in two dimensions. Partly the task of using the bicycle as the Danes’ preferred This is a common health project. CSR report 2012 Page 27 Approx. 800 bikers on their way to the Eiffel Tower, Summer 2012. CSR report 2012 Page 28 A suggestion Irma could not resist Leif Larsen, Procurement Manager of Irma. CSR report 2012 Page 29 »It is fantastic and thought-provokingly On the basis I have to admit that the of bags with outdoor posters with an praiseworthy that they take action and letter from Rynkeby was on its way down appeal to also support the Team Rynkeby make that difference for fellow men – it the bin when I happened to notice fund-raising for the benefit of Børneis also enviable«. Carina’s words about children’s dracancerfonden by 25 DKK by sending wings and hope. Then I thought: »What?” and SMS to 1919. The people who sent These words are Leif Larsen’s, Procureand took the letter up again. And then I an SMS automatically participated in a ment Manager at Irma, and they are was all goosey and thought: “We have to lottery about five Irma gift certificates of his opinion on Team Rynkeby and the do this«, says Gitte Matzen. 1000 DKK. importance of the biking tour to children with cancer – and also to Rynkeby. Ecological sweets for the children The art bags were not a big thing but No sooner said than done. However, it it had a great effect within Irma. People In the spring of 2012 Leif became part was not a sponsorship but a co-operathought it was fantastic and very very of the project as Carina Jensen, Quality tion, where Irma provided their famous present of us to support a purpose that Manager at Rynkeby, contacted him with art bags – bags with art print – for close and that is a matter of concern for her idea: She wanted Rynkeby in small drawings by children in the children’s everybody – namely the fear that cancer packagings (250 ml) on the Irma shelves cancer clinics from a common drawing affects our own children. It was super! – with children’s drawings on the packday, for which Irma sponsored some So the idea of making our art bags avaiagings! The children on the four clinics ecological sweets. lable for at good case was good. To have of children’s cancer in Denmark should energy to sometimes make money for draw the drawings and Tetra Pak should We had about 20 drawings and had to others is nice, says Gitte Matzen. donate the packagings. make a choice. But we said: »We just can’t«. Therefore all the children’s The whole Irma project collected approx. Families with children are not exactly the drawings were shown on two different 200,000 DKK to Børnecancerfonden. Irma target group. Therefore the answer bags, says Gitte Madsen. would normally be no. However, because of the good purpose – the support to During the months when the bags were Børnecancerfonden – it was a yes – and in the shops Irma supported their sales a much greater sales success than Leif Larsen had expected. We thought that we could perhaps sell 5000 units during the three months of the campaign – starting in March 2012 – but we sold7000 units, he tells. The only thing that Irma did, he says, was to present the juice with the children’s drawings on pallets in the supermarkets. So the great sales of these products are only due to the purpose – but maybe also because the juice looked totally different than any other juice packaging in the sales area, he says. Also at the Irma art bags Not only Leif Larsen was contacted by the Rynkeby quality manager. Also Gitte Matzen, Marketing Manager of Irma, was contacted. Carina Jensen also wanted to make Irma accept a sponsorship for the benefit of Team Rynkeby and Børnecancerfonden. Irma is very often contacted about various co-operations and sponsorships. Gitte Matzen with a bag with children’s drawings. CSR report 2012 Page 30 Team Rynkeby – the most important sponsor of Børnecancerfonden With a donation of 14.3 mDKK in 2012 ferent people. We are extremely grateful others know how hard it is and that they Team Rynkeby contributed with more for that, says Marianne Nielsen, CEO of feel like helping you give the children than 50 per cent of the total amount the foundation, who participates for the and their families as good conditions as accruing to Børnecancerfonden that third time in the biking tour to Paris this possible. Many people in the four childyear. This makes this Rynkeby initiayear. rens’ cancer clinics say, »It warms our tive the absolute main sponsor of the hearts to know that so many people feel foundation. Also the families, who benefit from the like doing this for us«, says Marianne. means of the foundation, show grateTo Børnecancerfonden the co-operafulness. The means of Børnecancerfonden are tion with Team Rynkeby is very imporspent partly for research, partly for intant. All the bikers, service people and Last year I received a letter from a formation material – for instance on the other participants in this project are of mother. She wrote that she has a very different types of children’s cancer – and immense value to us. Not only because happy and warm feeling inside every partly to support children with cancer of the money collected but also because time she sees a Team Rynkeby biker. If and their families. they are a kind of ambassadors for us you have a child suffering from a disease and share our purpose with a lot of difthere is nothing better than to feel that Besides money for medical research we CSR report 2012 Page 31 support other kinds of research. For inyou can have a couple of hours for yourpeople between 12 and 20 years of age stance, we have given money to a project selves or to go out for dinner«. Because with cancer. In November last year 40 about how to make children more the parents may also need to find each young people, who needed to be together physically active as it is known that very other, says Marianne Nielsen. with fellow sufferers, participated. This sedentary children – e.g. at the comprovides another level of understanding. puter – are liable to stick to this lifestyle The activities supported by BørnecanSome of the young people have inconwhen they recover, says Marianne Nielcerfonden also include events in the veniences making it difficult for them sen. children’s cancer clinics, e.g. summer to be together with others. Maybe they parties, carnivals and Christmas parties are being mobbed or not really accepted The direct support to families with – or maybe a hospital clown. – or they have problems at school. In children with cancer could for instance that case it is important that they have be so-called coddling grants of 5,000 Some clinics arrange youth evenings another kind of fellowship, says MarianDKK for which the families can apply and and some of them arrange family weekne Nielsen. that the children with cancer can spend ends or youth excursions, i.e. activities exactly as they want. for the benefit of the sick children. Furthermore the foundation has its own A lot of parents tell us how important annual national gathering for all young these grants are, because when life in hospital is hard it is great to be able to say: »You know what – when we are through these two treatments you will get money to buy an iPad, toy bricks or a garden trampoline« – depending on the age and needs of the child. There are also families saying that the grants give them a better everyday life because they are short of money. It is very expensive to have a sick child because one of the parents is often living in the hospital while the rest of the family is at home, says Marianne Nielsen. Earlier it was only possible to apply for a coddling grant once. With the extra means donated to Børnecancerfonden over the last years – not at least by Team Rynkeby – an opening for several applications in case of recurrence or death phase is provided. Three holiday houses Børnecancerfonden also offers families with children with cancer to borrow three holiday houses, which the foundation bought for the money collected. There are two houses in Northern Jutland and one in Northern Zealand. The third holiday house was bought for some of the money that Børnecancerfonden got from Team Rynkeby last year. It is situated next to the house, which the foundation bought years ago – and this on purpose. Sometimes the families need a grandma or grandpa saying: »You know When Marianne Nielsen worked at Rigshospitalet (a national hospital) in the mid-80’s more what – we take care of the children so than one out of two children with cancer died. Today three out of four children are cured. CSR report 2012 Page 32 5. Topic: ENVIRONMENT It is the objective of Rynkeby to bere-use and recovery of our waste come a more green and more when possible. Should waste occur sustainable company. This means we secure a sustainable disposal. Environment Policy that we should avoid waste, optimize our processes and always seek Over-consumption causes waste. the most sustainable solution. In Therefore we currently supervise practice, this means that we consider and optimize operation and conwhere to gain the greatest environsumption. ment benefits, and then we focus. Equipment Energy We erect new production machinery We want to save energy and we are and buy equipment that as a minialways seeking energy-friendly mum meet the demands of relevant solutions, both in existing and in new environment standards. processes. Climate changes Waste of food and resources We contribute to the reduction of We consistently try to avoid any kind global heating to a minimum by of waste, including food, materials, currently striving for a reduction of fuel, energy, raw materials and other the emission of greenhouse gaskinds of operation resources. ses. This, among other things, takes place via our focus on resources and Furthermore we secure recycling, energy optimization. CSR report 2012 Page 33 Environmental focus on our trucks 2012 was another good year for our distribution department. On average we drove 3.00 km/litre diesel. Compared to 2011, when we drove 2.86 km/litre diesel, this is an improvement of approx. 5.2%. A nice development taking into consideration that this is almost only based on the driving pattern of our own drivers. In comparison we drove 2.73 km/litre diesel in 2010. Early 2011 all our drivers were trained in driving technique and – among other things – they learned economic driving, with focus on rolling out and idle running. We followed up through the rest of 2011 and in 2012 and the results of this work are evident. Almost all our drivers have shown a positive development of these parameters, which to a great extent contributes to the nice distribution result. And it is a clear win-win situation that this improvement also resulted in an extra pay in our performance-related pay system, called LEAN wages, and is positive to our environment. In 2013, we will keep our focus on the driving pattern of our drivers and optimize our technical equipment, i.e. the trucks, to the extent possible. CSR report 2012 Page 34 The good trend continues in our factory The good trend in the Rynkeby electricity n Our pigging system – separating consumption continued in 2012. Thus, product and water in the pipelines we see a considerable decrease in our – has been extended on all filling electricity consumption per 1000 litres of machines and are almost completed product. This trend is primarily secured on our raw material tanks. Benefit: through improvements within the followLess production waste. ing areas: Gas n More efficient operation of comRynkeby has also obtained savings in pressed-air plants (sealing of our gas consumption in relation with the leakages). heating of liquid for cleaning. Further savings in our gas consumption – but n Division of the compressed-air plant also in our consumption of water and by department so that the air supply chemicals – have been obtained by in one department can be closed when increasing the number of mixes between production stops in a given departthe cleanings of the mixing tanks by ment. means of water rinsing. n Increased production line efficiency Furthermore we have succeeded in by introducing LEAN processes. increasing the effect of our steam kettle by 3 per cent by means of a waste gas n Focus on idle running of production exchanger. lines (good habits). In 2012, we focused on insulation. We Waste water went from 150 to 375 mm insulation on The good trend in our discharge of waste the roof of our production facilities. water in 2011 continued in 2012: A new cold store n The number of product changes Our cold store is dimensioned to a was reduced, which means a reduced higher suction pressure so that you can consumption of water for rinsing out combine ice water and cooling compresand cleaning. sor. This makes it possible for us to stop a cooling compressor – and thus genen Efficient water rinses of tanks rates energy savings – in the weekends. between every cleaning have saved some discharge of water and chemicals. CSR report 2012 Page 35 CSR report 2012 Page 36 Reduction in raw material and packaging waste I recent years Rynkeby has focused a n New technical solutions lot on the limitation of packaging waste, n System improvements which has resulted in a reduction of n Determined education packaging waste by approx. 60 per cent from 2009 to 2012. Technically, our factory has been optimized by investing in pigging systems In this period we have focused partly on securing a better separation of juice and the optimization of operations, partly on water in the pipelines and by reconditioour product assortment with less SKUs ning the product vats at the pasteurizing and less changes of product. As a side plants so that the juice/syrup is exploited effect to a far more efficient factory, the better and there is less product left when training of our employees in the knowmanufacturing is terminated. ledge of mechanical engineering, and LEAN projects in the whole factory, have In 2011, a recycling system was establisalso affected waste positively. hed and all excess juice and syrup from the manufacturing process is stored in Focus area: Raw material waste drums electronically registered with full A very important focus area for Rynkeby traceability and durability control. This is our utilization of raw materials. This system has led to a much greater rate of has become more and more important in re-use of the excess products, with conrecent years as the prices of many raw tinued quality control. During the short materials have increased considerably period of the system we have already on the world market. obtained a recycling percentage of about 60 and a saving in the millions. Therefore it makes sense to Rynkeby – both financially and of course also All our production employees are trained environmentally – to continue our dein the application of the pigging system termined efforts to reduce raw material and the handling of excess products, and waste. workshops for our quality coordinators are held, where we go into details with Three areas have been given a special these topics. focus to secure the reduction obtained: CSR report 2012 Page 37 CSR rapport 2012 Page 38 CSR targets – full list 2010 2011 2012 2014 CSR policies All employees know the Rynkeby Knowledge not Knowledge not Knowledge not Knowledge is CSR policies. Could be measured in measured measured measured measured the employee satisfaction analysis Values All Rynkeby employees should know/ 4.2 on a 4.3 on a 5.0 4.4 on a 5.0 Min. 4.2 on a 5.0 follow our five values. »Are you follow5.0 scale scale scale scale ing our values in your everyday life?« Fair Speak 0 commands/judgments concerning 0 1 0 0 misleading marketing Leadership Good leadership must be maintained 4.2 4.2 4.0 Min. 4.2 and measured in the employee satisfaction analysis, Questions about leadership. SGF Share of suppliers (fruit & vegetables) No data 69.2% 70.7% 75.0% approved by the SGF SGF Share of raw materials (fruit & veg80.5% 83.8% 75.8% 90.0% etables) approved by the SGF Code of conduct Share of suppliers having signed the 100% 100% 100% 100% Rynkeby, Arla or SGF CoC. Audits Share of major deviations. 0 0 0 0 Majors Local community Claims from the local society 0 1 1 0 claims (no. of citizens) Employee satisfaction Employee turnover 17% 10% 18% 12% Employee satisfaction Total average score of the company 4.1 4.2 4.1 Min 4.0 Employee satisfaction »There is a good balance between 4.1 4.2 4.2 Min 4.0 your work and private life?« Mental work environment No. of employees feeling mobbed 4% 6% 3% 0% Employee satisfaction Employees feeling generally well 4.5 4.5 4.4 Min 4.5 and motivated Education days (blue No. of days per year 1 week (3 weeks 2 weeks 1 week (+1 day 1 week per emcollars) for coordinators) workshop per ployee/3 weeks coordinator) per coordinator Consumer claims Denmark – per 100 million litres 351 304 429 Max. 300 sold products Consumer claims Sweden – per 100 million litres sold 2042 908 1070 Max. 700 products Consumer claims Finland – per 100 million litres sold 89 2161 Max. 700 products Customer satisfaction B2B – Factum analysis groceries No. 4 Not measured No. 4 Top 3 Customer satisfaction B2B – Factum analysis chilled No. 1 Not measured Not measured Top 3 products CSR rapport 2012 Side 39 CSR targets – full list 2010 2011 2012 2014 Involvement in local No. of participants (incl. family) at 42% 38% 38% Min. 100 persons events the local race »Søsletteløbet« incl. family – or 50% Consumer health Share of consumers knowing that 12% 33% 28% Min 80% juice is 100% fruit Consumer health Share of consumers knowing that 29% 24% Min 80% juice holds no added sugar First aid classes Free first aid classes must be offered Offered to all Offered – incl. Offered – incl. Min. 1 hour to work environment and health employees defibrillator – to defibrillator – to per year coordinators, preferably during work all employees all employees hours. Employee health »Nearmiss situations« registered 18 62 52 + 100 Employee health Minor accidents (no absence) 19 12 14 0 registered Employee health Work accidents registered 6 5 6 0 Employee health Share of employees with physical 71% Not measured Not measured Max. 35 % inconveniences Employee health Share of smokers 23% Not measured Not measured Max. 15 % Employee health No. of cigarettes (average per day) 11 Not measured Not measured Max. 10 stk Employee health Share of »very overweight« employees 23% Not measured Not measured Max. 18 % Employee health Share of »overweight« employees 30% Not measured Not measured Max. 22 % Employee health Share of employees eating min. 2 46% Not measured Not measured Min. 57 % fruits and vegetables every day Employee health Share of employees participating in 38% 42% 30% Min. 50 % the local race »DHL-stafetten« Employee health Share of employees exercising at 50% Not measured Not measured Min. 60 % least 30 min. per day Work presence Number of employees present as a 96.0% 96.8% 96.6% >97.0 % percentage of no. of employees Environment Fuel consumption (trucks) 2.73 km/l 2.96 km/l 3.00 km/l Min. 3.21 km/l Environment Electricity consumption per ton product 60.9 kWh 57.11 kWh 48.56 kWh Max. 53.96kWh Environment Waste water per ton product 0.983 m3 0.937 m3 0.77 m3 Max. 0.85 m3 Environment CO2 consumption per ton product 17.0 kg 16.52 kg 13.1 kg Max. 14.56 kg (excl. fuel) Environment Gas consumption 7.12 m3 7.568 m3 7.336 m3 Max. 6.408 m3 Environment Raw material waste-share of raw material 2.44% 2.07% 1.61% Max. 2.10 consumption Environment Packaging waste – share of raw 1.45% 1.25% 0.88% Max. 1.05 % material consumption Planet Health Environment/ climate Health Business People Profit People
