Sustainability Report COP ‘12 Web Governance made easy Table of contents Letter from the CEO 4 About Siteimprove 6 Human Rights 10 Workers’ Rights 18 Please mail feedback to Climate & Environment 26 Camilla Simonsen cas@siteimprove.com Anti-Corruption 30 Other CSR Initiatives 30 Written by Jessica O’Sullivan, Marie Langhoff & Camilla Simonsen Layout by Ulrik Groth-Andersen Drawings by Andreas Krogh Andersen & Ulrik Groth-Andersen 2 3 Web Governance made easy Letter from the CEO Welcome to Siteimprove’s third report to the UN’s Global Compact, an Continuing our focus on human rights was also on the agenda and our important initiative that we joined in 2010. Since then we have been actively offices participated in a number of externally run events that aimed to bring committed to helping spread the message about the Global Compact, and a focus onto those vulnerable to extortion in our society. Our UK office was have done so again this year through our Communication on Progress particularly dedicated to this cause and chose to partner with ‘Go ON Gold’, Report. a national UK campaign that aims to raise awareness about the barriers faced by disabled people in accessing computers and the Internet. Their Global Compact is an important initiative and a program recognized worldpartnership, which coincided with the 2012 London Paralympics, involved a wide, which is why its 10 principles function as the framework of our Corponumber of blog posts, press releases, as well as a radio interview. rate Social Responsibility (CSR) work for our primary markets in the UK, USA and Denmark. We are proud to show the progress we have made in regards The US office also chose to focus on giving back to the greater community, to CSR throughout the past year, as well as demonstrate which goals we and did so by participating in an Earth Day Clean Up initiative that aimed achieved. This report also includes the ideas we have on the drawing board to rid the local area of rubbish, and other pollutants. In 2012 and 2013, we for 2013. continued to grow as a company, and our sales office located in Minneapolis, MN, USA continues to represent the fastest growing market in terms of Whilst we have been dedicated to acting socially responsible since our revenue. As such, we have again seen a significant rise in employment, and establishment in 2003, this initiative has naturally helped us incorporate it across the board, our employee numbers have grown by a third compared largely into our daily work. In 2012, we showed our continuing support to to last year’s report. These changes resulted in both our Danish and UK the Global Compact by supporting UN run initiatives such as End Poverty offices continuing to increase the sizes of the offices. 2015 UN Millennium Campaign. We are on a journey as a company, and we are nowhere near done yet. 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 have been a busy and innovative time for Over time, we want to be more ambitious and spread our initiatives to all Siteimprove. We once again chose to focus on accessibility, as we believe our offices, but also to work with CSR in areas where we have an indirect that it is a basic 21st century human right to be able to access the web. influence, like ensuring that our supply chain is socially responsible. With Over the past year we have done our best to shed light on the often forthis CSR report, we want to bring you along on our journey and set a good gotten members of our society those who have some form of disability. As example, and show that even a softwareservice company can be both part of this societal focus, we participated for the second time in Global Acsocially and corporately responsible. Hopefully, this will encourage other cessibility Awareness Day (GAAD), which aims to encourage people to think IT-companies to share our vision of ‘contributing to a sustainable informaabout how disabled users access the computer and internet. Developing on tion society for all. from last year’s employee-only participation, this year we chose to include Morten Ebbesen, CEO Siteimprove our stakeholders in the dialogue by encouraging our customers to participate with us. To sweeten the deal we donated money to a good cause for each one participating. For more information about GAAD see page XXX. Furthering our focus on web accessibility was the driving force behind our latest accessibility focused pro bono collaboration with the Danish Institute of Human Rights. Hoping to highlight the experiences that users with disabilities experience when accessing public Danish homepages, our focus for 2013 was on completing our ‘The Forgotten Users Web Accessibility’ project. A cleverly insightful documentary, which will go live later in 2013 alongside a report that describes the potential problems people face, and 4 provides recommendations on how these issues can be overcome in order to ensure digital accessibility for all. 5 Web Governance made easy About Siteimprove The Siteimprove story 2012 – European Domination Deciding no trip is complete without a good place to call home for a Early 2000’s Danish Entrepreneur Morten Bratwurst and a Pringle, Siteimprove expands into Europe’s strongest econEbbesen is Struck by Lighting omy – the German market. Figuratively speaking that is. While working as a consultant for a public Danish company, Morten was asked to check a website for broken links. Present – Looking Towards The Future He quickly realized there was a serious gap in the market for a group of Since its birth into humble beginnings, Siteimprove has only continued to diagnostic tools that could take the hassle out of performing tasks manually. grow and improve. With offices in five countries, and a client base of more Starting out with just himself and a couple of programmers it was not long than 30,000 web editors and 3000 websites in the public and private sectors, before a baby was born. it is truly one of the world’s leading suppliers of web governance tools. Looking forward to the excitement and challenges the next decade brings, 2003 – A Star is Born Siteimprove looks forward to getting to know you. Born in central Copenhagen during a warm October, Siteimprove was not always an easy baby, although it proved early on in its infancy that it had a talent for setting itself apart from the crowd. Intelligent and intuitive, it Our Values quickly found itself at the front of the class when it came to quality checking Created in 2003, Siteimprove is an organization focused on people. As part tools. Counting many of Denmark’s best-known companies and institutions, of our commitment to each other, our customers, and the work we do, we such as Grundfos, Novo Nordisk and the Danish Foreign Ministry, amongst have established a set of values, a mission and a vision to help guide us. It is its friends the future seemed bright. these principles that support us daily in our quest to be the worlds’ leading provider of web governance tools. 2004 – Chasing New Challenges Looking to spread its wings and test its universal appeal Siteimprove travPride els to London. Taking quite a liking to a nice lager and beans on toast, it At Siteimprove we believe that pride is vital to our business success. It helps decides to leave its mark, and before leaving Siteimprove Ltd. UK is estabus strive to be the best we can, and to be proud and responsible of our aclished. tions, work and environment. Hence, we are proud to be responsible world leaders of web governance, and to be able to provide our customers with 2007 – The Gamble Pays Off intuitive tools that help empower them. Well and truly bitten by the travel bug Siteimprove’s next big trip is a visit to the good old U.S of A. Enjoying the sites it ventures further into the market Passion before finally settling on an office in Minneapolis. A gamble that pays off. It is our passion that fuels our work, and that motivates us not only to want Today the English speaking markets account for around 80% of Siteimto come to work each day, but to take responsibility and pride in what we prove’s business. do. Whether it be meeting a project deadline or finding the perfect solution for a customer, we know that when motivated by passion amazing things 2009 – Seizing Sweden happen. Not content to rest on its laurels, Siteimprove continues to enjoy its travels, and after a visit to Scandinavia’s most populous country, Sweden, decides to Thoroughness set up shop. Although we love that our work is fun, we also know that sometimes it calls 6 for knuckling down. Here at Siteimprove we know that mistakes happen, but 7 they do not happen twice. Which is why we are dedicated to ensuring that Web Governance made easy Statistics from 2012 every aspect of our work is of the highest quality, and we do not stop until the quality of our products is second-to-none. Customers 1,445 Our Mission To be the world leading providers of web governance tools, solutions, and strategies; assisting in making the web accessible to everyone. Our Vision We will remain committed to providing our customers, both current and future, with the best web governance solutions from beginning to end. It Users 22,427 is our responsibility to remain committed to continuously improving all aspects of the world in which we operate – environmentally, socially and economically – in order to create a better tomorrow today. What we do Siteimprove is a world-leading provider of web management and governance tools that are cleverly simple for ease of use. Our range of diagnostic tools help businesses of all sizes, and across all industries, to find and fix Links checked each week ~50,000,000+ content errors, control and optimize their sites, and collaborate for easy task management. It is our accessibility tool that primarily influences the focus of this report as it the area in which we are most able to contribute to greater society, as well as provide business and organizations with the opportunities to better themselves in the field of web accessibility. Page views logged each week Our services ~55,000,000+ Customers Web accessibility Users 8 9 Web Governance made easy Human Rights accessible to everyone. As a part of the ‘UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities’, the DIHR acts as an independent mechanism for the promotion, protection GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1-2. and monitoring of the implementation of the convention in Denmark. As a 1. The company should support and respect the prwotection result, by mandate the DIHR must advance accessibility issues on the politof internationally declared human rights, and ical agenda, as well as raise awareness of the cause, and ensure that public pages meet the ‘Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0’ (WCAG)2. 2. Ensure that the company does not contribute to the violation of human rights Our collaboration with the DIHR also aims to highlight the experiences that users with disabilities experience when accessing public Danish homepages, and is part of our ‘The Forgotten Users Web Accessibility’ project. The Web Accessibility is a Human Right! focus point of this project arose following the latest report from the Danish The first Global Compact Principles are about the respect and protection of Agency of Digitization, which showed that users with disabilities continuhuman rights. Here at Siteimprove we believe that it is a basic 21st century ously experienced accessibility issues online. human right to be able to access the web. This ongoing relationship between the DIHR and ourselves has so far resultTo us this means that everyone, including those who have some kind of dised in a documentary that follows five user groups with different disabilities ability, should be able to access the Internet, and be part of the increasingly in order to highlight some of the difficulties they experience when using http://www.menneskeret.dk/ digital world. With figures estimating that around 20 percent of the popdigital self-service. The represented user groups are; visually impaired, blind, handicapkonvention/digitalulation has a disability, we believe that it is essential for public and private top5 dyslexic, cognitively disabled, and elderly people with minor disabilities. businesses and organizations to make their websites as truly accessible as (Danish only) During the second quarter of 2013, this documentary will go live alongside possible1. a report that describes the potential problems people face, and provides recommendations on how these issues can be overcome in order to ensure As the prominence of online services, and digital self-service increases, we digital accessibility for all (see link box on the left, only in danish). at Siteimprove are aiming to support the rights of those users affected by poorly accessible websites, and as such, we created a broad range of initia“The Danish Institute for Human Rights is appointed to promote, protect tives for 2012/13. and monitor Denmark’s implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights Below you can read more about what we have been up to in 2012/13, as of Persons with Disabilities. The Department is focused on the areas where there are problems with living up to the Convention. One of these areas is well as our plans for the rest of 2013 and 2014. the accessibility of public websites. We have therefore been super excited to partner with Siteimprove to examine the accessibility problems that affect Collaborating Towards a Better different users on public websites. Siteimprove has an expertise in digital accessibility, which is important in terms of being able to both identify Future with the Danish Institute for accessibility problems and find possible ways of resolving them. It gives the institution the knowledge that needed to identify areas that must be made Human Rights to live up to the UN Handicap Convention regarding digital accessibility for people with disabilities” One of our stated goals for 2012 was to form a partnership with a non-government organization that had relevant experience within human rights and Maria Ventegodt Liisberg, Team Leader of the Danish Institute for Huaccessibility issues. Therefore, it is with great pride to announce that since man Rights Disability Team. August 2012 we have been in a pro-bono collaboration with the Danish In10 stitute for Human Rights (DIHR), as part of our mission to make the internet 11 1 Good web accessibility means that all users of the Internet, including users with physical 2 http://www.w3.org/ impairments and reading disabilities, are still able to fully access and utilize the website. Web Governance made easy Knowledge the Key to Longevity Siteimprove invites Stakeholders to Here at Siteimprove, we believe that knowledge is the key to longevity, which is why we are thrilled to announce that since hiring Senior eAccesparticipate in Global Accessibility sibility Consultant Helene Nørgaard Bech, we have had the opportunity to Awareness Day! formulate and share a substantial amount of free and educational informaAll too often businesses and organizations focus on profit first, and people tion via blog posts, webinars, and whitepapers. Due to increasing customer interest, and the hard work of our productive employees we were able to 2012/2013 in second. Here at Siteimprove, we believe that people deserve to come first, produce an impressive 17 blog posts in 2012 and 2013. All of which are review which is why in 2012, and again in 2013, we have chosen to actively participate in ‘Global Accessibility Awareness Day’ (GAAD). This time we even freely available on our website in Danish, English, Swedish and German, and A white paper on accessibility encouraged our stakeholders to take part, in an aim to increase stakeholder contain tips and tricks for making a website accessible3. engagement. Nine free webinars Furthermore, we were extremely proud to present Siteimprove’s first focused on how to make With estimates that 20 percent of the population has some kind of disabilwhitepaper in August 2012. It focused on making websites accessible, and websites accessible ity4, GAAD aims to get people talking, thinking, and learning about digital the responsibilities of web editors and designers when creating sites. Web accessibility and how it affects different users. The first GAAD took place in Accessibility can be a complicated matter, which is why we also held nine 17 accessibility driven blog posts, available in May 2012, and as part of our initial participation, we rolled out our camfree webinars that offered thorough explanations on this matter. Danish, English, German paign internally across all offices. As we look towards the future, we are committed to continuing these and Swedish Led by our Senior eAccessibility Consultant Helene Nørgaard Bech, employdevelopments, and as such, we are planning three accessibility events in ees were asked to spend half an hour trying to work on their computers in 2013 that will focus on helping customers comply with the international the same way that disabled users might. This included exercises such as usstandards for web accessibility(WCAG 2.0 globally, plus Section 508 for US ing only a keyboard to navigate, zooming browsers to at least 200%, using a Federal Agencies). screen reader or read-aloud tool to access web information, and turning off style sheets when using web applications. Accessibility Advisory Board The feedback was overwhelmingly positive, and a number of staff-members, In November 2011, we assembled the Accessibility Advisory Board, most of such as Steve Hennigs, US Senior Account Executive, commented on what whose members are direct stakeholders of ours, and work mostly for large a great learning experience it was. After just 10 minutes of trying to read a Danish public organizations. We meet up throughout the year to talk about web page with enlarged text, Hennigs said, what is happening in the community, as well as receive feedback on how we can improve our services, to better ensure website accessibility for all “it is simply such a pain having to scroll so much just to members of society. accomplish any little thing. Such a hassle!” Our last meeting was held on January 8 2013, during which time we disSteve Hennings, Siteimprove cussed the yearly evaluation of public websites called ‘Bedst på nettet’ (The Top of the Web). We also received feedback on which backlog items for our As a show of our dedication, we also pledged to donate money to four accessibility tool required development prioritization. different the charities Junior Blind of America (US), Action for Blind People (UK), Dansk Blindesamfunds Ungdom (DK) and Synskadades Riksförbund (SE), for every customer that took part and shared their experience with us. It was a great success, and as a company, we were thrilled to be able to donate to so many worthy causes. A number of our customers provided 12 us with great feedback, and the best three featured in a blog post called 13 3 Please visit www.Siteimprove.com to download blog posts and whitepapers 4 WebAim website, http://webaim.org/intro/#people Web Governance made easy Raising Digital Discrimination Awareness5. We look forward to expanding the ways in which we can participate in 2014. Go ON Gold UK Initiative GOING FOR GOLD WITH ‘GO ON GOLD’ GAAD Stakeholder feedback In 2012 our UK office was one of the first companies to partner with ‘Go ON Gold’, a national UK campaign that aims to raise awareness about the barri“It was frustrating! I definitely have new appreciation for ers faced by disabled people in accessing computers and the internet. accessibility and why it is so important. Two very popular news With ‘Go ON Gold’ reporting alarming statistics that up to 43% of the Unitsites were selected for the test. One of the sites is known for ed Kingdom’s disabled people had never been online6, the UK office saw being accessible and it was a breeze to navigate through. There this as a great opportunity to provide the community at large, and especialwere a few instances where I couldn’t navigate as smoothly ly businesses, with information about our products that ease the difficulty of making websites more accessible. as I wished, but I was very impressed by the “skip to content” feature. The second site, which I’d assumed would be accessible, As part of their dedication to spreading ‘Go ON Gold’s message, the UK was very difficult to navigate and I quickly found myself in office also formulated a number of educational materials, such as their London Paralympics themed blog ‘Just like sport, websites should be accessible a never-ending keyboard loop. This GAAD experience will to everyone too’. This blog highlighted sports ability to be readily enjoyed certainly kickstart our team’s work towards making our website by everyone, regardless of disability, whilst websites on the other hand still more accessible” suffer from accessibility issues. It also addressed how those responsible for Marian Doucette, County of Huron, Web Architect, Canada websites could use specific web based tools to tackle and prevent accessibility issues. “I had thought or maybe just hoped that I wouldn’t have had Jack Oldham, the UK Marketing Coordinator, also appeared on GovLoop’s as hard a time using the tab key to navigate as I did. I applied ‘Dorobek INSIDER’ radio program where he chatted with host Chris Dorobek both restrictions when accessing …our own website… I am about why making websites accessible is key. GovLoop, the US’s largest government niche network, aims to inspire public sector professionals to better relieved to know that the two main entry points for citizens and service by acting as the knowledge network for government. It has been business …is able to accommodate the 200% increase, though widely recognized across the public sector federal, state, local, industry unfortunately on the individual pages the photos are indistinct, and academia as a leading site for addressing public sector issues. and the content difficult to read” Looking towards the future, our UK office looks forward to continuing their Stine Boeck, Furesø Municipality, Communication Consultant, DENongoing partnership with ‘Go ON Gold’, as well as working on new initiaMARK tives throughout the coming year. “I found the experience very eye opening. We have just carried out an accessibility audit on our website, so this area is The World’s Best News something that is very much a key priority on our agenda at In 2012, we once again participated in ‘The World’s Best News’ a Danish campaign formed by the UN, DANIDA7, and more than 80 Danish aid orgapresent” nizations. This campaign aims to fight poverty, as well as spread the good Rachel Daly, Preston City Council, Assistant Web Manager, UK news about the positive progress being made in developing countries, most 14 of which the world’s poorest people call home. 15 5 http://siteimprove.com/blog/2013/5/21/raising-digital-discrimination-awareness.aspx 6 Go On Gold website, http://www.go-on-gold.co.uk/home 7 Danida is the term used for Denmark’s development cooperation, which is an area of activity under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark http://um.dk/en/danida-en/about-danida/ Web Governance made easy As part of our participation, we communicated the good news, and brought a focus to the ‘UN End Poverty 2015 millennium campaign’, by placing a Human rights recap banner advertisement on our website, passing out flyers in our common areas, and including a news article in both our internal and external newsletters. Additionally we donated 10,000 Danish Kroner to ‘Afrika NU!’ (Africa Human rights Goals achieved in 2012/13 Goals for 2013/14 Now!), a telethon event run by the Danish UNICEF branch. Contribute to a higher Use the consultants’ extensive knowledge and Continue further development on the We expect to continue supporting the ‘UN End Poverty 2015 millennium accessibility on public and experience to further develop Siteimprove’s Siteimprove Accessibility tool in order to private websites in Denmark, tools and create increased knowledge support private and public webmasters in campaign’ again in 2013/2014. USA and UK among employees and customers regarding quality assuring accessible websites accessibility Offer customers check of accessible PDFs Beta-version of Accessibility released in January Hire an Accessibility expert to support the US 2012 team and US/Canadian customers All offices took part in the Global Accessibility Take part in Global Accessibility Awareness Day Awareness Day on May 9th challenging 2014, and use the information gathered from customers to access their own websites as a 2013 to formulate free educational materials. disabled user would. For every user that signed up Siteimprove donated 5 dollars to a country Include an extra question in the yearly customer specific charity for each market satisfaction survey that asks whether the web team has hired or worked together with a disabled user as a result of Siteimprove initiatives Free consulting and education Nine webinars completed: One for UK Complete minimum of two accessibility customers, seven for DK customers, one for US webinars for each market customers (exceeded 2011/12 goal of eight) Hold an accessibility event in DK, UK and US 17 blog posts on accessibility, available in educating customers about the importance of Danish, English, Swedish and German (2011/12 accessible websites with free training, tips and goal was six) tricks on accessibility Siteimprove’s first white paper on accessibility published August 2012 Partnership within accessibility Partnership established with the Danish Institute Establish a partnership with a UK or US NGO What We Did Not Get Round To for Human Rights promoting accessibility One of our goals for 2012/2013 was to develop a professional version of Facilitation of network Two meetings held with the Danish Accessibility Hold two meetings with the Danish Stakeholder Advisory Board Accessibility Advisory Board the Siteimprove accessibility tool. However, by the end of 2012 the Siteimprove management and board decided to focus resources on the existing Support UN’s goals for 2015 Participated in the campaign ‘The World’s Best Participate in ‘The World’s Best News’ 2013 accessibility tool, as well as training materials, due to the complex nature of News’ in 2012, and donated 10,000 DKK to accessibility and increasing customer interest. ‘Africa Now’ 16 17 Web Governance made easy Workers’ Rights Siteimprove Employee facts GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 3-6 3. The company should support the right to unionize and 76 In the Danish Employees from effectively recognize the right of collective bargaining office, absence 11 Countries; 4. Support the eradication of all forms of forced labor due to sickness decreased from Australia, 5. Support the effective eradication of child labor 1.89% in 2011 Austria, Canada, 6. Eradicate discrimination in respect to employment and to 1.02%, which 48 28 Denmark, Faroe corresponded Island, Germany, occupation to an average DK UK US Ireland, Sweden, At Siteimprove, workers’ rights and employee satisfaction are paramount, of 2.68 sick Switzerland, as is a positive psychological and physical work environment where there is days in 2012. United Kingdom, room for everyone. 39 13 24 and United States 2012 was undoubtedly another year of rapid growth for Siteimprove. In the past year, the number of employees has grown substantially and we are approaching 80 employees across our three offices in London, Minneapolis Gender division in management In 2012, our and Copenhagen. US Siteimprove In order to track general employee satisfaction, we once again rolled out our annual workplace assessment (AWA) survey for the third time in office was once again chosen 50% 50% February 2013. The results of the assessment create the foundation for the in the top 100 following section, and indicate whether we reached our goals in 2012, as of ‘Minnesota’s well as what aspects to focus our attention on in 2013 and 2014. best workplaces’, as decided Average time of employment by Minnesota Business Mag2 years & 2 months azine. Avarage age of employees 33 years old 18 19 Web Governance made easy Physical Working Environment Psychological Working Environment It is of great importance for Siteimprove to secure optimal working conditions for all employees. Therefore, we continuously strive to ensure that the The Ever Present Subject – Stress! physical surroundings are of the highest standards for all our offices, both in For a company like Siteimprove that is experiencing significant growth, terms of employee facilities and environmental demands. stress is always going to be a hot topic, especially as our employees work in a fast-paced environment with tight deadlines. For Siteimprove, it is of The past years’ growth has had a significant impact on our physical working significant importance that our employees have a good work-life balance environment, and in 2012, the US office doubled in size in order to ensure in their daily life. Unfortunately, we need to recognize the fact that some more space and better working conditions. This also occurred in the UK, employees have felt stressed and irritated throughout the past year. The with the office being moved to a larger refurbished premise, in central LonAWA shows a slight increase in both stress levels and emotional exhaustion don. The Danish office also chose to occupy another floor in the building in 2012 compared to 2011 in both the DK and UK offices. to ensure space for even more employees in the coming years. Overall, the physical surroundings are now prepared for another year of growth and However, the increasing stress levels do not reflect a lack of focus on this success in 2013 and 2014. subject, especially as we have introduced several initiatives in 2012 in order to target stress levels. These included: ҉҉ The new facilities have resulted in: ҉҉ Hiring a human resources employee with experience within stress ҉҉ More square meters per employee across all offices management. ҉҉ Reduced noise levels via noise minimizing panels in the US office ҉҉ Putting stress at the forefront of the agenda for employees’ annual ҉҉ More comfortable seating and lounge areas with sofas and a game performance reviews. In this regard, we systematized the process room in the UK office in order to meet every employee’s issues in the best possible way. ҉҉ Work in progress on an outdoor terrace in the Danish office ҉҉ Strategy work in progress, which clearly defines the employees’ division of labor and goals. ҉҉ Voluntary after hours meetings that focus on work-life balance in Making Changes Now, For All To order to open up and facilitate talks about expectations for our workplace, colleagues, tasks and management. Enjoy Only the US office experienced a minor decrease in stress levels. In 2011, We at Siteimprove believe that it is necessary to make changes now, in several initiatives such as biweekly one-on-ones, weekly staff meetings, and order for others to benefit in the future, which is why we hope that our clearly defined goals for the sales staff were organized, which has resulted human rights initiatives will have a lasting effect. This is particularly true of in an immediate positive development. The UK and DK offices will strive to our increasing focus on making websites accessible for everyone, and we learn from the US case. hope that via our actions more disabled people will be able to enter the Despite increasing stress levels in two of our three offices, we believe it is workforce, and that our customers will increase their focus on making their important not to forget that initiatives to fight stress do not always return sites accessible. This would ideally include collaborating to a higher degree positive results over night. We consider the fight against stress to be a with disabled users to actually test the accessibility level of their websites, long-term and important investment that hopefully will reduce stress levels hence assuring a higher quality site for all users. While this is of course an gradually across all our offices. intangible goal that is difficult to measure, we will look to include an extra question in the yearly customer satisfaction survey that asks whether the web team has hired or worked together with a disabled user as a result of 20 Siteimprove initiatives. 21 Web Governance made easy Work Life Balance Bonus Scheme Even though stress levels need to decrease, there are indications that our In 2011, both management and the board of directors were pleased to employees experience a good work-life balance. The AWA showed a considintroduce a bonus scheme in which a percentage of the company’s profits erable improvement compared to 2011, via the question regarding ‘if work are divided between all employees based on seniority. The purpose of the takes up time and energy that affects one’s personal life’. It is also noteworbonus scheme is to recognize and award the efforts of staff. Additionally, thy to mention that all three offices ranked better for that question than the the scheme successively secures an effective organization with motivated national average. This is a considerable improvement compared to 2011. employees. In 2013, we will again share the success of Siteimprove with all employees. Health While Siteimprove does not wish to dictate a healthy lifestyle, we do find Social Initiatives Strengthen Relations it important to facilitate a healthy lifestyle both at work and at home. We At Siteimprove, we value good social relations between colleagues, as we do this by providing the right frameworks such as sporting events, health believe it fosters a good working environment. Therefore, we arrange sevplans, and free fruit across all offices. In general, the AWA showed that all eral social arrangements across our offices every year. Not only do we have three offices ranked higher in perceived health than the national average in summer and Christmas parties, we also hold a monthly staff meeting that is Denmark. followed by an afternoon bar event where colleagues can socialize outside of work. This was one of our initiatives from 2012. Once again in 2012, Siteimprove participated in the DHL-relay with participants from the UK, SE and DK offices. Teambuilding in Iceland In the US, we have a health plan that provides a discount on gym memberIn September 2012, the Danish department went to Iceland on a teamship when used frequently, while bike rags are on the agenda in order to building trip. The purpose was to strengthen the collaboration between make it easier for employees to bike to work. the different departments in the Danish office in order to achieve a better understanding of the assignments and challenges different departments Employee Satisfaction face. Fortunately, there was also time to socialize and explore some of the natural wonders of Iceland. Knowledge Sharing and Increased Sales Training One of our goals for 2012 was to increase knowledge sharing across the offices. Particularly, between our sales staff and product managers. We met our goal for 2012 by initiating and completing an extensive sales training program across all offices. This included product managers and the US Sales Director travelling around all offices training sales staff so that they would feel better prepared to engage customers during the demonstration stage. A development program was also unveiled in the Danish office, and involved sending a large percentage of our full-time employees from the development, support and management teams to course that ranged in time from one day to three months. 22 23 Web Governance made easy Working rights recap Worker’s rights Goals achieved in 2012/13 Goals for 2013/14 Employee Welfare Weekly (UK+US) and biweekly (DK) staff Continue weekly/biweekly staff meetings. meetings. Social events Arrange a minimum of three social events for The Psychological Work Performance reviews done in February in Complete yearly performance reviews for all Summer party. employees in each office. Knowledge sharing Environment Denmark. employees. DHL Relay run with dinner afterwards for DK Provide internal training for sales staff on all Increased employee Workplace assessment survey done in February Start-up performance reviews for DE, SE, UK and and UK employees. markets. satisfaction, visible in all markets. US employees. Christmas lunch. management and clear goals Maintain/increase employee satisfaction. Complete workplace assessment survey on all An official teambuilding event for all offices. Focus on stress markets, focus on Increase employees’ insight into goals and Teambuilding event in Iceland for DK Health expectations. ҉҉ Employee satisfaction employees. Hire human resource employee with experience ҉҉ Progress in clear goals and expec Internal sales training completed on all markets. within stress management. tations Competence development program rolled out ҉҉ Decline in rates on stress from Improve rates of stress in UK and DK. Maintain for support, development and management. 2011/2012 stress level in US. Complete activities on all markets promoting Plan activity schedule and complete at least health and physical activities. four initiatives within health and lifestyle in DK and UK. Bonus scheme Profit sharing from 2011 completed among all The board has once again decided on profit Siteimprove employees in June 2012. sharing from 2012 to all Siteimprove employees based on seniority. The Physical Work US doubled the size of their office, getting more DK completion of an outdoor terrace. Environment space and better working conditions. New settings UK moved to a bigger office in their new building, getting more square meters, improved seating areas comfy sofa and lounge area and a game room. DK took on another floor creating more space. Health Health has to be on the agenda in 2012 by DHL participation for UK, SE, DE and DK creating better initiatives, which motivate the employees. employees to live healthily and have a more active lifestyle. DHL completed with DK, UK and SE runners. Sickness Absence DK Sickness absence decreased from 1.89% in Keep sickness absence below 2% in 2013 2011 to 1.02% (corresponding to an average of 2.68 sickness days) in 2012. 24 25 Web Governance made easy Climate & environmental and recycling policy has also been formulated and will begin taking complete shape during 2013 and 2014. Currently all offices ensure Environment that waste is properly separated, and that proper recycling procedures are adhered to. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 7-9 Siteimprove’s Data Center 7. The company should support a careful approach to environmental challenges appointed Denmark’s Greenest Data 8. Take initiatives to promote increased environmental Center responsibility As a SaaS-company we offer hosted solutions, meaning that the majority of our energy consumption comes from our many servers installed in a server 9. Encourage the development and dispersion of envi park at Interxion in Ballerup. In 2012, Interxion was appointed Denmark’s ronmentally friendly technologies greenest data center, and the center continuously invests in infrastrucAt Siteimprove we have remained committed over the years to ensuring ture and routines, which should secure the green status in the future. It is that we adhere to climate and environmental principles that assist us in important to Siteimprove that all our primary suppliers (e.g. Interxion) show reducing our carbon footprint. Since 2011, we have been actively committed great responsibility in the area of climate and environment. to reducing energy consumption, something that is evident through our climate partnership with Denmark’s largest energy producer, DONG Energy. Saving Earth One Garbage Bag At Since moving headquarters to the new office in 2011, we have been tracking our total energy consumption and CO2 emissions. A Time Despite being unseasonably snowed out on their first attempt to particiThe partnership agreement with DONG Energy has continued functioning pate in the East Calhoun Community Organization (ECCO) Earth Day Clean as a learning process in 2012 and fortunately, many of the new and smarter Up, our US office came back more determined than ever to beautify their energy efficient measures that we undertook during 2011 are still paying surroundings. dividends. As part of our commitment to ongoing development, we are still consistently looking for new energy efficiency initiatives that can be incorSubsequently held on April 29, this event was an initiative from ECCO, a porated across all our offices. group that aims to enhance and maintain the unique parts of South Minneapolis and Uptown, by working together with the community. A Greener Environment with Focus Originally intended to coincide with Earth Day, we voted to support this initiative after examining several others in their area. In the end, we decided on Recycling we were most interested in trying to help clean up the area surrounding the In 2012, our employees’ clear awareness, and commitment to green initiaoffice because of the close proximity of the office to Lake Calhoun, one of tives continued. As a result of the internal awareness of choosing responMinneapolis’ largest and most popular beaches. sible suppliers, many employees continued to order green-labelled print Kicking off the belated Earth Day Clean Up was Sarah Sponheim, the presipaper and office supplies on their own initiative in 2012 and 2013. dent of the ECCO board, who started by holding a meet and greet with the Since 2012, all of our offices have gone paperless, with all customer office, where she was able to educate about future initiatives that the ECCO 26 invoicing now being done via online methods. A concrete and official team is working on. After that, the team headed out in pairs, aimed only 27 Web Governance made easy with a garbage bag, and the drive to revamp the neighborhood, a goal that they achieved. Recap of Climate & Environment According to Inside Sales and Pre-Qualification Representative Kitty Ng, the event was an ideal way to interact with, and help the community. Climate & Environment Goals achieved in 2012/13 Goals for 2013/14 “Siteimprove saw Earth Day as a great way to contribute to the Climate partnership and Continued our successful climate partnership Further reduce our energy consumption and energy optimization with DONG energy. CO2 omissions. local community, as well as further our partnerships with local organizations… it was a chance for our team to contribute to A greener culture & Recycling and environmental policy in place. Find further volunteering opportunities, at least local green initiatives that make a lasting impact on how we environmental policy Waste separation and proper recycling 1-2 days per year procedures are adhered to. Further establishment of a concrete and official enjoy Lake Calhoun and the neighborhood” environmental and recycling policy, and put it Neighborhood clean-up volunteering through into effect across all offices Kitty, Siteimprove East Calhoun Community Organization. Paperless invoicing. Siteimprove looks forward to continuing the relationship with ECCO, and contributing to more community based initiatives in the coming years. Continued our emphasis on ordering greenlabelled office supplies. 28 29 Web Governance made easy Anti-Corruption Børnenes Dyremark receives kr. 10,000 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE 10 Espholm chose to donate his prize money to Børnenes Dyremark, a volun10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, tary organization based in Copenhagen that aims to provide children of all including extortion and bribery socio-economic backgrounds with the opportunity to experience the nature, and learn about caring for animals. The public hand over took place at the At Siteimprove we have strict rules when it comes to corruption and bribery. Dagmar Theatre, with several Siteimprove customers and employees from Even though we operate in low risk markets, we have chosen to manifest the headquarters in Copenhagen present. our own clear position on the subject in Siteimprove’s staff manual that was created in 2010. Should an employee experience a form of bribery or receive presents from a supplier or customer, the employee must notify his or her manager immediately. Failure to do so may have consequences for the conditions of employment. Other CSR Initiatives Siteimprove Announces 2012 ‘WebEnthusiast of the Year’ Since 2008, Siteimprove has annually awarded one lucky webmaster the Managing Director Morten Ebbesen presenting the award ‘Web-Enthusiast of the Year’ award for an ongoing dedication to making the web a better place for everyone. Siteimprove was proud to announce that the 2012 winner was Rasmus Espholm, who is the webmaster for citizen services website www.borger.dk. Espholm was selected based on the enthusiastic and central role he played in developing the site. In addition to being an active member of his team, Espholm participates in numerous events and enjoys visiting municipalities and suppliers to help them learn more about integrating their services onto borger.dk. Along with the honor that accompanies the title, Espholm was also given 10,000 DKK that he could donate to a charity of his own choosing. 30 31 Web Governance made easy 32
