New borders, new challenges Index 002 Index 04 06 Letter Ineco at a glance 18 Areas of activity from the About Ineco 8 Aeronautics 20 Chairman In the world 9 Railway 38 Our figures 10 Roads 52 Balance sheet 12 Urban transport 62 Profit and loss account 14 Ports 72 Managerial team 15 Planning and transport economics 80 Board of directors 16 Index 003 92 Corporate Culture 162 About this report Strategy 94 Scope 164 Ethical integrity 98 Integration of UN Global Compact and GRI indicators 165 Commited to... 112 Index of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators 166 GRI Application Level Check Statement 179 Letter from the Chairman 004 Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholders, Customers and Employees, The strategic change to a new business model, which we launched in 2012, was a necessary measure taken in response to a new environment, one that becomes more complex and more competitive every day, and is marked by falling demand in the domestic market and increasing competitiveness in foreign markets. First and foremost, we have implemented changes in the way we organise our activity and in our relations with our customers. This transformation enables us to acquire greater flexibility, to increase our efficiency and to generate more synergies, all necessary conditions for facing these changing times with confidence. With our new matrix structure, we add to the recognised capacity and technical ability of our professional workforce a greater focus on national and international customers and on results, as well as safeguarding the management of knowhow and ensuring that talent at our companies is retained. It is time to take full advantage of the opportunities that arise in the international market, where the talent we have accumulated over forty years’ experience is already beginning to bear fruit. Pablo Vázquez Vega Chairman As the transport engineering business is growing at an annual rate of 8% in the world market, our internationalisation will enable us to compensate somewhat for the shrinking of the domestic market. We shall employ the know-how and professionalism that we have contributed to the development of infrastructure in Spain –an example of quality of service– to take on new challenges abroad. Our shareholders, with whom we have grown since our We are convinced that beginnings, understand and agree that this strategic shift is necessary. The year 2012 was the deadline transport infrastructure is a for this change. decisive motor for driving a country’s sustainable growth and structuring, and we want to contribute to achieving this goal. Letter from the Chairman 005 As I have mentioned on previous occasions, Ineco that representing this important consortium is a calling must be present wherever transport infrastructure is card for the Spain brand that can help us to embark on required. Engineering companies like ours must be new joint projects. there, wherever the value of know-how and technical ability is needed, adapting to complex environments We also continue to be involved in high-speed projects with different legislations, tax systems, regulations, in Spain, which, in 2012, took the form of works on the cultures and languages. We are convinced that Madrid-Valencia and Barcelona-Figueres lines. To this transport infrastructure is a decisive motor for driving must be added tasks concerned with maintaining and a country’s sustainable growth and structuring, and we operating the conventional railway system for Adif and want to contribute to achieving this goal. Renfe Operadora. In the aeronautics sector, we should mention particularly work to extend Apron Management Proof of this is that in 2012 we continue our work on Services at Barajas, the implementation of the first major international projects such as the extension phase of the SIRA radio assistance management system of Kuwait International Airport, the first highand the continuation of the airport master plans speed railway line in Saudi Arabia and Turkey, the for Aena, as well as airport certification and traffic development of the mobility plan in Ecuador, roads in forecasting. Mexico and the plan for restructuring civil aviation in Nepal. Great challenges lie ahead, but the first steps have already been taken and the machinery is up and To this must be added the new contracts signed abroad running. We must consolidate in order to continue over the period, demonstrating our force and providing growing. At the same time, we are also facing difficult extra motivation to continue along this road. These but necessary situations that will, no doubt, lead to include the HS2 high-speed line in the United Kingdom, a future in which we can share our successes with the São Paulo ring road, the design and equipment of our customers and our shareholders. Cooperation the control tower at Eldorado Airport in Colombia, the in this process by each and every one of us that master plan for Kuwait Airport, the rehabilitation of form Ineco, with an enterprising spirit, commitment trains in Santiago de Chile and the introduction of a and enthusiasm, is vital. I am truly grateful for the rail transport system in San José de Costa Rica. confidence that is placed in us with every project, both in the company and in the Fomento Group, to enable My appointment as chairman of the Spanish-Saudi us to continue along this path. consortium for the Makkah-Madinah high-speed has enabled me to play an active role in demonstrating the great worth of Spanish public and private engineering, Pablo Vázquez Vega systems and construction companies. There is no doubt Chairman Ineco at a glance About Ineco In the world Our figures Managerial team Ineco at a glance 008 About Ineco Ineco is a reference company for the provision We are experts in providing engineering and of comprehensive engineering and consultancy consultancy services for airports, air navigation, services in the world of transport. With an expert conventional and high-speed railway networks, team of over 2,500 professionals, the company logistics, urban transport, ports and roads. has over 40 years of experience in contributing to the development of infrastructure in all transport Our high technological capacity enables us to modes, providing the most appropriate solutions in provide the most advanced solutions in all the more than 40 countries. projects we develop. Ineco’s comprehensive services cover all infrastructure project phases, from planning to commissioning, as well as later maintenance. The company also provides expertise regarding structuring, finance, regulation and institutional support. More than Global: Global leaders Expert, committed to in transport committed strengthening our engineering and and flexible international consultancy. organisation. presence. Ineco at a glance 009 In the world Ineco consolidates the company’s presence around the world More than 50 projects America: Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, Brazil, Panama, Costa Rica, Jamaica, Peru, Chile and Ecuador. Europe: United Kingdom, Turkey, Italy, Portugal, Serbia, Poland, Norway, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Estonia, Denmark, Belgium and Spain. Africa: Cape Verde, Algeria, Morocco, Mauritania, Namibia, Ethiopia, Mali, Egypt and Angola. Middle East: Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, United Arab Emirates and Jordan. Asia: India, Philippines, Nepal and Singapore. Ineco at a glance 010 Our ﬁgures In 2012, Ineco generated turnover of 219.8 million euros. We were able to double our revenues thanks to our growing internationalisation, with activities abroad compensating for the drop in income from the domestic market. At december 2012 Ineco at a glance 011 Ineco at a glance 012 Balance sheet at 31 December 2012 and 2011 (In euros) Assets 2012 2011 Intangible fixed assets Computer software 741,123 574,842 Tangible fixed assets Land and buildings 7,799,031 8,188,845 Technical installations, machinery, tools, furniture and other 3,622,302 3,907,360 tangible fixed assets Long-term investments in group companies and associates Equity instruments 1,349,878 1,327,502 Long-term financial investments Other financial assets 538,572 717,829 Deferred tax assets 8,529,207 3,924,802 Total non-current assets 22,580,113 18,641,180 Stocks Advance payments to suppliers 298,865 Trade debtors and other accounts receivable Short-term receivables from clients for sales and services rendered 44,474,873 41,211,362 Short-term receivables from clients, group companies and associates 56,851,023 87,936,753 Sundry receivables 77,743 214,522 Personnel 174,075 87,936 Current tax assets 559,317 13,654 Short-term investments in group companies and associates Other financial assets 105,000 49,971 Short-term financial investments Debt securities 26,803,293 9,125,759 Other financial assets 455,954 332,803 Short-term accruals and deferred income 104,712 105,247 Cash and cash equivalents Cash 25,781,646 26,894,251 Total current assets 155,686,501 165,972,258 Total assets 178,266,614 184,613,438 Ineco at a glance 013 Net equity and liabilities 2012 2011 Shareholder’s equity 79,152,784 86,077,900 Capital Registered capital 8,250,660 8,250,660 Share premium 12,857,007 12,857,007 Reserves Legal and statutory 1,650,132 1,650,132 Other reserves 52,312,797 52,312,797 Profit/loss for the year 4,082,188 11,007,304 Grants, donations and bequests received 164,747 116,030 Total equity 79,317,531 86,193,930 Long-term provisions Other provisions 2,105,202 1,000,000 Long-term payables Other financial liabilities 1,000,985 597,626 Deferred tax liabilities 228,059 221,495 Total non-current liabilities 3,334,246 1,819,121 Short-term provisions Other provisions 16,605,284 7,377,880 Short-term payables Other financial liabilities 248,508 35,290 Trade creditors and other payables Short-term suppliers 11,565,029 15,354,408 Short-term group companies and associates 3,446 6,951 Sundry payables 24,553 48,395 Personnel (accrued wages and salaries) 1,820,452 7,527,879 Current liabilities 2,218,419 262,796 Other taxes payable 7,647,522 11,246,043 Advance payments from customers 55,481,624 54,740,745 Total current liabilities 95,614,837 96.600.387 Total net equity and liabilities 178,266,614 184.613.438 Ineco at a glance 014 Proﬁt and loss account at 31 December 2012 and 2011 (In euros) 2012 2011 Net revenue Sales 219,884,015 248,065,228 Services rendered 173,834 94,072 Raw materials and consumables Subcontracted work (40,036,315) (52,018,637) Other operating revenue Non-core and other current operating revenues 466,293 325,443 Operating grants released to income during the year 121,693 135,337 Personnel expenses Wages, salaries and similar (97,992,634) (112,578,915) Employment benefits (39,076,367) (39,845,587) Provisions (8,689,626) (1,000,000) Other operating expenses External services (21,299,413) (21,848,969) Taxes (488,744) (247,146) Losses, impairment and changes in trade provisions (4,250,353) (489,034) Other operating losses (1,520,116) (3,460,539) Fixed asset depreciation (2,107,809) (2,158,832) Operating results 5,184,458 14,972,421 Financial income Shares in equity instruments In group companies and associates 4,003 882 Negotiable securities and loans on fixed assets Group companies and associates 32,333 Third parties 681,711 365,624 Financial expenses Payable to third parties (154,010) (20,018) Exchange differences (188,278) 349,485 Impairment and gains or losses from disposal of financial instruments Impairment and losses (4,612) Financial result 371,147 695,973 Profit before taxes 5,555,605 15,668,394 Corporate income tax (1,473,417) (4,661,090) Profit/loss for the year from continuing operations 4,082,188 11,007,304 Ineco at a glance 015 Managerial team At july 2013 Pablo Vázquez Chairman Berta Barrero Juan Batanero Ana Rojo General Manager, General Manager, Business General Manager, Corporate Strategy Development Engineering and Services and Services Ineco at a glance 016 Board of directors At december 2012 CHAIRMAN Pablo Vázquez Vega. Chairman. INECO DIRECTORS José Manuel Vargas Gómez. Chairman. AENA Javier Marín San Andrés. Director of Spanish Airports. AENA María García Capa. Director of Communication for the Office of the Minister of Public Works. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS Enrique Verdeguer Puig. Chairman. ADIF Julio Gómez-Pomar Rodríguez. Chairman. RENFE OPERADORA Belén Bada de Cominges. Assistant Director-General. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS Mariano Navas Gutiérrez. General Manager. CEDEX Sergio Pérez Saiz. Office of the Secretary of State for Trade. MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND COMPETITIVENESS Inés Carpio San Román. Consultant to the Technical Secretariat. ECONOMIC AFFAIRS OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE GOVERNMENT Rodrigo Marabini Ruiz. AENA INTERNATIONAL Luis Pérez Fabregat. Director of Projects and High-Speed Works. ADIF Manuel Varela Bellido. Economic and Financial Director. ADIF Luis Fernando López Ruiz. Director of Strategy and Development. ADIF Carmen Sánchez Sanz. Assistant Director-General of Conservation. Department of Roads. MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS SECRETARY OF THE BOARD Carlos Hugo Cea Pinilla. General Secretary. INECO Appointments and resignations 2012 EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING (27-01-2012) RESIGNATIONS: APPOINTMENTS: Ignasi Nieto Magaldi Pablo Vázquez Vega Juan Ignacio Lema Devesa José Manuel Vargas Gómez Antonio González Marín Enrique Verdeguer Puig Teófilo Serrano Beltrán Julio Gómez-Pomar Rodríguez Javier Anibarro García -Félix Albertos Carrión María García Capa Manuela Dolores Ferrari Velázquez -Juan Díaz Muñoz -EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING (29-03-2012) RESIGNATIONS: APPOINTMENTS: María Rosa Cornejo Arribas Sergio Pérez Saiz -Inés Carpio San Román -María Rosa Sanz Cerezo -Vicente Vilanova Martínez-Falero EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING (10-04-2012) RESIGNATIONS: APPOINTMENTS: Jesús Mendiluce La Calle Rodrigo Marabini Ruiz EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING (13-06-2012) CESE: NOMBRAMIENTO: Santiago Cobo Diego Luis Pérez Fabregat Antonio Berrios Villalba Luis Fernando López Ruiz María Rosa Sanz Cerezo Manuel Varela Bellido EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING (26-07-2012) RESIGNATIONS: APPOINTMENTS: Vicente Vilanova Martínez-Falero María del Carmen Sánchez Sanz Ineco at a glance 017 Areas of activity Aeronautics Railway Roads Urban transport Ports Planning and transport economics Areas of activity Aeronautics Ineco applies an integrated approach to all the company’s airport and air navigation projects. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 021 A high-ﬂying industry Despite the present economic difficulties, air the new goods storage terminal at Madrid-Barajas transport as a whole has continued to show a strong – and the development and implementation of new growth in several geographic regions. In 2012, Ineco versions of air traffic management (ATM) systems, applied an integrated approach to all its aeronautical such as SACTA and ICARO. projects. A few examples are the company’s project management of the extension to Kuwait Airport, Besides these undertakings, there have been other which began in 2011, and for which the Master Plan outstanding new activities over the year, like was also drawn up in 2012; works for Columbian civil the extension of the Apron Management Service aviation, with the new control tower at Eldorado (“Servicio de Dirección en Plataforma”, SDP) Airport in Bogotá; or the new avant-garde terminal at Madrid-Barajas Airport. This line of action, building at Odessa Airport in the Ukraine. Meanwhile, aimed at improving efficiency, also includes the Ineco continued to work on another major planning implementation of the first phase in the SIRA project: the restructuring of civil aviation in Nepal. project to unify the many different existing remote All these are countries that, like Morocco –where the radio assistance control and supervision systems. company is carrying out an improvement study for the extension of Casablanca Airport–, have chosen Ineco The implementation of SIRA will continue over the to provide a response to expansionary trends in their coming months, supported by a multidisciplinary respective aviation sectors. team of highly qualified professionals. Ineco’s personnel is trained to use the most advanced At the same time, Ineco has continued to maintain technological methods and tools in the market, as a presence in mature markets such as Europe, well as developing in-house products such as Suite Spain included, that present their own particular COVER for air navigation, of which new versions requirements and face their own global challenges. were launched in 2012, and PISTA (integrated air These challenges include the problem of air space traffic prognosis), designed specifically for Aena. congestion, which makes the improvement and enhancement of the security of operations and the Ineco provides tools, expertise and know-how, all effectiveness of procedures even more pressing adjustable to the needs of any client, whether requirements. In this context, we should mention private or institutional, and to any situation or Ineco’s participation in R&D&I projects linked to the geographical location. Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR) initiative, such as Turnaround Integration in Trajectory and Network (TITAN), a three-year study of ways of optimising airplane turnaround between flights aimed at improving punctuality; and the ongoing Accelerating Egnos Adoption in Aviation (ACCEPTA), intended to promote the use of the European satellite-based navigation system known as EGNOS. In the domestic field, Ineco continued to work with the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, the Spanish Aviation Safety Agency and the Aena group, a Spanish air navigation service provider and one of the largest airport operators in the world, in updating and monitoring master plans, drawing up air traffic forecasts, studies for airport certification and in other areas (environmental, commercial operation, obstacles, aeronautical communications, etc.), civil works projects – such as the urban development of Areas of activity · Aeronautics 022 Airport projects Project management for the extension and Master Plan for Kuwait International Airport In this project, Ineco has been applying a modern, advanced control system for document, cost and legal management to the airport extension work since 2011. The main lines of action include the construction of a new runway and a new terminal designed by Norman Foster, as well as several private investment projects: a hotel, a catering centre, etc. The five-year project has a two-fold objective: firstly, monitoring and control; and, secondly, coordination between extension work and other ongoing projects and works. In 2012, the company was also commissioned, in association with the consultancy firm Kuwait United Development (KUD), to draft the Master Plan and ten specific reports on various matters including, amongst others: opportunities for business development; airport accesses; the air cargo market and the establishment of a “Cargo City”; the development and use of the present terminal; and a long term search for a new location for the airport. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 023 For some years now, including 2012, Ineco has Works on the supported Aena on planning and developing the operator’s network of 47 airports and 2 heliports and on drafting master plans. These jobs include Aena network the formulation of planning studies for the following airports: Madrid-Barajas, Barcelona-El Prat, Alicante, Lanzarote, La Palma and San Sebastián, of airports and amongst others. heliports (Spain) Traffic forecasting is another crucial planning tool. In 2008, Ineco established the Office for Air Traffic Forecasts and designed an econometric model for Aena known as PISTA (Integrated Prognosis or Air Traffic) and SDP (Platform Management Service). Over the course of 2012, this tool was modernised and improved. Another task that Ineco carries out is that of commissioning airport extensions and new activities and services that affect airport operation, as well as renovations of commercial areas. In the case of Madrid-Barajas, this work entailed the start-up of the new Apron Management Service. This type of service began its development in 2001, when the new T4 terminal in Madrid-Barajas came into service. The activity concerning consultancy services for the process of airport certification, which Ineco has provided since 2010, is more recent. The process requires drawing up aviation safety reports, such as those already compiled at the following airports: Madrid-Barajas, Barcelona, Málaga, Santiago de Compostela, Palma de Mallorca, Lanzarote, Granada, Jerez, Almería and Ibiza. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 024 Design of the new control tower at Bogotá Eldorado Airport and associated air navigation systems (Colombia) Eldorado Airport, standing 16 kilometres away from the Colombian capital, is fully immersed in an extension process aimed at doubling its current capacity of 20.4 million passengers, making it Latin America’s third most-important airport. The conceptual design of the tower, inspired by local culture and traditions, is meant to be a symbol of entrance into the country. The materials used, the construction system employed and the structural design were all selected in accordance with the features of the terrain –soft, with frequent seismic activity– and the need for quick completion of the construction. The objective of the design and technical specifications of the air navigation systems that the new control tower will be equipped with is to safely and efficiently increase airplane movement within a complex operational environment. Eldorado Airport, the most important in Colombia, is located at an altitude of 2,545 metres above sea level and handles a large mixture of traffic of different kinds, from large commercial jets to regional turboprops and military aircraft. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 025 National Civil Aviation Development Plan in Nepal This three-year project comprises two parts: firstly, drafting a twenty-year National Civil Aviation Development Plan for Nepal, including airports, air navigation systems and air transport; and, secondly, splitting up CAAN, the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal, into two new organisations: a regulator and an airport and air navigation service operator. Both organisations will be equipped with a modern information management system, whilst personnel will be provided with training will be provided for personnel and business plans designed to ensure their viability will be drawn up. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 026 Technical engineering support for the extension of Casablanca Mohammed V Airport (Morocco) This project, commissioned by the Moroccan National Airport Authority (ONDA), consists of six stages, plus coordination of engineering and architectural work. The main tasks focus on review of design and assessment of correct sizing according to airport needs using simulation tools (ARC Port). Moreover, Ineco also supervises the basic projects to ensure that they are appropriate to meeting the identified needs, and has designed the airport’s commercial zones as well as drafteding a preliminary project for the Automated Baggage Handling System (SATE). Areas of activity · Aeronautics 027 Formulation of the urban development project for the future loading area at Madrid-Barajas Airport (Spain) Madrid-Barajas Airport is to be provided with a new loading area, located between the two south runways (runways 15L-33R and 15R-33L). In 2012, Ineco completed the design of the access roads and urban development of the two zones, including service systems (sanitation, water supply, firefighting, electrical power, public lighting, telecommunications, gas, etc). The scope of this work also includes the basic design to modify the ramps that link the airport service tunnel to the aircraft apron at the terminal T4S building. The objective is to reduce the excessive slope on certain sections of these ramps in order to increase the manoeuvrability of the baggage handling vehicles. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 028 Terminal building at Odessa Airport (Ukraine) The construction project drawn up for Odessa Airport Development Ltd. includes functional, architectural and structural design, as well as planning for all the services in the new terminal building at Odessa Airport. It also includes the schematic design of the entire land-side urban development and new accesses, as well as support for the client in establishing competitions for granting civil works and services, and defence of author’s rights during the working periods. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 029 Certiﬁcation of privately-managed airports of public use and other tasks relating to aerodromes of restricted use (Spain) The Spanish Aviation Safety and Security Agency (AESA) has the mission of authorising new airports and their modifications, and has a role in the legislative regulation of these matters. Ineco provides support for AESA in several activities in which the Agency requires specialised technical services, such as inspection and control of operational security on the ground (compiling technical documentation, drawing up specifications, inspecting documents in situ, etc.); processes of certifying and verifying privately managed airports and aerodromes of public and restricted use; processing, developing tools and carrying out inspections for authorisations of easements and control of fuel facilities; and risk assessments and safety and security studies in the airport environment. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 030 Air navigation projects Design of the new control tower at Bogotá Eldorado Airport and associated air navigation systems (Colombia) Eldorado Airport, standing 16 kilometres away from the Colombian capital, is fully immersed in an extension process aimed at doubling its current capacity of 20.4 million passengers, making it Latin America’s third most-important airport. The conceptual design of the tower, inspired by local culture and traditions, is meant to be a symbol of entrance into the country. The materials used, the construction system employed and the structural design were all selected in accordance with the features of the terrain –soft, with frequent seismic activity– and the need for quick completion of the construction. The objective of the design and technical specifications of the air navigation systems that the new control tower will be equipped with is to safely and efficiently increase airplane movement within a complex operational environment. Eldorado Airport, the most important in Colombia, is located at an altitude of 2,545 metres above sea level and handles a large mixture of traffic of different kinds, from large commercial jets to regional turboprops and military aircraft. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 031 Implementation of the Apron Management Service (SDP) at Madrid-Barajas Airport terminals T1, T2 and T3 (Spain) Ineco consolidated its activities as an air navigation service provider by installing the new Apron Management Service (“Servicio de Dirección en Plataforma”, SDP) at Madrid-Barajas Airport terminals T1, T2 and T3. As Ineco suggested, the new system was installed in different stages: firstly, it successfully entered into service on the T4 apron on 24 November 2011, whilst the system was extended to the T123 apron in May 2012. Besides providing a 24-hour service, Ineco also drew up a three-month Transition Plan, which included training for instructors and the publication of the change of service and provider in the AIP. The company also supervises safety and security, to which end it records and analyses all incidents. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 032 The Single European Sky and the TITAN project SESAR is the European R&D&I programme established to develop, from the technological and operational standpoints, the future air traffic management system known as the Single European Sky. The main objective of this programme is to research and develop initiatives aimed at reducing air congestion in Europe. As a subsidiary of Aena, Ineco takes part in a total of 37 operational and systems projects. Ineco has led TITAN, a three-year project established under the European Commission’s Seventh Framework Programme that pursues objectives established by the SESAR initiative since 2009. The objective of the TITAN project is to increase punctuality by improving turnaround, meaning the series of processes that affect aircraft between flights. To this end, the project develops a new concept based on Collaborative Decision Making (CDM) that involves all the main players in the turnaround process: air traffic control, airports, airline companies and baggage handling personnel. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 033 Analysis of ground/air communications in the Spanish air space Aena is responsible for ensuring the quality of the aeronautical mobile communications service throughout the Spanish air space. More precisely, the company is in charge of guaranteeing the coverage provided by its network of ground-air communications centres in the control, airways and airports sectors. A study of service coverage was needed in order to guarantee the present service whilst retaining the ability to adapt to any changes. Ineco began this in-depth study in 2011, examining the air space structure, both as it is in the present and as it is expected to be in the future. The project includes analysis of coverage for the route control and TMA sectors, the present APPs, for new sectoring generated by the CAELUS programme, and the search for new locations to install groundair communications stations. The services provided are supported by the CoverCOM calculation tool, developed by Ineco and produced in cooperation with Aena. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 034 Development and implementation of the SACTA and COMETA systems (Spain) The Automation Division, part of the Aena Systems Department, is responsible for developing ATM systems (SACTA and ICARO) and the ACC voice communications system (COMETA). In 2012, Ineco provided technical assistance services to formulate the technical and functional specifications of the systems and to carry out verification and deployment at ATC facilities (control centres and towers), as well as to support the exploitation of the different versions. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 035 Evaluation of visual segment surface, VSS (Spain) In 2009, due to the changes in ICAO regulations, Aena thought it necessary to review the visual segment surface (VSS) regarding obstacles entailed in direct instrument approach procedures. The directives state that no obstacle shall penetrate laterally on a visual surface segment and that, if it should, the approach procedure should not be approved without an aeronautical study. Ineco was commissioned to perform this task and, over the course of 2012, carried out studies at the following airports: Tenerife North, El Hierro, Almería, Bilbao, Girona and Vigo. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 036 The ACCEPTA Project: Accelerating EGNOS Adoption in Aviation The objective of this R&D&I project, carried out for the European Satellite Navigation Agency (GSA), is the pre-operational implementation of airplane and helicopter approaches and landing based on the satellite navigation service provided by the European EGNOS system, which improves on the performance of the United States GPS system. Launched in 2010, the project provides support to airlines, business aviation, general aviation and helicopter operators, enabling them to equip their aircraft with SBAS systems. It also supports airports and air navigation service providers for the publication of LPV procedures based on satellite navigation. Areas of activity · Aeronautics 037 Deployment of the Aena Radio Assistance Integration System (SIRA), Phase I (Spain) Aena operates a large radio assistance network to provide guidance for aircraft in different flight phases. This network comprises more than three hundred systems of different types (ILS, VOR, DME, etc.), featuring different makes and models. All manufacturers use their own software, which makes both remote control of equipment and the work of preventive maintenance difficult. This situation also makes it impossible to centralise information on the state of equipment at air traffic control centres. SIRA is a supervision and control system that standardises all the different software programmes and presents them in a single, standard interface. The system is being gradually deployed, and Phase 1 began in 2012. During this phase, more than twenty-five interfaces have been standardised, including signals for auxiliary systems at the locations (energy, firefighting system, intruder, air conditioning, etc.). Aeronautics Areas of activity Railway In Ineco we are aware of the railway being an essential mode of transport in an efﬁcient, sustainable and of high quality infrastructure system. 38 Ineco at a glance Areas of activity · Railway 039 Lines for growth Railway transport, both passenger (high-speed, In the conventional system, Ineco worked on the medium distance and commuter) and goods, is maintenance and modernisation of Iberian gauge part of Ineco’s DNA. In 2012, Ineco continued lines. Regarding commuter lines, one of the most to work with the Ministry of Public Works and outstanding developments was the installation –for Transport, Renfe Operadora and Adif, the railway the first time on a complex European line– of the infrastructure administration and management ERTMS signalling system, as well as the technical company, to develop, maintain and operate the assistance provided to Renfe to make 165 trains Spanish rail network, as it has done since the accessible thanks to the introduction of a new company was established forty-five years ago. low-floor carriage. Ineco also provided services The experience accumulated has enabled Ineco at stations, workshops and other facilities, such to cross borders, embarking on new projects such as Renfe’s 24-hour emergency centres, and as the design of a segment of the HS2 network in coordinated projects for future lines, including the the United Kingdom and the Mecca-Medina highnew railway system in Gran Canaria. speed line in Saudi Arabia. In 2012, an agreement was signed by which a consortium of twelve Other outstanding activities carried out in Spain Spanish companies (including Ineco) and two Saudi for Adif and Renfe included: certification of rolling organisations will implement the second phase stock and independent security assessments (which in these latter works and maintain the line for a Ineco has been authorised to carry out since 2009); period of twelve years. Moreover, in Turkey, Ineco consultancy work for the future Antequera rail continued the task that began in 2009: supervising ring; a number of computer developments, such as works on the central segment of the Ankara-Istanbul COPERNICO, the integrated management tool for line, which is being adapted for high speed. monitoring and control of railway operations; the formulation of technical regulations and specialised The fact is that more and more countries are studies of all kinds (of demand, of assets, turning to high-capacity railways, like France and environmental, geotechnical, etc.). New strategic Spain –which will soon have their first interoperable planning products must be added to all these, such high-speed connection– did decades ago. In 2012, as studies of economic and financial structure. In Ineco provided services to Renfe to enable Spanish short, Ineco provides a wide range of services that and French trains to obtain authorisation to also includes, particularly, the rehabilitation of the circulate on the railway systems in both countries. railway operator’s historic buildings on Avenida de Amongst other tasks, this entailed adapting energy la Ciudad de Barcelona, in the very heart of Madrid. capture, signalling and communications systems in the rolling stock. Besides, Ineco also carried out studies and drew up the construction projects for the introduction of the standard gauge along the Mediterranean Corridor, a key European link. On the Madrid-Valencia line, Ineco provided works supervision and management services with regard to track assembling, electrification and energy, signalling (ERTMS) and fixed and mobile communications (GSM-R), as well as construction of technical buildings and civil protection and safety in tunnels. Commissioned by Adif, Ineco also continued to provide maintenance services for gauge changeovers, systems in which the company has also acquired more than a decade’s experience in 2012. Areas of activity · Railway 040 Railway projects Works on the Spanish High-Speed Network In 2012, commissioned by Adif, Ineco provided quality control services relating to the supply and assembly of railway parts, including switches and expansion joints, and machinery handling and maintenance, as well as the operation and recording of the following lines using an auscultation train: Madrid-Valencia, North, Northwest and Northeast (Madrid-Barcelona-French border). Regarding this last line, Ineco also carried out monitoring and surveillance of railway facility construction works (signalling, fixed communications, GSM-R mobile telecommunications and infrastructure for public mobile telephone network operators, centralised traffic control and train protection systems) on the new BarcelonaAreas of activity · Railway 041 Figueres segment. The company also manages the West East high-speed segment. This section, service and maintenance bases on the Madrid6.9 kilometres long, including 5.2 km of tunnels, Barcelona line. is part of the link known as the Basque “Y”. On the Madrid-Valencia segment, the company Moreover, as part of the gauge changeover supervised security documentation for construction maintenance work that Ineco carries out projects and carried out the independent security exclusively for Adif, the company continued assessment –a task for which Ineco has had Ministry to provide its services at the ten changeovers of Public Works and Transport approval since 2009– that are distributed throughout the high-speed of the track-side signalling systems with ASFA and network, including repairs, spare parts, health and ERTMS, levels 1 and 2. safety and supervision of trains passing through. The company is also equipped with exclusive In Madrid, Ineco also drew up the basic and management and control software with real-time construction project for the extension of the UIC incident notification. In cooperation with Adif, gauge tracks, platforms and lobby at Chamartín Ineco worked on the design and construction of station (Madrid), to adapt the complex for the gauge changeover facilities since the installation of arrival of the high-speed train. In the Basque the first in 2001. Country the company provides technical assistance for works on the new Antzuola-Ezkio/Itsaso Areas of activity · Railway 042 Mecca-Medina high-speed railway (Saudi Arabia) Having won the international competition, the Spanish-Saudi consortium Al Shoula signed the contract for this project with SRO, the Saudi Railways Organisation, in Riyadh in January 2012. Besides Ineco, the consortium is also formed by Renfe, Adif, Talgo, Consultrans, OHL, COPASA, IMATHIA, Dimetronic, Indra, Cobra, and two Saudi partners, the Al Shoula group and the Al Rosan contracting company. The contract, the largest ever secured by a Spanish company abroad, includes the second construction phase of the 444-kilometre high-speed rail link between the holy cities of Makkah and Madinah, as well as maintenance of this line for the twelve years following the completion of works. In April 2012, the chairman of Ineco, Pablo Vázquez, was appointed chairman of the consortium, which opened its operational headquarters in Jeddah towards the end of the year. Areas of activity · Railway 043 Cross acceptance processes for the circulation of high-capacity trains between Spain and France The Spanish railway operator Renfe and its French counterpart SNCF are developing the project for the design and structure of the Figueres-Perpignan segment of the high-speed passenger transport service on the Madrid-Barcelona-French border line. Renfe is contributing with ten existing S/100 trains, turning them into dual voltage trains (25 kVca-50 Hz and 1.5 kVcc) and equipping them with the necessary signalling systems to circulate on both conventional lines and on the French high-speed network. For its part, SNCF will provide ten newlymanufactured TGV Duplex 2N2-3UH trains. These dual voltage trains (25 kVca and 1.5 kVcc) will also be equipped with the necessary signalling and communications systems to circulate on Spanish UIC gauge lines and French conventional UIC and highspeed lines. Within this framework, Ineco provides Renfe with technical assistance in various tasks aimed at obtaining authorisations for this rolling stock to circulate in the railway networks of both countries. Areas of activity · Railway 044 HS2 (High Speed Two): high-speed line in the United Kingdom In 2012, HS2 (High Speed Two Ltd.), the firm responsible for developing the high-speed network in the UK, placed contracts with Ineco, in partnership with the British consultants Capita Symonds, for the preliminary design of the third of the five segments in the future high-speed link between London and Birmingham. This segment, approximately 78 kilometres in length, runs through the counties of Warwickshire and Staffordshire. The new British high-speed network, known as HS2 to distinguish it from Eurostar (HS1), crossing the English Channel, will have a total length of over 500 kilometres. The first phase will link London and Birmingham, the second will reach Leeds and Manchester, whilst later developments will extend the network as far as Edinburgh in Scotland. Areas of activity · Railway 045 Ankara-Istanbul high-speed line (Turkey) A railway line 576 kilometres long, built in the early-20th century, links Ankara, the Turkish capital, with Istanbul, the country’s main economic centre. 75% of the route is single-track, and TCDD, the Turkish state railway company, is promoting its adaptation to speeds of up to 250 km/h, a project that involves both rehabilitation of the existing line and the construction of new segments. The first phase of the works, a 276-kilometre stretch between Ankara and Eskişehir, entered into service in 2009. Work is still on in the remaining 217 kilometres. Ineco, along with its local partner, the Turkish consultancy firm of UBM, is taking part in the supervision and monitoring of works on the central segment between Inönü and Köseköy,150 kilometres long and the largest section under construction. The whole project is made enormously complex by seismic activity, the urban areas affected and the difficult terrain in certain sections. Areas of activity · Railway 046 Project for the Las Palmas de Gran Canaria-Maspalomas railway line (Spain) Since 2009, Ineco has directed and coordinated the planning of the future railway line, 58 kilometres long and with 11 stations, that will link Las Palmas de Gran Canaria to the main towns in the island, the airport and tourist areas. There will be a standard gauge line (1,435 millimetres), built using the ATD-G ballastless system and double tracked throughout nearly its entire length. The services provided by Ineco encompass coordination and supervision of all works prior to the call for tender, the formulation of specifications for all the project draft competitions and assessment of bids, in cooperation with the railway operator Ferrocarriles de Gran Canaria; the technical management of contracts, coordination of the different bodies and authorities involved, specialist studies of superstructure, demand, operation and economic feasibility; and, in cooperation with Renfe, supervision and management of workshops and depots. Areas of activity · Railway 047 Modernisation of commuter railway lines in São Paulo (Brazil) The Metropolitan Transport Secretariat in the State of São Paulo is implementing an ambitious modernisation programme that will enable much of the suburban railway network operated by the Compañía Paulista de Trenes Metropolitanos (CPTM) to be converted into an overground metro system. This is an enormously important undertaking due to the serious traffic congestion problems and lack of transport system capacity in the region. Ineco provides project management services concerning the loan agreements established with the São Paulo State Government, the World Bank and a consortium of Japanese banks. These services encompass consultancy and support for managing the contracts, including those for supplies, monitoring and surveillance of the physical and financial completion of the project. In 2012, as part of this plan, the company developed the São Paulo Trens e Sinalização [São Paulo Trains and Ineco also supervised the manufacture, reception Signalling] project. The objective of this project and assembly of nine high-capacity trains made by was to purchase forty new trains for the CPTM and Alstom in Brazil. The purpose of this work was to seventeen for Metrô, to install signalling, traffic guarantee delivery of the trains according to the control, telecommunications and traction power required quality and schedule, complying with the systems for the two companies, and to modernise conditions established by the World Bank, which the track and overhead lines on CPTM lines 7, Rubí, finances the project. and 12, Safira. Areas of activity · Railway 048 Technical support, management and coordination of Renfe Operadora’s 24-hour emergency centres (Spain) Since November 2006, Renfe has operated a new 24-hour Coordination and Control Centre (CECON) in order to provide an efficient response to a range of incidents, alerts and emergencies affecting railway transport. The centre records and manages all events at national level that are linked to it by the regional centres. Ineco’s tasks include, amongst other things, providing consultancy for the formulation of specifications, general project coordination, works management as required, technical support services for both software and hardware and the management of maintenance at the centres, and monitoring and supervising works and projects related to security in commuter railway stations, workshops, corporate buildings and trains. Areas of activity · Railway 049 Construction studies and projects for the introduction of the standard gauge in the Mediterranean Corridor (Spain) The objective of this project, financed by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, is to deploy the European gauge along the railway corridor that runs along the Spanish Mediterranean coastline between Murcia and Barcelona. The project, which opens up the possibility of optimising goods traffic, currently restricted by the existence of two different gauges (standard and Iberian), also includes the necessary measures to enable 750-metre trains (that is to say, trains that conform to the European standard for interoperability) to circulate along this line. The tasks performed by Ineco include analysis of demand, identification of the hubs to be connected, the operational study and the determination of functional needs, the functional study and the construction project, as well as analysis of financial viability and the optimum formula for promotion according to criteria of speed, economic efficiency and maximum possible compatibility with existing traffic types. The solutions proposed include third rail technologies or automatic gauge changeover according to type of traffic, as well as international gauge rail access to ports, factories and logistics facilities. The project embraces the complete development of a segment some 770 kilometres in length. Areas of activity · Railway 050 Development of the European safety standard and interoperability and safety certiﬁcation (Spain) Ineco provides support to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport in its tasks as the railway regulator, particularly in all areas concerning safety and interoperability, covering both legislation and the work of auditing and issuing authorisations. To this end, Ineco carries out legal studies and drafts legislation, both as part of the Spanish railway industry’s participation and contribution to its development at European level and in the subsequent transposition to national legislation and regulations. The company also provides services regarding issues of safety certificates and authorisation, a key area in the liberalisation of the sector. Areas of activity · Railway 051 Adaptation of Renfe commuter trains for accessibility (Spain) Renfe-Integria has placed contracts with Alstom and CAF for the manufacture of new carriages with universal accessibility to convert 165 commuter train units in the 447 series. Ineco provides its services to the Spanish railway operator throughout all the phases of this modification project: at the design stage, by supervising and monitoring the functional and construction project; during production, by monitoring reception of the first manufactured article, supplies and equipment; in factory inspections and tests; and, later, during final tests and the processes of validation and authorisation for circulation. Aeronautics Areas of activity Roads Ineco is present in many national and international projects concerning upgrades and preservation of roads. 52 Ineco at a glance Areas of activity · Roads 053 The arteries of the territory All around the world, roads –whether major interBesides high-capacity roads, the company was also urban highways, ring roads around large cities present in the conventional network, managing or secondary roads– are the basic structure in works and performing other duties on various transport networks. This is even more so in regions Catalan roads, including the C-25, a trunk road where, due to the terrain or other circumstances, known as Eje Transversal that connects several networks of other overland transport modes have inland counties without crossing the regional not been sufficiently developed. capital, Barcelona. Turning to cities, ring roads around the great urban agglomerations are of vital This is the case, for example, of Ecuador, importance to ensure fluidity in the rest of the where, in 2012, Ineco worked on projects such road network. The ring road around São Paulo, as the Strategic Mobility Plan 2013-2037 and in Brazil, whose metropolitan area has total a the structuring of the concession for the E-20 population of nineteen million, is one of the largest road between the cities of Santo Domingo and in the world: in 2012, Ineco won the contract to Esmeraldas, for which the company proposed a supervise works to close the northern segment of system of incentives for the operator according the Rodoanel Mário Covas ring road. In Spain, the to compliance with certain quality standards. company also planned the capacity increase and This premise was also applied to the Guadalajaraenvironmental measures on a section of one of the Colima motorway in Mexico where Ineco, acting country’s busiest motorways: the M-40 in Madrid. as the Administrative Agent and Supervisor for In the Canary Islands Ineco managed control and the concession, managed works to improve the surveillance of complex works on the ring road in road surface in 2012. The company also provided Las Palmas. Other major works in 2012 included technical assistance on other Mexican roads, such measures on several roads in Andalusia to protect as the Atlixcáyotl, Virreyes-Teziutlán and Apizacothe Iberian lynx, an endangered autochthonous Huauchinango highways. In Kuwait, Ineco led the species (animal crossing places, closure, study of the road network for the future Shadadiya refurbishment, etc.). industrial complex. Finally, regarding road safety, the European Roads are also vital in Spain, where Ineco also Pilot4Safety project, devoted to training road worked over the course of the year 2012, mainly auditors and inspectors, was completed, and on actions to improve and maintain the country’s inspections were made on a segment of the C-55 vast network. These projects included the Plan road in Catalonia. to Refurbish First Generation Dual Carriageways and interventions in the Regional Road Network in Andalusia. Also in Andalusia, Ineco provided technical assistance for the new Ibros-Úbeda stretch of the A-32 dual carriageway, as well as compiling studies for regional connections such as the improved trunk road between Écija and Estepa, a task the company also carried out for the new dual carriageway between Toledo and Ciudad Real, in Castile-La Mancha. Moreover, Ineco began to draft the project to build the last outstanding segment of the A-62 dual carriageway, connecting with Portugal through a town called Fuentes de Oñoro. Areas of activity · Roads 054 Road projects Management and control of works to close the northern segment of the São PauloRodoanel Mário Covas ring road (Brazil) In 2012, a consortium led by Ineco along with Ebei, the Brazilian engineering firm, was awarded the contract to provide support to the merged company DERSA (Desenvolvimento Rodoviário SA, in which São Paulo State is a stakeholder) on coordinating around thirty contracts and the different bodies participating in the works, scheduled for completion in 2016. The construction of the northern segment will close the 177-kilometres carriageway around the city, used by 65,000 vehicles a day, 30,000 of which are trucks. The ring road, known as Rodoanel Mário Covas, was opened in 2002. The last section pending construction is the northern segment, 43.86 kilometres in length and the most complex of all. This stretch, designed for a maximum speed of 100 km/h, will have three or four lanes according to each zone, and will require the construction of 7 tunnels, as well as 11 bridges and viaducts. Ineco coordinates project planning, expropriation and environmental measures. Areas of activity · Roads 055 Plan to Refurbish First Generation Dual Carriageways (Spain) The Ministry of Public Works and Transport launched this plan in 2006 in order to modernise the road network developed in the 1980s regarding safety and quality of service, and splitting the main trunk roads. To this end, a series of contracts were tendered for the improvement, maintenance and operation of these so-called first generation dual carriageways. Over the last year, the company’s work has focussed on providing support for the control and monitoring of the 141 indicators of state and quality of service that serve to evaluate the operator over the remaining years of the concession. Work consisted of supervising the preliminary projects for the sections pending its tender, and providing support for the concession tender process and assistance with adjudication. Moreover, Ineco supervised the construction projects drawn up by the operators, coordinated the subsequent construction, conservation and operation phases, and carried out auscultation tests to measure indicator levels. Areas of activity · Roads 056 Supervision of improvement works on the Guadalajara-Colima motorway (Mexico) In 2012, Ineco directed works to extend and modernise the Guadalajara-Colima motorway in Mexico as part of the contract signed with Banobras (National Bank of Public Works and Services) to act as Administrating Agent and Supervisor of the concession until 2025. The modernisation measures consisted in widening a 29-kilometre stretch to four lanes (less than 30 kilometres still remain to be doubled along the total length of this 148-kilometre motorway), as well as refurbishing six links to state and local roads and building three toll areas and several passes at different levels to eliminate irregular accesses. Moreover, the two existing toll areas were remodelled and enlarged, and a third was constructed in Sayula. Built in 1983, the Guadalajara-Colima motorway is part of the Manzanillo-Tampico corridor, the main overland communication link between the cities of Guadalajara, Zapotlán El Grande (Ciudad Guzmán), Colima and the Port of Manzanillo. The route combines freeway stretches with toll segments. Areas of activity · Roads 057 Preliminary project for the construction and technical, ﬁnancial and legal structure of the Santo DomingoEsmeraldas concession (Ecuador) In 2012, the Ecuadorian Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) decided to finance the extension of the road corridor between Santo Domingo and one of the country’s most important ports, the Port of Esmeraldas, through a publicprivate partnership (PPP). To this end, the MTOP opted for a contract for the concession of public works and services, commissioning Ineco to carry out the necessary studies to determine the most attractive model of financial profitability for investors, both domestic and international. The company proposed a mixed financial model, with user contributions through social tolls and a system of penalties and bonuses attached to the monthly amount received by the concession operator according to compliance with quality indicators established in the contract. At the same time, Ineco also drew up the preliminary construction project for the corridor, which will have the features of a high-capacity road: length of 180 kilometres, lanes separated by a rigid barrier, turnarounds and roundabouts, direct entrances with acceleration/deceleration lanes and toll facilities. Areas of activity · Roads 058 European Pilot4Safety project to train road auditors and inspectors Pilot4Safety, co-financed by the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport, was a pilot project that ended in 2012. For two years, the initiative brought regional bodies together with road research institutes and universities from eight European countries to draw up a common training curriculum for technicians engaged in the study of roads, particularly secondary roads. Under the project, Ineco provided support to the Government of Catalonia, one of the five local and regional bodies from the European partners in Spain, Italy, Denmark, Greece and the Czech Republic. With Ineco’s support, the Catalan Government audited two projects: C-242, a 25-kilometre county road in Lleida, and a bypass in the Czech city of Chýnov. In the first case, Ineco teamed up with the Italian partner Astral, which manages roads in the region of Lazio. In the second, with CDV, the Czech Directorate-General for Roads and Motorways. In the field of inspections, Spanish technicians and their Danish counterparts from the town of Randers audited the C-155 road in Sabadell. They also inspected the 25 A provincial road in the Central Region of Macedonia (Greece), alongside local technicians. Areas of activity · Roads 059 Control and surveillance works on the Ibros-Úbeda segment of the A-32 dual carriageway, Jaén (Spain) From 2009 to 2012, commissioned by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport’s Directorate-General for Roads, Ineco carried out control and surveillance regarding works on the 15.1-kilometre Ibros-Úbeda section on the Linares-Albacete dual carriageway (A-32). The company’s tasks encompassed general technical assistance for works management, study and monitoring of the contractor’s quality assurance plan and quality control of the work. Works on the new Ibros-Úbeda stretch, in Jaén, which opened in December 2012, included the construction of two links, as well as the 188-metrelong Canena viaduct, two flyovers and five underpasses. The dual carriageway, 210 kilometres long A-32, is designed to provide a high-capacity alternative to the N-232 national road between Córdoba and Valencia, and constitutes one of the major communication links between Andalusia and eastern Spain. Areas of activity · Roads 060 New industrial zone in Shadadiya (Kuwait) Ineco advises the Public Authority for Industry (PAI), the highest authority in Kuwaiti for industrial planning and development, to launch the construction of a five square kilometres complex provided with all kinds of public services, located around 25 kilometres southwest of Kuwait City. The complex will house logistics centres, warehouses and units for different industrial activities, with three main sectors: chemicals, food and drink, and mixed, this last sector bringing together the textile, paper, wood and mineral industries. The company formulated both the conceptual design of the industrial zone and all the technical and administrative documentation involved in the project and works competition process, from launching the pre-qualification process to drafting specifications and assessing bids and the successful bidder’s proposals. Ineco also designed accesses and roads in the area, and submitted a detailed report on the structural, distribution, access and intersecting roads that will form the network here, ensuring safe, fluid traffic throughout the complex. Moreover, as project manager, Ineco coordinated the Spanish and Kuwaiti partners engaged in carrying out the works. The facilities include an environmental monitoring centre to ensure compliance with the environmental parameters established for the industrial activity. Areas of activity · Roads 061 Project to design the route of a segment in the M-40 ring road in Madrid (Spain) Madrid has two closed ring roads, the M-30 and the M-40, as well as two “semi-rings”, the M-45 and the M-50. Together, these routes handle a large proportion of the 2.4 million vehicles that circulate every day around the approximately 4,500 kilometres of roads in the region, with origin or destination in the capital or points in the vast metropolitan region. This is an area where nearly five million people live, around 80% of the population in the region. Now that the M-30 has been absorbed by urban growth, the M-40 has become the city’s main ring road. Every day, an average 159,175 vehicles use its 62 kilometres, making this one of the roads with the most intense traffic in Spain. For this reason, in 2008, the Ministry of Public Works and Transport launched plans to improve and extend the road. In 2012, Ineco drafted the project to extend capacity and for environmental measures –mainly noise abatement– on the 10.7-kilometre segment located between kilometres 12 and 22. Aeronautics Areas of activity Urban transport Ineco’s experience in Urban Transport comprises the whole cycle of an infrastructure, from the viability studies to the commissioning. 62 Ineco at a glance Areas of activity · Urban transport 063 Dynamism in the city Action on urban transport has a direct impact on the commissioning of a communications platform people’s day-to-day activities and quality of life. for Renfe commuter trains. Similarly, since 2010, This fact is emphasized by the growing urbanisation the company has provided consultancy services of the world’s population and the emergence of new to financial institutions for the construction, urban agglomerations. Several of the world’s largest development and operation of station concessions cities are in Latin America: São Paulo, in Brazil, for on Segment 4 of Line 9 of the Barcelona example, has a population of 19 million, including underground, as well as technical assistance and both the city and the metropolitan area. Ineco has works management. been working in the country for more than twenty years and has an office in the city and has carried Ineco’s vast experience in urban transport embraces out many projects of all kinds linked to urban such essential issues as economic, financial transport. In 2012, the company drew up a study and environmental impact studies, as well as of alternative fuel systems to help reduce pollution architecture, urban development and integrated in São Paulo, focusing on buses and trolleybuses, design. Moreover, the company’s human resources as well as implementing a project to modernise include experts in auditing, systems integration, the city’s commuter railway lines as part of a huge software modelling and development support for investment programme that the city has launched in tenders and asset management. order to improve and modernise its urban transport systems. Ineco has also worked in Costa Rica on similar lines in recent years, including a national plan, similar to those deployed in Ecuador and Algeria last year. In 2012, the company completed a financial and technical study for the transport system in the capital, San José. Besides these planning works, Ineco also applied the company’s experience in other areas of knowledge in 2012. Concerning rolling stock, for example, the company has participated in projects like the modernisation of 49 underground trains in Santiago de Chile, manufactured by Alstom in the 1970s. The Medellín underground, in Colombia, also commissioned Ineco to supervise the manufacture, transfer and entry into service of its new trains, made in Spain by CAF. In Spain, the outstanding activities in 2012 included the Urban Mobility Plan in the Municipality of L’Hospitalet de Llobregat, as well as various undertakings for Renfe commuter railways. Ineco also provided technical assistance regarding customer information centres at stations on the C-4 line and adapting 446 and 447 series commuter trains for accessibility. Also in 2012, Ineco managed the technical office for supplies and Areas of activity · Urban transport 064 Urban transport projects Ineco provided consultancy services for the renewal of Modernisation the fleet of 49 NS-74 trains that operate on Lines 2 and 5 of the Santiago de Chile Metro underground system. The trains, manufactured by Alstom, are from the of Alstom NS-74 1970s, and the Chilean company decided to modernise them in order to extend their life for another twenty years, as well as reducing their energy consumption and trains for the making them more comfortable for users. With their antiquated design and technology, the trains presented problems of obsolescence regarding certain fittings and underground in systems, and maintaining them in operation required an enormous effort, whilst costs continued to rise constantly. Santiago (Chile) The first phase of the contract, establishing the basic engineering to draw up the technical specifications for the tender, was completed in 2012. The goal of the modernisation plan drawn up by Ineco is to achieve break-down rates similar to those of today’s trains, increasing their reliability and the availability of units. To this end, the systems that require modification or replacement were identified, and more efficient technologies were specified. The rehabilitation also affects the exterior and interior aesthetic image of these trains, and passenger comfort: air conditioning systems will be installed and the interior will be wholly redesigned. Moreover, studies were carried out to guide the redesign of the driver’s cabin and the train’s operation, control and analysis system, as well as the modernisation of doors, the installation of communication systems between passengers and the driver’s cabin, CCTV monitoring systems, etc. Areas of activity · Urban transport 065 Study of alternative fuel systems in mediumand low-capacity transport systems in São Paulo (Brazil) In a joint venture with Sistran Engenharia and Ineco ethanol, natural gas, hydrogen, electric and do Brasil, Ineco drew up a study of new vehicle hybrid, amongst others– both at the operational technologies and the use of alternative fuel systems and development stages, according to technical to reduce pollution in mediumand low-capacity and operational, environmental, social and transport systems in the metropolitan region of São economic efficiency criteria. The conclusions Paulo. drawn from this comparative analysis formed the basis for a plan to replace and install the different With a population of 11 million (24 million in technologies in the vehicles in operation. the entire state), São Paulo is amongst the five largest conurbations in the world. EMTU, the São Paulo State Metropolitan Urban Transport Company, manages more than 800 lines and a fleet of over 5,500 vehicles, including both busses and trolleybuses. The study, commissioned by the ANTP (Brazil’s National Public Transport Association), was financed by the World Bank and carried out on behalf of EMTU, which manages inter-municipal collective transport systems throughout the city’s metropolitan region. The advisory and consultancy work began with a study of the current mediumand low-capacity transport systems in São Paulo, and of international experiences in this field. The survey also included a comparative study of the different bus technologies and the various fuel systems –diesel, biodiesel, Areas of activity · Urban transport 066 Urban Mobility Plan in the Municipality of L’Hospitalet de Llobregat (Spain) Urban mobility plans (UMPs) are the key documents for the formulation of sustainable mobility strategies in townships in Catalonia. Under Law 9/2003 on mobility, townships obliged to provide urban collective transport services for passengers are required to draw up and approve UMPs. Moreover, the Master Plan on Mobility in Barcelona’s Metropolitan Area requires all townships with a registered population of over 20,000 inhabitants to formulate UMPs. This is the case of L’Hospitalet de Llobregat, with a population of 253,782 in 2008. Ineco’s work regarding the UMP in L’Hospitalet, which began in 2012 and continues in 2013, consists of an initial audit, modelling studies and the formulation of new proposals to promote sustainable mobility in the town’s public transport system, including road safety and distribution of urban goods. Likewise, the company also carried out an environmental study, producing the appropriate documents, which include the Preliminary Environmental Sustainability Report (ISAP) and the Sustainability Report (ISAP). To draw up the UMP, Hospitalet local authority works in cooperation with Barcelona Provincial Council (DIBA) and Barcelona Metropolitan Area (AMB), which provide their active assistance in order to produce coherent planning for the development of the municipality. Areas of activity · Urban transport 067 Study for a transport system in San José metropolitan area (Costa Rica) The objective of this work in Costa Rica is to determine the technical and financial feasibility of establishing an inter-urban passenger train services in the metropolitan area of San José de Costa Rica, linking the townships of Cartago, San José, Heredia and Alajuela. The metropolitan area of San José de Costa Rica is a conurbation where more than two million people live –representing nearly half of the country’s total population– and embracing the provinces of Heredia, Cartago, Alajuela and San José. The rapid growth of the population in these cities has led to increases in the number of journeys, both by public and private transport, which cause enormous problems of congestion and saturation in road networks. In response to this situation and with a view to improving mobility and organising the territory, the decision was to promote the railway mode as the most appropriate system to efficiently link –from both the economic and environmental standpoints– the main townships in the area. The rehabilitation of the existing railway system will enable fast, comfortable, safe and environmentallyfriendly passenger train services to be provided. Ineco carried out the preliminary studies for this project, including system engineering, travel demand and operating, and financial and economic analyses. The goal of all this is to achieve the in-depth transformation of the existing railway infrastructure and rolling stock in order to improve both mobility and safety. Areas of activity · Urban transport 068 Adaptation of Renfe commuter trains for accessibility (Spain) Renfe-Integria has placed contracts with Alstom and CAF for the manufacture of new carriages with universal accessibility to convert 165 commuter train units in the 447 series. Ineco provides its services to the Spanish railway operator throughout all the phases of this modification project: at the design stage, by supervising and monitoring the functional and construction project; during production, by monitoring reception of the first manufactured article, supplies and equipment; in factory inspections and tests; and, later, during final tests and the processes of validation and authorisation for circulation. Areas of activity · Urban transport 069 Modernisation of commuter railway lines in São Paulo (Brazil) The Metropolitan Transport Secretariat in the Ineco provides project management services State of São Paulo is implementing an ambitious concerning the loan agreements established with modernisation programme that will enable much the São Paulo State Government, the World Bank of the suburban railway network operated by the and a consortium of Japanese banks. These services Compañía Paulista de Trenes Metropolitanos (CPTM) encompass consultancy and support for managing to be converted into an overground metro system. the contracts, including those for supplies, This is an enormously important undertaking due to monitoring and surveillance of the physical and the serious traffic congestion problems and lack of financial completion of the project. In 2012, as transport system capacity in the region. part of this plan, the company developed the São Paulo Trens e Sinalização [São Paulo Trains and Signalling] project. The objective of this project was to purchase forty new trains for the CPTM and seventeen for Metrô, to install signalling, traffic control, telecommunications and traction power systems for the two companies, and to modernise the track and overhead lines on CPTM lines 7, Rubí, and 12, Safira. Ineco also supervised the manufacture, reception and assembly of nine high-capacity trains made by Alstom in Brazil. The purpose of this work was to guarantee delivery of the trains according to the required quality and schedule, complying with the conditions established by the World Bank, which finances the project. Areas of activity · Urban transport 070 Economic rebalancing of stations on the new Line 9 of the Barcelona underground (Spain) The stations on Line 9 of Barcelona’s Metro underground system are being built under the formula of the public-private concession. They were divided into four segments for this tender, with three finally adjudicated to different operating companies. Ineco is the technical consultant to the financial institutions behind this concession, and the company’s task is to provide them with a basis on which to assess certain aspects and technical and economic risks. To this end, Ineco focuses particularly on the investment expected during the construction and operation phases, whilst also analysing its suitability and expected distribution of this investment. The company also carries out detailed monitoring of project advancement to ensure that this conforms to initial provisions and expected viability, making regular visits to the works to inspect their progress. Ineco acts as the representative of the financial institutions in accordance with their instructions, and is directly accountable to these bodies, though all contractual and economic relations are maintained exclusively with the company to which the concession was adjudicated. Areas of activity · Urban transport 071 Supervision and technical management of the renewal of rolling stock for the Medellín underground (Colombia) The Medellín Metro underground system is renewing its rolling stock by introducing thirteen new units, each with three carriages, made in Spain by the Basque firm CAF, which will be added to the current fleet of 42 trains (manufactured in 1995). Ineco’s remit is to supervise and manage technical aspects of the entire design, construction and commissioning of these trains, both at the CAF factories in Spain (Zaragoza, Irún and Beasain) and in Colombia, where the rail tests are carried out. Areas of activity Ports Ineco has continued to work on ports both in Spain and abroad, always from an intermodal perspective and with an integrated approach that also takes into account the particular conditions at each different site. 72 Ineco at a glance Areas of activity · Ports 073 At the helm of trade and the economy Maritime traffic grew throughout the world in 2012, Boosting trade and exports is also the objective of and this growth was strongest in developing regions: another project, an international enterprise that nearly 80% of world trade is by sea. At the same was launched in 2012 and will continue in 2013: a time, the globalisation of the economy has led to feasibility study for the Corinto-Monkey Point rail the dispersion of production centres, making ports corridor in Nicaragua. This is a major rail link that even more important from the logistical standpoint. crosses the Central American country from the In this context, Ineco has continued to work on Pacific coast to the future Port of Monkey Point, ports both in Spain and abroad. The company which will be Nicaragua’s first deep water port on always takes an intermodal perspective and adopts the Atlantic seaboard. In this initiative, which is an integrated approach that also takes into account considered strategic for the Nicaraguan economy, the particular conditions at each different site. Ineco is responsible for formulating the layout and preliminary designs for the two port railway In Spain, the European country with the longest terminals, as well as the multimodal terminal that coastline (8,000 kilometres), its 46 ports, grouped will also be established in near Managua. into 28 port authorities, are particularly important: the country’s port network handles nearly 60% of Spanish exports and 85% of imports, and in 2012 came close to surpassing the national record for goods traffic. Ineco provides services in the development of rail and road accesses at ports, including those of Barcelona, Tarragona, Castellón and Valencia. These four ports are all linked to the Mediterranean Corridor project for the introduction of the international gauge all along the railway line that skirts the eastern coast of Spain, an initiative in which Ineco is also involved. The provision of rail access with international or standard gauge lines is essential if Spanish ports are to become true intermodal hubs. At present, 95% of port goods arrive or leave by road, reflecting a clear imbalance with respect to the railway mode. Another project linked to the development of the economic and logistic potential of ports is the study of alternatives for the rail transport of iron ore to the Port of Almería. Ineco was commissioned to carry out this project by the firm of Minas de Alquife. For the Port of Málaga, moreover, Ineco designed two projects to relocate the fishing facilities and establish a new area for goods, whilst the company also provides control and surveillance of these works. Areas of activity · Ports 074 Port projects The Port of Barcelona, which was the third most Functional study important in Spain by cargo volume in 2012, is one of the key port hubs along the Mediterranean Corridor. In September 2012, the Ministry of Public Works and and construction Transport commissioned Ineco to develop new road and rail accesses for this port. The main difficulty is making the two rail gauges (metric and Iberian) that exist here projects for compatible with the introduction of the UIC standard gauge without affecting the intense traffic. the southern Ineco has proposed a series of technical solutions to greatly reduce the cost of these works, such as the integration of the three gauges into a single platform accesses to the and the division of rail and road access into two levels at certain points. Ineco’s brief includes preliminary studies (demand, functional and alternatives, costPort of Barcelona benefit and financial viability), and the company has also drawn up construction projects for rail and road (Spain) accesses and the connection with the Can Tunis goods terminal. Areas of activity · Ports 075 Initial feasibility study for the Corinto-Monkey Point Intermodal Rail Corridor (Nicaragua) The future line, which will be 480 kilometres long, will cross the country from Corinto, Nicaragua’s main port, to the future Port of Monkey Point, the first deep-water port on the Atlantic seaboard. The construction of this port is strategic for the development of trade and, combined the rail corridor, the new facility will open up the country to the Caribbean. The study carried out by Ineco includes the layout and preliminary designs for the two port railway terminals and the multimodal terminal, which will be located in the vicinity of Managua and the adjoining logistics zone. At this point, near the airport loading terminal, the rail corridor will link up with the Pan-American Highway. Ineco’s work in 2012 entailed studying the factors that could restrict the project and the potential of the corridor for attracting traffic, as well as negatively affecting its technical feasibility and economic and financial viability. The subsequent projects phases, which have now been launched, include feasibility studies of the ports along the corridor and of the existing documentation submitted by groups potentially interested in operating the concession, from countries such as Russia, China, Brazil, etc. Areas of activity · Ports 076 Preliminary project for remodelling the Príncipe Felipe rail terminal at the Port of Valencia (Spain) Valencia, the second-most important port in Spain by cargo volume and the first for container traffic, has a modern loading terminal with five Iberian gauge lines on the Príncipe Felipe Dock, equipped with all the latest technologies. In 2012, in order to eliminate the problem caused by the use of different gauges in railway lines to Europe, Valencia Port Authority decided to remodel this terminal to enable the circulation of 750-metre trains and to install the third rail. To this end, the Authority commissioned Ineco, which has worked on various projects for the improvement and extension of the Port of Valencia in recent years, to plan and design the preliminary project. Six alternatives were studied, and the solution finally adopted was that of extending the length of the tracks from 463 metres to 750 m and installing the third rail on three of these lines. Areas of activity · Ports 077 Introduction of standard gauge and maintenance plan for facilities at the Port of Tarragona (Spain) Tarragona is the fourth most-important Spanish port by cargo volume of and is –with the ports of Algeciras, Valencia and Barcelona, which occupy the first three places on the ranking– one of the key hubs along the Mediterranean Corridor. In 2012, the Tarragona Port Authority commissioned Ineco’s services to draft the project for electrification and the introduction of the international or standard gauge at the accesses to the new intermodal terminal currently under construction. The company’s actions also included the installation of siding tracks on the Valencia-Tarragona general line, in order to facilitate the management of train arrivals and departures. Another task that Ineco completed for the Port of Tarragona last year was that of formulating an integrated maintenance plan for the services in the port. This plan provides the necessary tools to implement an auditable management system which enables procedures to be standardised, the necessary resources to be budgeted for, relations with manufacturers to be made systematic, and material stocks to be managed efficiently. In previous years, Ineco had already developed an environmental management system for the port, as well as providing support services for documentation concerning corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Areas of activity · Ports 078 Preliminary study for the transport of iron ore from the Alquife mines to the Port of Almería (Spain) In 2011, the mining company Minas de Alquife commissioned Ineco to produce a study to determine the best alternative for transporting the four million tonnes of iron ore that are expected to be extracted annually once the Marquesado de Zenete mines in Granada are reopened in 2016. Minas de Alquife plans to operate these mines for twenty years, transporting the ore by sea from one of the ports in the area: Almería, Carboneras, La Garrucha or Motril. The study that Ineco drew up considered various alternatives through a multi-criteria analysis that took into account the need for investment in infrastructure and facilities, the degree of technical difficulty and the time required to establish transport services, as well as operating costs and external costs. The study concluded that the most appropriate solution was to transport the ore from the mines to the Port of Almería by rail. Accordingly, all the necessary actions were identified, a transport plan was formulated and an estimate of investment and operating costs was drawn up. Moreover, since the new underground railway access to the port is at the information survey phase, Ineco also drafted an additional report to assess how the project would affect future rail services. Areas of activity · Ports 079 Formulation of the construction project and speciﬁcations to contract works for the redevelopment and improvement of the San Andrés wharf in the Port of Málaga (Spain) Málaga Port Authority commissioned Ineco to plan the measures required to adapt port facilities to growing commercial activity, restore the area closest to the urban sea front for leisure uses and relocate industrial activities towards the southernmost docks and wharfs in the port. The works, for which Ineco also provides control and surveillance services, include the establishment of a new area for fishing and leisure activities on the Poniente (East) wharf, which requires the demolition of the old breakwater. As a result of these works, a new dock will be provided for goods traffic. Areas of activity Planning and transport economics Ineco develops a wide range of planning products and services, from national and multimodal plans to sectoral, technical and economic viability, ﬁnancial and market studies, analysis of demand… 80 Ineco at a glance Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 081 Organising the future of transport Correct planning ensures that transport carried out a study for the Ministry of Public Works infrastructure is designed according to real needs and Transport to determine what medium-distance and has sufficient capacity to meet to future growth services are included in obligatory public services, in demand, as well as establishing construction that is to say, those that, regardless of demand, schedules and the necessary financing. Planning must continue to be provided in order to cater to studies embrace from the first design phases of the mobility needs of citizens. infrastructure and transport services to the stages leading up to detailed projects. They also include Another critical aspect linked to infrastructure analysis of the management and operation of the planning is financing. Although, traditionally, the different transport systems and the definition of formula most frequently used are budgetary means, policies in the sector. Ineco develops a wide range public-private partnerships (PPP) are beginning to of planning products and services, from national become more and more common around the world. and multimodal plans to sectoral, technical and In line with this growing trend, Ineco was intensely economic viability, financial and market studies, active in 2012, carrying out analyses and providing analysis of demand, etc. specialist consultancy services for such PPP projects as the concession of the Santo Domingo-Esmeraldas In the field of national plans, Ineco has built up road in Ecuador, the new Line 9 in Barcelona’s considerable experience, both in Spain and in other underground system and the Defence Ministry’s countries. In 2012, the Spanish Ministry of Public NOGAL logistics base in Spain. Works and Transport presented the Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan, or PITVI, which provides Finally, a prominent aspect in employing and the strategic framework for the development of developing planning tools is the use of new policies in these areas up to the year 2024. Ineco technologies, such as computer modelling. This is provided services in drafting and processing this an area in which Ineco has acquired long experience plan. However, PITVI is not the only national plan and the capacity to develop specific, ad hoc the company helped to draw up over the year: the applications. national plans for Algeria, Costa Rica and Ecuador were also added to the company in recent years. Ineco also draws up specialised planning studies. In Kuwait, for example, the company designed and managed the commissioning of the Shadadiya industrial complex, due to be built south of the capital. This is an enormous business area that will occupy five square kilometres and will be provided with a full range of services. In Spain, the outstanding works that the company took part in over the course of the year include studies and projects for the introduction of the third rail in the Mediterranean Corridor. This great railway link, nearly 800 kilometres long, which handles intense traffic and is of enormous economic importance, currently operates with two different track gauges. Still in the railway sector, Ineco Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 082 Planning and transport economics projects PITVI Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan 2012-2024 (Spain) This plan was submitted to the Spanish Parliament in September 2012. Ineco works with the Ministry of Public Works and Transport in drafting and processing the documents, and with consensus processes. The outstanding lines of action include, amongst others, the “effective” liberalisation of passenger rail transport, the integration of Feve into Adif and Renfe and the provision of a boost to the competiveness of the ports. Private-sector participation is also expected to increase and to account for 16% the total investment from 2012 to 2024. PITVI is the Ministry of Public Works and Transport’s reference framework for mediumand long-term strategic planning with regard to infrastructure, transport and housing in Spain. As regards transport, the plan provides an integrated vision that is structured more around broad directives than around measures devoted to particular modes. Focusing on passengers and goods, PITVI places particular emphasis on the quality of service provided to users. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 083 National Transport Plan, Algeria The objective of this plan, which the Algerian Transport Ministry commissioned Ineco to draw up, is to present the broad lines of action and sectoral policies in a structured manner; the infrastructure and services necessary to optimise the national transport system in an integrated way; and how to unify and structure the territory and promote the country’s social and economic development. The plan, which sets time horizons of 2015 and 2025, develops a sectoral information system and formulates a general study of transport costs and tariffs in Algeria. To this end, mediumand long-term investment in the different sectors and transport modes were defined, and the sectoral policies necessary to optimise the country’s national transport system were established. This work was based on in-depth analysis of the situation and on studies of demand aimed at producing a cost-benefit analysis that would explain the reasons behind each different investment, as well as setting out the results expected from each measure. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 084 Construction studies and projects for the introduction of the standard gauge in the Mediterranean Corridor (Spain) The objective of this project, financed by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, is to deploy the European gauge along the railway corridor that runs along the Spanish Mediterranean coastline between Murcia and Barcelona. The project, which opens up the possibility of optimising goods traffic, currently restricted by the existence of two different gauges (standard and Iberian), also includes the necessary measures to enable 750-metre trains (that is to say, trains that conform to the European standard for interoperability) to circulate along this line. The tasks performed by Ineco include analysis of demand, identification of the hubs to be connected, the operational study and the determination of functional needs, the functional study and the construction project, as well as analysis of financial viability and the optimum formula for promotion according to criteria of speed, economic efficiency and maximum possible compatibility with existing traffic types. The solutions proposed include third rail technologies or automatic gauge changeover according to type of traffic, as well as international gauge rail access to ports, factories and logistics facilities. The project embraces the complete development of a segment some 770 kilometres in length. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 085 New industrial zone in Shadadiya (Kuwait) Ineco advises the Public Authority for Industry (PAI), the highest authority in Kuwaiti for industrial planning and development, to launch the construction of a five square kilometres complex provided with all kinds of public services, located around 25 kilometres southwest of Kuwait City. The complex will house logistics centres, warehouses and units for different industrial activities, with three main sectors: chemicals, food and drink, and mixed, this last sector bringing together the textile, paper, wood and mineral industries. The company formulated both the conceptual design of the industrial zone and all the technical and administrative documentation involved in the project and works competition process, from launching the pre-qualification process to drafting specifications and assessing bids and the successful bidder’s proposals. Ineco also designed accesses and roads in the area, and submitted a detailed report on the structural, distribution, access and intersecting roads that will form the network here, ensuring safe, fluid traffic throughout the complex. Moreover, as project manager, Ineco coordinated the Spanish and Kuwaiti partners engaged in carrying out the works. The facilities include an environmental monitoring centre to ensure compliance with the environmental parameters established for the industrial activity. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 086 Deﬁnition of medium-distance rail services subject to public service obligations (Spain) This project enabled objective criteria to be established that appropriately identify the mediumdistance lines operated by Renfe in the State Railway Network of General Interest that are subject to public service obligations. To this end, Ineco carried out an exhaustive study of existing services and passenger demand, and a cross analysis of supply and demand, as well as analysing the results of operating the lines. An efficiency indicator was established for lines in order to quantify the reasons of environmental, social and economic efficiency that justify the declaration of a service as being of public interest. Subsequently, the costs of rail services were compared to those of alternative transport modes, principally regular bus services and the private vehicle. Finally, an intermodal study was produced for the less efficient corridors, and a proposal for action was submitted for each, including possible coverage using alternative means, appropriately reinforced. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 087 Mobility Plan, Ecuador The Ecuadorian Ministry of Transport and Public Works commissioned Ineco with the design and integrated planning of the country’s entire transport network over the 2013-2037 period. The resulting Mobility Plan of Ecuador (PEM) was presented publicly by the Ecuadorian Government in late-2012. The PEM is based on analysis of overall infrastructure needs and costs and implementation schedules throughout the territory and with regard to all transport modes. The areas with the greatest need for investment are, in this order: roads, urban transport and maritime and river transport. Regarding ports, the plan provides for the development and structuring of a new maritime and river system and the establishment of a modern port management model. For the road system, the PEM seeks to improve connectivity throughout the territory, whilst also organising the growth of airport infrastructure and introducing a new management model to increase airport capacity. With regard to public passenger transport, the measures planned include the construction of 650 kilometres of preferential or exclusive corridors for urban public transport, as well as the provision of terminals and interchanges and other facilities related to the equipment of stops, signalling systems, operational assistance and control of access and revenue. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 088 Project for the new Ministry of Defence NOGAL logistics base (Spain) Under this commission from the Ministry of Defence, Ineco carried out preliminary studies and formulated the necessary documentation to evaluate the suitability of a public-private partnership contract to provide higher-level logistic support to the Land Army. This support would include the construction and rehabilitation of facilities to form a large logistics base (NOGAL), as well as the provision of logistical and base services. The NOGAL Logistics Base will bring together higherlevel logistical supply and maintenance activities that are currently provided by several different centres (Central Logistics Bodies), which are all distant from each other. The new facility represents an innovative approach to the management of logistic support with a view to increasing efficiency. In its pursuit of this task, Ineco considered and analysed various alternatives for operation and financing. Amongst other issues, the study took into account financial profitability, contractual aspects and effects on the budget. Finally, the alternative selected was developed. The firm of ISDEFE is also working with the Land Army on this project. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 089 Preliminary project for the construction and technical, ﬁnancial and legal structure of the Santo DomingoEsmeraldas concession (Ecuador) In 2012, the Ecuadorian Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) decided to finance the extension of the road corridor between Santo Domingo and one of the country’s most important ports, the Port of Esmeraldas, through a publicprivate partnership (PPP). To this end, the MTOP opted for a contract for the concession of public works and services, commissioning Ineco to carry out the necessary studies to determine the most attractive model of financial profitability for investors, both domestic and international. The company proposed a mixed financial model, with user contributions through social tolls and a system of penalties and bonuses attached to the monthly amount received by the concession operator according to compliance with quality indicators established in the contract. At the same time, Ineco also drew up the preliminary construction project for the corridor, which will have the features of a high-capacity road: length of 180 kilometres, lanes separated by a rigid barrier, turnarounds and roundabouts, direct entrances with acceleration/deceleration lanes and toll facilities. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 090 Economic rebalancing of stations on the new Line 9 of the Barcelona underground (Spain) The stations on Line 9 of Barcelona’s Metro underground system are being built under the formula of the public-private concession. They were divided into four segments for this tender, with three finally adjudicated to different operating companies. Ineco is the technical consultant to the financial institutions behind this concession, and the company’s task is to provide them with a basis on which to assess certain aspects and technical and economic risks. To this end, Ineco focuses particularly on the investment expected during the construction and operation phases, whilst also analysing its suitability and expected distribution of this investment. The company also carries out detailed monitoring of project advancement to ensure that this conforms to initial provisions and expected viability, making regular visits to the works to inspect their progress. Ineco acts as the representative of the financial institutions in accordance with their instructions, and is directly accountable to these bodies, though all contractual and economic relations are maintained exclusively with the company to which the concession was adjudicated. Areas of activity · Planning and transport economics 091 Other work for different bodies in the State General Administration (Spain) The company also provided support to other bodies in a number of fields, including: the Official Credit Institute, to which Ineco provided technical consultancy services for the FES Infrastructure project; and the National Energy Commission, which required consultancy services for the analysis, development and implementation of the regulatory information system of costs for electrical power production activities under the so-called “special regime”, a project that will continue in 2013. Other technical support work included the services provided to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport for managing subsidies to certain types of maritime passenger services, and to various management centres and other bodies attached to the State General Administration, to improve processes and increase efficiency in the use of resources, in line with the austerity policies that marked the year 2012. Corporate Culture Strategy Ethical integrity Commited to... Corporate Culture Strategy The company has implemented a strategic change in order to seize the opportunity offered by the international market and to advance towards a global, multimodal Ineco. Corporate Culture · Strategy 095 Meeting future challenges Over the last decade, Ineco has enjoyed Within this context, Ineco has launched the a strong growth, linked to high national Lynx Plan, a strategy designed to boost the internationalisation process that the company investment in infrastructure. Our launched some years ago. Thanks to this company has positioned itself as a leading transformation process, the company has completed transport engineering firm, and its knowa strategic shift in order to seize the opportunities how has contributed to the development offered by the international market and advance of the principal infrastructure works in towards a global, multimodal Ineco. Spain. Consequently, Ineco is committed to the company’s However, economic circumstances in recent years growth abroad whilst consolidating its presence have led to a decrease in this investment, and the nationally through the support of its shareholder austerity plans that are expected to be implemented clients, with a view to becoming: over the coming years may have a significant impact on Ineco’s activity. • A world reference amongst transport engineering companies. At the same time, the international market for infrastructure engineering is powerfully expanding • A spearhead for the internationalisation of the in the emerging and developing countries. Spanish transport sector, building on the cuttingedge know-how generated in Spain Corporate Culture · Strategy 096 Vision To be the most internationally competitive Spanish engineering company and a vehicle to support the internationalisation of other transport companies. Values Highly qualiﬁed team (know-how) Generating conﬁdence Adequacy to the market Corporate commitment to the environment Ethical and responsible behaviour Ineco aims to become consolidated as a company that is: Recognised Corporate Culture · Strategy 097 Aeronautics Corporate Culture Ethical integrity Among its commitments, Ineco acquires the desire to contribute to an ever stronger development and improvement of society, including social, labor and environment awareness in its strategy. 98 Ineco at a glance Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 099 Responsible and committed In the company’s contribution to In accordance with the commitments acquired, the development of transport, Ineco Ineco advances continuously in the development of its Corporate Responsibility Plan. is strongly committed to corporate responsibility (CR) and its consolidation Amongst the different actions in this regard, Ineco within the business strategy, encouraging has adhered to the United Nations Global Compact direct commitment with the company’s since 2008, annually renewing the company’s stakeholders. CR policies apply to all the commitment to the ten basic principles, which products and services that the company cover human rights, labour rights, environmental offers, and are integrated into its rights and the fight against corruption promoted business culture, defining all its actions. by this initiative, which the company applies in its everyday operations. Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 100 Our regulatory framework Ineco goes beyond mere compliance with current To apply these policies, a series of operational legislation at all times, and is committed to a procedures have been established, which govern the management model that embraces sustainability internal management of the company as a key value, based on three basic pillars: the economy, society and environmental protection. • Guide to Environmental Best Practices To this end, the company pursues its activities in • Zero Tolerance for Corruption Procedure accordance with the Rules of Integrity, Transparency and Commitment, which are enshrined in both the • Basic Project Management Procedure company’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and the other regulations that govern the organisation: • Harassment Protocol • Code of Conduct • Recruitment Procedure • Quality and Environmental Policy • Guarantee of Professional Conduct Procedure • Zero Tolerance for Corruption Policy • Works and Services Procurement and Contracting Procedure • Transparency and Truth in Information Policy • Tender Submission and Contract Review Procedure • Harassment Policy • Internal Auditing Procedure • Comprehensive Safety Policy The corporate intranet includes a section where This regulatory framework governs Ineco’s conduct employees can consult all information and both in Spain and in its activities abroad, as documentation relating to integrity guidelines: the company observes current legislation in all policies, procedures, protocols, etc. The objective countries in which it operates. of all these measures is to promote best practices in the fields of transparency, integrity and Ineco has an Ethics Committee whose purpose is to commitment. ensure compliance, interpretation and updating of regulations governing integrity, transparency and commitment, and whose functions and operational dynamics are described in the section devoted to the Governance Model. Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 102 CR Policy Ineco contributes to the development and The process of identification and selection of improvement of the society in which it operates stakeholders is the product of an internal debate by integrating social, labour and environmental that takes into account the interrelations and concerns into the company’s strategy and degree of involvement between them and the management. company, as generated by their activity. Ineco’s CR Policy is, therefore, characterised by an To ensure the commitment and critical participation explicit commitment to the company’s customers, of all stakeholders, Ineco has designed multiple shareholders and suppliers, the environment and channels for communication and dialogue. One society as a whole. of the most powerful tools amongst these is the company’s corporate website, which encourages fluid and participatory communication. Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 103 Code of Conduct Ineco has established a Code of Conduct based have access to it by Intranet and at the orientation on adherence to the ten principles of the United sessions that all new personnel receive. Nations Global Compact. The Code provides guidelines for action, ensuring appropriate conduct The purpose of this Code of Conduct is to identify in the professional activities of the company’s and share the principles and recommendations employees through scrupulous observation of human that help to build an ethical and responsible rights and political freedoms, as enshrined in the management model, applied to both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, throughout development of Ineco’s characteristic products each and every department. The Code of Conduct and services and to the relations established with applies throughout the organisation, and all different stakeholders: employees are familiar with its provision, as they Respet Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 104 Zero Tolerance for corruption Ineco, in its firm commitment to transparency, combats corruption, implementing all necessary tools to avoid any risk. To this end, all areas of Ineco have been studied, with particular emphasis on the international sphere. Thanks to this constant effort, and after carrying out a complete assessment of all areas, no incident of corruption has been reported in the company. The objective of the Zero Tolerance for Corruption policy is to ensure transparency and honesty in the pursuit of the company’s business mission, rejecting all forms of corruption, both direct and indirect. The policy is known to both Ineco’s director and all employees and, as mentioned previously, is available for personal consultation on the company intranet. New employees have access to these regulations at orientation days. Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 105 needs, involving the public and the institutions and Measures to prevent associations Ineco collaborates with, so as to guarantee their originality and effectiveness. bribery Ineco’s Zero Tolerance for Corruption Policy is a Preferential treatment programme created to ensure that transparency and Ineco does not authorise the remittance, offering or honesty are guaranteed in the pursuit of business acceptance of payments or benefits in any amount, objectives. It expressly rejects any type of corruption, directly or indirectly, whose purpose is to expedite whether direct or indirect. Based on an analysis of the services to be provided by any of its business partners. activities most vulnerable to the risk of corruption and If preferential treatment is promised, offered or following the stipulations of its Code of Conduct, Ineco solicited, Ineco employees shall inform the Ethics assumes in its operations the commitments listed below. Committee through the channel provided for reporting Ineco will promote the adoption of these principles by such matters. both its staff and collaborators through the pertinent formalisation thereof in the corresponding contracts. Gifts, donations and favours Gifts of any type that might be interpreted as Bribes exceeding prevailing business practices or common Ineco prohibits any type of payment, monetary or courtesy, or which may be intended to secure any type involving any other type of financial or non-financial of preferential treatment for the performance of any material or moral asset that can be considered significant activity by Ineco are prohibited. In particular, this according to prevailing practices and customs if this prohibition applies to any type of gift to Spanish or might confer an advantage to a person or with the aim foreign public officials, auditors, Ineco board members of obtaining any advantage in the relationship with or their family members, which might compromise stakeholders. The concept of “advantage” is understood to their objectiveness or elicit a promise of any type of mean favourable treatment or the guarantee of obtaining favour. benefits in return. This guideline, which has no exceptions even in Needless to say, this prohibition is also applicable countries where offering valuable gifts to business to employees who, by virtue of their functions and partners is customary, is applicable both to gifts activities in Ineco, seek to accept and/or offer bribes for promised or offered and those already received; personal benefit or that of family members, associates or it should be noted that gift is understood to mean acquaintances. any type of favour. In any case, Ineco abstains from Any Ineco employee who has knowledge of promises, practices not permitted in the applicable laws, by the offers or requests for bribes is required to report this to business practices or ethical codes (if these are known) the Ineco Ethics Committee. of the companies or entities with which it maintains relationships in the development of joint activities. Any gift given by Ineco must be intended to promote Donations to political parties the image of the Ineco brand. Any gifts offered must Ineco shall not exercise any illicit influence, directly or be properly managed and authorised. indirectly, on elected officials, nor shall it finance political Ineco partners who receive gifts or favours without parties or their representatives or candidates in Spain or proper authorisation as described above shall report abroad. Neither shall it sponsor any event whose purpose this to the Ineco Ethics Committee, which will evaluate is political advertising. their appropriateness. Zero Tolerance for Corruption Procedure: A specific Donations to charity organisations and sponsorship procedure that regulates conduct in this area has Ineco’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy expresses been established to guarantee observance of these a firm social commitment. For this reason, Ineco commitments. collaborates with various non-profit non-governmental For its part, the Code of Conduct prohibits all practices organisations as a means of facilitating volunteer actions involving corruption, bribery, the acceptance or by its employees. remittance of payments, and those which enable these Ineco shall support, through sponsorships and by entering practices, actively or passively, by act or omission, into specific agreements, initiatives related to events of a or through the creation or maintenance of irregular social, environmental, sporting, entertainment and artistic situations of preferential treatment. nature, or for scientific and technological dissemination. These events shall provide a guarantee of quality, may be national in scope or respond to specific territorial Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 106 Governance model Governing bodies Ineco establishes a management model based on • The commission is formed by the company ethical rules and principles in all their variants. To chairman, Pablo Vázquez, and three members of ensure that these rules are applied and monitored, the Board of Directors (Javier Marín San Andrés, the company establishes a governance model that Sergio Pérez Sanz, Manuel Varela Bellido), and its embraces all the disciplines and areas that form the secretary is the secretary of the Board company. Management Committee General Shareholders Meeting • This is the company’s highest internal decision• This is the body that debates the company’s making body, responsible for the implementation legitimately adopted agreements that bind both and development of the strategic directives the company and its shareholders . issued by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport and approved by the Board of Directors. • Ineco maintains fluid communications with The committee is responsible for the following shareholders, all of whom are members of areas: the Board of Directors, through the General Shareholders Meetings, Board Meetings and the • Implementation and development of corporate website. the strategy approved by the Board of Directors Board of Directors • Taking decisions, both strategic and, • This is the body responsible for decision-taking on occasion, operational, for the good and agreements regarding strategic matters, development of the company. drawing up the accounts, approval of budgets and other issues submitted by senior management. • Monthly review of managerial staff. It also monitors Ineco’s activities. It is composed of 16 persons, 13 men and 3 women, and has • Approval of policies, plans, procedures, a president, 14 ordinary members and one budgets and general rules and regulations. secretary. All of its members are well-known experts in the sector. • Assessment and approval of any other issue of general interest. • None of them, except for the president of Ineco, hold executive positions. All are employees of the • Resolution of disputes between Spanish government. directorate-general. Audit and Control Commission • Other matters of interest. • The role of this body is to supervise the • The Management Committee is composed of formulation of the company annual report, and the company chairman, who also chairs the its budget. The commission , which reports to committee, the four directors general and the the Board of Directors, is also responsible for general secretary. monitoring the sustainability strategy. • In accordance with the Ineco statutes, the commission meets every six months. Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 107 Ethics Committee • The mission of the Ethics Committee is to ensure compliance with and interpretation and updating of the Integrity, Transparency and Commitment Guidelines. Any qualified body or Ineco employee that considers that a breach of any of these guidelines or the Code of Conduct has occurred can communicate this to the Ethics Committee, which shall resolve the matter as regards the activities of the company or any of its employees. • The Ethics Committee is responsible for: • Overseeing compliance with the Corporate Integrity Guidelines. • Proposing preventive or corrective actions in relation to possible breaches of these guidelines. • Receiving communications, through the The body responsible for monitoring and supervising secretary and referring these, when the Integrity, Transparency and Commitment appropriate, to the appropriate authority, Guidelines is the Ethics Committee, which is headed who will examine the case. by the Ineco chairman. • Resolving cases based on the The Ineco chairman also heads the General recommendation of the appropriate Shareholders Meeting, the Board of Directors and authority. the Management Committee. • Internal dissemination of the Code To the aforementioned bodies must also be added amongst all Ineco personnel. the following management bodies: • Interpreting the Code of Conduct and • Committee of Directors: a forum for information, providing guidance for action in case of reflection, work and debate, which reports doubt. and receives information from the directorate structure on relevant matters. A tool for • Updating the Code and considering managing change. suggestions submitted with regard to it. • Management Committee: a forum for • The members of the Ethics Committee are: transmitting information on matters relating to the chairman of Ineco, the corporate director company structure. A tool for managing change. general, another director and the general secretary of the company, who acts as secretary Other company management bodies are: Strategy of the Committee. Monitoring, Commercial, Human Resources, Haramain and Quality and Environment. Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 108 Share distribution Organization chart (At december 2012) Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 109 Economic aspect The challenges and objectives that Ineco establishes the rationalisation of expenses and the search for for the future are reflected in the company’s maximum efficiency in order to compete in both the successive strategic plans, which are implemented domestic and international markets. in the annual budgets and reported in the year-onyear results. The company reports on the activity Within this context, the company carries out and results from each financial year in annual continuous monitoring of the most representative reports that are available on the corporate website values with regard to economic activities, in order (www.ineco.es). to identify and correct any risks or deviations with respect to the objectives established. To this end, At the end of 2012, Ineco presented the company’s the company employs a series of control tools, new development strategy, whose main lines available, not only in the economic and financial of action can be summarised as: speeding up sphere, but also for all company management geographic expansion; and developing the transport parameters. engineering services portfolio and new products in the chain of value. These strategic lines guide Regarding the contracting of works, services the way in which the company, through each of and supplies, Ineco works on the basis of its working process and actions, will set about competition, transparency, confidentiality and achieving its economic, social and environmental non-discrimination. The Procurement Department targets, the strategic pillars in Ineco’s policy. is the body that guarantees rigorous compliance with these principles in all procedures. With Ineco has made a solid commitment to the future. regard to financial control, the guidelines applied To this end, in late-2012, an internal reorganisation by Ineco establish documented policies and an process was launched, in accordance with a matrix internal auditing unit to ensure their compliance. structure, aimed at optimising work by projects and The principle of prudence is applied in the reinforcing Ineco as a flexible, productive company economic area through advance preparation of with high capacity, focused on foreign markets. the Annual Budgets, Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Accounts, with segmentation and monthly In an exercise of responsibility and sustainability, monitoring. Likewise, Ineco adopts the same Ineco has for some years applied an austerity policy principle of precaution with respect to serious risks aimed at reducing costs. This attitude is made to the environment through its different policies, even more necessary, if possible, by the public procedures and management and control systems. nature of the company’s capital, which requires Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 110 Corporate Culture · Ethical integrity 111 Cash Flow (Euros) Aeronautics Corporate Culture Commited to... Ineco is characterised by an explicit commitment to the company’s customers, shareholders and suppliers, the environment and society as a whole. 112 Ineco at a glance Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 113 Committed to our customers Our customers are our top priority Ineco strives every day to provide high quality services to our customers around the world. To this end, we bring to bear our vast experience in the transport sector, our management and technological capacity and our global resources, making all these benefits available to our clients. Trust, dedication and commitment to results are the foundations of our relations with customers. Innovation for excellence Ineco’s strategic commitment to innovation: Constant promotion of innovation in its business • We promote an active, critical professional spirit. areas enables Ineco to generate added value in the services that the company provides, positioning us • We encourage creativity and the development of amongst the leading engineering and consultancy human potential. firms in the transport sector. • We ensure the efficiency, validity and quality In order to improve the company’s position even of our products, making these their basic more, Ineco takes up the new challenges and characteristics and increasing the value-added opportunities generated by recent economic, generated by our services. social, energy, technological and environmental changes, as we advance steadily along the path of • We maintain the dynamic of constant innovation. development and progress in all the activities the company undertakes. Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 114 In 2012, Ineco developed 48 active projects, to generate a more responsible and sustainable focusing particularly on those aimed at generating transport system. To this end, the company seeks new products or services (55%) and on those whose innovative solutions that will yield value, not only to objective is to improve processes (27%). Seven “labthe customer, but also to society as a whole. type” or experimental projects were also developed, their objective to decrease the risk associated with Under these premises, in 2012 Ineco established and the later stages in works development. To fund consolidated the Innovation Reference Framework, the development of all these projects, besides the the new, reinforced R&D&I policy, which establishes economic effort made by the company itself, Ineco the detailed modus operandi from the generation of also received €1.23 million in external financing for an idea to its incorporation in an innovation project. R&D, of which 39% was from international sources and 21% from national sources, whilst tax deductions According to this Reference Framework, the R&D&I for R&D&I accounted for the remaining 40%. (EC-04) policy is developed in all areas where new needs are detected, in accordance with two complementary More than 51% of the projects terminated in 2012 lines of action: were completed with technical success of 95% or more, on occasions surpassing the objectives • Promotion of projects aimed at satisfying our established. customers’ most pressing current needs. Ineco’s services have considerable impact on the • Integration into ongoing projects that represent progress of the societies in which we operate significant advantages in the strategic sectors of thanks to the development of products that help internationalisation and growth. Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 115 Outstanding achievements Through its work in the field of innovation, Ineco • Significant increase in activities and results has met the objectives established, achieving the for internal and external dissemination: following advances: establishment of traditional internal communications channels including, particularly, • Consolidation of the Innovation Reference the internal innovation forum and the “Ineco Framework and strengthening of the processes innova” (“Ineco Innovates”) blog, available to all and roles it defines, including the figure of the personnel on the corporate intranet. Innovation Manager (“responsable de innovación”, RIN). • Completion of an innovation audit at Ineco: a study of the present and future of innovation in • Incorporation of initial analysis stages to the company. decrease the associated risks: establishing technical and financial studies prior to the launch • Development of a catalogue of innovation of projects through labs. projects: identifying the innovation projects with the greatest impact in the international arena • Optimisation of project development control: and internal presentation. improved technical, financial and scheduling results associated with project development. • Improved external financing: preparation and application for tax deductions and justification of • Larger number of international proposals for national subsidies for R&D&I. cooperation: support for their presentation and creation. Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 116 R&D&I projects European Projects Main projects With a view to maintaining the company’s position A-NOISE: a tool to evaluate the total noise impact in the vanguard of technological and innovative of all airport activity. development, Ineco continues to participate actively in R&D&I projects financed by the European AV-RAMS: RAMS (Reliability, Availability, Community within the Framework Programmes for Maintainability, Safety) is a study of the Spanish to aid research and development. high-speed lines to facilitate their maintenance and improve their reliability. Ineco’s commitment to research and the development of new systems enables the company BACTERIO: the main objective of this cooperative to lead the introduction of new technologies in innovation project (between Ineco and the Biothe Spanish railway sector. This was the case, for Iliberis Research & Development laboratory) was example, of Ineco’s involvement in the development to develop and implement a system of in situ and implementation of ERTMS/ETCS, the new hydrocarbon waste treatment in order to achieve European standard Railway Signalling and Train pollution levels below those established by the Control system, and the development of INESS, the public authorities with regard to the airport integrated European signalling system. environment. The patent (Ineco’s first) application has been made and the hope is that it will be issued Thanks to the company’s presence in different over the course of 2013. transport modes, Ineco can use know-how and developments from one sector for application in CRONOS 2.0: development of a comprehensive others. For example, adapting the GRAIL2 project analysis solution for the operation of railway lines. for GNSS –satellite navigation technology– for the railway sector. ELARA: development of a computer tool for positioning ERTMS eurobalises, optimising the Moreover, projects like DEMASST and SECURED distribution and occupation of fixed eurobalises on enable Ineco to improve its capacity in new railway lines equipped with ERTMS. technologies and fields of application, such as the protection of people (Security). Finally, the TITAN GRECA: a geo-referenced information system to project positions us as a reference in the field of air support the management of road networks. navigation. Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 117 HECCO (Communications Coverage Evaluation Associations and platforms Tool): this tool can be used to evaluate the coverage provided by any ground-air Ineco’s presence in various technology platforms communications centre. and networks of excellence linked to the company’s areas of interest enable us to be involved in ICECOF: a platform to provide a system for the developing the state of the art, as well as increasing supervision and control of ADIF railway operations. our capacity to network with different stakeholders in the sector. IETRANS: development of a methodological guide that transport professionals can use to evaluate, • EATRADA – European Aeronautical Association. in a uniform, consistent, systematic and flexible way, the energy impacts generated by energy • ERRAC WG – European Railways Association. consumption due to the introduction of measures, policies or investments in the transport sector. • PETF – Spanish Rail Transport Platform. LARGUERO-VIGUETA: a three-dimensional study • PTC – Spanish Road Technology Platform. using finite elements to determine the behaviour of bridge structures, particularly the joints of • EURNEX – European Rail Research Network of crossbars and beams and the influence of fatigue Excellence. phenomena. • PLANETA – Spanish Platform for Environmental SIMULADOR: study of the flyability of a flight Technologies. procedure. Enables trajectories to be generated, visualised graphically and, in a coordinated way, to validate the procedure, both in flight and on the ground. TÚNELES: studies of the piston effect in high-speed tunnels (auscultation, modelling and methodological development of the calculation and design of tunnel sections to ensure compliance with UIC comfort and health criteria). Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 118 Quality: our value-added Ineco manifests the company’s commitment to Ineco has adopted a Management System that quality through the Quality and Environmental covers aspects of quality and environmental Policy, a tool established to lead us towards management based on the UNE-EN-ISO 9001:2008 constantly improved performance. and UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 standards and certified by AENOR. All the company’s activities are certified Quality, recognised as a differentiating factor according to these standards. in Ineco’s activity, forms part of the company’s management system as an indispensable Ineco is accredited by ENAC, the National requirement for guaranteeing optimum results. Accreditation Agency, as an Inspection Body To this end, Ineco adopts an approach towards for Type C Railway Rolling Stock and as an sustainability that takes into account economic, Independent Assessment Body for the Safety of environmental and social aspects, with the Railway Applications (Type C), in accordance with permanent aim of constantly improving all the criteria established in the UNE-EN ISO/IEC processes. 17020:2004 standard. This approach is based on the fundamental values Ineco was the first, and is at present the only of social responsibility, teamwork, environmental organisation, to receive this accreditation in Spain. conservation, satisfaction with the job well done, the spirit of services, and complying with the requirements of both our customers and all applicable legislation and regulations. Quality, a unifying tool at the service of the organisation. Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 119 Commitment to continuous improvement Ineco incorporate quality assessment in its activity ensuring that any anomalies are corrected and as a natural part of all processes, a key factor in preventing them from being repeated. creating value for the company’s customers. This process-based approach enables the organisation Within this framework, in 2012, as in previous to operate efficiently by identifying and managing years, the company carried out continuous internal many interrelated activities. quality assessment, evaluating the goals set regarding quality objectives, using the indicators In 2012, led by top management and the efforts of designed for this purpose, with a view to providing the entire organisation, a series of actions were ever better quality in all the company’s services. developed with the aim of: • Improving technical processes, including actions aimed at enhancing communication and cooperation between working groups: training sessions have been organised, attracting huge demand and achieving great success, in which working groups from different areas come together, to encourage synergies between them in order to highlight best practices in specific aspects of their areas of expertise. Work methodologies were also developed to enable cooperation between groups from different areas. • Furthering our knowledge about new opportunities that can contribute to improvement and innovation in the system. • Strengthening the culture of quality, service and environmental awareness in projects, works and the organisation as a whole: the company training plan includes, as a transversal subject, training in quality and the environment. Accordingly, training activities devoted to the quality and environmental management system are aimed at project workers, personnel that provides providing assistance at works, etc. • Raising workers’ awareness about quality, the importance of making a rational use of resources and environmental protection: to this end, awareness-raising campaigns are launched on the intranet, placing particular emphasis on environmental awareness (electricity and water consumption, reducing consumption and reusing paper, etc.). The Management System adopted focuses particularly on prevention, with a methodology aimed at avoiding failures in quality, both in organisational aspects and specific aspects of production processes and support services. To this end, Ineco is provided with the procedures, guidelines and instructions necessary to establish and verify the good functioning of the system, Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 120 Dialogue with our customers Always seeking continuous improvement, Ineco Ineco makes all efforts to continue improving both attaches particular importance to the information its services and communications channels with provided by the company’s customers, making customers. To this end, the company provides them partners in the evaluation of its products and a claims management service on the website, services and processes. by which we can receive any communications, suggestions or queries regarding the organisation. To illustrate the company’s commitment to quality, To date, no claims or complaints have been at the end of each project Ineco conducts a received from any of our customers. satisfaction survey to determine our customers’ opinion of the work performed (company Two further channels have also been established image, quality of products and overall evaluation in order to improve communications with our of services provided). To process these results customers: more quickly and easily, the company employs an automated tool to administer the survey and • Before each work is delivered, a communication compile replies. is issued to indicate its scope, helping to focus efforts in the right direction. The average results from the customer satisfaction surveys are highly positive (see chart on next page). • After delivery, meetings are held to present the The average results from the customer satisfaction results obtained from works, a source of valuable surveys are highly positive. Generally speaking, feedback from our customers. improvement is observed in all aspects included, compared to the previous years 2011, 2010 and 2009. Also especially important is our customers’ opinion of the service received: a score of 9.1 out of 10. It is important to note that customers’ overall perception regarding overall service provided in 2012 increased by three decimal points compared to 2011, a 3.4% improvement in overall evaluation. Corporate Culture · Committed to our customers 121 Our greatest reward: our customers’ degree of satisfaction Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 123 Committed to our team Ineco’s greatest asset: our team Aware that the company’s greatest asset is its people, Ineco is strongly committed to its team and works to make the company an attractive place to work that promotes the development of its workers in a sustainable environment. In pursuit of these objectives and taking into account the current economic situation, Ineco has adopted a series of strategic lines regarding the management of resources and productive processes. These lines are: • Efficiency plan to guarantee the company’s longterm competitive. • Towards internationalisation • Excellence in business management to guarantee quality and competitiveness. • Improving processes with regard to corporate resources. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 124 Management and processes Efficiency plan In 2012, Ineco continued to develop the efficiency plans introduced in previous years, in line with the strategic objectives established by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport. These initiatives were applied within the broader context of a business efficiency plan that seeks to reduce expenses, enable resources to be gradually adapted to market evolution and adopt measures that contribute to the company’s competitiveness and sustainability. On this point, we should note that the workforce has been reduced by 8.14% since 2011. Towards internationalisation At december 2012 The national economic situation, ever less dynamic as far as new transport infrastructure is concerned, has led Ineco to increase the company’s presence in foreign markets. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 125 Ineco’s activity produces a positive impact on Quality, competitiveness and prestige society through job creation, as the company promotes a local recruitment policy, both Ineco’s sustainable business management was throughout Spain and abroad. rewarded, at both national and international level, by the following prizes: Ineco hires local personnel in some of its international projects, for example, in Saudi Arabia, Ecuador, Mexico, Colombia and so on. In 2012, 3% of new recruitments were for countries other than Spain. As part of the company’s international expansion strategy, Ineco has launched a series of actions to For the fifth consecutive year, Ineco was recognised support and motivate personnel posted abroad. as a Top Employer, considered an “excellent Regarding the internationalisation policy, the place to work” in view of its recognised capacity company has all the necessary tools as regards to attract and retain talent. However, not human resources to ensure the success of its content with that, Ineco also seeks to establish projects. To this end, Ineco studies local costs a more efficient, well-structured, collaborative and quality of life, salaries, tax systems, labour organisational and management model to promote legislation, accommodation, etc., in the different the company’s image of excellence by obtaining countries in which the company is present. more certifications, accreditations, prizes and accolades. A model for continuous improvement Regarding local international recruitment, Ineco, aimed at achieving excellence. establishes salary ranges in each country according to market values, based on information provided by specialist consultants or local offices. The starting salary is always equal to or higher than the local minimum wage. Ineco has been selected as one of the fifty companies shortlisted to represent Spain at the prestigious European Business Awards 2012-2013, in the category of Employer of the Year. Employers recognised in this award category have the ability to inspire and motivate their staff by enabling career expansion, operating equal opportunity schemes and understanding the importance of a work-life balance. Improving processes Working to professionalise and increase the quality of processes, Ineco has planned and implemented several measures aimed at simplifying phases and reducing costs. Such measures have been taken with regard to insurance, employee services and computer equipment, amongst others. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 126 We take care of our employees Programa + Ineco continues to implement Programa +, Under Programa +, Ineco also provides each employee a programme launched in 2011 to great success. with life insurance, including coverage for incapacity or Under it, the company offers employees under disability. collective bargaining agreements the chance to increase the flexibility of the social benefits they receive. This allows them to choose, according to their personal needs, with the possibility of changing their selection at the end of each year, from among the following products: • Meal tickets. • Day-care tickets. • Medical insurance. Collective agreement In late-2011, Ineco agreed with the workers’ representatives to renew the existing collective agreement, which duly remained in force throughout 2012. Some 92.9% of the workforce is covered by this collective agreement. Ineco provedes the same social benefits to all employees, making no distinctions between fulltime, part-time and temporary workers. In terns of compensation, the applicable agreement at Ineco is the national collective bargaining agreement for engineering and technical studies offices and a variable compensation policy based on the degree of fulfilment quantitative and qualitative Ineco establishes formal agreements with objectives. One of the qualitative objectives is unions in order to guarantee the health “personal evaluation”. and safety of all the company’s employees. There are two health and safety committees: Remuneration for structural personnel, not the first, which has fourteen members and covered by the agreement, is also linked represents 80.6% of the workforce, operates to the management of talent and is based in Madrid; whilst the second, which has on qualitative (30%) and quantitative (70%) six members and represents 4.7% of the indicators. workforce, is based in Barcelona. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 127 Integra Plan Work-life balance and equal opportunities Within the framework of its corporate responsibility In an effort to encourage the work-life balance and programme as concerns social and cultural equal opportunities between men and women, in development in the environment in which the 2012 Ineco continued to implement the policies company operates, Ineco has continued to deploy established to this end in previous years. The Equal the integration plan for people in groups of people Opportunities Plan is the main expression of this at risk of social exclusion, to which the organisation initiative and includes specific policies to promote devotes particular attention: people with the work-life balance, control mechanisms and tools disabilities, victims of gender violence and young to prevent discrimination on grounds of gender, people brought up in the care system. as well as awareness programmes for the entire workforce. The plan includes a series of measures aimed at implement models for managing diversity in a The Action Plan includes a series of initiatives context of equal opportunities, to which end the aimed at promoting: following objectives have been established: • Gender equality. • To ensure the full integration and best working conditions for people with disabilities. • Life-work balance. • To improve the quality of life of disabled • Prevention of sexual and gender-based employees and/or dependent family members harassment. with some type of disability These initiatives include: • To foster a culture of integration and social awareness. • Awareness-raising programmes. • To promote the recruitment of members of these • Training programmes in the management of groups and make a commitment to improving diversity. their employability. • Procedure control mechanisms and tools to • To contribute to the social and employment prevent discrimination. integration of people at risk of exclusion, providing them with equal job opportunities. • Support group. • Specific policies to promote the work-life balance. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 128 The figures reveal very similar numbers for men and women according to type of contract, clearly illustrating Ineco’s commitment to equal opportunities. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 129 Ineco continues to work against the risk of discrimination in hiring, training and promotion to ensure that men and women have equal opportunities. The composition of the workforce and the governance bodies tend to improve in terms of gender equality. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 130 Ineco promotes communication Internal communication actions, aimed at team. This enables employees to communicate employees, are indispensable for promoting the any concern they may have quickly, easily and corporate culture and aligning it to the company’s directly. The main concerns communicated via values and strategic objectives, as well as the suggestion box revolve around improved social motivating the workforce, retaining talent and benefits for employees, such as the establishment successfully meeting the changes and challenges of a crèche service, improved medical assistance generated by the business environment. and insurance and possible aid for transport. The suggestions received also reveal considerable To this end, Ineco has introduced the Welcome environment awareness on the part of employees, Programme, aimed at people new to the team. with ideas aimed at reducing or mitigating impact The programme includes a session to introduce including such initiatives as carpooling, alternative the company and welcome new recruits, as well means of transport, such as bicycles, and saving as providing them with a many providing useful paper and other consumables. information about the company. Additionally, Ineco publishes a monthly online Inet, the Ineco intranet is another key channel for internal magazine, Sobre la marcha, which is sent strengthening the corporate culture and improving to the entire workforce. The magazine contains the internal functioning of the organisation. news about company developments and events that The intranet includes segmented spaces so that are of interest to employees. A daily press roundeveryone working at Ineco can easily consult up, Resumen de Prensa, featuring references to the information they need in their daily work. Ineco in the media as well as news on the sector, Employees can also access areas providing news is also distributed. To communicate important about the latest developments in the transport news about the organisation, a more direct means sector and the organisation. Inet also includes blogs of communication is employed: Ineco hoy (Ineco and forums to encourage and facilitate interaction, Today), which reaches all employees by email. dialogue and the generation of opinions about different subjects of interest amongst workers. To learn about the main concerns and interests of employees, a Labour Climate Survey is carried out The company also provides a suggestion box to every two years to gather information about the collect opinions and proposals from the entire aspects of Ineco that employees rate highest and lowers. The next survey will be administered in 2013. In order to encourage transversal mobility between business areas and flexibility amongst its teams, the company also runs a job opportunity channel, which provides employees about new career opportunities within the organisation. Finally, the Workers’ Committee, the body that represents Ineco personnel, plays an active role in communication between the company and employees. At the meetings between Ineco and the Workers’ Committee in 2012, the main concerns dealt with were dissemination of general economic and financial information, aspects of salaries, employee promotion and training and travel policy. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 131 Training, a key aspect in professional development The Ineco training plan is structured into itineraries compulsory specific training, as well as another for each of the positions in the organisation, type of specific training that can be decided by responding to the three training itineraries that the areas according to their needs. 472 specific form the three possible professional careers at the training courses were given in 2012, 47% of the company (management, technical and support). total. The same training areas as in previous years are maintained. The programmes are organised into • Transversal training: aimed at the entire three broad categories: organisation according to the needs of each individual. This category includes language, • Skills training: aimed at providing professionals computer, quality, environmental and health and with the necessary skills and competences for to safety training. 412 courses were provided in this enable them and their teams to carry out their category in 2012, representing 41% of the total work well. In 2012, 115 courses were given in this given over the year. category, representing 12% of the total. Additionally internal technical training is also given • Specific training: this category includes all by company personnel. Moreover, employees taking training activities aimed at providing employees official training courses in subjects related to their with specific, usually technical, knowledge linked jobs may receive financial assistance. to their professional careers. Each position has Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 132 Attracting talent The search for outstanding, flexible but at the same Ineco also maintains cooperation agreements with time specialised profiles is crucial to Ineco in order 41 schools, faculties and other bodies attached to to maintain a team that is capable of satisfying the leading national and foreign universities. Of market demand, both nationally and internationally. the 64 grants awarded in 2012, 37% were in the A high level of technical competence, mastery of railway area, 30% in the aeronautical area, 8% in languages, geographic mobility and flexibility are the international and development area, 12% in amongst the key requirements for developing a environment and consultancy and the remaining 13% successful career in our organisation. in the corporate area. Through its programme of grants, Ineco helps to In 2012, a total of 46 recent graduates joined bring young students into the professional market the Ineco workforce, of whom 58% were trainees whilst also contributing to creating a pool of recent recruited at the end of the grant period. graduates with experience and interest in transport engineering, with a view to covering future needs. Recruitments of recent graduates in 2012 accounted for 47% of the total new appointments to the workforce. Ineco also took part in several employment forums organised by several leading national universities, IAESTE GRANTS including the Polytechnic University of Madrid, the Polytechnic University of Catalonia in Barcelona (International Association for the Exchange of (ICCP), the Polytechnic University of Valencia, the Students for Technical Experience) University of Seville and Carlos III University in Madrid. Objective: an international exchange programme that benefits students, institutions Over the course of 2012, Ineco also opened up and companies. new recruitment channels based on the new technologies and the social networks, supports that ICEX GRANTS are particularly important amongst recent graduates and students interested in business internships. In Objective: to support companies in the this line, Ineco took part once more in the Virtual internationalisation process by providing Employment Fair for engineers organised by the young professionals, previously trained and Spanish Institute of Engineering, which represents specialised in the Foreign Network of the more than 20 Spanish technical high schools. Secretary of State for Trade, who complete their training processes in the business Moreover, a series of talks, presentations and environment with a view to entering the working lunches at university engineering forums workplace. also enabled Ineco to establish contacts with talented young people at the country’s finest KUWAIT GRANTS universities. (in cooperation with the Kuwait Foundation) Objective: to help train future Kuwaiti engineers, and to establish operational ties between international and Kuwaiti companies to assist with the technical and managerial development of the latter. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 133 Rotation and recruitment, a thermometor for human resources management Ineco has a very complete workforce that The company is always looking for talent to cover allows the company to recruit many of the new profile needs, beginning with its own team. In profiles required internally. This translates into 2012, 12 internal vacancies were filled thanks to the a rotation index that is not too high (14.2% in internal job opportunities channel. 2012) that enables the company to adapt the workforce to market needs and to retain knowhow. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 134 Performance management The management of talent is crucial to the Performance assessment is a continuous, systematic development of the organisation, as it enables us and regular process to evaluate the work of a to recognise our employees’ merits and provide person in their particular position. Ineco has a longthem with opportunities for personal development. standing system of variable remuneration, linked in In view of this, Ineco has been working on a new part to employee performance. model to be implemented at the company. In 2013, the company plans to introduce a In this model, team leaders play an important performance management model adapted to the role and it is crucial for each and every person new organisation structure. This model will be to become involved, defining their professional linked to professional career development and objectives and engaging in their own growth and variable remuneration, with equality between men development. and women, and will facilitate team management decisions. At Ineco, talent management is supported by a performance management model, which enables evaluation of the fulfilment of personal objectives and the way these are achieved (skills). Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 135 Making the most of our know-how Ineco continues to work actively on the knowhow management model, a task that began the previous year. The company’s efforts are focused on systemising management of the knowhow accumulated over more than forty years, establishing mechanisms and processes to enable knowledge to be detected, captured, organised and retained in the company, facilitating its internal dissemination and making it available to our customers in order to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. The company has established several initiatives, which are accessible to all personnel through the corporate intranet. Forums, blogs and communities devoted to practical issues enable any employee to take part and begin debates, according to their interests. These resources are complemented by talks and work meetings whose conclusions are made available to all those interested in consulting them. Finally, the company has a documentation centre devoted to compiling all information (books, articles, studies, projects, regulations, legislation, specialist magazines…) that may be useful for developing the company’s activities. Prevention and safety In the field of prevention and safety, Ineco strictly Ineco has had Ohsas certification since 2011 and complies with current legislation, acting responsibly the first monitoring audit for certification of towards people in the awareness of these aspects the prevention management system was carried for the correct development of the company’s out in 2012. Ohsas certification requires effort activities. and commitment to continuous improvement in occupational health and safety, going beyond the In 2012, initiatives launched in previous years, such legal requirements as established in Law 31/95, as the vaccination programme, were continued, on Occupational Risk Prevention, and Royal Decree whilst new actions were also introduced. In October 39/1997, approving the Regulations on Preventive 2012, a new tool began to be used on the intranet Services. to send personalised information concerning the evaluation of risks relating to each position. This The report on the 2012 audit reflects a favourable initiative enabled information on all positions opinion of the degree to which Ineco has introduced in the company to be updated and correctly the preventive management system and adapted communicated. this to the requirements and conditions established in the Ohsas 18001 standard. Corporate Culture · Committed to our team 136 The tables below summarise the assistance programmes provided at Ineco and their beneficiaries. With the objective of preventing occupational The company is working to formulate several traffic accidents and as part of the measures international prevention and security plans, such as established by the Ineco mobility plan, a study of that developed for Mexico, which are specifically workforce mobility was carried out by a survey designed for professionals working outside Spain. that was sent to all workers. From the information These plans provide information about risks in the obtained, a mobility flow audit was built up. country and measures to be taken, and provide for the training of personnel, particularly those The study showed the advantages of applying the taking up international posts that require special plan, to both the company and workers, including protection measures or adaptation to the new work lower risk of accidents and, therefore, reduced environment, reference treatment for new recruits absenteeism. and evacuation and crisis management plans. Under the current Security Plan, at national Complementary to this, in 2012, Ineco provided level, the measures implemented by the company employees with an information and training service include management and centralisation of access concerning questions of security in the destination control at certain buildings where Ineco personnel country, including self-protection measures and are working, and the management, tender and behaviour guidelines. contracting of surveillance services at various buildings and works. Security authorisation International security plans At the end of the third quarter, Ineco completed the necessary formalities to obtain accreditation In response to Ineco’s constantly increasing to handle classified documentation. At the national internationalisation, a series of measures have been security office (ONS), the company chairman signed taken to ensure that the company’s expansion into the corresponding agreement and was informed foreign markets takes place within a framework of about the responsibilities acquired with this secure conditions for employees. accreditation. On July 30, the company’s security approval, to reserved or equivalent level, was received from the Ministry for the Presidency. Ineco establishes speciﬁc prevention and security plans for employees posted outside Spain. Corporate Culture · Committed to society 137 Committed to society Transport at the service of all The development of transport systems is essential for all countries, as such systems help to structure the territory, improving communications and fostering economic, social and cultural advances. Ineco, as a player in such development, is committed to this goal, enshrining it in the company’s Corporate Responsibility Plan. Ineco has always demonstrated an interest in • The purpose of transport engineering and learning about and becoming involved in the consultancy is to develop transport infrastructure, different environments in which it operates. which has great impact on the advancement of The company does not consider itself a mere societies. economic player but, through responsible and sustainable business management, maintains • Ineco’s activity generates a positive impact on a firm commitment to cooperation in order to society through job creation, and promotes local achieve greater development for society. Most of recruitment policies both in Spain and abroad. Ineco’s activity takes place in the national market, contributing to the growth of the communities • Ineco promotes the integration of people with in which the company operates, developing their disabilities into the workplace, working to transport systems and boosting the generation eliminate all barriers to this that may exist within of economic wealth whilst taking into account the company. local cultural peculiarities and seeking always to generate a positive impact. • Ineco is committed to research and to spreading knowledge by engaging in innovation projects, debate and dissemination. Commitment to • As a reference in its sector of activity, Ineco promotes active cooperation with other national cooperation in order to engineering firms in order to develop joint projects, particularly in the international market. generate greater economic, The Corporate Responsibility Policy establishes the lines of action with regard to CR concerning our social and cultural stakeholders, which include society. To this end, the company draws up an annual specific plan for social development. action, detailing the initiatives to be developed over the year. Corporate Culture · Committed to society 138 Respect for human rights Ineco’s business management fosters respect for company’s Integrity, Transparency and Commitment human rights in all spheres, with such objectives as: guidelines. preventing, promoting, facilitating, correcting and supervising Ineco’s activities to ensure that they are Ineco organises training courses on human rights for adapted to the principal international standards, employees. In 2012, the company provided a total the company’s values, current legislation and social of 480 hours’ training in policies and procedures. demands of the day as regards all facets of the organisation. The goal of all this is to ensure that Moreover, the Ineco Agreement and the Engineering people enjoy a work environment that is healthy Industry Agreement also contain provisions (physically, mentally and socially) and in which their regarding human rights, and the company duly dignity and integrity are respected. applies these principles in its day-to-day activities. Should an incident concerning human rights This work is performed through the application of arise, the Harassment Committee and the Ethics a strict professional ethic based on the principles Committee are the company’s internal bodies enshrined in the United Nations Global Compact, responsible for launching action to resolve any such which include respect for human rights, and the cases. Corporate Culture · Committed to society 139 Ineco enters into action In accordance with the company’s commitment Employees contributed €29,695 to the campaign, to society, Ineco has established a social action and this figure was doubled by the company to plan. In 2012, under this plan, the company €59,390, enabling DWB to treat 1,534 children for developed a series of initiatives and a large number malnutrition. of joint cooperation projects with not-for-profit organisations, paying particular attention to the A new campaign was launched in July 2012 and will activities in which Ineco generates the greatest continue until its closing date in June 2013. This value-added, in which the company benefits from time, the project selected by employees was a the great expertise of its professional staff. programme to provide training and protection for homeless girls in Barranquilla (Colombia), and is led Solidarity Euro Campaign by the ANAR Foundation. In 2012, employees raised €9,230, a sum that was doubled by the company to The Solidarity Euro Campaign is a stable channel for a total of €18,460. charitable participation in which employees donate part of their monthly salary to finance a project Hiking for integration chosen previously by vote. Ineco, in turn, agrees to double the contributions of its employees, up to a Ineco is committed to promoting the integration of certain maximum amount. people with disabilities, both into the workplace and socially. To this end, the company cooperates In 2012, the campaign led by Doctors without with various initiatives, such as the hikes organised Borders (DWB), promoting a project to combat child by the Fundación Deporte y Desafío (Sports and malnutrition in Degehbur (India), was completed. Challenge Foundation). Within its corporate Corporate Culture · Committed to society 140 volunteer programme, Ineco contributed to this by The Coach Project, launched in 2012, consisted of providing a team of volunteers who participated in an employment training scheme for young people these activities during their work schedule. at risk of social exclusion, and was organised in cooperation with the Exit Foundation. Under Promentor Programme this programme, three young people joined the Ineco workforce for six days, accompanied by a The Prodis Foundation has established a specific voluntary tutor, or mentor, who took them through training programme for people with mental their employment coaching. The initiative had the disabilities, to promote their integration into following objectives: employment. To this end, in cooperation with the General Foundation of the Autonomous University of • To create a feeling of trust towards the world of Madrid, the Foundation has created its own degree. business. To date, Ineco has recruited three workers from this programme. • To promote positive change in the young people, raising their self-esteem. Training for young people at risk of social exclusion • To encourage them to develop social skills that will enable them to find and keep a job. Ineco believes in improving the training and employability of young people at risk of social • To raise the motivation to work amongst these exclusion. To this end, the company supports their young people. education and provides its employees’ knowledge and skills, placing these at the service of the integration into the workplace of such young people. Corporate Culture · Committed to society 141 Work in this same direction was also conducted Emergency aid in 2012 with young people from the Norte Joven (“Young North”) Foundation. Personnel recruitment Ineco maintains a Cooperation Agreement with staff organised training in groups, who took part the Red Cross by which the company forms part in role-plays of interviews in order to help them of the Emergency Aid Fund and is committed to to take their first job interview more successfully, communicating calls for aid in emergency situations improving their employability. amongst employees, using a series of different channels. Volunteers from Ineco also conducted one-on-one interview role-plays in order to detect opportunities Cooperation for improvement to help the young people successfully pass job interviews. In 2012, Ineco renewed its cooperation agreements with Fundación Lealtad and Ongawa. The mission Finally, the Economic and Financial Department of the latter organisation is to finance engineering organised a training module providing basic financial projects, which Ineco supports by disseminating its instruction that will be useful to them in their activities at orientation sessions. professional careers. Ineco also contributes to the missions of other NGOs These initiatives were highly rated, both by the and foundations, such as Apsuria, Masnatur, La FFE, volunteer employees and the foundations and etc. beneficiaries. Business awareness-raising platform En Route – Ineco’s professional corporate volunteer programme in Peru In 2012, a new cooperation project was launched with Ongawa to develop an online platform for En Route, a professional corporate volunteer raising awareness about CR in the business sector, programme implemented by Ineco in cooperation and which will be completed over the course of with the Codespa Foundation, consisted of a study 2013. This platform focuses on Central and South carried out by two volunteers from the company’s America and is aimed at all kinds of target groups: personnel for the rehabilitation of access roads to public and private companies, SMEs, governments, the indigenous communities in the Sacred Valley of organisations, private citizens, etc. Cusco. During the rainy season, these roads became difficult to travel along, restricting the possibilities Donations of local families to obtain income from rural tourism. In 2012, a campaign was launched for donations of office furniture and computer equipment to various Through this initiative, Ineco generates value-added NGOs. in its social activities by placing the know-how and skills acquired by professionals working for the The Social Action Plan is reviewed on a quarterly company at the service of society. basis, though evaluation and monitoring of volunteer activities are carried out at the end of Calculating the carbon footprint of a each through surveys of satisfaction. high-speed railway line with ECODES Providing volunteer personnel from the Environmental Department and in cooperation with the ECODES Foundation, Ineco drew up a detailed technical study of the potentially most pollutant activities linked to the construction phase of a high-speed line. This study led to the development of a methodology to calculate the carbon footprint generated by the works phase of railway Overall volunteer infrastructure, which can be used in both national and international projects. satisfaction: 4.7 out of 5 Corporate Culture · Committed to society 142 iSolidaria: our social action network Campaign to protect homeless girls in Barranquillas, Colombia. Photograph courtesy of Anar Foundation. iSolidaria is section devoted to social action on can post offers and requests for this type of the company intranet. It was established by Ineco initiatives to the rest of the organisation, as well in order to enable and encourage employees to as reporting on their experiences in cooperation increase their solidarity and social participation, activities with not-for-profit organisations. The and to establish an information channel on site can also be used to search for openings for corporate initiatives in this field. On it, employees volunteers. Corporate Culture · Committed to society 143 Sectoral cooperation As a reference in its sector of activity, Ineco promotes active cooperation with other national engineering companies to develop joint projects, chiefly in international markets. To this end, the company maintains a continuous, fluid dialogue with both its shareholders, Aena, Adif and Renfe, and its other customers, which include national, regional and local authorities. Ineco belongs to TECNIBERIA, an umbrella association for engineering, consultancy and technological service companies whose mission is to promote the spirit of solidarity and cooperation amongst its members, as well as developing their professional technical administration and management capacities. Ineco also belongs to the following national and international organisations: • SPANISH RAILWAYS FOUNDATION. • CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF MADRID. • APD (Association for Progress in Administration). • SPANISH ROAD ASSOCIATION. • CLUB EXCELLENCE IN MANAGEMENT THROUGH INNOVATION. • TECHNICAL ROAD ASSOCIATION. • TECNIBERIA ASINCE. • SPANISH TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION. • HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CENTRE • CAMINOS DE HIERRO FOUNDATION. ASSOCIATION. • AETOS (Spanish Association of Tunnels and Works). • ASSOCIATION OF SAP USERS (AUSAPE). • ACHE (Scientific-Chemical Structural Concrete • EURO-AMERICA FOUNDATION. Association). • LATIN-AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF METROS AND • GALILEO SERVICES. UNDERGROUNDS (ALAMYS). • CETREN (Railway Action Association) • MAFEX (Spanish Association of Manufacturers and Exporters of Equipment and Services for the • ONGAWA Railway Industry). • LEALTAD FOUNDATION • AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (ACI). • SPANISH RED CROSS. • INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT (UITP). • LATIN-AMERICAN RAILWAYS ASSOCIATION (ALAF). • CANSO (Civil Air Navigation Services Organisation). Corporate Culture · Committed to society 144 Dissemination of knowledge As a reference company in the transport engineering Carlos Roa Workshop, and consultancy industry, Ineco is committed to disseminating knowledge and the value of ideas. Some years ago, this commitment led the company aimed at generating to establish the Carlos Roa Workshop, an internal forum aimed at generating opinion and debate on a opinion and debate on a variety of subjects related to the transport industry. variety of subjects related In 2012, the company published the book Retos del Cielo Único Europeo [Challenges to the Single to the transport industry. European Sky], whose authors, Manuel Bautista Pérez, Luis Negrete Cabrerizo and Luis Ignacio Ballesteros Sánchez, take an educational approach in providing an overall vision of the Single European Sky (SES), an initiative launched in 2000 with the aim of abolishing the “frontiers” that exist between countries in the European airways and redesigning the air navigation management system in order to optimise use of the airspace. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 145 Committed to protecting the environment Responsible towards the environment around us Ineco is committed to acting responsibly towards the environment in order to minimise the environmental impact associated with the use of its facilities, activities and processes, and the services the company provides. Ineco fosters dialogue with communities in which Strategic lines for management committed to the company operates in order to ensure that the protecting the environment: implementation of each project takes into account the singularities of each different environment • Environmental management system. and region, as well as establishing the necessary tools and procedures to prevent and mitigate any • Environmental policy. environmental impact that its activity may cause. • Responsible use of resources. To this end, the company provides the means to generate a preventive culture amongst all • Environmental training and awareness. employees and establishes an environmental management policy, which is made known both In both day-to-day work and the preparation of to personnel within the organisation and to studies and projects, Ineco applies strategic lines outside stakeholders. Moreover, objectives aimed and environmental protection guidelines aimed at at protecting the environment are established contributing to the development of sustainable, annually. environmentally-friendly transport infrastructure. Moreover, in order to prevent risks in the planning of company activities, Ineco has also established a policy for the selection and approval of suppliers according to economic, quality and environmental criteria. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 146 Environmental management system Aware of the importance of providing service based Quality and environmental policy goals are on excellence and the commitment to protecting achieved, basically, through the commitment of the environment, Ineco has introduced, throughout the entire organisation involved in working towards the organisation, a management system, certified compliance with the provisions of the management by AENOR, that covers aspects of environmental system. management, as well as quality, based on the UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 and UNE-EN-ISO 9001:2008 Ineco has had environmental certification since standards respectively. 2003, and annually assesses the environmental impacts of its activities in accordance with the ISO The management system extends throughout all 14001 standard. This methodology is documented in the organisation‘s activities and is informed by a such environmental procedures as: quality and environmental policy that includes the commitment to achieve shareholder and customer • Identification and assessment of environmental satisfaction and to minimise environmental impacts aspects. by continuously improving processes whilst also complying with quality requirements and applicable • Procedure for action in case of accidents with legislation and regulations. (4.11) environmental consequences. • Operational control of projects and works. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 147 Quality and environmental policy Ineco’s environmental policy expresses the company’s commitment to making its activities compatible with maximum protection of the environment. Ineco expresses its commitment to quality and In its pursuit of continuous improvement, Ineco environmental protection through the quality and has established the objectives to improve quality environmental policy, which pursues the objective and environmental management, 2013-2015, which of establishing the operation criteria necessary give continuity to the commitment acquired by the to prevent and reduce pollution through controls company. of emissions, spills, waste, noise and any other environmental impact, with a view to improving the company’s overall environmental performance. All this is embodied in the following commitments: Our commitments to quality and the environment Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 148 Quality and Environment Responsible use of Committee resources The organisation has established a Quality and One of Ineco’s priority objectives is the responsible Environment Committee, a body headed by the and sustainable use of resources. To this end, the company chairman whose duties include carrying company is committed to reducing consumption of out reviews of the system at least once a year, water, paper, electricity and other consumables, and to ensure maximum commitment to the as well as minimising waste generation, improving environment and to the quality of our services. management and reducing emissions. The committee members also include the head of quality and the environment and the directors Analysis of the ongoing results obtained with general and coordinators for quality, whilst other regards to energy, paper and water consumption, members can also be drafted onto the body by emissions and waste generation provides the agreement. basis for setting environmental objectives and for reviewing the environmental management system, with the objective of increasing the level of internal demand as regards this matter. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 149 Water The main use of water at Ineco is in restrooms and cleaning facilities. The water is obtained from the public water supply, and net consumption of 10% is estimated, whilst some 2,687 cubic metres of wastewater are discharged. Average consumption per employee decreased by 5.5% compared to the previous year, indicating a good response by employees to the awarenessraising campaigns to save natural resources that Ineco has launched in recent years. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 150 Paper Toner In 2012, Ineco purchased 41.23 tonnes of white The amount of toner consumed is calculated paper (A3 and A4) at the offices in Madrid (Paseo de according to the number of empty cartridges la Habana, Bull building and EGEO building). generated at the offices in Madrid. In 2012, Ineco collected 2,016 empty toner containers and ink º 15.5% decrease in total paper consumption in cartridges, an 11.5% increase over 2011. 2012 compared to 2011. However, analysing the data by quarter shows a decreasing tendency to generate toner waste over the course of 2012, from 613 units in the first quarter to 384 in the fourth. This decrease can be attributed to the replacement of printers by new models that are more efficient as regards ink consumption. Average paper consumption per person was 14.57 kg in 2012. º 5.74% decrease compared to previous year. The decrease in consumption per person was due, to a large extent, to the awareness campaigns launched in recent years, and to the installation of print confirmation devices in 86% of the company’s buildings in Madrid, as well as the policy to encourage delivery of documentation to the client preferably on CD. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 151 Electricity The electricity consumed by the company is obtained from the Peninsular power system, In 2012, consumption was distributed by various companies. 9,156 GJ, a reduction of 352 The best practices that were established to enable this energy saving to be achieved were: GJ (3.84%) compared to the • Staff awareness campaigns, launched at least previous year. once a year. • Installation of sensors in meeting rooms. • Installation of more efficient equipment. • Solar panels to heat water for restrooms. • Installation of LED-type lighting systems. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 152 Heating oil In 2012, heating oil consumption was reduced by 12.1% compared to the previous year. This was made possible by: • The correct development of the boiler maintenance plan. • Control of temperature in the building. Diesel oil in vehicles In 2012, total fuel consumption fell by 22% • The leasing and use of company cars with lower compared to 2011. This was due, largely, to the consumption was encouraged (61.22% of vehicles decrease in the number of vehicles (from an used had a nominal average consumption that was average of 659 in 2011 to 534 in 2012). below the average for their category). However, a full array of measures that were • The use of bicycles was encouraged, and cycle implemented in 2012 also helped to make this parking areas were established at head offices. saving possible: Moreover, in 2012, a decrease in the average fuel • The use of public transport was promoted through consumption per vehicle was also noted: on this awareness-raising campaigns. occasion, this decrease was 3.8% compared to 2011, and was achieved thanks to the replacement of 147 • A car pool scheme was introduced for company vehicles under the plan to renew the car pool with personnel. more efficient vehicles. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 153 Indirect energy consumption Indirect energy consumption takes into account consumption related to journeys by Ineco personnel, both by train and airplane. In 2012, total airplane kilometres were 18,136,607. In 2012, train kilometres were 4,260,659. º 4% decrease in airplane kilometres compared º 33% decrease compared to 2011 to consumption in 2011. (indirect electricity consumption) (indirect consumption of airplane fuel) The average distance travelled by train per person (km/workforce) decreased by 25%. *The figures are analysed in kilometres as this is the unit in which the initial data is expressed. Ineco has drawn up a travel policy aimed at achieving greater efficiency and saving resources, helping to reduce emissions. The policy includes the following principles: • Encouraging journeys by the lowest possible number of people, attempting, whenever possible to limit the number of people travelling to one per journey. • Minimising the number of journeys and encouraging the use of other communication resources, such as videoconference. • Using public transport at the point of destination and for short journeys. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 154 CO2 equivalent emissions by production vehicles, which fell by 22% in 2012 compared to 2011. With the goal of continuing to improve the company’s environmental management, the The greatest reduction observed was in direct objective of reducing vehicle fuel consumption emissions, over which Ineco has direct control. and emissions, approved by the Quality and These represented 46% of total emissions in 2011 Environmental Committee in 2012, has been compared to 41% in 2012. formally established. Ineco complements this action by launching As a consequence of Ineco’s activities, CO2 initiatives aimed at reducing emissions, such equivalent emissions are generated. These as encouraging carsharing by employees when emissions may be direct or indirect. travelling and the provision of parking facilities for bicycles at the head office. In 2013, the • In 2012, Ineco’s indirect emissions, which were company will continue to adopt measures aimed the result of electricity consumption and airplane at substantially reducing emissions, in addition to and train journeys by employees, represented 59% those already in force. of the company’s total CO2 emissions (including both direct and indirect emissions). • Direct emissions in 2012 were generated by Ineco aims its efforts at designing environmentallycombustion in the heating boilers at Ineco head sustainable solutions in order to generate office and the consumption of fuel by production advantages for our customers and society as a vehicles, over which the company has power to whole. In 2012, under the internal research project act. ieTrans, a new methodology was formulated for evaluating the effects on energy consumption of Total CO2 equivalent emissions generated by Ineco’s policies and measures in the transport sector. activities in 2012 were 7,246 tonnes, a 12.6% decrease compared to emissions in the previous year. The factor that most influenced this decrease in emissions was the reduction in fuel consumption Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 155 Waste management The waste generated by the organisation at its Special waste: In 2012, Biotóner managed 0.584 offices in Madrid are classified into three types: tonnes of toner packaging, a 10% increase on the previous year. Hazardous waste: batteries, fluorescent tubes, packaging for hazardous products, and waste from Non-hazardous waste: packaging and waste that electrical and electronic equipment, etc., managed can be included in municipal solid waste (MSW). by Tecnoresiduos. The amounts managed in 2012 were: In 2012, 3,228 tonnes were managed, a 3% increase compared to 2011 that was due, fundamentally, to • Waste assimilable to MSW: 28,976 tonnes were the replacement of equipment, as we can see in the managed in 2012, a 48% decrease on 2011. breakdown of the figures: • Packaging: 10,483 tonnes were generated in • Cleaning product packaging: 0.026 tonnes. 2012, a 48% decrease on 2011. • Fluorescent tubes: 0.036 tonnes. • Paper and cardboard: 296.40 tonnes were generated in 2012, a 3% increase on 2011. • Batteries: 0.086 tonnes. 1 Estimated amount. • Electrical and electronic equipment: 3,080 tonnes. 2011 2012 Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 156 Promoting environmental awareness Ineco encourages environmental awareness and Ineco also launches annual environmental training amongst its employees on a day-to-day awareness-raising campaigns aimed at all employees basis. on the company intranet, using films on best environmental practices produced specifically for To this end, the company organises internal and this purpose. external training activities that are given by Ineco personnel and cover a wide range of subjects. In order to raise employees’ awareness about the importance of conserving natural resources, the company also produces the Guide to good environmental practices, which establishes general criteria for action in day-to-day work in order to minimise the environmental impacts caused by their activities and actions, in accordance with the demands of the environmental management system. Corporate Culture · Committed to protecting the environment 157 Environmental management programme • Systematic action when accidents or emergency situations that may have environmental Ineco annually identifies and evaluates key consequences arise at Ineco facilities. (PM-15) environmental aspects in accordance with the procedure established in the environmental • The purchase of goods and the contracting management programme, enabling measures to of works and services, which includes the be adopted to mitigate or compensate for any classification and assessment of suppliers to environmental impact that the company’s activity may ensure that they comply with the guidelines generate. issued by Ineco, based on objective quality criteria and the commitments to protect the • 15% reduction in paper consumption. environment that are required internally. • 3.84% reduction in electricity consumption. In 2012, Ineco devoted €15,957.99 to environmental expenses and investments. • 1% reduction in water consumption. The considerable importance that Ineco attaches This preventive culture is supported by the to environmental issues can also be observed in the following management tools: organisation of the company’s production structure. For more than ten years now, under different • Awareness and training in the environmental corporate names, there has always existed a unit management of projects. dedicated to assessing the environmental impacts of transport infrastructure at all development stages. • Annual programme to communicate the quality and environment management system on the All Ineco’s activities in its work as an engineering intranet. and consultancy company take the environmental variable into account, focusing particularly on • Establishment and dissemination of guides to criteria of sustainability and energy efficiency, good environmental practices. bringing to bear a sustainable, environmental vision in infrastructure plans and projects and • Introduction of procedures for compliance with construction projects, with measures including environmental management system requirements. environmental surveillance at the operational stage of infrastructure. In this way, Ineco ensures The environmental management programme continuous control and monitoring of environmental also includes procedures that facilitate the aspects at all the development phases of implementation of environmental measures. These infrastructure. The company’s great know-how in procedures are made available to all employees this field enables our company to become a leader on the intranet to ensure compliance with in trends and technologies in the sector. environmental management system requirements: • Preparation of studies and projects and activities for technical assistance at works. • Identification and evaluation of environmental aspects and impacts, both direct and indirect. Any environmental impacts that Ineco may cause are analysed as part of environmental impact assessment. Impacts that may be caused indirectly by products and services are analysed through the operational control procedures that form part of the company’s management system. None of the offices that Ineco operated in 2012 was in a protected area or a zone of high value for biodiversity, and thus the company complied with one of the conditions in the Environmental Impact Statement, which forbids the establishment of temporary facilities in protected zones or exclusion areas. Corporate Culture · Committed to our suppliers 159 Committed to our suppliers Working with our suppliers Ineco considers its suppliers as a very important link in the value chain of the services that the company offers to its customers. In order to deliver maximum quality, Ineco works closely with suppliers to ensure that they are familiar with and feel involved in the company’s work processes and protocols. Suppliers are important stakeholders in the Ineco’s suppliers guarantee company, and communication with them is vital to ensure fruitful cooperation, enabling continuous improvement to be made in our work and ensuring their compliance with the maximum quality of the products and services that Ineco provides to its customers. the objective quality and The corporate website and day-to-day contacts environmental criteria with the purchasing unit through company meetings and visits are the means used to maintain fluid required. communications. Moreover, an annual average of 300 emails (compras@ineco.es and ofertas@ineco. es) and around 340 telephone queries are handled. Ineco’s corporate website web provides details of the current contracting conditions. Based on these, the contractor must guarantee compliance with the commitments that Ineco indicates specifically to the supplier, with its regulations and policies and the requirements published on the site. Similarly, all contractors who work for Ineco must observe and comply with the stipulations made in the guidelines for integrity, transparency and commitment. In this way, Ineco fosters responsible actions in its value chain, encouraging the companies that work as our suppliers to adopt the principles of corporative responsibility in their management systems. In 2012, no significant contracts with suppliers and contractors were rejected, nor were performance conditions imposed. To ensure precaution with regard to environmental hazards, Ineco continues to apply a policy for the selection and certification of suppliers that adopt environmental criteria. To this end, suppliers are classified and evaluated in order to guarantee that they follow the guidelines indicated by the company. Corporate Culture · Committed to our suppliers 160 Communication, equality and transparency The three basic principles that govern Ineco’s • Companies interested in opting for the award of a relations with its suppliers are: contract are guaranteed knowledge of and access to the rules that apply to the award process. Publicity principle These rules are applied equally to all candidate companies. The Ineco website provides suppliers with updated information on the procurement processes and • The deadlines established for the presentation of the general principles that govern the relationship bids are adequate and sufficient for companies to between the company and its suppliers. The carry out a proper assessment and to submit their Ineco procurement processes are also published bids according to the criteria and objectives of on the State Public Procurement Platform (www. each project. contrataciondelestado.es) and on the company’s website, as well as by other means. • The criteria that Ineco applies in the evaluation of the bids in each case are meticulously Principles of participation, equality and established prior to the publication of the non-discrimination proposal and can be accessed by all the interested companies. The company’s participation and non-discrimination policy for suppliers guarantees that firms interested • Ineco clearly determines, prior to the evaluation in cooperating with Ineco receive the appropriate of proposals, both the body that is responsible for information, resources and treatment to ensure preparing the contract award proposal and the equal opportunities amongst possible suppliers, body that will award the contract. both national and international. • Ineco awards each contract according to the Ineco has established a list of suppliers’ rights that bid that is most favourable in economic terms, reflects this fairness principle: as long as it meets the objective bid evaluation criteria that have been specifically established for • Free access to the contract by any company. each project. • A non-discriminatory description of the purpose of the contract. • Equal access for economic operators from all the Contracts for works, supplies Member States of the European Union. and services in 2012 • Mutual recognition of degrees, certificates and other diplomas. As a consequence of the decrease in activity due to the general economic climate, Ineco’s • The prohibition of providing information in a contracting activities were reduced in 2012 discriminatory manner that may grant advantages compared to the previous year, both in number to certain bidders over others. and in total amount: The Procurement Department is the body that • The total amount for contracts worth over guarantees rigorous compliance with these €18,000 fell by 53.5%. procedures. • Regarding contracts worth less than €18,000, Principle of transparency there was a 40% decrease in 2012 compared to the previous year. This principle applies to both efficient communication and the management of In 2012, local suppliers accounted for 99.76% of procurement processes. The five guidelines Ineco’s volume of purchases. established by Ineco are as follows: About this report Scope Integration of UN Global Compact and GRI indicators Index of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI Application Level Check Statement About this report 164 Scope This is the second Sustainability Report stakeholders, interaction with the environment drawn up annually by Ineco according to the and an analysis of risks and opportunities of the recommendations and principles established in trends affecting the organisation which may version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative, influence sustainability issues. which has awarded it an A-level rating. The report, which covers Ineco’s main business in Spain and the • Completeness. The publication provides coverage international market in 2012, was not submitted for of the indicators and material issues sufficient to external assurance. (3.1, 3.3, 3.6, 3.13. 3.5) enable stakeholders to assess Ineco’s performance in 2012. Likewise, the report addresses the concerns of the Progress Report required for adherence to the • Comparability. The information, wherever Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. possible, is presented in a manner that permits These reports are to be submitted annually. comparison and enables stakeholders to analyse changes in Ineco over the last three years (2012, The preparation of this Annual Report took into 2011 and 2010). account the Strategic Plan and the Corporate Responsibility Policy, which defines how social, • Scope. There are no joint ventures, subsidiaries, employment and environmental concerns are leased facilities, subcontracted activities or other integrated into the company’s strategy. entities covered in the report which may be capable of affecting its comparability. Continuing the policy adopted with the company’s first Sustainability Report in 2011, this report • Accuracy and clarity. The reported information is contains, wherever possible, full information sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders from previous years, as this makes it possible to assess Ineco’s performance. to draw comparisons different periods and to evaluate tendencies with regard to the company’s • Timeliness. Ineco is publishing its second performance according to the complete overview Sustainability Report, integrating this with the provided by the GRI indicators and the Principles of Annual Report with the intention of doing so the United Nations Global Compact. (3.8, 3.2, 3.5) annually. The subject matter covered in the report was • Reliability. The information provided has not determined taking into account the company’s been independently verified. GRI has classified activities as a company engaged in providing this report with an Application Level A. aeronautical, railway, urban transport, roads and ports services. Additionally, as a public company, we In response to certain minor variations in the wish to communicate our commitment to integrity methodology applied to some indicators, and to and transparency towards customers, employees, the errors detected in the 2011 Annual Report, an society, the environment and suppliers. Moreover, explanatory note describing these changes has been as mentioned previously, in order to give a balanced added at the end of the Global Reporting Initiative and reasonable view of Ineco’s performance, this (GRI) Index. (3.9, 3.10 y 3.11) report is based on the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, in For further information or enquiries about the accordance with the following principles: contents of this report, please contact: Strategy and Corporate Responsibility Division: • Materiality. The information provided in this africa.jimenez@ineco.es report covers and endeavours to respond to Communication Department: all indicators set out in the G3.1 guidelines. violeta.larrad@ineco.es Materiality has been determined based on an analysis of the group’s activity, its impact on About this report 165 Integration of UN Global Compact and GRI indicators PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI INDICATORS PRINCIPLE 1 1.1, LA3, LA4, LA6, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8, HR9 human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 1.1, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR8, HR9 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of 1.1. LA3, LA4, LA5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 1.1, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR7 labour. PRINCIPLE 5 1.1, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR6 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 1.1, LA6, LA13, LA14, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4 and occupation. PRINCIPLE 7 1.1, 1.2, EN1, EN2, EN9, EN18, EN26 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 1.2, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN16, Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental EN18, EN19, EN20, EN22, EN24, EN25 responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 1.2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, EN18, EN26 friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 1.1, 1.2, SO1, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO6 bribery. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 166 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I:PROFILE DISCLOSURES IF APPLICABLE, REASON EXPLANADESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER INDICATE THE PART FOR TION NOT REPORTED OMISSION 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation. • 4, 5 4, 5, 95, 100, 102, 109, 114, 118, 119, 130, 134, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. • 138, 139, 142, 145 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation. • INECO. Ingeniería y Economía del Transporte, S.A. 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. • 8, 11 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. • 15, 16, 108, 109 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. • Paseo de la Habana, 138 Madrid 28036. 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant • 9, 137 to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. • State-owned Entity. Joint Stock Corporation. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries). • 9-11, 109, 124, 125 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. • 10, 109, 124 No significant changes have been made to the 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting structure in the course of the financial year. period regarding size, structure or ownership. • 4, 5, 109 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. • 125 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 164 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. • The report covers the year 2012, from 1 January to 31 December 2012. 164 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). • 2011 164 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc). • Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. • 164 3.5 Process for defining report content. • 4, 5, 102, 164 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). • 164 3.7 State any specific limitations on the There are no limitations on the scope or boundary scope or boundary of the report. • of the different aspects. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability • 164 from period to period and/or between organisations. When necessary, the data measurement techniques 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of and calculation bases are specified with the calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of • indicators throughout the report. the Indicators and other information in the report. 164, 177 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, • 164, 177 nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. • 4, 5, 109, 164, 177 Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 167 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I:PROFILE DISCLOSURES IF APPLICABLE, REASON EXPLANADESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER INDICATE THE PART FOR TION NOT REPORTED OMISSION 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. • 166 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. • 164 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as • 106, 148 setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organisation’s • 15, 16, 106, 108 management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body who are • 106 independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. • 15, 16, 100, 102, 106, 108, 130, 132, 133, 142 The board members have the right to a per diem for attending Board Meetings, as well as compensation for travel expenses related to 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members attendance, in accordance with Article 28 of Royal of the highest governance body, senior managers, Decree 462/2002, dated 24 May, concerning and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including • compensation related to services, and Article 9 of Law 5/2006, dated 10 April, regulating conflicts of social and environmental performance). interests among members of the government and senior officials of the General State Administration. 126, 134 Any possible conflicts of interest between members of the Board of Directors and the Company shall be 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance resolved under the provisions of Law 30/92, dated body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. • 26 November, on the Legal System Governing Public Administrations, and Articles 28 and 29 of the Common Administrative Procedure.92, 98. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, The members of the highest governing body are qualifications, and expertise of the members professionals of recognised prestige in the sector. of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of • 106 gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance • 95, 96, 100, 103 and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or • 100, 103, 104, 106 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance There are no such processes due to Ineco’s nature body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. • as a State-owned entity. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. • 109, 135, 136, 145, 146, 159 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. • 139-141 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organisations which the organisation supports. • 143 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. • 102 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. • 102 Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 168 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I:PROFILE DISCLOSURES IF APPLICABLE, REASON EXPLANADESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER INDICATE THE PART FOR TION NOT REPORTED OMISSION 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. • 102, 106, 120, 130, 159 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics • 120, 130, 159 and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAs) IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Economic performance • 109 Market presence • 4, 5, 9, 94-97 Indirect economic impacts • 109 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Materials • 150 Energy • 151-153 Water • 149 Ineco does not operate in any area with high biodiversity and Biodiversity • NAp therefore has no management approach to said issue. Emissions, effluents and waste • 149, 154 As a service company, Ineco does not quantify Products and services • NAp products sold that are recovered at the end of their service life. Ineco strictly complies with current environmental regulations. It is also committed Compliance • NAp to taking actions beyond those required by law to help minimise the impact of its business on the environment. Ineco causes no significant environmental Transport • NAp impacts on the transport of products and other goods. Overall • 146, 147 Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 169 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAs) IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Employment • 128, 129 Labour/management relations • 126, 130, 132-134 Occupational health and safety • 135, 136 Training and education • 131 Diversity and equal opportunity • 127-129 Equal remuneration for women and men • 127-129 HUMAN RIGHTS. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Investment and procurement practices 100-103 Non-discrimination • 123, 126-129 Freedom of association and collective bargaining • 139, 143 Signatory to the Child labour • NAp Global Compact. Signatory to the Prevention of forced and compulsory labour • NAp Global Compact. Signatory to the Security practices • NAp Global Compact. There have been no violations of Indigenous rights • NAp the rights of indigenous populations. Signatory to the Assessment • NAp Global Compact. Signatory to the Remediation • NAp Global Compact. SOCIETY. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Local communities • 137 Corruption • 103, 104 Public policy • 100-103, 109 Anti-competitive behaviour • 100-103, 109 Compliance • 100-103, 109 Product responsability. Disclosure on management aproach PR Customer health and safety • 118, 119, 157 No labelling required. Products Product and service labelling • NAp and services comply with regulations. Marketing communications • 120, 121 No complaints were filed regarding breaches Customer privacy • of privacy or losses of customer information. Compliance • Company complies with regulations. Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 170 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC-1. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, • 110 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC-2. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, • 113, 114, 116, 154, 157 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Ineco has no EC-3. Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. • NAv retirement schemes. EC-4. Significant financial assistance received from government. • 108, 109, 113, 114 Market presence EC-5. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. • 124, 126 EC-6. Policy, practices, and proportion Spanish suppliers are understood to be local. of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. • 160 EC-7. Procedures for local hiring and Ineco hired no senior management personnel proportion of senior management from the local community in 2012. hired from the local community at • significant locations of operation. 124 Indirect economic impacts Ineco has continued to provide support for its main customers and shareholders, EC-8. Development and impact of ADIF, AENA, and RENFE, and other national infrastructure investments and services and international customers, to implement provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono • transport infrastructure investment plans through the provision of specialist technical engagement. services, though not, due to the nature of the company’s activity, through its own investments. EC-9. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. • 137, 145 ENVIRONMENTAL Materials EN-01. Materials used, by weight or volume. • 148-150 In 2012, Ineco acquired no materials EN-02. Percentage of materials used considered to be recycled paper or toner, that are recycled input materials. • though the possibility of using recycled toner is being considered. Energy Due to the nature of the company’s activity, EN-03. Direct energy consumption only diesel is consumed at its facilities. by primary energy source. • 151, 152 Due to the nature of the company’s activity, EN-04. Indirect energy consumption Ineco consumes only electrical power. by primary source. • 153 EN-05. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. • 116, 117, 151, 152 EN-06. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy • 150-152, 154 requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN-07. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. • 153 Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 171 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED Water EN-08. Total water withdrawal by source. • 149 No water is withdrawn from surface or EN-09. Water sources significantly underground waters. affected by withdrawal of water. • 149 Due to the nature of the company’s EN-10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. • business, Ineco does not reuse or recycle water. Biodiversity EN-11. Location and size of land owned, None of Ineco’s facilities, whether owned or leased, managed in, or adjacent to, leased, is located adjacent to protected protected areas and areas of high • areas or areas of high biodiversity value biodiversity value outside protected areas. outside protected areas. All company facilities are located in urban EN-12. Description of significant or industrial areas far away from protected impacts of activities, products, and natural spaces and therefore the company’s services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity • impact on biodiversity in its area is zero. value outside protected areas. 157 Ineco’s activities have affected no EN-13. Habitats protected or restored. • protected or restored habitats. Due to the nature of Ineco’s business, no specific strategy is necessary for the prevention, management or restoration EN-14. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. • of damage to natural habitats. Rather, this issue is taken into account in the company’s environmental policy and environmental management system. EN-15. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species Ineco’s business does not affect any habitat with habitats in areas affected by • with species included on the IUCN Red List. operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents, and waste EN-16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. • 154 154 EN-17. Other relevant indirect Ineco generated 3,607.98 T of indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. • greenhouse gas emissions in 2012, a 5% reduction on the indirect emissions generated by company travel in 2011. EN-18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. • 153, 154 As an engineering service company, Ineco produces electronic or paper documents EN-19. Emissions of ozone-depleting and therefore has no emissions of these substances by weight. • substances. The organisation does not use CFCs, the main substance responsible for destroying the ozone layer. Ineco is an engineering service company whose products are consultancy and technical assistance services, and does not EN-20. NO, SO, and other significant engage in industrial manufacturing work. air emissions by type and weight. • The organisation therefore emits no significant amounts of NOx, SOx or other substances responsible for destroying the ozone layer in its processes. 149 EN-21. Total water discharge by quality and destination. • Given the nature of Ineco, the company makes no discharges except those that can be assimilated into domestic wastewater. EN–22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. • 155 Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 172 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED Although Ineco presents no significant risks in this aspect, the company has established preventive measures to avoid accidental spills, such as regular inspections of facilities where such accidents could take EN-23. Total number and volume of significant spills. • place. Similarly, the company has adopted a procedure that establishes action to be taken in case of spills or leaks (POM-04 “Action in case of accidents with environmental impacts). There were no significant spills in 2012. EN-24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and • 155 VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN-25. Identity, size, protected status, All the company’s water discharges are and biodiversity value of water bodies made into the sewage system. Apart from and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s • these, no discharges have been identified that might significantly affect water bodies discharges of water and runoff. and related habitats. Products and services EN-26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. • 145-147, 157 As a service provider company, the quantification EN-27. Percentage of products sold of sold products and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. • NAv retrieved at the end of their useful life is not applicable. Compliance Ineco declares that it has not identified any EN-28. Monetary value of significant noncompliance with current environmental fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with • laws or regulations and has not been subject to any type of administrative or environmental laws and regulations. legal penalty. Transport EN-29. Significant environmental 152-154 impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and • Ineco has no significant environmental impact on the transport of products and transporting members of the workforce. other goods. Overall EN-30. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. • 157 SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA-1. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. • 124, 127 LA-2. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. • 124, 133 LA-3. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, • 126 by major operations. LA-15. Return to work and retention 127 rates after parental leave by gender. Labour/management relations LA-4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. • 126 Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 173 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED The minimum number of weeks of advance notice to workers and their elected LA-5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding representatives are as provided for in the operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. • Workers’ Statute: Terminations: 15 days for individuals and 30 for collectives. Suspensions and modifications: 30 days for individuals and 15 for collectives. Occupational health and safety LA-6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational • 126 health and safety programmes. 177 In 2012, the rate of days lost in Spain was 15.2 days, of which men account for 7.4 and women for 7.8. The corresponding data for other regions continues to be insignificant. LA-7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. • In 2012, the rate of absenteeism in Spain was 2,392.6, of which men accounted for 939.3 and women for 1,453.3. The data for other regions continues to be insignificant. The rate of occupational injuries and illnesses in 2012 was 0.7%, of which men accounted for 0.35% and women for 0.35%. There were no work-related fatalities. LA-8. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members • 135, 136 regarding serious diseases. LA-9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. • 126, 135, 136 Training and education LA-10. Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. • 131 LA-11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and • 131 assist them in managing career endings. 134 LA-12. Percentage of employees receiving In 2012, the percentage of employees that regular performance and career development reviews by gender. • received variable remuneration linked to performance reviews was 31%. BY gender, this figure breaks down as follows: 71% men, 29% women. Diversity and equal opportunity LA-13. Composition of governance 15, 16, 108, 127 bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, • In 2012, the percentage of people with disabilities out of the total workforce was and other indicators of diversity. 0.6%. Equal remuneration for women and men Men and women are paid the same basic wage in accordance LA-14. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration with the national women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. • NAv collective bargaining agreement for 2013 engineering and technical engineering offices. Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 174 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and procurement practices HR-1. Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have • 103, 138 undergone human rights screening. HR-2. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights • 159, 160 screening, and actions taken. HR-3. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the • 138 percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination There were no such cases at INECO in 2012. HR-4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. • 138 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR-5. Operations and significant Due to the nature of Ineco’s activity, there suppliers identified in which the right are no operations that could threaten the to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated • right of association and the right to subscribe to collective bargaining or at significant risk, and actions agreements. taken to support these rights. Child labour HR-6. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant There are no operations that carry a risk risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the • of incidents involving child exploitation. effective abolition of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour HR-7. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for There are no operations that carry a risk incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of • of incidents involving forced or compulsory labour. all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Security practices Ineco hires security services at some of its offices. In 2012, the company hired a total HR-8. Percentage of security personnel of 13 such guards. The external companies trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human • are obliged to provide personnel trained in respect for and defence of human rights. rights that are relevant to operations. 135, 136 Indigenous rights HR-9. Total number of incidents of violations There have been no incidents involving involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. • violations of the rights of indigenous peoples. Assessment HR-10. Percentage and total number of Due to the nature of Ineco’s business, the operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. • violation of human rights is not considered a risk. Remediation HR-11. Number of grievances related to No incidents related to human rights were human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. • reported. Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 175 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED Society Local communities In 2012, Ineco’s activity was developed fundamentally in national territory, though the company also ventured into the foreign SO-1. Nature, scope and effectiveness of market as part of its ongoing any programmes to assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, • internationalisation process. Due to its type of activity, Ineco’s impact on employment including entering, operating and existing. in the local community is not significant. 100, 139, 141 Due to the nature of Ineco’s activity, the SO-9. Operations with significant company’s impacts on society are son potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. • positive. 137 There are no operations with significant SO-10. Prevention and mitigation potential or actual negative impacts on measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual • local communities in which Ineco operates. negative impacts on local communities. 113, 114, 124, 127, 137, 143, 145 Corruption SO-2. Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. • 104 SO-3. Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. • 100, 104 SO-4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. • 104 Public policy Ineco does not take part in national SO-5. Public policy positions and participation or international lobbying activities. in public policy development and lobbying. • 143 SO-6. Total value of financial and in-kind Ineco has made no financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. • contributions of any type to political parties or related institutions in any country. Anti-competitive behaviour SO-7. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. • No actions of this type have been reported. Compliance SO-8. Monetary value of significant fines and Ineco received no fines or sanctions of any total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. • kind for such practices in 2012. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety PR-1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories • 119, 157 subject to such procedures. PR-2. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and No incidents of this kind were reported in voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their • 2012. life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR-3. Type of product and service information Ineco is a service company, and the required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to • products it generates are technical documents. such information requirements. Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 176 COMPLETE • NOT REPORTED • NAv: Not available / NAp: Not applicable / NM: Non material G3.1 CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators IF APPLICABLE, REASON TO BE INDICATE DESCRIPTION INF. CROSS REFERENCE / DIRECT ANSWER FOR EXPLANATION REPORTED THE PART OMISSION IN NOT REPORTED PR-4. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and There have been no cases of voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type • noncompliance. of outcomes. PR-5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. • 120, 121 Marketing communications Ineco applies the company’s Code of Conduct, CR policy and the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Codes and standards are constantly revised to adapt PR-6. Programmes for adherence to laws, them to the current situation. Ineco does standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including • not sell products that are prohibited in certain markets or which are the subject advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. of controversy among stakeholders or represent issues for public debate. 100, 138 PR-7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and • No such incidents were reported. sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR-8. Total number of substantiated No complaints were filed regarding complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. • breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR-9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision • There were no sanctions of this kind in 2012. and use of products and services. Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicator Index 177 EXPLANATORY NOTES CHANGES COMPARED TO THE CONTENTS OF THE 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Errors having been detected in the 2011 Ineco Annual Report • Indicator EN-03, on page 153 (2011 Ineco Annual Report) dice with regard to the indicators GRI EN-01, EN-03, EN-05, in the “316.31 GJ/vehicle”, it should read: “78.32 GJ/vehicle” and, chapter Committed to the Environment, the following rectificain the same paragraph, where the text reads: “197,573 GJ per tions are made: year”, it should read: “51,613 GJ per year”. • Indicator EN-01, on page 152 (2011 Ineco Annual Report) • Indicator EN-05, on page 157 (2011 Ineco Annual Report), in the “Responsible Use of Resources”, where the text reads: “electable, where the text reads: “energy consumption in Madrid by tricity by 17% and water by 16%.”, it should read: “vehicle fuel 5.4%”, it should read: “vehicle fuel consumption by 10%”. by 10% and water by 14%.”. • Indicator EN-03, on page 152 (2011 Ineco Annual Report) “Mean consumption of diesel fuel in Ineco offices is 10,000 litres per year (1380 GJ). This consumption remains stable due to”, it should read: “Diesel fuel consumption in Ineco offices was 6,600 litres, a 14% reduction compared to the previous year. This improvement was achieved thanks to correct temperature adjustment in the offices and to”. CHANGES IN THE METHODOLOGY APPLIED IN 2012 A change has been made to the methodology for calculating GRI According, in indicator LA-7, on page 181 (2011 Annual Report), LA-7 (Rates of lost days and absenteeism). This has entailed the (NOTE 2) where the text reads: recalculation of the 2011 figures according to the new • “The rate of days lost (total number of absences/total hours methodology, and the application of the same to the 2012 worked) was 763.8 days in Spain during 2011, 546 of which figures. To calculate lost days, working days from the beginning were taken by male staff members and 217.8 by female. The to the end of leave were taken into account according to the corresponding data for outside Spain is not significant because following formulae: the company has almost no staff abroad”, it should read “The • Rate of injuries and occupational diseases = (total number of rate of days lost (total number of absences/total hours injuries and occupational diseases/total hours worked)*Factor worked) was 24.3 days in Spain during 2011, 17.4 of which were taken by male staff members and 6.9 by female. The • Rate of lost days = (total number of days lost due to injuries corresponding data for outside Spain is not significant because and occupational diseases /total hours worked)*Factor the company has almost no staff abroad.” • Rate of absenteeism = (total number of days lost due to any • “By type of absenteeism, the rate was: Work accident: M (21) type of incapacity/total days worked)*Factor W (19) Total: 40. Justified absence: M (264) W (465.9) Total: Total hours 5.221.888,43 Hours = mean 729.9. Maternity leave: M (108.3) W (161.3) Total: 269.6. worked 2012 accumulated Unpaid leave: M (2.3) W (5.6) Total: 7.9. Paid leave: M (279.8) workforce 2012* W (207.6) Total: 487.4” should read “Absenteeism in Spain in available hours 2011 was 3,131.1, of which 1,214.5 correspond to men and (1772.8) 1,916.6 to women.” Factor 200.000 Factor = 50 weeks * 40 work hours * • “The rate of injuries in 2011 was 1.3 in total, of which men 100 employees accounted for 0.7% and women for 0.6%. There were no fatal accidents. (Information not included in the 2011 Annual Report).” Global Reporting Initiative 2012 | Ineco
