Download Annual Report 2011 PDF Carlos Tasayco Almeida and María Luisa Tasayco de Tasayco. Business: Handicrafts manufacturing. Office: Chincha. Contents 8 Statement of Responsibility 10 Letter from the Chairman of the Board to the Shareholders Organization Details 16 a. Organization’s name b. Headquarters c. Board d. Executive Committee of the Board e. Management f. Organizational Chart g. Vision, Mission and Values h. Company Capital i. Shareholding Structure 32 Corporate Governance A. Corporate Governance B. Comprehensive Risk Management C. Main national and international memberships and sponsorships D. Recognition, Awards and distinctions for best corporate social responsibility and governance practices E. Stakeholder involvement 5 Janeth Velita, advertising analyst, Graciela Ortega, advertising assistant. 6 Contents 48 Corporate Social Responsibility (RSC) A. Our Economic Performance b. Our Social Performance c. Our Environmental Performance 122 Experience and Background A. Our Shareholders b. Directors c. Management 144 Financial Statements 208 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) A Adherence to the Global Pact B. Annual Report Quality Principles C. Index of GRI indicators 224 List of Agencies 7 Comunidad Nativa Pampamichi Agencia: La Merced Ercilio Julián Ponce andAydi Ramos Tapia. Business: Petticoat whitening. Office: Chilca. 1 Annual Report 2011 STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY This document includes trustworthy and sufficient information about the business of Mibanco, Banco de la Microempresa S.A, during the year of 2011. Notwithstanding the responsibility of the issuer, the undersigned take full responsibility for its content, pursuant to the applicable legal provisions in force. Óscar Rivera Rivera José Castillo Deza Chairman of the Board General Manager Lima, March 15, 2012 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD TO THE SHAREHOLDERS Óscar Rivera Rivera, Chairman of the board. 10 2 Annual Report 2011 Dear shareholders, tion as a regional leader. Strong dollar inflows, I resulting from increased exports and foreign am pleased to submit our Annual Report and direct investment, kept pushing up the value the corresponding Financial Statements for of the domestic currency, the Nuevo Sol. 2011. This has been a year of change, but also This encouraging scenario is further brighteof significant efforts that have paid off. Among ned by two additional announcements related the most remarkable of them, I should mention to the financial system and microfinance in parthat in December Mibanco received Standard ticular. On one hand, in the ranking of financial & Poor’s BBB rating, thus achieving investment development prepared by the World Economic grade. This milestone has made us the first bank Forum, Peru climbed eight places from last specialized in microfinance in Peru to obtain a year, ranking first in ease of access to credit rating equal to that awarded to Peru’s sovereign and number of accounts opened by financial titution, consolidates our position in the market, institutions. On the other, the Global Microscope and attests to the responsible management of Index, prepared by The Economist Intelligence our business and the effort of the entire Mibanco Unit of The Economist, has cataloged Peru as team throughout these years.. the country with the best business climate for In 2011 the international crisis regained microfinance for the third consecutive year., strength, especially in developed economies. Mibanco has contributed significantly to However, Peru closed 2011 with a positive outboth achievements. Our commitment to solook, confirming its growing leadership among cial inclusion drives our leadership in banking emerging economies. Despite being an election penetration, as we accounted for 18.4% of firstyear, with all the adjustments that entails, the time credits for micro and small enterprises. country kept growing. GDP increased 6.9%, the Similarly, the success of our business model highest in the region, consolidating Peru’s posihas enabled institutions to increasingly serve 11 the financial needs of micro and small business organization to support micro and small enterowners and entrepreneurs. With over 660,000 prises in their development, thus stimulating clients, Mibanco now ranks as the financial growth, employment generation and poverty institution with the largest amount of loans to reduction in the country. micro enterprises Furthermore, at the end of 2011, total liabiWe focused on expanding our market and lities amounted to S/. 4. Billion, an increase of remaining a leading institution, increasing our 13.0% compared to the previous year. Bonds gross loans to a total of S/.4.2 billion in 2011, payable (S/.3.7 billion), meanwhile, accounted which accounts for 80.5% of our total assets. for 80.7% of liabilities and increased 28.1% comSimultaneously, and to further reinforce pared to 2010. Also, the number of liability-side our already strong foundations, we have paid customers increased from 179,140 in 2010 to special attention to our assets and to the quality 233,308 in 2011, an increase of 30.2%. of our portfolio, and further strengthened our It is also worthwhile to mention that the comprehensive approach to risk management. Global Compact of the United Nations awarded Also Mibanco closed 2011 with a 3.661% conus an advanced level based on the performance trolled default rate and a significant 170.7% published in our last annual report, placing provisioning on the NPL and legal collection us among the companies that make visible portfolios. and tangible efforts to adopt best practices Similarly, in December 2011, our total assets in sustainability, corporate governance and reached S/.5.2 billion, a 16.7% increase from management worldwide. the year before. In addition, in May of this year Mibanco was Following this, I want to underscore two recognized as a “Great Modern Brand of Peru major achievements. First, the significant in2011” by the Marketing Hall of Fame of the Effie 1 crease in assets by S/. 140 million made by our Awards. These Advertising Effectiveness Awards shareholders as of July, which has strengthened were established in 1968 by the New York chapthe capital structure of Mibanco and will permit ter of the American Marketing Association and it to continue growing. Second, in November recognize that the bank’s communications stra2011 we placed a syndicated loan of up to tegy and creativity has contributed effectively US$ 60 million, structured by the International to positioning Mibanco as a bank that caters Finance Corporation (IFC), in the international to the needs of the micro and small business market place. entrepreneurs segment. The impact of both operations is critical To this we must add the grade awarded to because it has increased the capacity of our us by the social performance rating agency 1. Awards created in 1968 by the Advertising Effectiveness Awards, New York chapter of the American Marketing Association 12 Annual Report 2011 Planet Rating, which, in its second assessment, for Mibanco to continue its successful track. I reaffirmed Mibanco’s position by awarding it the especially want to thank our shareholders for top score (4+) among over 50 MFIs evaluated their trust and support, our directors and senior worldwide. This recognition strengthens our management for their continued contribution already strong commitment to fulfilling our in designing strategies and making decisions, mission. and our workers, who are the driving engine Always focused on contributing to the deof our organization’s development and optimal velopment of SME entrepreneurs SMEs and to functioning. Similarly, my appreciation goes out improving their quality of living, we continued to all of our stakeholders, who, with the passing offering free training programs and invested of the years, have become part of our culture – US$ 1 million for the fourth consecutive year especially to our customers. They are the ones to educate more than 40,000 customers. With who remind us daily with their achievements this, the total number of entrepreneurs trained and their progress that the true objective of over the last 11 years through our various course our institution is to serve the entrepreneurs in offering reached 170,000. emerging segments of our country. In these 13 Our ongoing commitment to convey a culyears, Mibanco has delivered appropriations ture of responsible business to our customers to thousands of entrepreneurs of micro and based on the triple bottom line (economic, social small enterprises – but above all, Mibanco has and environmental) has also been recognized. consciously contributed to improving their living In line with this commitment, we have once standards, and those of their families. We are again designed this annual report following the convinced that in this way, we can make Peru guidelines prepared by the Global Reporting a more inclusive nation. Initiative (GRI). These guidelines will direct us towards an integrated management approach focused on providing outstanding services to our customers, including tailor-made products and training programs in business administration as primary components. We thus also respond to our workers’ career aspirations and develop initiatives that allow us to optimize the use of resources from natural sources. In closing, I want to thank each and every one of the people who has made it possible 13 March 15, 2012 Dear shareholders, T his year I want to add a few extra lines to my usual letter to you, as this is a special report for me. On March 15, after 12 years, I stepped down as Chairman of Mibanco. I feel I’ve completed a cycle; a year and a half designing and establishing the bank when we were still Acción Comunitaria del Perú, and 14 years as Director of Mibanco. During this time, important achievements have been accomplished, which have gained Mibanco prestige and recognition as the leading bank for microenterprise in Peru and Latin America. I feel immense satisfaction to think that on May 4, 1998, Mibanco was born as the first private bank specialized in microfinance. Since then, we have traveled a path to become a benchmark in the microfinance sector. In writing these lines, I look back and see we are making a difference. We started our operations with only 13 branches and almost 34,000 customers. To date, we have 117 offices to serve over 690,000 micro and small enterprise entrepreneurs, which has led to an average annual growth of 44% in loan placements, raising us from 26th (of 27 institutions) to 5th place among 15 banks competing in the Peruvian banking system, with loans amounting to S/. 4.3 billion as of February. But growth has not been the only part of our institution’s journey. As I reflect I cannot help but recall the prestige Mibanco has earned both in Peru and abroad. The bank has been recognized twice (2006 and 2009) as the best microfinance institution in Latin America and the Caribbean, and as pioneers on more than one occasion: first microfinance institution to issue bonds in the stock market (2002), highest score for social performance among more than 50 microfinance institutions worldwide by Planet Rating (2010 and 2011), and first syndicated loan structured in Peruvian nuevos soles (2010). 14 Annual Report 2011 I retire hoping I met your expectations and with the pleasure of participated in the major endeavor to give micro and small company entrepreneurs the chance to become creditworthy and grow. We were recognized as a “Great Modern Brand of Peru” by Effie’s Marketing Hall of Fame in 2011; moreover, we were given a BBB investment grade rating by Standard & Poor’s, earned by only the five largest banks in Peru. Over time our organization has grown increasingly stronger. But this would not have been possible without the knowledge and selfless support of the different directors who have served over the years I have chaired the Board; of the various officials and executives who demonstrated their professionalism and dedication; and of all of the staff, who consistently gave their best effort, and identified with our mission. Proof of our efforts is seen in the fact that we are entering 2012 as the absolute leader in banking penetration, having recruited 23.3% of first time financial system clients. I’m proud to have contributed for 12 years, together with all of you, to making the dream of including more and more entrepreneurs in the financial system a reality. I step down hoping to have fulfilled your expectations, as well as those of the management staff and all of Mibanco’s employees; and also with tremendous pleasure to have been involved in this great endeavor of giving micro and small enterprise entrepreneurs the opportunity to become creditworthy and grow, thereby contributing to the development of Peru. Warm regards and my sincerest gratitude Óscar Rivera Rivera 15 Ana Canelo Bernal, executive assistant. Office: Covida. 3 Annual Report 2011 ORGANIZATION DETAILS Organization’s name Mibanco, Banco de la Microempresa S.A., was Peru’s Voting stock first private bank for micro and small businesses and Ownership Number of stockholders % Share was established in the city of Lima on March 2, 1998, by • Under 1% 14 8.42% public deed executed before Ricardo Fernandini Barreda, • 1% and 5% 3 4.51% Attorney at Law and Public Notary. • 5% and 10% 4 26.76% The company is registered under Item No. 11020316 • Over 10% 1 60.31% of the Registry of Legal Entities of the Public Records Total 22 100.00% of Lima and its operation was authorized by the Superintendence of Banking and Insurance (SBS) through Resolution No. 356-98, dated April 7, 1998. Subscribed and paid, as of 31.12.2011 (including the capital Mibanco began operating on May 4, 1998 in Lima, based increase approved at the bank’s Annual General Shareholder on the experience of Acción Comunitaria del Perú (now Meeting on 04.08.2011 and the Board meetings dated Grupo ACP Inversiones y Desarrollo), a non-profit civil 27.10.2011 and 29.12.2011, registration underway). organization that has operated for 41 years in the micro and small enterprise sector with excellent international prestige and continuous, quality communication with Class A voting stock national and international banks and multilateral and Ownership Number of stockholders % Share bilateral organizations. • Under 1% 13 11.24% Corporate objective • 5% 6 5.24% Banking company. • 10% 3 21.06% Uniform Industrial Classification – All Economic Activities • Over 10% 1 57.36% (CIIU): 6519. Total 23 94.90% Duration Indefinite. Type of stock Class A voting stock As per capital registered with the Public Registry on Ownership Number of stockholders % Share December 31, 2011 • Under 1% 6 1.77% • 1% to 5% 1 3.33% Total 7 5.10% 18 Headquarters MIBANCO, Banco de la Microempresa S.A. | Main office: Av. Domingo Orué No. 165, Surquillo, Lima. Telephone: (511) 513-8000 | Fax: (511) 421-6645 | E-mail: mibanco@mibanco.com.pe | Web site: www.mibanco.com.pe 19 Board Óscar Rivera Rivera Chairman of the Board Luis Felipe Derteano Marie Deputy Chairman of the Board 20 Annual Report 2011 Directors Roberto Dañino Zapata Alfredo Llosa Barber Juan Otero Steinhart Luis Ovalle Gates Miguel Pinasco Limas Hugo Santa María Guzmán Michael Edward Schlein Alternate directors Esteban Andrés Altschul Fernando Arias Vargas Enrique Osvaldo Ferraro 21 Executive Committee of the Board The Executive Committee is a decision-making body for the administrative management of the company. It consists of 5 members appointed by the Board, and holds at least two ordinary sessions per month. The following directors were elected to the Executive Committee for the period 2011-2012: Óscar Rivera Rivera – President Luis Felipe Derteano Marie Alfredo Llosa Barber Juan Otero Steinhart Hugo Santa María Guzmán Rafael Llosa Barrios – Secretary (until 30.6.2011) José Castillo Deza – Secretary (since 1.7.2011) 22 Management Annual Report 2011 José Castillo Deza General Manager (a.i) and Manager of the Finance and Management Control Division Division Managers Fernando Rossina Roberto Balbuena Favarato Castagnola Vásquez Gonzáles Peralta Marketing Division Human Resources (to 30.11.2011) Operations and Processes Division Miguel Leonel Gonzáles Vargas Henríquez Cartagena Micro and Small Company Business Manager Risk Division Division 23 Management Area Managers Carolina Luz María Ana Benavides Piaggio Boza Llosa Bruckmann Corvera Social Asset Area Risks Area Microcompanies Entrepreneurs’ Banking Area Rossana Antonio José Chasseloup López Chumacero Sánchez Delgado Contreras Legal Counsel Area and Risk Follow up and Control Area Recoveries Area Secretary General César Eduardo Javier Fernández Fernández Franco Águila Guinassi Portugal Planning and Business Intelligence Area Operations Area Small Companies Area (to 30.11.2011) (to 31.07.2011) Francisco Vargas Peralta (since 15.12.2011) 24 Annual Report 2011 María del Pilar Juan Manuel Guillermo Martínez Rubio Morgan Ochoa Nevado Rioja Accountant General Territory Manager Business Methods South Zone Carlos Enrique Jessica Olazábal Chumán Orezzoli Moreno Pacheco Lengua Finance and Planning Territory Manager Territory Manager (to 30.11.2011) North Zone Ramiro Dante María Luz Postigo Castro Torres Martínez Zegarra Seminario Treasury Area General Auditor Manager Products Area 25 Organizational Chart Board of Directors Compliance Auditor’s Office Department General Management Department Human Resources Risks Division Division General Legal Social Risk Follow up and Counsel and Secretary Risks Area Asset Area Control Area General Area Adjoint General Management Department Commercial Methodology Planning and Management Area Intelligence Area Micro and Small Finance and Marketing Operations and Company Business Management Division Processes Division Division Control Division Territory Processes and Finance and Bank Services Recoveries Products Operations Treasury Accounting Management Technology Management Area Area Area Area Area Area Departments Area Control Area 26 Karina Rivera Bustamante and Paola Delgado Vargas, legal counsel. Vision, Mission and Values Our vision Our values To be a leader and Honesty. We work with moral integrity and professional ethics, carrying out transparent benchmark among banking management and providing clear and accurate institutions with a strong information, thereby building trust. Commitment. We are convinced that we need to social commitment, where give the best of ourselves, and we become involved people feel proud to form and participate actively in the development and fulfillment of our mission and vision. part of Mibanco’s community Efficiency. We manage our resources of clients and employees. optimally, continuously improving processes and productivity to achieve greater competitiveness and sustainability over time. Our mission Respect. We recognize and appreciate people’s full value with a sense of fairness and justice, in an atmosphere of harmony, freedom We provide opportunities of opinion and equal opportunities. for progress and access Innovation. With the active participation of clients, employees and management staff, we promote the to the system financial generation of original and creative ideas that may be with social commitment. applied to generate substantial and successful changes. Quality. We develop our activities and projects effectively and continuously and consistently exceed our management standards, ensuring the satisfaction of the rising expectations of our internal and external clients to ensure our competitiveness, leadership and image in the market. 28 Annual Report 2011 Company Capital The subscribed and paid in share capital registered under elecwith the allocation of shares remaining after the second round of tronic docket of the Lima Public Registry amounts to the sum subscription. At that date the shares authorized by the General of S/. 299,259,813.00, represented by 299,259,813 shares of a Meeting of Shareholders, i.e. Class “A” 26,250,000 shares, and nominal value of S/. 1.00 each. 17,500,000 Class “B” shares of a nominal value of S/. 1.00 each On August 4, 2011 at Mibanco’s General Shareholders Meeting, were subscribed and paid up, accounting for a capital increase it was unanimously agreed to increase the bank’s share capital for that totaled S/. 43,750,000. up to the amount of S/. 43,750, 000.00, by issuing up to 43,750,000 At the Mibanco Board meeting held on December 29, 2011, it new shares with a nominal value of S/. 1.00 each. This was the was placed on record that the capital increase process had been result of new cash contributions and capitalization of Mibanco completed and that the capital paid in the process amounted subordinated debt. The shares’ placement price was fixed at S/. to S /. 43,750,000, with an additional capital premium of S/. 3.20, bringing the total amount of the increase in equity (share 96,250,000. It was also agreed to increase the capital of Mibanco capital + premium placement) to S/. 140,000,000.00. from S/. 299,259, 813 to S/. 343,009,813, accounted for by a total The capital increase would consist in issuing up to 26,250,000 of 343,009,813 shares divided into two classes, called classes Class “A” voting shares (common shares would be renamed as “A” and “B”, respectively, all nominative, individual and freely class “A”, so the new shares would be in addition to common transferable in accordance with the following: stock representing the capital stock existing prior to the capital • Class “A” voting, representing a capital of S/. 325,509,813 increase), and up to 17,500,000 preferred stock without voting (three hundred twenty five million five hundred and nine thourights to be called class ‘B’ shares (created at the same Board sand eight hundred and thirteen and 00/100 nuevos soles), meeting). represented by 325,509,813 voting shares, fully subscribed and At the meeting the Board was also delegated the authority paid, with a nominal value of S/.1.00 (one nuevo sol) per share. to define the time, amount, conditions and procedure of the • Class “B” non-voting preferred shares, representing a capital capital increase. Because the aforementioned capital increase of S/. 17,500,000 (seventeen million five hundred thousand and would be paid in part by capitalization of subordinated debt, 00/100 nuevos soles), represented by 17,500,000 preferred shares a request was filed with the Superintendence of Banking and without voting rights, fully subscribed and paid, with a nominal Insurance to authorize such capitalization, and authorization was value of S/. 1.00 (one nuevo sol) each. granted by means of SBS Resolution No. 10826 – 2011, dated The company’s capital is in the process of registration. The October 21, 2011. Superintendence of Banking and Insurance has authorized the Subsequently, on October 27, 2011, Mibanco’s Board appropartial modification of the bank’s bylaws as a result of the capital ved the time, amount, conditions and procedure of the capital increase. Once the capital increase has been registered in the increase approved at the Annual General Shareholders Meeting company’s electronic file held at the Lima Public Registry, an appliof August 4, 2011. cation will be filed register the new classes and shares at the Lima The share subscription process ended December 28, 2011, Stock Exchange, the Superintendence of Securities, and CAVALI. 29 Shareholding structure The following shareholding structure reflects Mibanco’s capital, subscribed, paid and registered in the company’s electronic file with the Public Registry of Lima: List of shareholders as of 30 December, 2011 Shareholder Share Headquarters Grupo ACP Inversiones y Desarrollo 60.30% Peru ACCION Investments in Microfinance 9.36% Cayman Islands International Finance Corporation 6.50% US ACCION International 6.33% US Stichting Hivos – Triodos Fonds 5.44% Holland Stichting Triodos – Doen 5.44% Holland Corporación Financiera de Inversiones 1.75% Peru Ducktown Holdings S.A. 1.40% Panama La Positiva Seguros y Reaseguros S.A. 1.36% Peru Triodos Fair Share Fund (mutual fund) 0.91% Holland La Positiva Vida Seguros y Reaseguros S.A. 0.35% Peru Transacciones Financieras S.A. 0.19% Peru Transacciones Especiales S.A. 0.13% Peru Other investors 0.54% Peru 30 Annual Report 2011 Staff. Office: Real Plaza Huancayo. Following Mibanco’s capital increase, under registration, resulting from new cash contributions and partial capitalization of its subordinated debt, approved at the bank’s Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on 08/04/2011 and the Board ‘s meetings held 10/27/2011 and 29/12/2011, the shareholding of the company has been organized as follows: List of shareholders as of 30 December 2011 Class A – B shareholders Percent Headquarters Grupo ACP Inversiones y Desarrollo 60.68% Peru ACCION Investments in Microfinance 9.36% Cayman Islands International Finance Corporation 6.50% US ACCION International 6.33% US Stichting Hivos – Triodos Fonds 4.75% Holland Stichting Triodos – Doen 4.75% Holland Triodos Fair Share Fund (mutual fund) 1.64% Holland Corporación Financiera de Inversiones 1.53% Peru La Positiva Seguros y Reaseguros S.A. 1.23% Peru Ducktown Holdings S.A. 1.22% Panama Triodos Sicav II – Triodos Microfinance Fund 0.72% Holland La Positiva Vida Seguros y Reaseguros S.A. 0.57% Peru Transacciones Financieras S.A. 0.18% Peru Transacciones Especiales S.A. 0.13% Peru Other investors 0.41% Peru 31 Carlos Sánchez Bustamante, benefits supervisor. 4 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Mibanco operates under a strict code of ethics and transparency management, shareholders and stakeholders to make approthat guides all our actions based on the principles and standards priate and informed decisions. It also disseminates appropriate set out in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. The company’s and timely legal, financial and operational information to the activities are guided by strong values and are governed by our Board and the Executive Committee. governance matrix, allowing us to achieve our goals in a responsible manner, thereby enhancing the trust of our shareholders 5. Good business practices. We value our relationship with and stakeholders. Mibanco receives no financial support from our environs and carry out our activities within a context of any government. respect and support so that our clients, workers, suppliers and the community altogether are able to satisfy their needs. We Mibanco corporate governance system permanently endeavor to maintain a good relationship with This system is built around five principles detailed in the matrix: our stakeholders. 1. Shareholders’ rights. We protect the rights of our shareholders; we enforce a transparent rights policy and strictly adhere to a clear and fair dividend policy. 2. Fair treatment of our shareholders. Our shareholders receive equal treatment and our independent directors ensure a fair trial in cases of conflict of interest. Stakeholders: 3. Board responsibilities. This body plays a major role in the Shareholders, Board of Directors, employees, development and review of our organization’s strategy, as well suppliers, clients, investors, multilaterals, as in monitoring our operations. The powers and functions of financial organizations, opinion makers, mass its committees are clearly established, as is the frequency of media, alternative channels, regulators, civil meetings. society organizations, associations, national and international networks and associations. 4. Transparent communications and information. The company provides regular, accurate and truthful information to 34 Annual Report 2011 MIBANCO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Disclosure and Equal Treatment to Responsibilities ofthe Good Business Shareholders’ Rights Information Shareholders Board of Directors Practices Transparency • Dividend policies • Directors’ • Good Corporate • Transparency • Decision-making Independence Governance Policies principle mechanisms • Exercise of rights • Directors’ • Risk Management • Proposal of agenda • Projects’ approval Assessment System items • Relationship with • Board of Directors • Timely information stakeholders Committees • Strategic Planning Guidelines The Board, Mibanco’s highest body, is responsible for defining Initiative (GRI) and the Global Compact, among others. the organization’s strategy. The Chairman of the Board does not Furthermore, the bank must follow established procedures occupy an executive position. for the selection of new board members. Although Mibanco does Board members are distributed as reflected in the table behave the prerequisite that they be trained in environmental and low and their remuneration is agreed on by the Annual General social issues, it also requires a solid professional background Shareholders Meeting. and knowledge in effective business management. It is important to note that to date no specific policies apply Directors Number to voting on environmental or social issues and that further Non-Independent 9 procedures are not designed for the Board to assess the bank’s Independent 3 performance in these matters. However, Mibanco does track its Total 12 core business activities such as banking penetration, portfolio and customer training. Also, there are communication channels In addition to complying with national standards, Mibanco for shareholders and employees to share their recommendations. operates under the codes of conduct and principles of internaIn addition, Mibanco expects its customers to adhere to tionally recognized institutions such as the Global Reporting environmental standards. Therefore, within its rules, it includes 35 constraints to lending to businesses whose activities have a with different suppliers, employees and/or correspondents negative impact on the environment. These limitations are will be objective and impartial, and pursue the best interest defined as exclusion lists and are enforced through the Credits of the organization. Committee. This team evaluates credit risk, and established b) No employee shall, personally or through a third party, limited medium and high risk grades. unless authorized by a superior, accept gifts from customers It should be noted that by 2012, Mibanco is expected to have or suppliers, employees and/or correspondents. a system to manage the organization’s environmental impacts in place. It also plans to continue designing products that promote sustainable activities by means of its environmental policies. Moreover, Mibanco’s activities are not carried out in habitats that may be negatively affected by its operations. Procedures to avoid conflicts of interest All employees and executives of the organization must Comprehensive risk comply with the procedures established by the Board to avoid conflicts of interest. Also, as stated in the Corporate Governance management Matrix, the Committee for the Settlement of Conflicts of Interest Risk management is based on the fundamental principles and and the Code of Conduct and Ethics, all employees should be values mentioned below: familiar with the rules governing their roles and responsibilities. • Independence. A Management Division, independent from Additionally, in case of a breach of any of the established the business’s management, is responsible for the proper rules or the Code of Ethics, Mibanco’s procedures require the implementation of the policies established by the Board. event to be reported to an immediate supervisor or the person • Support to business. Proper risk management strengthens designated by the Human Resources department. quality credit management, ensuring excellence in managing These procedures also establish that if a worker wishes to all risks and seeking a healthy balance between commercial engage in activities that are not philanthropic, teaching or are aggressiveness and prudence. different in nature from the institution’s own purpose, express • Use of adequate tools. We use analytical tools and rely permission from a superior must be obtained. on cutting-edge systems to design proprietary models for It is also strictly prohibited to engage in any counseling or state-of-the-art risk management. advisory relation with any other financial institution, person or • Involvement. Members at all levels of the organization, from company having direct or indirect relationship with the bank, the directors and senior management to branch personnel, unless specifically authorized in the above terms. Related to should be involved in strict and efficient risk management. this,, the codes prescribe the following: Based on these principles, various measures are implemented a) The relationship of Mibanco’s executives and employees to strengthen the organization’s risk culture, making it robust, 36 Annual Report 2011 and comprehensive. Along these lines, we have high-level propriate. professionals in this area and strive to develop comprehensive Below, we detail the main stages of credit risk management: training programs in all risk-related issues. In regard to credit, the bank keeps delinquency rates under a) Admission control and has accumulated significant coverage provisions. To better serve the branch network and help our institution Notably, Mibanco’s efforts in relation to operational risk achieve its objectives of healthy growth, risk management management, continuity and information security were ackdefined a new organizational structure for this stage, which nowledged by the Superintendence of Banking and Insurance, provides customized and flexible service to clients, and encouwhich renewed its authorization to use of the Alternative Stanrages continuous contact between loan advisors and clients. dardized Approach through July 31, 2013. This change envisaged the creation of three regional admissions headquarters supervised by a central department. Each Corporate Governance of Risk Management head office relies on a team of loan officials deployed in each The Board is responsible for the bank’s comprehensive risk of the different regions to support all areas of the credit manapolicy while the Risk and Monitoring Division is responsible for gement process, while also ensuring a better understanding of ensuring its proper global implementation. conditions and markets in each region. A committee comprised of five directors, the general manager Also, credit policies are regularly reviewed based on the and the business and risk managers analyzes the evolution of analysis of changes in portfolio quality. the various risk indicators, and reviews and approves decision on issues of concern. b) Risk monitoring Additionally, as part of its comprehensive risk management, Mibanco’s monitoring scheme verifies compliance with risk poMibanco has established the following specialized committees licies, both from the perspective of the entire portfolio (through that monitor compliance and whose agreements are reported statistical analyses) and through the monitoring of individual to the Board: loan advisors’ portfolios (field portfolio review). • Operational Risk Management Committee To that end, the Risk Division includes a management unit • Information Security Committee comprised of the following units: • Strategic Risk Committee • Reputational Risk Committee • Monitoring and Models Unit. Responsible for portfolio analysis at database level, this Unit detects possible risk niches Credit Risk Management that could result in a deteriorated portfolio. During the year As part of its ongoing effort to enrich and improve the bank’s the Datamart risk project was completed, which has enhanmanagement, Mibanco strictly oversees all the stages of the ced various reports for closer monitoring of the portfolio to integrated risk management process, including admission, provide early warnings and develop data mining analyses. monitoring and recoveries, to thus identify any deviation from portfolio quality objectives and take corrective action as ap• Loan Review Unit. This unit is responsible for monitoring 37 Rafael Pariamachi Trejo. Business: Plastic ware. Office: Carabayllo 39 regulatory compliance and ensuring the quality of field are defined by the Assets and Liabilities Committee ALCO, credit assessments. In 2011, improved credit review procecomposed of members of the General Management Department, dures identified assessment issues that led to introducing Treasury, Business Division, and Risk Division. This body constantly corrective actions and reduced losses. monitors market exposures and reports its main agreements to the Risk Committee. • Portfolio Classification Unit. A unit charged with ensuring The Risk Division includes a specialized area for the proper compliance with regulatory (SBS) rules for loan classification monitoring and control of established limits at both the interas follows: nal and regulatory levels. In addition, since July 2009, it has managed regulatory capital requirements for credit and market Loan portfolio structure as of december 31, 2011 risk, as well as the to<<tal capital ratio, pursuant to the New Class Total debt in S/. % Portfolio Total provisions S/. Capital Accord (Basel II). The main objective is to give stability • Normal 3’763,985 89.82% 55,927 to our institution’s financial margin and economic value, while • CPP 179,590 4.29% 8,595 preserving adequate liquidity and solvency. • Deficient 66,110 1.58% 16,134 • Doubtful 77,091 1.84% 44,780 • Interest rate risk • Loss 103,686 2.47% 101,840 The bank analyzes the sensitivity of the expected net interTotal 4’190,463 100% 227,275 est income and the equity at risk from potential changes in interest rates, within the established risk tolerance policies. Other measures used for this purpose involve the analysis of Market risk management interest rate gaps, value at risk (VaR) and scenario analyses. Evaluates the risk of loss of equity due to fluctuations in risk The main factors1 of exposure to this risk are the mismatch factors including the volatility of interest rates and exchange in the timing of mass equity repricing , changes in shortrates, and the liquidity risk of the bank’s various products and term and long-term interest rates or modifications of the the markets where it operates. residual terms of certain assets and / or liabilities due to Trading activities, such as buying, selling and taking positions changes in market interest rates, with their corresponding in financial instruments, are managed according to various direct or indirect impact on loan demand, and subsequent regulatory and< internal limits. These limits are reviewed perioimpact on revenue. dically to evaluate the bank’s strategy and market conditions, and to anticipate scenarios that may expose the bank’s equity. Balance sheet management (Asset Liability Management or Indicator Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sept-11 Dec-11 ALM) involves managing the interest rate and liquidity risks created by the assets and liabilities structure. Earnings at 0.20% 0.24% 0.71% 0.54% 0.96% Risk (EAR) Strategic guidelines for the management of financial risks 40 Annual Report 2011 This risk has been properly administered in 2011 by managing monitoring of the sufficiency of liquid assets and dependence the consolidated repricing gap. The earnings at risk ratio on funders. stood at 0.96% in December 2011, below the regulatory Indicators used to gauge liquidity risk include liquidity gap limit (5% of capital).2 analysis and liquidity rations in each of the currencies used by the bank and on a consolidated basis, as well as contingency In early 2012, the new ALM platform will be implemented to plans included in stress scenario analysis. develop new models for measuring interest rate risk, following In 2011, the bank met established4 regulatory liquidity limits, good international banking practices. and demonstrated both adequate capacity to respond to financial commitments and an appropriate liquidity structure, • Exchange rate risk as shown in the following table. Mibanco manages the risk of loss due to adverse movements in the exchange rate through prudential policies IndicaTor Dec-09 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sept-11 Dec-11 and methodologies designed to adapt to foreign exchange Liquidity LC 19.27% 19.46% 18.17% 20.97% 21.72% 25.25% risk levels defined by the bank and fluctuations in market ratio6 FC 39.42% 28.26% 32.32% 36.47% 41.55% 39.51% risk factors. This risk is managed by matching asset and liability transactions in foreign currency. At the end of 2011, the observed • Sovereign risk difference between assets and liabilities was smaller than The bank was not exposed to this risk in 2011. it was in 2010. In its daily management of this risk, the bank uses VaR3 paOperational risk management rametric models to determine the maximum expected loss Mibanco strives to internalize operational risk management from foreign currency positions, complemented by scenario into each management department with a focus on each and risk factors analyses, and retrospective testing. In 2011, department’s processes. Throughout 2011, this effort meant the indicator reached an average value of S/. 26.5 thousand, significant employee involvement in creating and monitoring with a minimum value of S/. 0.1 thousand and a maximum process risk mitigation initiatives and identifying corrective value of S/. 201 thousand. These levels are considered low actions on reported loss events. Similarly, the operational risk compared to our net worth. management culture was reinforced in regard to indicators and automatic alerts through courses and workshops for employees. • Liquidity risk Risk management issues were also aligned with the work of The bank makes constant and timely monitoring to assess operational risk coordinators to improve the incentive program its ability to meet the demand for loans, pay its dues, and associated with operational risk management. meet deposit withdrawals and other financial commitments, All this has allowed Mibanco to obtain the renewal of the both in normal market conditions and under stress, through authorization to use the Alternative Standardized Approach to 1) Review or recalculation of interest rates linked to a financial product. 2) 3. Demonstrates room to maneuver in case of changes in the estimated financial margin resulting from changes in market rates. 3) VaR: Value at Risk 4) Limit SBS ratio for local currency (minimum 8%) and limit SBS ratio for foreign currency (minimum 20%). 41 calculate the capital requirements for operational risk through During 2011, the management of business continuity resulted July 2013. in the Crisis Management Plan, including the development and Pursuant to SBS provisions, Mibanco bases its operational implementation of new strategies to support the continuity of risk management on the following actions: Mibanco critical processes, in addition to existing plans (including the Crisis Management Plan, the Business Continuity Plan for HQ, a. Promoting decentralized operational risk management the various emergency plans and the Information Technology with active participation from managers and heads responServices Recovery Plan). Tests for the plans were also scheduled sible for business and support units. and business continuity management was implemented as a b. Scheduling and running workshops on Operational Risk specialized function provided with independent resources to Self-Assessment for major Mibanco processes, new products carry out activities to strengthen the mainstreaming of continuity and significant changes that occur in the operating and inmanagement in Mibanco’s organizational culture. formation technology environment and in business process outsourcing. This allows for the evaluation of the controls in Information security management place and the definition of risk mitigation actions in cases that exceed acceptable exposure levels. Pursuant to Circular SBS G-140 regarding management of c. Follow up and monitoring of identified operational risks information security, the bank operates an adequate Informaand risk mitigation actions authorized by management, tion Security Management System (ISMS), which contributed using special software (Accelerate Analyzer) that supports significantly to the extension of the authorization to use the the recording and generation of information. Alternative Standardized Approach for operational risk and to d. Recording and analyzing operational risk loss events and the strengthening of the organization’s culture of information management actions to prevent their recurrence. security. e. Generating consolidated information on the results of The bank’s ISMS complies with international standard ISO operational risk management and the level of exposure 27001:2005, which embraces management of information to which Mibanco is subjected, which are submitted to assets, human resources, physical and environmental security, the Committee on Operational Risk Management, the Risk communications and operations management, logical security, Committee and the Board. security for the procurement, development and maintenance f. Analyzing and streamlining operational risk management of computer systems, and management of incidents regarding at the level of all Mibanco organizational units, including security of information. providing technological facilities for the control and moniThe bank also operates a risk management model for infortoring of identified risks. mation security based on the COSO ERM and NIST 800-39, which g. Educating employees on the concepts, policies and were enforced for all critical processes and significant changes methodologies applied in operational risk management by to ensure the protection of information assets. organizing classroom lectures and E-learning platforms in The ISMS annual plan is enforced pursuant to the bank’s the annual training program. information security policy, and includes reviews of compliance 42 Annual Report 2011 with internal security policies and regulatory and legal inforMain national and mation security provisions. international memberships Adaptation to Basel II and sponsorships In line with provisions of the Superintendence of Banking and Insurance (SBS), in 2011 Mibanco continued to enforce its policy to implement Basel II standards and the best practices of the Mibanco belongs to or supports the following associations: New Capital Accord. Association of Banks of Peru (ASBANC). It represents the banks and financial companies operating in Peru and cooperates with national authorities in analyzing financial system issues for efficient and modern development. Association of Microfinance Institutions of Peru (ASOMIF). It brings together members of the Association of Rural Banks of Peru and the Association of Edpymes (Entities for the Development of Small Firms), with the aim of promoting joint actions to support their operational development for the benefit of persons who require their services and who generally are not served by traditional banking. Dutch Chamber of Commerce of Peru. It represents member companies before the Peruvian and Dutch authorities to promote their business interests. Latin American Banking Federation (FELABAN). Through their respective associations in 19 countries throughout the subcontinent, this organization brings more than 500 banks and financial institutions throughout Latin America together. It encourages and facilitates contacts and an understanding of the direct relationships between the region’s financial institutions, regardless of each country’s domestic policies. 43 Acción Internacional Network (Red Acción Internacional). A Recognition, Awards and network made up of several of the most renowned microfinance institutions in the world. Together, these institutions work todistinctions for best corporate gether to strengthen each other and the microfinance sector as social responsibility and a whole. The network’s mission is to work together to integrate governance practices microfinance institutions into their respective national financial systems. Additionally, network members share experiences and best practices on issues relevant to the microfinance industry. This year, Mibanco had important social and service quality Women’s World Banking (WWB). This organization, focused accomplishments through which it reaffirmed its commitment on the development of micro-businesses and the empowerment to its mission. For the second consecutive year, Mibanco scored of women, has had a profound impact on the lives of women 4+ on the Global Social Performance rating awarded by Planet worldwide. It has also helped to increase the sensitivity of the Rating, a prestigious international rating agency specializing men who hold the reins of banking and government. Howein microfinance. The score reflects Mibanco’s demonstrated ver, WWB’s greatest achievement is the success of the women commitment to accomplishing its social goals. Mibanco’s perforentrepreneurs who have received the organization’s assistance. mance was assessed in four areas or factors: social performance management, financial inclusion, consumer protection policy Microfinance Network (MFN). This association brings together and financial ethics, and human resources policy. leading microfinance institutions worldwide. Its members incluAdditionally, the Global Compact gave Mibanco’s Communide 33 MFIs from 28 countries who share ideas and experiences cation on Progress (COP) an advanced level rating. The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative, through which companies and propose innovative solutions to the challenges they face commit to aligning their operations and strategies with ten in achieving continued growth and further progress. MFN universally accepted principles in four areas: human rights, labor members seek to be role models in the microfinance industry. standards, environment and anti-corruption. COP stakeholders report on the progress the company has made in implementing Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV). An indethe ten principles as part of their business activities. pendent network of banks whose financial activities promote Furthermore, in 2011, for the second year running, the prosustainable development for the environment and for people ject “Strengthening women’s entrepreneurship in Peru” has who are not served by traditional banking. benefited more than 29,000 micro and small enterprise women entrepreneurs. So far, the project has reached more than 47,000 women in Lima and other major cities of Peru. In May, Mibanco was also recognized as a “Great modern brand of Peru 2011” by the Marketing Hall of Fame of Effie5. This award recognizes that strategic and creative communication efforts 5) Awards created in 1968 by the Advertising Effectiveness Awards, New York chapter of the American Marketing Association 44 Annual Report 2011 The bank has identified the following stakeholders. The chart reflects their level of influence in the fulfillment of the bank’s mission and management strategies, based on the triple bottom line. Stakeholders, by level of influence MULTILATERALS NCIAL INSTITUTIONS Oscar Rivera, Mibanco’s Chairman of the Board, accepts the Effie FINA Award for Peru’s Modern 2011 Brand. N MAKERS AND ME P INIO DIA O ONDENT AGE R RESP NT CO A S REGUL TORS OLDERS / BO A REH AR H have contributed effectively to the creation of a brand that S D caters to micro and small business entrepreneurs and owners. CLIENTS Finally, the Consortium of Private Organizations Promoting the Development of Small and Micro Enterprises (COPEME) and the Microfinance Information Exchange (MIX) gave the IN V E bank a 2011 International Transparency Certificate in the “Five S TO RS Diamonds” category for the high transparency, quality and reliability of its microfinance information. OC S U P P LIE R S UP S ALL NS L AL RO AS I E D O R G A N I Z AT I O G SO D C I AT AN Stakeholder involvement IO N S, N E T W O R K S M U LTIL AT E R A L S Mibanco attaches great importance to maintaining a dialogue with its various stakeholders, so as to better understand their expectations, perceptions and suggestions regarding the bank’s The information shown in the table has been collected mainly operations and performance, and thus optimize its growth and through personal and group interviews which identified priority strength. issues relevant to each of the stakeholder groups. Therefore, in 2011 the bank worked with representatives We believe that transparency and credibility are essential values from each group to identify and build on previous year achievein the relationship with our stakeholders and, in that context, comments. These activities complement the regular communication munication and commitments with these groups generate value for channels and exchange of ideas in each area. our organization, increasing their trust and recognition. 45 Stakeholeders’ participation + Stakeholders Bases Identification Communication Channel and Selection • Agency network Customers • Quality and customer service • Capital Stock Management • Employee website Employees • Internal email • Health and safety committees Selection of a representative sample for Shareholders / Board interviews aimed at identifying • Representation in Government Agencies urgent issues, • General Management expectations • Capital Stock Management Investors and perceptions Regulatory (CONASEV, SBS, BCR) and • General Management oversight (INDECOPI, ASPEC, SUNAT, • Marketing Management Influence MINTRA) institutions • Risk Management • Agency network Branchless banking and alternative channels and • Frequent visits and assessment to improve future agreements institutions with prior agreement Suppliers ( including non-finance • Procurement Committees service suppliers ) • Branch network Opinion leaders, media and • Mibanco memberships: Peruvian Association of Microfinance political leaders Institutions, Acción Internacional Network, Global Alliance for Banking on Values, etc. Identification of 3 representatives Allied institutions (academic, of each group • Participation in forums and meetings to assess team work NGO, etc.) and surveys on perception and expectations Financial institutions about the organization Associations, networks and national • Branch network business associations (ASBANC, ASOMIF) •Mibanco memberships: Peruvian Association of Microfinance Institutions, Acción Internacional Network, Global Alliance for “Multilateral Institutions (IDB, WB, Banking on Values, etc. UNDP, EU, etc.)” Associations, networks and international associations 46 Annual Report 2011 Criteria for Inclusion Type of Relationship Interaction aspects Bank’s response Frequency / Communication • Product improvement • Clarity of information Annual interview to • Loan access measure service quality • Training programs • Greater social commitment • Health and security commitees Annual survey on Mibanco asks • Benefits (Educational agreements, working environment its stakeholders Comprehensive Health Plan, etc.) what issues • Refresher courses and specialization programs Group that most influences or must be analyzed which may be affected by Quarterly meetings Bidirectional to support the organization’s activities to evaluate • Access to loans for people at the base of the internal decisions and to whom the Bank Quarterly meetings commitment pyramid, equal opportunities and sustainable concerning its owes the success achieved. to evaluate report development” environmental and Criteria: Influence (greater), commitment • Creating Capital Stock Management Reuniones de evaluación socially responsible proximity, dependence and report • Consolidation of Mibanco’s good reputation de informe de behavior responsibility compromisos asumidos Mibanco asks and stakeholders respond • Compliance with transparency standards and Meetings 4 times a year implementation of risk policies (alternative standard method, etc.) Meetings once every six • Broadening of our services’ geographical months coverage Meetings once a month • Selection policies Group that contributes to a positive external image Criteria: responsibility, (less) Influence Interviews once a year • Customer debt overhang risk management Group with which alliances Unidirectional can be established to Meetings once every six Mibanco • Initiatives to eliminate legal barriers and improve loan access for months informs its facilitate loan access underprivilieged or minority stakeholders groups about concerned issues • Contributing to social well being and Interview once a year sustainable development” Market studies • Volunteer program Group that contributes to a positive external image • Customer debt overhang risk management Criteria: responsibility, (less) influence Interviews once a year • Improving relationships • Promoting projects towards green portfolio 47 Solidarity loan group at Antabairanto, an indigenous community in Pampamichi. Office: La Merced. 5 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Mibanco’s management is fully accountable to its shareholders, Our economic customers, employees and the community at large. Our actions aim to find a balance between our business interests and our performance stakeholders’expectations regarding our institution. All our actions are aligned with the triple social, economic and environmental bottom line. In that sense, one of the characteristics that defines Mibanco’s “The highlight of our achievements is the BBB rating awarded management is the relationship with our stakeholders, especially by Standard & Poor’s, which gave us investment grade. This our customers. Throughout the years we have strengthened our milestone has made us the first bank specialized in microties and provided financial access to businessmen and women finance in Peru to obtain a rating equal to that awarded to from micro and small enterprises through products and services Peru’s sovereign debt. This achievement makes us proud as an that attest to the bank’s social commitment. institution, consolidates our position in the market, and attests The bank has also subscribed to international initiatives, such to the responsible management of our business and the effort as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which sets parameters of the entire Mibanco team throughout these years. Oscar for preparing sustainability reports and which have guided us Rivera Chairman of the Board (DMA). in preparing this report. As in previous years, Mibanco aims to exceed GRI indicators. PERU’S ECONOMY IN 2010 Therefore, the report has been reviewed and the contents verified to ensure they meet GRI’s “A” level of compliance. a. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) It should be added, finally, that Mibanco will continue betting In 2011, the growth of Peru’s GDP was less than the extraordinary on full SCR across management, internalized in each and every 8.8% rate recorded in 2010, due to lower domestic demand organizational operation. The objective is to continue promoting resulting from decreased public spending, which is attributed financial inclusion, the appropriate use of resources and the to operational issues of local and regional governments and to strong performance of employees and customers through their a lesser extent, slower private investment. professional and personal development. Despite the slight reduction in its rate of acceleration, the country’s 6.9% GDP increase was higher than that of other economies in the region, which started to feel the impact of a the new crisis that originated in Europe. Elections also had a negative impact on the national economcy during the first months of the year. However, in the second half output moved upward, driven by the services and trade industries, despite declines in two other major sectors, construction and manufacturing, which reflect a deterioration in public and private investment. 50 Annual Report 2011 evolution of GDP 2004 2011 (%) b. Inflation 9.8% Cumulative inflation for the year was 4.7%, higher than the 8.9% 8.8% 7.7% target set by the Central Reserve Bank (BCR) in its monetary 6.8% 6.9% policy and higher than that of 2010 (2.1%). The rise in inflation 5.0% was due mainly to the rise in international commodity prices, as well as weather changes that affected the price of some foods, with an impact on domestic prices. 0.9% It is estimated that in 2012 inflation will eventually converge 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 with the target range (1% 3%). According to the BCR’s monetary policy, falling international commodity prices and abnormal weather could create upward tendencies in local food prices, but the decreased growth rate of domestic demand observed over the last months of 2011 would help reduce demand-side pressures that might lead to inflation. evolution of Inflation 2004 2011 (%) 6.7% 4.7% 3.9% 3.5% 2.1% 1.5% 1.1% 0.3% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 51 The exchange rate appreciated in 2011. The election period thermore, government spending is expected to parallel resurging generated a capital outflow that raised the value of the dollar, but private investment through maintenance works and infrastructure in the following months the strength of the nuevo sol increased development. compared to the American currency. Nominal appreciation in External factors to consider for 2012 are the future of the debt the previous year reached 4.3% (BCR), which was limited by the crisis in Europe, the evolution of the large emerging economies, Central Bank’s intervention in the foreign exchange market where and rebounding markets in developed economies. The national it bought a total U.S. $ 3.6 billion. economy would be affected by the international environment through financial channels (foreign loans) and trade (exports) c. Banking system’s performance resulting in slower growth compared to recent years. Economic growth in 2011 was accompanied by increased lending. Banking system loans rose 22.1% from the previous year, totaling MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS 2011 S/. 126 million by the year’s end. Asset quality improved to 1.50%, below the 1.58% achieved a a. Evolution of business year before, which led the financial system to reduce provisions Strong competition to finance the SME segment continued in 2011. to 222.4%. Placements grew 11.9%, paralleling the growth of the Peruvian The return on equity (ROE), meanwhile, was 24.5%, which economy. Asset quality indicators improved while default and was higher than that reported at the end of 2010, while return refinanced portfolio numbers dropped from the previous year. on assets was lower, at 2.3%. Mibanco’s strategic plan enabled the institution to end the year successfully, with positive results reflected in 14.5% increase 2012 OUTLOOK in credit placements, a 25.5% ROE and a 2.3% ROA. In its latest inflation report, the BCR estimated a 5.5% growth in b. Market share the GDP this year, driven by recovered public spending and private Mibanco maintained its leadership in the microenterprise seginvestment. However, it also mentioned slower international trade ment, as the financial institution with the highest number of loans due to decreased activity in markets worldwide. placed in the segment according to SBS information. In December More than $16 billion worth of private investment projects 2011 Mibanco reported a 13.94% market share (S/. 1.2 billion) in were announced in 2012, a growth of 8.3% from the preivous loans to microenterprises and a 17.24% market share in terms of year.. Investment will mainly target mining and electricity. Furnumber of microenterprise borrowers. 52 Annual Report 2011 Market share (%) Microenterprise loans December 2011 13.94% 11.18% 7.44% 7.22% 6.42% 5.02% 3.78% 3.44% 3.30% 3.25% Mibanco Edyficar Crediscotia CMAC BCP CM CR Nuestra Scotiabank CM CMAC Arequipa Piura Gente Huancayo Sullana Market share (%) Microenterprise debt holders December 2011 17.24% 15.04% 6.26% 5.43% 5.42% 5.14% 3.63% 3.39% 3.22% 3.19% Mibanco Edyficar CM Crediscotia Nuestra CM Piura Financiera Financiera CMAC CM Arequipa Gente Crear Confianza Trujillo Huancayo CMAC: Caja Municipal de Ahorro y Crédito. 53 c. Annual comparative results In line with previous annual trends, loans went mainly to trade These results are an indication of the enormous effort, dedication (53.9%), services (30.8%), manufacturing (14.0%) and workers and ongoing commitment of Mibanco towards entrepreneurs employed by others (1.3%). and micro and small business owners, who account for 97% of our portfolio (see chart), and whose businesses grow along with Annual comparative results our organization. 2010 2011 Number of loan clients 401,988 435,157 Loans by segment Number of December 2011 loan granted 641,384 620,763 Segment Loans % Average amount S/. 6,731 S/. 7,482 • Microenteprises 462,708 91% disbursed (US$ 2,396) (US$ 2,775) • Small enterprises 29,623 6% Gross loans S/. 3,656.4 S/. 4,186.8 • Sales people 14,165 3% (in millions) (US$ 1,301.7) (US$1,553.0) Total 506,496 100% Total disbursed S/. 4,317.2 S/. 4,644.5 (in millions) (US$ 1,536.9) (US$ 1,722.7) S/. 97.1 S/. 109.4 Net earnings (in millions) As of December 2011, our total assets amounted to S/. 5.2 (US$ 34.6) (US$ 40.6) billion (US$ 1.9 billion), a 16.7% increase compared to 2010. This Overdue portfolio 3.11% 3.66% major achievement is mainly due to larger gross loans, which / Gross loans reached a total S/. 4.2 billion (US$ 1.5 billion), representing 80.5% Exchange rate * S/. 2,809 S/. 2,696 of our total assets. Total number of savings customers 179,140 233,308 Total number of customers 581,128 668,465 Portfolio by economic activity *Fuente: SBS December 2011 Economic activity Balance in nuevos soles % d. Asset quality • Trade 2,256’989,059 53.9% In December 2011 the delinquency rate (non-performing loans/ • Service 1,287’931,889 30.8% total loans) reached 3.66%. Mibanco’s NPL ratio for microenterpri• Production 585’468,823 14% se credits (2.68%) is below the default rate for micro loans in the • Payroll and other workers 56’427,629 1.3% financial system (4.07%). The impaired loan ratio was 6.58% (sum Total 4,186’817,399 100.0% of overdue loans and refinanced and restructured loans). Finally, the coverage ratio (provisions/past due portfolio) was 170.7%. 54 Yrene de la Cruz Antesano and her loan officer Luis Alberto Lingán Romero. Business: Candy manufacturing and confectionery. Office: Huaycán. e. Liabilities f. Solvency and capital adequacy Mibanco’s funding needs are covered by deposits from the public Mibanco continued strengthening its solvency vis-à-vis its cusand institutional investors, active participation in the capitals tomers, shareholders, competitors and stakeholders in Peru and market, debt lines, and partial capitalization of profits. This policy abroad, consolidating its capital position (equity) and total capital has enabled us to ensure the continued growth of the institution ratio (equity / sum of risk-weighted assets), which replaced the old and of our customers. overall leverage ratio of 14.57% (the SBS regulatory limit is 10%) Total liabilities as of December 2011 amounted to S/. 4594.7 and exceeded the 2010 overall leverage ratio (13.33%). million (US$ 1.7 billon), a 13.0% increase compared to the previous year. Bonds payable (S/. 3,709.3 million or US$ 1.4 billion) account for g. Results of operations 80.7% of liabilities and increased 28.1% compared to 2010, thanks Mibanco’s financial income increased to S/. 987.9 million (98.0% from to the sense of confidence and security Mibanco generates among placements), an increase of 5.4% compared to 2010. At the year’s the public and among institutions. Additionally, the number of end, financial expenses totaled S /. 206.2 million (US $ 76.5 million) liability clients increased from 179,140 in 2010 to 233,308 in 2011, and accounted for 20.9% of total interest income. Net income as of an increase of 30.2%. December 2011 amounted to S/. 109.4 million (US $ 40.6 million). Debt (S/. 613.5 million or U.S.$ 227.5 million) accounts for 13.4% The efficient use of resources this year also allowed us to achieve of liabilities, as a result of policies to diversify funding sources and a return on equity (ROE) of 25.5%, one of the highest in the system. use of credit lines granted by local and foreign institutions. Return on assets (ROA) reached an outstanding 2.3%. 55 NET INCOME 2002 2011 109.4 97.1 97.1 85 61.2 51.1 44.6 25.1 25.6 19.1 DEC. 2002 DEC. 2003 DEC. 2004 DEC. 2005 DEC. 2006 DEC. 2007 DEC. 2008 DEC. 2009 DEC. 2010 DEC. 2011 Return on Equity (%) Return on Assets (%) DECEMBER 2011 DECEMBER 2011 25.45 24.54 3.04 19.97 2.49 2.32 2.30 17.84 1.20 8.08 0.71 3.25 Mibanco Bancos Financieras CMACs CRACs Edpymes Financieras CMACs Bancos Mibanco CRACs Edpymes CMAC: Caja Municipal de Ahorro y Crédito. CRAC: Caja Rural de Ahorro y Crédito. EDPYME: Entidad de Desarrollo para la Pequeña y Microempresa. 56 Annual Report 2011 h. Risk rating programs with the Securities Superintendence: Mibanco maintained its category A rating for financial strength Third Program of Negotiable Certificates of Deposit awarded by Pacific Credit Rating (PCR) and Class & Asociados. Up to S/. 300 million or its equivalent in U.S. dollars. Third The deposits over one year were rated AA by Class & Asociados, Corporate Public Offering Bond Program Up S/. 400 million and short-term deposits were classified as category I by PCR, or its equivalent in U.S. dollars. and as 1 by Class & Asociados. These programs will contribute to our funding in the short, Standard & Poor’s raised Mibanco’s rating for long-term medium and long-term future. credit by two notches, from BB + to BBB. This rating is the highest investment grade awarded in Peru Capitals markets and so we became the first bank specializing in microfinance At the end of 2011 Mibanco ran two financial instruments proto reach the same level of classification as Peruvian sovereign grams with outstanding issues in the Peruvian capitals market. debt and as the largest commercial banks in the financial sector. During the year, five placements were made for a total of S/. Below is the definition of each classification awarded to 185.61 million. Participants in the auctions were pension fund Mibanco by these different entities, which address financial administration companies (AFPs), banks, mutual funds and strength, deposits over one year and short-term deposits. individuals, among others. Class A companies: are solvent companies of exceptional intrinsic financial strength, good system positioning, total Second program: corporate bonds coverage for present risks and ability to manage future risks. This program is for an amount of S/. 150 million, or its equivaClass AA companies: have a very high ability to pay principal lent in U.S. dollars. It was awarded an AA score by the rating and interest under the terms and conditions agreed upon, and agencies Pacific Credit Rating and Class & Asociados. During would not be significantly affected by possible changes in issuer, 2011 no issuance was made under this program. At the year’s the industry to which they belong, or the economy. end, this program was no longer in force, but two issues were Category I companies: demonstrate the highest quality outstanding, which will expire in 2012. levels, low probability of default under the agreed terms, and excellent repayment ability even in the worst predictable ecoThird program: Non-negotiable deposit certificates nomic scenario. This program is for an amount of S/. 300 million or its equivalent in U.S. dollars and was registered with the Superintendence i. Capitals markets and foreign financing transactions of Securities Market in 2011. Pacific Credit Rating and Class & To diversify funding sources and further consolidate our preAsociados ranked it as category 1. During 2011 five placements sence in the capitals market in 2011 we registered the following were made totaling S/. 185.61 million, which expire in 2012. 57 58 Annual Report 2011 Rafaela Espinoza de Ojeda and her loan officer Diana Napa Almeyda. Business: Animal husbandry. Office: Cañete. 59 Stock exchange The tables below show Mibanco’s stock and financial instruments prices in 2011. Variable income Quotations ISIN CODE Mnemonic Year-Month Average OPENING S/. closING S/. maximum S/. minimum S/. price S/. Source: Lima Stock Exchange. Fixed income Quotations ISIN CODE Mnemonic Year-Month Average OPENING S/. closING S/. maximum S/. minimum S/. price S/. Source: Lima Stock Exchange. 60 Annual Report 2011 j. Funding sources Mibanco structured and diversified its funding sources to expand its loan portfolio. They include mainly bonds payable (71.3%), short and long term debt with foreign institutions and international financial organizations (11.8%), increased share capital (11.7%), participation in the capitals market (0.2%), financial system deposits (3.3%) and other sources (1.7%). All this has enabled Mibanco to properly manage the firm’s liabilities, build a solid capital base, and improve financial efficiency. It should be underscored that Mibanco receives no financial support from any government. Cristopher Escudero Roldan, senior loan officer and Karla Seminario González Olaechea, sales and services manager. Office: Santa Clara. Main transactions in 2011 In 2011 our shareholders increased the Bank’s During 2011, Mibanco received loans from foreign institutions equity by S/. 140 million thus demonstrating their such as the Microfinance Enhancement Facility (MEF) fund commitment to developing microbusinesses headquartered in Luxembourg. This institution granted us in Peru. This increase will allow continuing funding for $ 7 million. to expand Mibanco in coming years, and Similarly, the Inter-American Investment Corporation gave introduce the innovations we need to remain us a loan of up to US$ 15 million to finance the expansion of as leaders in microenterprise financing the bank’s loan portfolio. and financial penetration in Peru. Finally, we completed the implementation of a syndicated credit facility with IFC, a member of the World Bank and Citibank as arranger and co-arranger (joint bookrunner) of the issue. Balance in thousands of This transaction reached US$ 40 million, of which 75% was FUNDING SOURCES – DECEMBER 2011 nuevos soles % disbursed in national currency, and involved the participation • Obligations with the public 3709.3 71.3% of international banks and institutions. • Debt 613.5 11.8% • Equity 606.9 11.7% • Deposits from the financial system 169.7 3.3% • Outstanding securities 12.6 0.2% • Other 89.7 1.7% Total 5201.7 100% 61 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED AND DISTRIBUTED BY OUR ORGANIZATION The bank’s economic performance is guided by our comprehensive sustainability policy. To accomplish our performance objectives, we consider it relevant to report the economic value we generate and distribute, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments, as detailed in the following table. Component 2010 2011 in thousands of soles in thousands of soles • Financial income 936,827 987,869 • Financial expenses 165,657 206,242 • Personnel and Board expenses 236,237 279,242 • Interest for deposits of companies in the financial system and international financing organization 5,285 9,573 • Interest for debts and obligations of the country’s financial system 14,764 13,293 • Interest for debts and obligations with foreign financial institutions and international financing organizations 34,974 32,185 • Mandatory distribution of income 43,591 42,562 • Net revenue 97,143 109,423 • Reserves 48,167 57,881 • Donations granted 251 91 MARKET PRESENCE The table below shows the value of our portfolio for each business line, by urban and rural areas, and by sector. Client portfolio by origin – December 2011 S/. LOANS % loans % S/. • Urban 4,043’539,973 96.58% 410,285 81.00% • Rural 143’277,423 3.42% 96,211 19.00% Total 4,186’817,396 100.00% 506,496 100.00% 62 Annual Report 2011 Our products and services are innovative and customized, • Strengthening entrepreneurship of women in Peru. This and they comply with ethical and/or sustainability criteria, like project, aiming at improving the income of women in small our rural credits, which totaled S/. 145 million distributed among and micro enterprises through business management training 95,767 performing loans. and access to credit, began in January 2010 with co-financing from the Multilateral Investment Fund (FOMIN), Inter-American INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Development Bank (IDB), Government of Australia, Grupo ACP, The Thunderbird School of Global Management and Goldman Mibanco’s leadership is the main indicator of our economic imSachs Foundation. In 2011 we trained nearly 30,000 women pact on microenterprise. More than 435,000 credit clients prove entrepreneurs through this initiative, which forms part of the that our organization is committed to providing opportunities investment agreement for US$ 7.435 million,signed with the for progress through innovation, new product development institutions mentioned above. and a presence in both urban and rural areas. This impact on small and microbusinesses – the bank’s target • “Asociándome para Crecer” rural training. In coordinamarket – definitely contributed to Peru’s 6.5% growth last year, tion with the Aprenda Institute of Microenterprise, in 2011 we a significant achievement in view of the global economic crisis organized the XI Asociándome para Crecer (Joining together experienced in 2011. to Grow) Business Training Program to provide business manaLikewise, over 80,000 clients have joined solidarity groups, gement training to more than 12,000 customers. Through these a mechanism designed to provide access to credit to people projects, Mibanco seeks to provide micro and small enterprise living in poverty and exclusion who cannot provide collateral owners the practical knowledge they need to improve their or guarantees for their loans. businesses, while facilitating access to financing). CLIENT TRAINING PROGRAM We believe that without access to knowledge our clients’ paths to business and personal development will be hindered. In line with our social mission, we invest $ 1 million annually These free training programs are essential to improving their in training clients. There are several programs designed with management skills and providing them with the tools that can different objectives, but they all aim at empowering Peruvian help grow their businesses and improve their families’ living entrepreneurs. standards. In 2011 the following training programs reached more than In the last decade, Mibanco has trained over 170,000 entre40,000 entrepreneurs. preneurs free of charge in marketing, sales, finance, administration, business strategies, legal issues, leadership, planning, teamwork and finance. 63 NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES BY COST-FREE TRAINNING PROGRAM Program ObjeCtivEs BeneficiariEs 2010 2011 Providing access to advanced training on Micro enterprises’ El Gran Salto business and international networks for small 18,058 28,764 Strengthening businesswomen and medium-sized enterprises' businesswomen women’s entreprenurial Programa Making participants improve their capacity in Peru 10,000 mujeres management abilities. Broadening Small and medium-sized 30 254 (10,000 Women their knowledge on product function enterprises’ businesswomen Program) to obtain a better use of it. Help participants improve their Micro and small Business Meetings for management skills. Broaden their enterprises’ businessmen, 530 “Banking Graduates” knowledge regarding product functions graduate clients* for maximum effectiveness. Creating a high level of motivation Micro and small enterprises’ Massive events among participants, thorugh leadership, 7,500 businessmen sucess and strategic planning topics Helping participants to recognize Micro and small enterprises’ Rural training themselves as businessmen, and identifying businessmen, clients of 3,801 12,632 oportunities to make their business grow. the rural loan product * Graduate clients are those who already have a credit history in Mibanco, with growth potential. Additionally, we support the dissemination of short financial literacy videos, which are shown on CCTV at 116 Mibanco agencies nationwide. The following shorts were shown in 2011. Produced by Video content Objective Mibanco ATM network: Security recommendations when using ATMs 1. To avoid inadequate use of products and Mibanco Mibanco ATM network: Security recommendations services. when using ATMs 2. To enhance use of products and services. Debtor’s Life insurance: Product’s educational video. Somos El Gran Salto: Invitation for customers to Empresa participate in free training sessions. Financial training Financial resources’ management and ACCION organization Finance builder instructive video on household finances. International To improve customers’ financial education Education to face debt overhang, social Financial Ombudsman’s Office exclusion and other financial risks SBS Educational video on financial and banking terms 64 Annual Report 2011 Social performance In 2011, more than 100,000 rural credits granted by Mibanco directly contributed to improving the living conditions of people below the poverty line. The products, designed to suit clients’ specific needs, use credit methodologies that are more flexible “... To this we can add the rating awarded by Planet Rating, a than those based on traditional collateral. Also, insurance (linked rating agency specializing in social performance. In its second to each credit) attenuates the risk for customers that rely on a assessment, it awarded Mibanco its highest score (4 +) among single economic activity. more than 50 microfinance institutions evaluated worldwide. With the same philosophy, in 2012 Mibanco plans to intensify This strengthens our commitment to fulfilling our mission.” its efforts to increase services and coverage for the segment at Oscar Rivera Chairman of the Board (DMA). the base of the pyramid and enhance its financial penetration Mibanco’s leadership is the main indicator of its economic of the microbusiness segment. impact on small businesses, with our position reflecting the Mibanco shareholders are organizations that promote and organization´s commitment to provide opportunities for profully support the social approach of all the products in our gress through innovation, new product development and a various lines of business. presence in both urban and rural areas. Mibanco’s social approach is directly linked to the organization’s mission to provide growth alternatives for entrepreneurs of micro and small enterprises and low-income 1,600.0 people, thus directly contributing to their financial mainstreaming. This is reflected in the fact that over 90% of our more than 1.400.0 400,000 clients belong to the small and micro business sector. Moreover, Mibanco offers its customers a variety of customized 1.200.0 loan products, as described in the following table. 1,000.0 800.0 (In thousands of nuevos soles) 600.0 400.0 200.0 Working Credit Fixed asset, Fixed asset, Housing Rural Leasing Special Personal Other Capital line Personal Real Property loan loan projects loan Property 65 66 Staff. Office: Covida. 67 LEADERS IN FINANCIAL PENETRATION Since its inception, Mibanco has focused its efforts on serving micro and small business entrepreneurs with the goal of including an increasing number of entrepreneurs in the formal banking system, promoting their development, and improving the standards of living of their employees and families. For 13 years Mibanco has been the leader of financial penetration thanks to its unyielding motivation, which translates into the possibility of providing, through our work, advancement opportunities to excluded and low-economic resource segments of the population. It is through financial penetration that Mibanco accomplishes the specific mission with which it was founded Thus, in 2011, of the 363,687 people who joined the financial system for the first time through a microcredit, 18.4% (66,905) did so through Mibanco. Microenterprises Access to Finance Financial System Entity 2009 2010 2011 TOTAL SF 300,146 100.0% 327,594 100.0% 363,687 100.0% 1 Mibanco 47,715 15.9% 62,030 18.9% 66,905 18.4% 2 F. Edyficar 33,982 11.3% 46,284 14.1% 55,433 15.2% 3 CRAC Nuestra Gente 16,121 5.4% 23,766 7.3% 33,189 9.1% 4 B. Crédito BCP 4,530 1.5% 9,822 3.0% 19,434 5.3% 5 CMAC Piura 16,826 5.6% 15,980 4.9% 19,020 5.2% 6 F. Confianza 16,976 5.7% 15,923 4.9% 18,120 5.0% 7 CMAC Arequipa 17,803 5.9% 17,475 5.3% 17,097 4.7% 8 F. CrediScotia 5,560 1.9% 10,803 3.3% 15,102 4.2% 9 CMAC Huancayo 8,036 2.7% 10,204 3.1% 11,702 3.2% 10 F. CREAR 11,461 3.8% 9,774 3.0% 11,058 3.0% 11 CMAC Trujillo 14,287 4.8% 10,058 3.1% 9,740 2.7% 12 EDPYME Raíz 7,014 2.3% 8,878 2.7% 9,435 2.6% 13 CMAC Sullana 6,463 2.2% 6,467 2.0% 6,551 1.8% 14 CMAC Cusco 11,016 3.7% 7,935 2.4% 6,412 1.8% 15 CMAC Tacna 7,702 2.6% 6,906 2.1% 5,981 1.6% 16 Other entities (36) 79,520 24.9% 70,063 19.9% 63,621 16.1% 68 Annual Report 2011 OUR CLIENTS The current distribution of our customers is presented in the following table. REGIÓN N° CUSTOMERS Dist. % • LIMA 184,332 42.4% • LA LIBERTAD 31,670 7.3% • LAMBAYEQUE 24,457 5.6% • JUNIN 23,492 5.4% Jaime Suyo Barahona. Business: Small animal husbandry. Office: Carabayllo. • AREQUIPA 18,699 4.3% • ICA 17,743 4.1% • PIURA 17,605 4.0% The bank’s product portfolio is designed to cover the financing • SAN MARTIN 13,000 3.0% needs for working capital and fixed assets of micro and small • PUNO 12,806 2.9% enterprises. Mibanco offers its entrepreneur clients credits as • TACNA 12,658 2.9% low as S/. 300 to promote their financial inclusion based on its • IQUITOS 11,693 2.7% own credit methodology. In this way, the Bank opens access to • CUSCO 11,377 2.6% financial services to people who are not served by traditional • ANCASH 11,302 2.6% banks. In fact, Mibanco clients come from the base of the pyramid • TUMBES 8,973 2.1% (loans up to S/. 5,000), with monthly turnover under S/. 3,800 and • CAJAMARCA 8,904 2.0% average loans of S/. 1,800. • UCAYALI 8,778 2.0% In 2011, our rural credits grew 17% (with respect to 2010) • HUANUCO 7,042 1.6% distributed among over 95,000 clients. This result reflects the • AYACUCHO 3,841 0.9% social commitment of Mibanco, which seeks to bring an increasing • MOQUEGUA 3,754 0.9% number of Peruvians into the financial system, and to support the • MADRE DE DIOS 3,031 0.7% growth of microenterprises through an offering designed to suit Total 435157 100.0% emerging financial needs. Mibanco does not lend to corporations. 69 Also, the loans granted by Mibanco cover all types of credit, giving higher priority to the needs of micro and small enterprises. Number of transactions by SBS* category (%) Balance by SBS* category (%) 4% 1.9% 0.3% 0.3% 3.3% 8.9% 21.7% 68.8% 28.9% 61.9% n Small enterprise n Microenterprise n Consumption n Mortgage n Other n Small enterprise n Microenterprise n Consumption n Mortgage n Other Source: Internal portfolio as of Source: Internal portfolio as of December 31, 2011. December 31, 2011. SBS category transactions Dist. (%) SBS category BALANCE (MM S/.) Dist. (%) Consumption 41,850 8.9% Comsuption 132,870,658 4.00% Other 10,779 0.3% Other 162,404,412 3.30% Mortgage 1,585 0.3% Mortgage 108,257,485 1.90% Microenterprise 344,024 68.8% Microenterprise 1,199,058,873 28.90% Small enterprise 108,258 21.7% Small enterprise 2,584,225,971 61.90% Total 506,496 100.0% Total 4,186’817,399 100.0% The distribution of balances and clients by economic sector appears below. Portfolio Distribution by Economic Sector Sector CUSTOMERS Dist.% Saldos dist. % • Trade 266,093 61% 2,302 55% • Production 61,562 14% 585 14% • Services 107,502 25% 1,288 31% Total 435,157 100% 4,169 100% *Superintendencia de Banca, Seguros, y AFP (Superintendent’s Office of Banking, Insurance and Pension Funds) 70 Rafael Fernández Santiago and Nidia García Velásquez. Business: Gourd carving. Office: El Tambo. Customer distribution by activity (%) Portfolio distribution by activity (%) 25% 31% 55% 14% 61% 14% n Trade n Services n Production n Trade n Services n Production Source: Mibanco. December 31, 2011 71 Business line by region Lima Other departments Total Type of debt CUSTOMERS BALANCE CUSTOMERS BALANCE CUSTOMERS BALANCE (in thousands of nuevos soles) (in thousands of nuevos soles) (in thousands of nuevos soles) Microenterprise 122,465 580 192,333 619 314,798 1,199 Small enterprise 39,175 1,294 45,678 1,290 84,853 2,584 Other 28,580 268 14,787 136 43,367 404 Total 190,220 2,141 265,297 2,045 443,018 4,187 Business line by sector Merchants Producers Services Total Type of debt CUSTOMERS BALANCE CUSTOMERS BALANCE CUSTOMERS BALANCE customers* BALANCE (in thousands of nuevos soles) (in thousands of nuevos soles) (in thousands of nuevos soles) (in thousands of nuevos soles) Microenterprise 195,088 658 48,176 187 71,534 354 314,798 1,199 Small enterprise 45,389 1,410 12,077 367 27,387 807 84,853 2,584 Other 30,217 245 2,004 32 11,146 127 43,367 404 Total 270,694 2,313 62,257 585 110,067 1,288 443,018 4,187 (*) Clients with more than one type of debt included in multiple categories Sector by SBS* category Loan types according to RCC** Diciembre 2011 Sector Microenterprise small Medium-sized large Corporation Consumption Mortgage Total enterprise enterprise firms Trade 658,131 1’410,227 64,410 14,942 93,458 72,241 2,313,410 Production 187,158 366,725 15,044 5,981 10,561 585,469 Services 353,624 807,420 56,555 2,292 33,432 25,455 1,287,939 Total 1’198,913 2’584,372 136,010 9,161 17,233 132,871 108,257 4’186,817 Dist. % 29% 62% 3% 0% 0% 3% 3% 100% (*) Various types of debt per client added up *Superintendencia de Banca, Seguros, y AFP (Superintendent’s Office of Banking, Insurance and Pension Funds) **Reportes Crediticios Consolidados (Consolidated Credit Reports) 72 Annual Report 2011 Money value of goods and services Business Line Superintendency AMOUNTIn of Banking and Product* Scope of products nuevos Insurance SBSS soles S/. Working Capital Loans 888,226,733 Loans on Personal Property 490,936,890 · Different kinds of short-term loans to Loans on Real Property finance the purchase of final inventories, 419,475,984 SMALL ENTERPRISE 2,584,371,690 production and provision of services Credit Line 616,115,400 · To finance investment in personal fixed assets Rural Loan · Secured or unsecured mortgage loans for improvement, 34,166,558 expansion, construction or refurbishment of commercial Other Products property, as well as purchase of new business premises 135,450,126 · To simplify transactions and Working Capital Loans immediate availability of cash 627,619,703 · Individual or solidarity: aimed at merchants, Loans on Personal Property producers and service providers to the community 155,988,334 in the country’s most remote areas. Loans on Real Property · To offer great benefits to users and to educate them, 142,736,019 MICROENTERPRISE promoting safe and responsible consumption. 1,198,913,154 Credit Line · Products designed especially to serve clients grouped in 127,679,950 neighborhood associations in order to support them in Rural Loan improving their homes’ urban environments. By financing 112,343,750 electricity, water, sewerage, roads and sidewalks projects, Other Products we comply with the objectives of this product: to create 32,545,398 conditions for our clients to live in a healthy and safe Housing Loans enviroment provided with all essential utilities. 178,330,280 · For personal needs: loans to purchase products Personal Loans and services necessary for everyday life; 57,033,102 OTHER personal free use loans are also offered. 403,532,555 Credit Cards 5,764,760 Other Products 162,404,412 TOTAL 4,186’817,399 * All Mibanco products in the micro and small enterprise lines carry debtor life insurance and multiple risk insurance 73 Small and micro companies in Peru use of the advances and discoveries brought about by technical Global economic growth slowed down in recent months and it methods of production. is expected that in the coming years, the economic performance The third issue is providing SMEs true access to the formal of developed countries will suffer, in a scenario where the risk financial system. The effort of banks and institutions that serve of a new recession may be even sharper. Nonetheless, despite this segment of entrepreneurs should focus on banking in urban uncertainties in the global economy in 2011, Peru experienced and suburban areas, but particularly rural, with products tailored significant growth, driven by the construction, finance, trade and to meet the needs of these clients and avoid over-indebtedness. tourism industries, as well as others. Although the GDP grew Financial institutions must penetrate deep into the country to 6 6.9% in August, this was lower than the 8.8% of the year before, offer the opportunities these entrepreneurs need, helping them but well above the 4.5% projected for the region as a whole7. to improve their quality of life and rise out of poverty. Despite the slowdown experienced in 2009, MSEs got back It is interesting to note that parallel to the development of on the growth track in 2010 and 2011. In fact, 98% of Peruvian micro and small businesses poverty diminished to 31.3%9 in companies in this segment recovered significantly and the 2011. Meanwhile, extreme poverty reached 9.8%,10 below the majority were able to face the adverse times resorting to their average for Latin America (which reached 12.3%11). characteristic flexibility, and quickly adapted to the changing To follow these basic principles Mibanco has been a pioenvironment. Thus, unemployment remained at 7.9% in October.8 neer and leader in providing financing, advice and guidance Now operating in a more stable scenario, SMEs must get to help SME entrepreneurs and low-income citizens formalize, ready to face not only local but also international competitors, always with the goal of improving their quality of life, helping and become true engines of growth, development and progress. to achieve progress for entrepreneurs nation wide and develop The main issues that the country must address for the microfinance with a social focus in Peru. proper development of the SMEs are their mainstreaming or formalization, as well as their access to technical assistance and Microfinance supply in Peru financing. The government needs to develop innovative ways to In 2011, credit in the financial system grew 18.13%,7 which was generate an interest in formalization among SME entrepreneurs, reflected in the parallel growth of institutions that serve the highlighting the advantages of becoming part of the formal microenterprise segment. economy, such as the greater security it can entail. FurthermoIn mid-2010, the Superintendence of Banking and Insurance re, the government should strive to simplify and streamline (SBS) established seven types of credit, creating a new classifiprocesses to reduce the high transaction cost of formalization. cation: microenterprise, small business, medium business, large A second priority is to provide specialized technical assistanbusiness, corporate, consumer and mortgage. ce and support. It is essential to replace the empirical growth With this new classification, loans in 2011 were set as follows: approach that now characterizes SMEs with technology-driven, micro loans amounted to S/. 8.6 billion, small business loans sustained growth. The development of entrepreneurs, their reached S/. 17.6 billion, medium enterprise loans averaged S/. employees and their families can be optimized through better 25.5 billion, loans to large firms totaled S/. 22.6 billion, corporate 6) Data as of Dec. 2011. Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) 7) Data as of Dec. 2011. International Monetary Fund (IMF) 8) Data as of 2010. Central Bank of Peru (BCRP) 9) Data as of 2010. Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLAC). 10) Data as of 2010. Instituto Nacional de Estadística e información (INEI). 11) Data as of 2010. Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLAC) 12) Data as of 2010. Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLAC). 74 Annual Report 2011 loans were for about S/. 22.4 billion, and consumer loans and mortgages totaled S/. 27.4 billion and S/. 19.9 billion, respectively, with loans reaching a total S/. 143.9 billion. Mibanco remained as the microbusiness segment leader, with a portfolio of S/. 1.2 billion in loans. Competition for SME market share and leadership increased in 2011, and not only at the level of specialized entities but also among traditional banks whose more intense competitive efforts benefited entrepreneurs by providing them better credit terms. Market growth entails, however, the risk of exposure to the debt overhang. Entrepreneurs have access to more capital than they really need, jeopardizing the viability of their business units and, above all, the welfare of their families. As a socially responsible entity, Mibanco continuously monitors its clients as they develop and increase their borrowing and investment power, emphasizing the responsible management of their business that will result in improvements in their quality of life. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES “Our commitment on social inclusion has turned us into the leaders of financial penetration in the microbusiness segment, having incorporated 18.4% of all people who were first given access to micro credit. Similarly, the success of our business model has made institutions increasingly interested in meeting the financial needs of micro and small business entrepreneurs. With over 442,821 clients, Mibanco is today the financial institution with the greatest number of microloans”. Oscar Rivera Chairman of the Board (DMA). For 13 years we have brought banking closer to micro and small businesses entrepreneurs, through business consultants especially trained to accompany our clients on their path to development and growth. This approach has enabled us to identify their needs and design a variety of products and services Agustín Capuñay Flores y Lidia Sotelo Ávalos. Business: Confectionery. Office: Chincha. 75 tailored to meet their financing requirements. Mibanco is also committed to providing financial access in areas that are traditionally characterized as remote, low population density and / or low income. This commitment is reflected in the bank’s presence in regions of low population density, such as Tumbes, Tacna and Moquegua, where Mibanco operates 29, 62 and 28 access points, respectively. PERU: DEPARTMENTS BY POPULATION, 2007 (thousands of inhabitants) Lima 8,445.2 Piura 1,676.3 La Libertad 1,617.1 Cajamarca 1,387.8 Puno 1,268.4 Junín 1,232.6 Cusco 1,171.4 Arequipa 1,152.3 Lambayeque 1,112.9 Áncash 1,063.5 Tacna 288.8 Pasco 280.4 Tumbes 200.3 Moquegua 161.5 Madre de Dios 109.6 Source: INEI – 2007 National Surveys: 11th Population Survey and 6th Housing Survey. n More populated n Less populated 76 Annual Report 2011 We are also present in the poorest regions of the country, including Ayacucho, where we operate 41 access points, and Puno and Loreto, with 81 and 80 access points, respectively. PErU: Departments by poverty rate, 2009 GROUP 1 Huancavelica 77.2% Apurímac 70.3% Huánuco 64.5% GROUP 2 Ayacucho 62.6% Puno 60.8% tumbes Amazonas 59.8% loreto piura amazonas Loreto 56.0% GROUP 3 Cajamarca 56.0% cajamarca lambayeque Pasco 55.4% san martín Cusco 51.1% la libertad San Martín 44.1% Piura 39.6% áncash Huánuco GROUP 4 La Libertad 38.9% ucayali pasco Junín 34.3% Lambayeque 31.8% junín lima madre de dios Áncash 31.5% Ucayali 29.7% Huancavelica cusco Tumbes 22.1% Apurímac ica ayacucho Arequipa 21.0% puno GROUP 5 Moquegua 19.3% arequipa Tacna 17.5% Lima 1/ 15.3% moquegua Ica 13.7% tacna Madre de Dios 12.7% INCIDENCIA (%) n Group 1 (77.2) n Group2 (60.0 70.3) n Group 3 (49.8 59.9) n Group 4 (30.0 49.7) n Group 5 (12.7 29.9) 1/ Includes Callao Source: National Annual Household Survey 2009, Instituto Nacional de Estadística e Informática National Institute of Statistics and Information Technology (INEI) 77 The table below shows Mibanco’s national presence and its service channels by region. Branches Mibanco BBVA Banco de la INTERBANK Banco de la Kasnet Multifácil Prosegur Total ATM ATM Nación ATM ATM Nación branchless Hermes MULTIBANK CUsTOMER BANKING BANKING SERVICE POINT Lima 58 50 622 281 1,103 91 339 51 7 2,602 Amazonas 12 1 13 Áncash 2 1 15 29 24 33 8 3 115 Apurímac 3 11 14 Arequipa 7 6 48 21 70 24 67 243 Ayacucho 1 1 1 10 9 16 3 41 Cajamarca 2 11 25 13 30 13 94 Cusco 4 2 22 36 68 21 34 187 Huancavelica 1 1 11 13 Huánuco 1 6 15 2 14 3 41 Ica 4 1 26 22 62 7 34 156 Junín 7 6 20 29 32 20 65 4 183 La Libertad 8 3 48 38 88 28 37 1 251 Lambayeque 4 3 28 36 55 25 27 1 179 Loreto 1 1 16 19 29 13 1 80 Madre de Dios 1 1 6 5 4 4 21 Moquegua 1 1 3 7 5 6 5 28 Pasco 1 11 7 19 Piura 5 2 31 22 78 33 15 186 Puno 3 1 6 14 18 22 17 81 San Martín 3 2 9 24 7 15 29 89 Tacna 3 3 11 9 20 7 9 62 Tumbes 1 1 8 8 5 4 2 29 Ucayali 1 1 14 8 13 6 43 Total 117 86 946 659 1,711 464 719 58 10 4,770 Likewise, the number of access points increased, compared to 2010. Agencias Mibanco ATM BBVA ATM BN ATM Interbank ATM Kasnet Multifácil Prosegur branchless Hermes MULTIBAK BANKING 2010 109 71 793 340 57 7 2011 117 86 1,012 659 1711 719 58 10 78 Annual Report 2011 Herminio Huamaní Solier. Business: Green grocer. Office: Gamarra. 79 Mibanco’s efforts to promote access to credit are characteSignificantly, this product enables the bank to reach georized by simple mechanisms to ensure an easy and transparent graphic areas with populations in extreme poverty who may process. The work of loan officers is essential for this. Their also face language barriers (i.e. speaking languages or diaefficient work and thorough client and context assessment lects other than Spanish as their mother tongue). On this allow the bank to give loans with only minimal requirements. last point it should be noted that the work of Quechua and Each Mibanco product is designed to meet the needs of Aymara-speaking loan officers, as well as others with working the target public and responds to ethical and sustainability knowledge of Amazonian languages, is invaluable to the bank. conditions. Rural credit is an example, with a loan portfolio In this aspect, as of December 2011 more than 3000 clients now exceeding S/. 145 million, and 95,000 active borrowers. facing language barriers had access to credit, a result of which Over 80% of these loans are members of solidarity groups and we are proud as it is clearly aligned with our social mission. less than 20% are individual loans. Policies with specific environmental and social aspects applied to business lines Business Line politicies Superintendent’s Office number of of Banking, Insurance Products* and Pension Funds (SBS) customers* SOCIAL Environmental Working Capital Loans 40,407 · Innovative and flexible products As lending policy, Loans on Personal Property 17,824 aimed at financing profitable we have credit SMALL ENTERPRISE Loans on Real Property 13,659 businesses that will regulations aimed 99,175 enable entrepreneurs to generate at environmental Credit Line 22,541 enough revenues to repay loans care and protection of Rural Loan 1,666 and improve their living our clients’health. standards as well as those They include Other Products 3,078 of their families.” financial restrictions Working Capital Loans 167,758 · Products that will allow access to on activities loans without sureties or guarantees that damage or destroy Loans on Personal Property 23,332 · Especially aimed at small and ecosystems, Loans on Real Property 18,360 microbusiness’entrepreneurs. production and/ MICROENTERPRISE · System based on people’s selfor trading of 325,804 Credit Line 19,222 confidence and potential. substances that Rural Loan 93,789 · System through which deteriorate the clients are approached ozone layer and Other Products 3,343 to make financial transactions through which are subject more than 1,500 loan officers. to gradual Housing Loans 8,969 elimination or · Insurance offer to cover loan holder in OTHER Personal Loans 27,434 the event of spouse’s death, coverage international 44,190 for accidental death and/or sudden limitations, among Credit Cards 6,172 bereavement, etc. others. Other Products 1,615 TOTAL clients 469,169 (*) Customers with more than one type of product are counted for multiple products. 80 Annual Report 2011 Mibanco’s business is to serve the microenterprise segment. Loans system To do so, we permanently develop financial products and services Mibanco facilitates its customers’ quick and easy access to that are subject to regular evaluation, and constantly introduce credit. Our staff members are ready to give, through efficient innovative technologies that place us at the forefront of our work during all stages of the process, fast, easy, and transparent industry, allow us to meet ever-higher standards, and ensure loans with the least possible amount of requirements. safety requirements to protect our institution and customers. We enforce procedures to certify the quality of our products Business and services, governed by procedure No. 486 of our internal At Mibanco we have scrutinized and evaluated in depth the parregulatory system, which describes a documenting-driven ticular financial requirements of SME entrepreneurs. As a result, methodology designed by and for Mibanco, according to our we have developed optimal products for our target group and organization’s specific characteristics. In this way, Mibanco strives structure them in the most convenient way: a) Working capital, to verify compliance with the specifications and requirements of short-term loans in various ways to finance stocks, production a given product or service, in order to increase confidence in the and services; b) working capital, to facilitate transactions and products and reduce the business process risks they may entail. provide immediate access to cash through a Visa card; and The following table shows the stages of the design and c) rural credits, individual or solidarity group, for merchants, implementation of new products and services. manufacturers and service providers in remote areas of Peru. Meanwhile, Miequipo and Leasing are products to finance investments in movable assets. Implementation stages of products and services Commercial premises Through Milocal we grant loans with or without a mortgage YEs No Comments collateral to improve, expand, build and/or refurbish commercial Product concept development 3 facilities, as well as for the purchase of new business premises, R&D 3 Certification 3 which are some of our clients’ main needs. Development and launching 3 In the same vein, we offer SME entrepreneurs the possibility Marketing and advertising 3 to group into trade associations to build shopping malls and Storage, distribution and supply Only applicable 3 for distribution markets, enabling our clients to increase the value of their After-sale service 3 properties, and get better infrastructure and services. Elimination, reusing or recycling 3 Non applicable This, in turn, creates the opportunity for low-resource citizens to access jobs. Housing Micasa is a product designed to provide funding to improve the homes of our customers. It is a credit that finances 100% of 81 the cost of expansion, construction, improvement or renovation of pendent customers who conduct daily business transactions, housing, including all building materials and workmanship, without and the Full Savings Account, which pays one of the best interest requiring the customer to provide collateral or guarantees of any rates (3.25% annual effective rate in domestic currency) and sort. To date we have awarded over 170,000 loans, thus helping targets both independent and dependent customers who want more families to improve their homes, or to access decent housing. to save without the rigidity of a fixed deposit. These accounts In addition, the Habilitación product helps customers grouallow for orderly and efficient money management,through a ped in neighborhood associations to improve their surroundings. variety of service channels. By funding electrification, water, drainage, roads and sidewalks We also provide fixed deposits and Severance Pay Accouprojects we fulfill the goals we set for ourselves when we launnts (CTS is the Spanish acronym) that are excellent options to ched this product, i.e. to help our customers live in a healthy increase the value of money, and which are, in fact, the more and safe environment with all the basic services. profitable alternatives offered by A and A+ rated banks. In 2011 we developed 21 projects with commercial associaWe are presently designing and evaluating products and tions, serving more than 551 customers for over S/. 44 million. services aimed at environmental care and protection. As part of our commitment, we support our customers through helping them to complete their projects by providing legal, Channels and services administrative, and financial support. Mibanco constantly seeks to offer more service channels to entrepreneurs of SMEs and other customers to provide a comPersonal needs prehensive financial intermediation service through multiple Aware of the importance of offering our customers credits for alternatives such as cashier checks, payment and receipt of purchasing products and services necessary for everyday life, foreign remittances, interbank transfers and international mowe also offer personal loans clients may use freely. ney wires via Swift, foreign currency trading at preferential The Mibanco Visa credit card, designed for SME entrepreconditions for our customers, automatic charges to pay loans neurs, not only provides great benefits to its users, but it also and insurance, utility payments and domestic money transfers. educates them in the responsible and safe management of The constant search for new channels and services is based their consumer purchases. on our desire to make Peruvians increasingly familiar with the financial system and its advantages. Savings Mibanco has prepared insurance plans tailored to the needs Mibanco focuses its efforts primarily on its target segment, proof its customers, which are accessible to a greater number of viding the best savings and time deposits options, but always people and are linked to loans. Additionally, there are also optioseeking products that appeal to the general public. nal insurance plans that can be purchased at network branches In turn, we supplement our savings offer with two new plans; nationwide. Insurance is designed and managed based on the the Business Account, a no cost transactional account for indefollowing social criteria. 82 Annual Report 2011 • Depending on the amount borrowed, debtor’s life insurance covers the initial loan amount or the unpaid balance in case of death, total and permanent disability, family emergencies, severe burns and hospitalization due to severe accidents suffered by the loan holder. • Spouse life insurance covers loan holders in the event of death of a spouse. This insurance is vital for SME clients since in most cases both spouses work together and the possible absence of one of them could have an adverse impact on the business, on the client’s ability to meet commitments to the bank, and on the family’s well being. • Accident insurance, meanwhile, offers Mibanco customers Solidarity loan group at Los Rosales. Office: Chincha. accidental death and suddenly family catastrophe coverage for a small fee. This product is provided in four plan presenThey fit the budget of most Low cost users and generate profitability to tations to suit each customer’s ability to pay. enable business sustainability.” • Multi-risk insurance is a product already known in the finanBenefits and characteristics cial market that aims to protect borrowers against possible Limited scope coverage easy to understand floods, fires and earthquakes, preventing them from falling into insolvency should those events occur. They create trust within the segment Minimum exclusions that traditionally distrusts “small print”. • Mandatory traffic accident insurance SOAT15 covers death and injury risks of both occupants of a vehicle and pedesSimple affiliation In line with nature of insurance trians involved in traffic accidents. process and bank transactions • Burial insurance offers compensation to assure dignified Beneficiaries are not affected by funeral services. Simple Benefit high time and money costs, thus • Card protection insurance, for both Mibanco and other Collection Process strengthening their trust in insurance products as protection tools. banks’ cards, allows clients to use their cards with confidence under several different protection plans. • Business protection insurance protects the clients’ goods, equipment and machines. 15. Mandatory traffic accident insurance. 83 Jose Luis Da Fieno Gandolfo. Business: Artichoke grower. Office: Tarma. In 2011 Mibanco continued to strengthen its position as an respectively. institution dedicated to providing insurance for microenterprises. Also, 435,531 customers with valid credits are covered by credit More than 235,000 voluntary insurance policies were placed. life insurance and multi-risk insurance. It should be noted that in Sales 2011 Mibanco addressed 126 claims through its multi-risk insuranType of insurance 2010 2011 ce, for the benefit of 574 customers and paid out S/. 9,961,709, in Accident insurance 171,254 73,880 compensation, more than double the amount paid for this item a Funeral Insurance 21,565 72,517 year before year, confirming the usefulness of this product, which Debtor’s Spouse Life Insurance 72,398 49,036 is available only to Mibanco loan holding clients. SOAT (Mandatory Traffic Accident Insurance) 25,633 33,281 Card protection 922 6,350 Quality management and innovation Business protection 4211 Mibanco believes quality is one of the strategic pillars for business Total 291,772 235,485 competitiveness, leadership and strength. Our management is guided by Mibanco’s Quality Management Model that proposes Of these, 49,036 (20%) were insurance policies for survian organizational culture based on excellence driven management ving spouses while accident insurance and funeral insurance that permanently aims at exceeding our own standards and meesales reached 73,880 policies (31%) and 72.517 policies (31%), ting the rising expectations of our internal and external customers. 84 Annual Report 2011 Excellence in service and conduct biennial research that includes a qualitative focus Customer satisfaction is part of our corporate philosophy group stage. With this study we obtain valuable information and is present in all of our organization’s activities, from the to define hypotheses about the most valued attributes of our commitment and ongoing training of our employees, to the services, which are in turn further tested, through telephone modernization of equipment and facilities, to adopting new interviews with a representative sample of customers during services, products and channels to achieve greater flexibility. the quantitative stage. In order to exceed the expectations of our customers and keep The service quality components that the bank uses to conour business growing, we have developed a model of excellence in tinually improve the services it provides through its diverse service management that starts with our learning about micro and customer service channels are: small businesses, and which through care, satisfaction and loyalty Agility: time required to perform procedures or operations. building allows us to increase revenue margins, all the while erecting Kindness: warm customer service, as well as a willingness barriers that protect us from competition. Also, Mibanco ensures and interest to serve. proper customer orientation, which impacts their development. Advice: provided by staff to help clients make the best We permanently monitor the work of our internal customers possible choice of products and / or services. and the service provided by our employees to our external Honoring: offers made by the bank. clients to gather views that help us improve our performance. Mibanco service quality indicators Additionally, the bank monitors the quality of service proAt Mibanco we constantly strive to meet the service expectavided by employees of the branch network to our external tions of customers from each of our defined market segments, customers through the Quality Service Index, which is measured Annual evolution of quality indicators Indicator 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Customer satisfaction (35) 77% 76.50% 89% 94% 87%* 87% Standard compliance (36) 57% 70.00% 90% 94% 91%* 93% Service quality index (37) 67% 73% 90% 94% 89%* 90% Multibank mystery client (38) 60% 67.20% 73% 74% 75% Customer satisfaction Correspondent agent (39) 79% 78% Customer satisfaction Mibanco ATM (40) 73% 77% Customer satisfaction Homebanking (41) 74% 75% General satisfaction with Mibanco (42) 90% 91% (35)/(36) Source: Grupo Macro New measurement methodology and variables incorporated in 2010. (37) Fuente: Grupo Macro Average of indicators 35 and 36 about service provided by branch employees. (38) Source: Ipsos Apoyo Variables related to teller service and customer care. (39)/(40)/(41)/(42) Source: Grupo Macro. Indicators were incorporated in 2010. 85 in a continuous, personal manner through surveys carried out in (Let’s Innovate: Passion and Action for Inclusion), a program that person and over the telephone. aims to incorporate abilities to systematize innovation processes Every month we also monitor our clients’ satisfaction with into the different companies within the group. Mibanco, and every sixth months we gauge their satisfaction For Mibanco, the role of innovation systematically focuses on with the main alternative service channels. creating new products, services and channels that impact on the These regular checks as well as the website, the branch netinclusion and growth of micro and small enterprise entrepreneurs work and telephone banking are important means of collecting and their environments (family and community), enabling the the opinions of customers. With this information it is possible to bank to position itself as a leader in creating solutions for Peru and introduce quick improvements. to have an impact on the triple bottom line (economic, social and It is important to mention that in line with the dynamic model environmental) in a manner that is both relevant and sustainable. and ongoing efforts to update our value proposition according to the needs, expectations and aspirations of our customers, we Customer protection and information transparency constantly review the elements of the survey to raise the hurdle Mibanco’s approach to customer protection consists of establiseven higher. hing and consolidating banking relationships based on trust and ethical and transparent management. We provide clear, Continuous improvement management truthful and accurate information, thus providing a guarantee Our clear focus on our target segment and its satisfaction has of our operations. led us to commit ourselves to excellent service within a program It is important to note that Mibanco discourages excess debt of ongoing innovation and continuous improvement of our and does not provide clients with misleading or difficult-toproducts and processes. To achieve this, we rely on the opinions understand product information. of our customers and the ongoing measurement of the bank’s The Code of Ethics, based on our Corporate Governance system, processes, always framed in the Quality Indicator Model underway. includes clauses and principles that ensure that the work of the This model allows us to manage our goals in order to meet the organization’s employees is aligned with the interests of custoexpectations of our internal and external customers and target mers. Thus, we offer financial products and services appropriate improvement efforts in four areas: service, time, accuracy and to their needs and their socioeconomic status. We also develop efficiency, cutting across both business processes and internal new financial products and services in response to our customers’ support processes. feedback and, if necessary, modify products’ characteristics in The continuous improvement projects rely on the participaorder to better adapt them to our clients’ requirements. tion of various areas, and the progress and results are presented In order to help customers and users make informed and periodically to the Quality Committee. responsible decisions when choosing an operation with Mibanco, we apply the principle of information transparency and consumer Innovation protection through: Together with other companies in Grupo ACP, in 2011 Mibanco • Ongoing information dissemination through various launched the project Innovamos: Pasíon y Acción para la inclusion channels, such as website, telephone banking and branches 86 Annual Report 2011 nationwide, on interest rates, fees and conditions of products We also abide by the Code of Advertising Standards and are and services, in simple language and clearly legible font size. affiliated with the National Self-Regulation Council (CONAR), an • An efficient and automated system to respond to requests organization that oversees the application of the basic principles and complaints at branches, allowing timely response to inof advertising such as legality, decency, truthfulness and loyalty quiries, questions, complaints and requests from customers for the benefit of consumers and fair market competition. and users. Similarly, we abide by the laws regulating the communication • Product and service contracts drafted in simple and and advertising of products (loans, deposits, insurance) and understandable language, with a clearly readable font size. financial services. • A permanent training program for customer service staff, 1. Consumer Protection and Defense Code (Law No. 29571). enabling them to offer the bank’s products and services in a 2. Repression of Unfair Competition Law (Legislative Decree clear and transparent manner. No. 1044). • A Customer Protection unit that ensures appropriate 3. Complementary Law to the Law of Consumer Protection enforcement of product and service rules and regulations to in Financial Services (Law No. 28587). guarantee legitimacy for the client and the bank’s business. 4. Information transparency regulations and provisions appli• A monitoring and control system to verify, assess, strencable to contracts with users of the financial system (SBS gthen and improve the various tools needed to provide the Resolution No. 1765-2005). information customers need. 5. Regulation on trade promotions and commercial raffles • A range of products and services clearly adapted to (Supreme Decree No. 006-2000-INT). existing internal regulations (definition, conditions, features, parameters, etc.) as well as the responsibilities applicable to At Mibanco we make sure the design of releases or advertieach of the areas or actors involved in the sale and after sale sements comply with the provisions and scope of such codes process of each product or service offered. and standards. Because of the nature of our financial business, no cases of Because of the nature of Mibanco clients (individuals and failure to comply with mandatory or voluntary customer health microenterprise owners), all the products (loans, deposits and or safety regulations and codes have occurred. insurance) and financial services the bank offers are protected In 2011 Mibanco paid S/.59,485.8 in fines for consumer proby adequate security. Customer signatures are registered on IT tection issues. This amount is linked to four cases that were filed media, secret passwords secure transactions, cash withdrawals in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Mibanco also received two warnings or at ATMs are subject to daily limits, and identification procedures non-monetary sanctions. are required for large withdrawals, among others. In the same period, Mibanco did not receive any complaints We strictly enforce transparency of information, customer relating to breaches of the rules on the provision and use of its service and consumer protection policies and regulations, and products and services. Additionally, we should note that Mibanco adapt our internal processes to those standards. Furthermore, we received 84 complaints related to consumer protection, of which apply the best practices of the financial system in these respects. 38 were declared inadmissible or waived, and 46 are still pending. 87 No administrative and/or civil incidents and/or complaints offer several options for payment of loans and other accountwere filed for failure to comply with regulations and voluntary related transactions. codes related to information and labeling of products and serMibanco also serves its clients through more than 50 Mulvices, nor were there any incidents related to non-compliance tifácil Hermes offices and 10 Prosegur Multiagencias, thanks with regulations and voluntary codes that resulted in reprimands to agreements with both companies. These centers allow fior warnings. nancial transactions such as the payment of loans and queries, We should note that in 2011 we did not pay any fines for among others, for longer weekday hours than agencies, and breach of laws and regulations nor were any non-monetary on weekends. sanctions imposed against Mibanco. One complaint was filed in Following our strategy of expanding service channel co2011, concerning the breach of laws and regulations, for which verage and providing greater access to the financial system to a final court decision is still pending. more Peruvians, Mibanco has signed agreements with two of No incidents have been reported and / or allegations made the country’s largest networks of automated teller machines of acts related to monopolistic practices or actions against free (ATM), adding to the existing network of BBVA Continental and competition, nor has the bank been fined or sanctioned for Mibanco ATMs for a total number of 3,400 ATMs nationwide. failure to comply with any related regulations. In July 2011, Mibanco signed an agreement with Banco de The Bank has not been sanctioned or fined for breach of la Nacion to give its clients access to 700 Multired automated environmental regulations. tellers, almost 80% of which are located in cities in the interior It should be added, finally, that Mibanco adopts no stance regions of the country and many of which are located in very on public policy nor does it get involved in the development of remote areas where they are often the only way local residents such policies or lobbying activities. It does not provide financial can carry out financial system transactions. or in-kind contributions to political parties or related institutions, Furthermore, since last December an agreement with Inas previously mentioned. terbank will allow customers to conduct their operations with Mibanco through over 1,660 GlobalNet ATMs, mostly located BRANCH NETWORK in public places and Interbank offices in supermarkets, gas Mibanco seeks to increasingly serve SME entrepreneurs, for stations, pharmacies and other commercial premises across the which it currently operates a total of 117 branches across the nation. Also, starting in 2012, this agreement will allow Mibanco country, 58 in Lima and 59 in other cities. Our branch network customers to conduct their transactions through a network provides customers with safe, effective alternatives for their of more than 2,200 Interbank correspondent banking agents. savings, deposits, surplus and borrowing needs. In addition, Thanks to these two agreements, Mibanco can now serve its on certain dates some branches are open on extended hours, customers through one of the largest and most comprehensive and on weekends. ATM networks to provide safe, simple and timely service. These Additionally, in 2011 the bank significantly increased its ATMs are located at the offices of some of the largest banks and correspondent banking agents, to over 700 nationwide, a 110% in public places outside bank branches in all major cities, and increase compared to 2010. Expanding coverage allows us to even in remote areas, of Peru. 88 Staff. Office: Pisco. Thus, Mibanco gets closer to its customers throughout advisory support of a leading global consultant group, included Peru, creating access points near to them, with an ongoing 41 audit activities to assess 22 critical and non-critical processes commitment to meet their needs. in 2011. At the general level we obtained a productivity rate of 113% compared to the number of planned activities. OUR CONTROL MECHANISMS Also, in 2011 we increased the hours of training for the audit staff on specialized topics, to ensure the quality and efficiency a. Audits of processes evaluations. In order to strengthen the validation process on good instiThe following table shows activities in the core, operational tutional behavior, the Internal Audit Unit has adopted a new and administrative processes of branches and systems. risk-based audit methodology. This audit, which enjoyed the 2009 2010 2011 Number of activities 63 79 71 Central processes Man-hours 6,304 6,720 6,480 % participation in hours 41% 36% 36% Number of activities 85 88 99 Operating and administrative processes in agencies Man-hours 7,243 8,640 7,568 % participation in hours 47% 46% 42% Number of activities 12 13 14 System processes Man-hours 1,970 3,360 3,984 % participation in hours 13% 18% 22% Number of activities 160 180 184 Total Man-hours 15,517 18,720 18,032 % participation in hours 100% 100% 100% 90 Annual Report 2011 Evolution of Internal Audit Activities Additionally, Management and Monitoring annually reviews a sample of loans disbursed by the branches, to assure they comply with environmental and social standards and client evaluation 99 guidelines. 85 88 n 2008 79 n 2009 The table below details the number of branches visited and 71 n 2010 reviewed in 2010 and 2011. 63 2010 2011 • Total branches visited 60 83 • Coverage 0.55 0.72 12 13 14 *Coverage calculated based on 109 branches in 2010, 117 in 2011. Central processes Operating and System processes administrative processes in branches Environmental and social controls are part of the Bank’s risk analysis, monitoring of regulatory compliance and assessment Evolution of Internal Audit Man-hours of loan portfolio quality. Not only loan advisors, but also branch managers, regional managers, credit managers and zonal credit heads evaluate and control environmental risk in all business 1,970 n 2009 lines. This evaluation takes into account regulations governing System n 2010 processes 3,360 loan awards, as well as the Bank’s policy manual. n 2011 3,984 7,243 b. Fraud prevention Operating and administrative processes in 8,640 When questionable events occur that require some type of branches 7,568 intervention, they must be quickly reported to ensure timely investigation of illegal or fraudulent activities identified by 6,304 Central 6,720 employees or any other person. Meanwhile, mechanisms are processes 6,480 in place to ensure the anonymity of the whistleblower and the contents of the complaint. The most sensitive issues are addressed by the Bank following the Code of Conduct and Ethics, Internal Policies, Internal Regulations and the Money Laundering Manual. Appropriate decisions are made on this basis. At present, all manuals are available in print and on the Bank’s intranet. Fully automated claims handling processes enable a smooth flow of information. No incidents have occurred regarding breach of conduct laws or regulatory codes. 91 OUR WORKERS Employees by type of employment “Our employees are the core component of the development Type of contract Number of employees and optimal functioning of our organization. Day by day, their 2011 2010 achievements and their progress remind us that the purpose full-time 3,528 3,469 of our business model is ultimately to serve entrepreneurs in part-time 16 79 emerging industries and contribute to improving their quality Total 3,544 3,548 of life.” Oscar Rivera Chairman of the Board (DMA). In 2011 the Human Resources Department designed and implemented action plans to strengthen the skills of all employee’s Type of contract with measures aligned with the bank’s business strategies and Mibanco promotes a long-term relationship with its employees social commitment. to generate mutual growth and benefit. All our employees sign a contract of employment, as required by Peruvian law. Demographics As of December 31, 2011, Mibanco employed 3,544 individuals, of which almost 90% work in core business areas and the rest Employees by type of contract in support areas. Type of contract Number of employees 2011 2010 Jobs by region and type Indefinite contract 2,445 2,407 The coastal band concentrates the largest portion of Peruvians Fixed-term contract 1,099 1,141 and consequently the most bank employees and branches. Total 3,544 3,548 Moreover, 1,979 of all employees work in the department of Lima and 1,565 in the other departments. Employees by type of contract and region RegiOn Indefinite Fixed-term Total contract contract Coast 1,901 813 2,714 Jungle 187 91 278 Highlands 357 195 552 Employees by geographical region Total 2,445 1,099 3,544 Region Number of employees Coast 2,714 Jungle 278 Gender and age Highlands 552 Mibanco respects and recognizes gender diversity as a way to Total 3,544 achieve corporate objectives. 92 Annual Report 2011 Employees by gender On average, our employees are 31 years old, while almost Gender Number of employees (%) 45% are under 30. Mibanco aims at providing employment 2011 2010 2011 2010 opportunities, especially for young professionals and technical Female 1,644 1,690 46.39% 47.63% graduates from Peruvian educational institutions. Male 1900 1,858 53.61% 52.37% Total 3,544 3,548 100.00 100.00 Employees by location Employees by age group Location Number of employees (%) Age Number of employees (%) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Lima 1,860 1,987 52.00 56.00 18 25 450 523 12.70 14.76 Other departments 1,684 1,561 48.00 44.00 26 30 1,144 1,269 32.28 35.81 Total 3,544 3,548 100.00 100.00 31 35 1,058 963 29.85 27.17 36 40 538 488 15.18 13.77 41 45 220 186 6.21 5.25 Employees by gender and geographic region Region Female Male Total More than 45 134 119 3.78 3.36 Total 3,544 3,548 100 100 Coast 1,287 1,427 2,714 Jungle 102 176 278 Highlands 255 297 552 Total 1,644 1,900 3,544 Employees by gender and age group Age 2011 2010 F M Total F M Total 18 25 274 176 450 345 178 523 26 30 634 510 1,144 681 588 1,269 31 35 473 585 1,058 428 535 963 36 40 184 354 538 160 328 488 41 45 48 172 220 45 141 186 More than 45 31 103 134 31 88 119 Total general 1,644 1,900 3,544 1,690 1,858 3,548 93 During 2011, Mibanco contributed to strengthening the Yearly comparison employees by region principles and values of gender diversity through projects Region 2011 2010 with institutions such as Women’s World Banking (WWB). It is Coast 2,714 2,673 worth mentioning that our employees value the effort of the Jungle 278 235 bank and other institutions to promote equal opportunities Highlands 552 640 for women and men. Total 3,544 3,548 Women filled 65% of management positions in 2011. The average time of service with the Bank is three years, reflecting our youth and growth in recent years. Moreover, 45% Gender diversity at mibanco of our employees have not yet reached two years’ seniority and by position type 76% are below five. Distribution by position type Female (%) Male (%) 2011 2010 2011 2010 Managers 35% 35% 65% 65% EMPLOYEES BY SENIORITY Heads of line 35% 35% 65% 65% Other agency positions 46% 47% 54% 53% Other staff positions 56% 56% 44% 44% year 2010 Seniority Number of employees (%) 0 2 years 1525 43% 2 5 years 1384 39% Employees by region and position type 5 10 years 497 14% Region Distribution by position type 10 years or longer 142 4% Manager Head Other Other Total Total 3,548 100% of staff network staff employees positions positions by region Coast 19 55 2,291 349 2,714 Jungle 278 278 YEAR 2011 Highlands 1 551 552 Seniority Number of employees (%) Total 20 55 3,120 349 3,544 0 2 years 1612 45% 2 5 years 1088 31% 5 10 years 692 20% 10 years or longer 152 4% Total 3,544 100% In 2011, 819 workers stopped working with Mibanco nationwide. Worker turn over* reached 23.16%. (*) N° dismissals-resignations / Total employees 94 Nathalie Díaz Frisancho, senior executive advisor. Office: Santa Clara. Annual turnover by gender Annual turnover by geographic region Gender Turnover Region Turnover 2011 2010 Coast 23.21% Men 23.87% 16.27% Jungle 20.18% Women 22.23% 19.05% Highlands 23.71% 95 Employee termination by age and region Region 18 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 41 45 More than 45 Total termination Coast 113 221 152 75 39 17 617 Jungle 6 16 9 12 2 1 46 Highlands 21 58 47 14 10 6 156 Total 140 295 208 101 51 24 819 Employee termination by region and gender Region Gender Total termination Female Male by gender Coast 275 342 617 Jungle 14 32 46 Highlands 76 80 156 Total 365 454 819 All workers are represented on the Health and Safety ComOur specialized selection process aims at recruiting individuals mittee, charged with coordinating and overseeing occupational who have the skills required for the position and the potential to health and safety. This team reports to the General Management, grow and pursue a career within the institution, and who show consists of three employee representatives and three members strong values, aligned with the bank’s culture. of management. The committee’s decisions impact headquarter Our priority is to fill vacancies internally and encourage the and branch office management. professional development of our employees. If this is not possiWe are convinced of the importance of being able to count ble, we try to provide jobs to local people in order to contribute on a staff of motivated employees, as they are the cornerstone for to regional development wherever we operate. Our selection the success of our organization and the fulfillment of our mission process is open to national and foreign candidates. and goals. Our human resources management aims at creating In 2011 we hired 790 new employees nationwide and proquality relations with and between employees and the company, moted 365. and providing equal opportunities and benefits for all. Mibanco workers are not organized in unions or similar associations, and Equal opportunities therefore do not engage in collective bargaining. However, we Mibanco enforces clear and ethical policies on equal rights and foster and channel permanent contact with our employees to opportunities for our employees, in the framework of national guarantee their equality and well being within our organization. and international law. These policies are contained in guidelines Selection and recruitment and provisions in force at the Bank, including Internal Working 96 Annual Report 2011 Rules, a Code of Conduct and Ethics, and a Recruitment and SeFace to face training is complemented by our e-learning lection Procedure. We firmly oppose all forms of discrimination platform to facilitate access to training courses and important and forced labor, and promote equal opportunities to create an information. adequate working environment. Training Programs Training for employees We have prepared training programs to enhance our employees’ Our various learning and skill building programs are intended to technical knowledge, organizational skills, and social-mission foster the personal and professional growth of our employees. abilities, according to our business model. To a large extent, these programs are prepared in house and are In 2011, the average training time was 67.11 hours per person. run by the academic directors who in some cases design them in This indicator includes the training hours of new recruits. coordination with support from renowned external consultancies. Training by position category Total traning hours Hours per capita Distribution by business categorY 2011 2010 2011 2010 F M Total F M Total F M Total F M Total Businesses (agencies) 79661 114439 194100 79710 105664 185373 76.82 84.71 81.28 77.84 87.47 83.05 Service banking (agencies) 16376 12866 29242 24600 16021 40621 35.45 54.52 41.89 55.03 73.16 60.99 Staff 6888 7603 14491 13615 12567 26182 46.86 24.45 31.64 62.17 29.16 40.28 Total traning hours 102,925 134,908 237,833 117,925 134,252 252,176 62.52 71.09 67.11 69.78 72.26 71.08 Training by position category Total traning hours Hours per capita Position category 2011 2010 2011 2010 F M Total F M Total F M Total F M Total Managers 247 606 853 1151 2137 3288 32.08 42.38 38.77 72 71.3 71.53 Heads of staff 1197 2543 3740 5840 11856 17696 59.74 66.99 64.48 57.25 66.98 63.43 Other agency positions 96037 127305 223342 87173 102334 189507 68.18 75.89 72.37 66.95 71.07 69.11 Other staff positions 5444 4454 9898 23761 17925 41686 25.91 26.53 26.19 88 84.95 86.62 Total traning hours 102,925 134,908 237,833 117,925 134,252 252,176 62.52 71.09 67.11 69.78 72.26 71.08 97 Updating Programs Leadership, Communication and Motivation program, targeting Mibanco’s updating programs inform and educate our emplo40 branch managers (30% of the total as of the end of 2011). yees about changes in policies, techniques and procedures at the bank. Organizational Development It is also important to note that all employees are regularly Mibanco underscores human capital development, based trained on Code of Ethics policies and national and international on a management philosophy of organizational social comlaw, such as rules and procedures regarding corruption, money mitment, which translates into opportunities for progress laundering and terrorist financing. and providing financial access to people often excluded from traditional financial services. Specialization Programs In that sense, from a social perspective our comprehensive Specialization programs are designed to strengthen and enhance training strategy allows our employees to understand the opthe professional and personal skills of our employees through portunities provided by Mibanco products, so they can see their courses in different technical areas. impact in the lives of our customers. Likewise, the employees Some of these programs are fully paid by the company; who work in rural areas are trained and sensitized on the imotherwise, Mibanco provides loans at reduced rates. portance of financial mainstreaming for their target audiences. We have also signed agreements with renowned educaThe bank also has processes in place for ongoing updating tional institutions to update and consolidate our employees’ of job descriptions and organizational structure. Changes in knowledge through professionalization and graduate studies positions and responsibilities respond to the need to fill vaat Esan, Centrum and Langrow schools (the latter specializing cancies due to internal turn over and/or organizational growth. in language training), aimed at improving their performance on All changes are communicated well in advance, with timing the job and their opportunities for professional advancement depending on the magnitude of the process, in order to ensure within the company. adequate adaptation of persons and the company. Furthermore, Mibanco grants study abroad leave, allowing Additionally, it is important to note that no collective bartime off for the duration of the studies. Mibanco preserves the gaining agreements have been negotiated in the organization. positions of students on leave until their return. The social commitment, reflected in the bank’s mission, In regards to skills, the Competencies Model was designed in the selection and hiring of new employees. In addition, we with the Hay Group consulting firm, as well as the initial workconduct a performance review once a year in order to identify shops for Bank leadership. the level of organizational competence of our employees and ensure that it is aligned with the goals, vision and mission of Leadership Programs the company. Based on this information we develop strategies To build stronger management and leadership skills, two proto create or strengthen certain abilities compatible with the grams were initiated with the Newfield consulting work: “Strenbank’s principles. gthening the Executive Team” and “Strengthening our Culture of In that sense, our social training program focuses on proviService and Innovation.” DHM Consultants also helped with the ding employees with the knowledge on the products Mibanco 98 Annual Report 2011 offers its customers so they can help to mainstream low-income Employees eligible to participate in the 2011 people into the financial system, thereby helping clients deveperformance evaluation lop and strengthen their business activities and improve their Detail 2011 2010 living conditions. Number of Mibanco employees 3,544 3,548 Similarly, the Business Management area constantly suNumber of employees eligible for pervises the branch network to identify opportunities for 2011 performance assessment 3,032 3,153 improvement in the performance, knowledge and skills of our The assessment for 2011 will be held in January next year. loan advisors. Once identified, this area, in coordination with Human Resources, schedules trainings throughout the year. Four levels of recognition New business personnel recruited for the branches are trained Category What does it recognize? through a tutorial where the most experienced loan officers are Migente Ejemplar Employees' model attitude, responsible for teaching new hires and answering their questions. (Model People) creativity and development of Finally, customer care personnel are trained for excellence innovative ideas in service, with an emphasis on their client counseling role and Migente Excelente Quality service performance and different ways of interacting with customers. This learning is (Excelent people) internalization of institutional essential, given the importance of financial penetration. We values must emphasize that the client-loan advisor relationship goes Migente Exigente Outstanding results in productivity far beyond selling. It involves not only making a loan, but also (Demanding people) ensuring the loan is well invested through proper client counMigente Exitosa Employees' high performance seling, even if that requires traveling to rural or distant areas. (Sucessful people) Performance management While our employees are evaluated starting on their first day of work, it is only from the sixth month on that they participate formally in performance evaluations. In 2011, 86% of employees were evaluated, compared to 89% in 2010. Migente Recognition Program This program aims to recognize and promote behavior reflecting Mibanco’s philosophy, with an emphasis on social impact. It is comprised of four categories. Employees or department heads may nominate an individual. In 2011, 1,548 employees were recognized, many of them as Exemplary Migente (My People). 99 Work climate Mibanco attaches great importance to creating a work environment that allows our employees to develop to their full potential. For this reason, we use the Great Place to Work tool for measuring work environment satisfaction throughout the organization. In 2011 we obtained a satisfaction score of 64%, the same rate as in 2010. The tool allows for the identification of aspects of their work that employees most value, as well as for areas in need of improvement. Subsequently, we develop action plans to improve the work environment. Adequate management, reflecting equal opportunities, benefits and development, as well as good interpersonal relationships between our employees and the company, are essential Juan Carlos Pachas Maldonado. Business: Apple grower. Office: Cañete. to fulfilling our mission and objectives. Having a motivated and committed team is vital to Mibanco. Internal communications Mibanco promotes internal communication as an effective tool to keep our employees involved and committed to the strategic objectives of the business, and to create in them a sense of belonging and identification with the culture and philosophy of the company, so that they become Mibanco’s main advocates. Level of satisfaction The internal communication service of the Human Resources division is responsible for managing communication through 64 64 appropriate means and especially focusing on internal customers who need to disseminate relevant facts from their areas to their colleagues, both at general and area-specific levels. This service also ensures that messages are uniform in form and content, and are consistent with the guidelines, culture and philosophy of the organization. It also sets the parameters for developing messages properly. 2010 2011 100 Annual Report 2011 At present, Mibanco operates the six following communications channels. Channel Communication Frequency Style AREA IN CHARGE DIRECTION Nuestras Voces Magazine Top-down biannual Written Internal communication Organizational Performance Newsletter Top-down quarterly Digital Internal communication and performance managment Comunicaciones Mibanco bidirectional Constant Digital-Suggestion box Internal communication Miportal Top-down Constant Digital-Intranet Internal communication Notirecursos Top-down monthly Digital-Newsletter for leaders Internal communication Correspondents bidirectional Constant spokesperson Internal communication In 2011 we used various channels and created several pro• Notirecursos, a monthly summary of activities provided ducts according to the communication needs of the bank. to employees, was created.,It is intended for staff leaders and • Two institutional magazines were distributed nationally serves as a tool to reinforce the benefits the organization offers (circulation per issue: 3,800 approx.). We also published three to its employees. newsletters on organizational performance through Mibanco Communications to inform employees about progress towards Health and benefits achieving the goals of the bank. Mibanco does not differentiate between workers based on type • By midyear, Mibanco Communications opened a suggestions of contract or work schedule. All workers enjoy the same benefits. box, and by the end of 2011 it had issued 829 communications Health insurance: For employees who choose to enroll and received 162 inquiries. in an EPS (health care provider), Mibanco will pay 80% of the • Miportal published the news summaries prepared by the premium and employees pay the remaining 20%​​. This option ACP Group to keep employees informed about national and provides comprehensive health service, accessible to all cominternational political, economic and market events, among pany workers. other news. Mandatory life insurance: Managers, heads, supervisors and branch leaders enjoy this benefit from the first day of work. 101 Holidays: 30 days of physical rest are scheduled with the direct head of the department. Employees Social Benefits Description partfulltime time Essalud: healthcare in public hospitals for insurees. EPS (health care Health Insurance 3 3 provider): private entity providing healthcare at clinics nationwide Required by law, this insurance protects against natural or accidental Vida ley (Life Law) 3 3 death of the holder. It is in force for the duration of the contract. Vacations 30-day physical rest required by law for each year of labor with a company 3 3 Bonuses Equal to one month’s salary, awarded in July and December. 3 3 Amount equivalent to 10% of the legal minimum wage. Family allowance Legal Employees with children under 18 years of age are eligible. 3 3 Seniority bonus / Unemployment precaution, equivalent to 50% of Severance pay (CTS) monthly salary, awarded in May and November. 3 3 Extra hours Payment for outstanding work done voluntarily or on overtime. 3 3 Employees in the private activity labor regime who Legal profits generate 3rd category income are entitled to 3 3 participation in company profits. Choice between Private Pension Fund (AFP) or Public System Superannuation scheme 3 3 (ONP). Contribution varies according to selected entity. Economic subsidy awarded to employee because of the Survivor benefits Voluntary death of a close relative (father, mother, child, spouse) 3 3 Payment awarded to employees at Christmas Christmas bonus 3 3 time. May be monetary or in kind. 102 Annual Report 2011 All Mibanco employees are covered by retirement plans. Health programs In order to protect the health of our employees and their families, we organize annual vaccination campaigns against YEAR 2011 YEAR 2010 hepatitis A and B, influenza, measles, rubella, chickenpox and 7% 6% pneumonia. Additionally, we organize courses, workshops and disease prevention programs to provide information on health protection topics. BENEFICIARIES OF HEALTH ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS 93% 94% Year 2010 Program Education / Consultancy / Prevention Treatment n aFP (Private Pension Fund Administration Companies) Beneficiaries training Risk control n ONP (Office of Pension Standardization ) Employees 3 3 3 3 Employee’s Maternity and paternity benefits families 3 3 3 3 In 2011, 269 employees had children (131 women and 138 men). Community members Of these, 131 women and 22 men used maternity / paternity leave. In 2012 Mibanco will strengthen its paternity leave registration system as several colleagues used their leaves without Year 2011 properly recording it. The right to paternity leave will be further Program Education / Consultancy / Prevention Treatment Beneficiaries training Risk control disseminated among employees, as well. At the end of their leaves, all workers returned to their Employees 3 3 3 3 jobs normally. Subsequently, 8 women and 15 men withdrew Employee’s voluntarily. All others, 123 men and 123 women, continued to families 3 3 3 3 work through December 2011. Community members 103 LinaYim Alvarado. Head, alternative channel manager. Annual Report 2011 The Misalud program, designed exclusively for Mibanco Compliance with minimum wage requirement by location workers, provides laboratory tests, X-rays and other services that allow for the early detection of disease or health risk factors. The Year 2010 results are delivered directly to each person. There have been no accidents or occupational diseases in the Location Mibanco minimum Legal minimum course of work activities, nor have there been fatalities. Moreover, wage (in %) wage (% ) Mibanco keeps a record of worker absences and leaves in 2011. Lima 127% 100% The absenteeism rate reached 3.65%. Other cities 127% 100% It should be noted that health programs further the Bank’s efforts towards having motivated employees, with full physical Year 2011 and mental abilities, for the better management of the company and welfare of their families. Location Mibanco minimum Legal minimum It is important to note that no health-related activities are wage (in %) wage (% ) planned for collective contracts since, as mentioned above, there Lima 100% 100% are no labor unions in Mibanco. Other cities 100% 100% Recreation and camaraderie We ensure that pay structures are within the national market We consider it important to provide opportunities for inteaverage, seeking to achieve internal equity and external wage raction and sharing with workers’ families, reflecting our insticompetitiveness. Thus, wages are determined by individual contutional spirit. tribution and responsibilities. Gender, age and cultural or ethnic To do this, we organize annual sports tournaments in Lima origin in no way define pay scales. and interior regions of the country and summer holiday programs for our employees’ younger children. “My parents in Mibanco” is another popular event where children visit their parents’ work place and spend time with them and the visit’s organizers. “Celebration of children,” meanwhile, has already become a Christmas tradition that gathers a large number of our employees’ children. Planning and compensation Mibanco is a potential source of employment in all areas where it operates. The position with the lowest salary in the company earns the minimum living wage established by law (S/. 675.00). Currently, 1.12% of all employees earn that income. 105 OUR SUPPLIERS Suppliers’ coverage All Mibanco suppliers and contractors are subject to the regu78% n 2010 69% lations of the competent authorities on occupational safety, n 2011 health and environmental protection regulations in force. In assessing the supplier and / or contractor no specific human rights criteria are taken into consideration. However, because 21% we deal with formal enterprises recognized for their social per12% 10% 10% formance, we can avoid all forms of discrimination, child labor and other practices that violate human rights. Lima region Regions other than All regions Since 2011, the contracts between Mibanco and its suppliers Lima and contractors include clauses that commit them to respecting the rights of their workers and not engaging in activities • The result is that 69% of purchases are made to suppliers involving child labor. in the Lima region and 31% to suppliers from other regions, including those providing nationwide coverage. Coverage of our suppliers: • Definition of the term “local”: each region where a Mibanco branch operates nationwide. • Mibanco hires suppliers that operate nationwide in order Purchase distribution to reduce operating costs and support the economies of 2% 29% the regions where its branches operate. Note: main providers defined based on annual billing above S/. 100,000. • In 2011, all bank suppliers were local, as follows: 69% in the Lima region (12% less than one year earlier), 10% in other regions except Lima (percentage equal to that of the previous year) and 21% with nationwide coverage (9% more than the previous year). 69% n Only Lima n Regions other than Lima n All regions 106 Annual Report 2011 In the coming year we will continue working to improve Note that as part of these contributions, furniture and computer processes and perform actions in this regard as these efforts equipment were donated to Fe y Alegria schools in Lima and to contribute to the Bank’s corporate objectives. the community of San José de Media Luna and Cuncani primary school in Urubamba, Cusco. Mibanco invested US$ 1,000,000 in training programs for the Asociándome para Crecer and Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad COMMUNITY OUTREACH Empresarial de la Mujer programs in Peru, aimed at getting more In 2011 as in previous years, Mibanco allocated S/.58,640 to micro and small business entrepreneurs to identify elements work on sewerage works in Barranca police station and the that will enable them to improve their management skills and association Las Siervas de Nuestra Señora de Fátima. thus grow their business. We also contributed more than S/. 32,000 to institutions Next year, Mibanco plans to honor its commitment to conthat provide social support, cultural events, and engage in the tinue contributing to our communities, especially as related to promotion and dissemination of activities for social purposes. the financial education of our customers. Institution / Program 2009 2010 2011 S/. S/. S/. Cost-free training program for clients 2’878,322 2’913,098* 2’798,000 Social support in the community (Villa María del Triunfo, Nueva Esperanza, Barranca and the Association Las Siervas de Nuestra Señora de Fátima). 20,309 17,954 58,640 Donations to reconstruct after natural disasters in Haití, Cuzco and Ambo. 56,105 Donations to social and cultural events Instituto Invertir (Invest Institute), Muhammad Yunus lecture, 2006 Nobel Peace Prize, Amigos de la Policía (Friends of the Police), Ayuda es Vivir, (Living is Helping), Evento Candela Fuerza y Pasión (Strength and Passion Candela Event), Nuevos Héroes Peruanos (New Peruvian Heros). 28,769 176,572 29,232 Promotion and dissemination of information on social activities 3,125 Total 2’927,400 3’163,729 2’888,997 *Replaces 2011 figure (2,800,000), adjustment reported by Accounting area. 107 Interaction with business partners has allowed for the inHUMAN RIGHTS corporation of policies to mitigate the environmental and social risk in financing arrangements. These include excluded We are convinced that respect for human rights, a proactive activities that affect the environment, violate human rights or relationship with customers and suppliers, and commitment to involve the relocation of native or indigenous communities out investing in human resources helps us strengthen the company’s of their usual environment. competitiveness. In 2011, Mibanco received three credits from multilateral Mibanco thus allocates a certain number of hours to traiagencies to provide loans to entrepreneurs from small and micro ning on issues related to human rights and the fundamental enterprises. These loans came from the International Finance elements of our social commitment and mission. In this regard, Corporation (IFC), the Inter-American Investment Corporation in 2011, a total of 3,544 workers received 23,833 hours of tra(IIC) and the Microfinance Enhancement Facility (MEF), a fund ining (an average of 67.11 hours per employee). Of that total, specializing in microfinance, whose shareholders include IFC 43% corresponds to training programs aimed at improving the and KFW. skills of loan advisors and intergrating Mibanco’s mission, i.e. These credit lines, as all lines of credit received by Mibanputting into practice the workers’ social commitment to create co, aim at strengthening and promoting entrepreneurship in greater identification with and understanding of Mibanco’s Peru and creating a positive impact on local economies. The target audience. organization seeks thereby to expand the supply of credit to In 2011 Mibanco’s Security Department – in charge of coorunderserved and excluded markets, so that they can contribute dinating with specialized companies for the monitoring of order to financial democracy in the country. and security at headquarters and all branches, as well as the Additionally, although access to credit is an opportunity safety of employees, customers and other visitors – encourato promote the sustainable development of our clients, we ged specialized companies, responsible for providing security believe that this should be accompanied by non-financial serservices, to include training courses, lectures and workshops vices that contribute to the sustainable management of their on human rights issues for their personnel. businesses. Therefore, we organize training programs as part Mibanco does not engage in any activities connected to of our borrowing guidelines. child exploitation. Our hiring policies are contained in our On the other hand, Mibanco continues to honor its cominternal standards and framed by international standards to mitment to invest U.S.$7,435,000 to develop a training program foster employment, labor education and training, as well as by designed for women micro and small business owners to help international guidelines, such as ILO’s covenants 138 and 182. them succeed in their businesses. This agreement, signed in 2009 All our workers are of legal age (18 years old). by the Australian Agency for International Development (AuIn addition, Mibanco includes specific clauses in its contracts sAID), the Multilateral Investment Fund of the IDB, the Goldman with suppliers to ensure their activities do not involve child labor. Sachs Foundation, Thunderbird Business School and Mibanco, For the correct understanding of human rights and the has benefited more than 47,000 Peruvian entrepreneurs. rights of indigenous communities, Mibanco directs initiatives 108 Steve Manzanedo Callupe, Datawarehouse analyst and Daniel Kasuga Komiya,commercial planning head. related to these subjects towards its employees. Thus, an online recorded related to the violation of the rights of Andean or course was developed for implementation in the first half of Amazon peasant and indigenous communities. 2012, which incorporates the values ​​and social commitment Mibanco does not engage in forced or compulsory labor as of the organization, features that characterize the operations part of its operations at headquarters or branches nationwide. of Mibanco since its inception. Likewise, induction courses for In this regard, the policies of the company comply with Peru’s new staff incorporate basic notions on these topics and on legal framework and international standards on the subject. respect for diversity and the opportunity presented by the Bank Finally, Mibanco promotes equal opportunities and rejects all to overcome exclusion in several respects. forms of discrimination, as provided for in company regulations, It is worth mentioning that the Bank’s operations do not entail such as the Working Rules, the Code of Conduct and Ethics and significant negative human rights impacts. There have been no the Recruitment and Selection Procedure. formal reviews or evaluations thereof. Moreover, in 2011 there The box below shows the agreements with clauses excluding were no recorded incidents of discrimination regarding the fithe funding of any activity that violates human rights, threatens nancial services that Mibanco provides or complaints regarding the environment and/or involves the relocation of native or human rights in any of its 117 offices. Nor were any incidents indigenous communities out of their usual environment. 109 Investment agreements signed by Mibanco Period of Validity Agreements Signed Objective Clause Detail Beginning end Two disbursements: (a) one to finance microbusiness activities in Peru through Milocal and No activities are financed if Miequipo products, at least 75% they do not comply with Excluded August 2010 May 2015 IADB of them as loans to women or fundamental workers’ rights activities businesses owned by women (especially related to forced in Peru, and another b) to labor and child labor). finance working capital for microbusiness owners in Peru. Any loan granted to a borrower under the FMO agreement shall No production or activities are be applied by the borrower with Excluded May 2010 April 2015 FMO SENIOR financed if they imply forced the sole purpose of expanding activities labor or child labor his/her loans portfolio by granting sub-loans to his/her clients. No production or activities are Excluded March 2010 March 2020 FMO SUBORDINATED For any type of loans. financed if they imply forced activities labor or child labor Any loan granted to a borrower under the FMO agreement shall No production or activities are September be applied by the borrower with Excluded August 2010 PROPARCO financed if they imply forced 2015 the sole purpose of expanding activities labor or child labor. his/her loans portfolio by granting sub-loans to his/her clients. No production or activities are financed if they imply forced labor To finance microbusiness MEF (Ministry of Excluded or exploitation, child labor, or March 2011 March 2016 activities in Peru through Economy and Finance) activities infringement of indigenous people’s working capital loans. land rights (i.e. activities performed without written consent). No production or activities are financed if they imply forced labor or exploitation, child To finance elegible businesses Excluded labor, or infringement of September IIC October 2011 and elegible projects. activities indigenous people’s land 2016 rights (i.e. activities performed without written consent). No production or activities are To expand Mibanco’s loan financed if they imply forced labor November November IFC Excluded portfolio for micro, small and or exploitation, child labor, or 2011 2016 activities medium-sized businesses. infringement of indigenous people’s land rights (i.e. activities performed without written consent). 110 Annual Report 2011 SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT 2010 2011 A true commitment to the development of the communities where we operate is essential for Mibanco as otherwise the path Number of business units reviewed 17 85 to achieving our goals is interrupted, simultaneously affecting Coverage* 15% 72% the growth of our organization. (*) Calculation based on a total of 110 business units in 2010 and 117 business units in Mibanco leadership is undoubtedly a leading indicator of 2011 its economic impact on microenterprises. More than 435,000 customers are proof of the commitment of the organization to providing opportunities for progress through innovation, Our business’s alignment with our social mission is dethe creation of new products and a presence in both urban monstrated by Mibanco financial products that have reached and rural areas. more than 3,000 clients whose native language is not Spanish.​ MSEs undoubtedly played a role in the 6.5% growth that our In 2011, we started measuring our social impact using country has experienced in the last year, and that is an example the Progress out of Poverty Index (PPI), an initiative that will of optimism despite the global economic crisis experienced allow us to reveal the social impact of Mibanco credits on in 2011. our customers. Similar indicators show more than 80,000 customers have The PPI is an easy, user-friendly tool comprised of a 10-quesaccess to credit through solidarity groups, a plan that provides tion survey conducted by our loan advisors to calculate the access to credit to poor and excluded persons who cannot likelihood that people live below the poverty line. It has been provide collateral for their loans. launched in six branches with small samples of customers to Based on a commitment to corporate social responsibility, help find ways to lift them out of poverty and improve their partners and bank employees are evaluated for ethics and moralistandard of living. ty, their acceptance of our policies and codes of conduct at work, This first step allowed us to establish a baseline that will the use of inside information, and stock market transactions. then serve as a reference to track changes, whether positive or In 2011 we reviewed the various business units to ensure negative. In 2012 it will be applied again to provide valuable compliance with policies and procedures established by Mibanco, information for our social performance management. which includes the analysis and investigation of corruption, and No incidents regarding monopolistic practices, actions internal and external fraud risks. The following table shows the against free competition and/or claims of related acts were results reached in 2010 and 2011. reported in 2011. 111 Moreover, the Bank has not received any sanctions or fines for failure to comply with environmental regulations. As noted above, Mibanco does not make financial or in-kind contributions to political parties or similar institutions. The company permanently disseminates updated, clear and complete information about rates, fees, features and parameters of the products (loans, deposits, insurance) and financial services it offers to clients. To that end, we use all our communication channels, such as customer service staff at branches, flyers, posters, advertising, and the website, among others. Similarly, we provide clear and complete information on transactions or financial services through counseling personnel and include clear clauses in contracts and annexes that summarize in simple terms the main conditions and obligations agreed. In both cases, the information disseminated and contractual documentation that the customer signs strictly comply with applicable laws on the protection of financial services users. In 2011 there were no incidents of regulatory breaches regarding customer communications or advertisements, nor were there any incidents of breach of voluntary codes. It the first half of 2011, the Superintendence of Banking and Insurance (SBS), Peru’s financial regulator, visited three Mibanco offices to verify the degree of compliance with the rules of transparency of information and customer care (SBS Resolution No. 1765-2005 and Letter SBS G-146-2009). Among several elements, inspectors evaluated the advertising of products (loans, deposits, insurance) and financial services that we offer through brochures and posters. Haydé Salazar Manco, junior auditor, and Joao Torres Barreto, senior auditor. 112 Annual Report 2011 The SBS determined Mibanco was 100% compliant and • An analysis of information security risks resulted in a plan above the average for visited entities (96.3%), ranking in 4th of action to address emergencies and intermediate, high place among 40 visited entities (Note No. 47739-2011-dated and very high risks. SBS 28/10/2011). Likewise, the regular inspection carried out • We increased awareness talks on the issue among key by SBS in 2011 did not result in any observations regarding personnel handling classified information. the content of prospectuses or communications to customers. Additionally, 59 potential cases of internal fraud were reIt should be emphasized that Mibanco strictly complies ported to the Operational Risk Area. These cases were related with the legal provisions on bank secrecy and protection of to dismissals, probation periods, contract expirations or invitapersonal data, providing information on customer data to tions to resign. Dismissals were supported by ample evidence third parties only pursuant to specific laws. It also has internal of serious incidents and offenses warranting severe sanctions. procedures to comply with the above provisions about data Finally, in compliance with national labor laws in force, confidentiality and bank secrecy. Mibanco has the power to enforce disciplinary action against Confidentiality of customer information is one of the prinworkers in case of breach or failure in performing their duties. ciples of the Code of Conduct and Ethics all our employees Depending on the severity of the offense, sanctions range must abide by. Mibanco has the security and control tools and from reprimands and suspensions to, finally, in case of serious measures needed to prevent leaks of information. offenses typified by law, dismissal, provided they are properly In 2011 no complaints were filed regarding corrupt practices argued and proven. against the organization or any of our collaborators. However, All Mibanco employees receive ongoing training regarding in the same year Mibanco filed two criminal complaints against policies and procedures contained in the Code of Conduct and former officials for corruption and fraud. Importantly, these acts Ethics and in national and international standards. Training in had been carried out in collusion with customers. For these anti-corruption policies and procedures, money laundering and cases action was taken on the operational side. terrorist financing is provided typically once a year. In addition, • In coordination with the Human Resources Department, employees who have direct contact with customers and who we reviewed the information security policies and internal report to the compliance officer are trained twice yearly due rules, redefining disciplinary proceedings for breach. to the nature of their functions. • We audited the computer system’s critical choices to Issues in connection with prevention of money laundering review activities and their use. This action will be more and terrorist financing, in turn, are taught in the induction for intense still in 2012. new Mibanco employees. 113 VALUE-ADDED ACTIVITIES Our Environmental The following table shows the economic value added by MibanPerformance co activities, including gross wages, taxes, benefits, etc. which also contribute to GDP. The information is given in millions of nuevos soles and compared to years 2009 and 2010. “We follow guidelines leading us towards integrated management, ranging from better services for our customers with tailor-made products, to training programs in business administration. We 2009 2010 2011 (in millions of nuevos soles) also respond to the career aspirations of our employees and are 1 Net Profits 97.1 97.1 109.4 committed to optimizing the use of natural resources”. Oscar 2 Taxes 45.7 43.6 42.6 Rivera Chairman of the Board (DMA). 3 Reserves and amortizations 27.7 30.5 27.3 Due to the nature of our operations, they bear no significant 4 Personnel and Board of Directors expenses 208.7 255.7 279.2 negative impact on the local communities where our branches Added Value Generated (1+2+3+4) 379.2 426.9 458.5 operate. Consequently, no preventive measures have been taken on this issue. Mibanco has not received any sanctions In 2011 the total amount of economic value added by Mibanco or fines for non-compliance with environmental regulations. was S/. 458,547,551, substantially higher than in 2010 due to However, as explained below, we have begun implementing a growth in operations. comprehensive plan to improve our environmental performance. In 2011, Mibanco made efforts ​​ to determine the possibilities of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and headquarters’ carbon footprint. The Bank signed a S/. 84,371 contract with GEA, a company specializing in environmental assessments and practices and the promotion of sustainable processes for businesses. The contract aimed to diagnose the use of energy, water and other supplies. Based on the diagnosis, together with GEA, we prepared a plan of action for the efficient use of resources, including inputs such as energy, water paper and related materials, and to introduce measures for sorting and recycling solid waste. This plan is programmed to begin in the first half of 2012. We hope that by late 2012, as a result of the implementation of this plan regarding the efficient use of resources such as 114 Annual Report 2011 electricity, water, and materials like paper and toner, we will be MATERIALS able to observe positive changes in the bank’s environmental indicators and substantial savings to the institution. Due to the nature of our business, the Bank buys goods for conFurthermore, the Risk Division establishes policies and sumption and not for processing, so we focus on bond paper procedures for assessing and protecting business lines from consumption. In 2011 we used 135.065 kg of paper (3% less than environmental risks. Our internal rules preclude the funding a year earlier), with an annual average consumption per employee of activities that threaten the environment and biodiversity of 38.11 kg (3% less than a year before). Among the initiatives (exclusion list). On this basis, all Mibanco credit clients must to improve our performance, we encouraged printing on both undertake the following commitments: sides of a sheet of paper, thereby avoiding waste. Year Bond paper Average per • Store and properly dispose of solid waste, in coordination (kg) employee (kg) with the municipality or local waste disposal unit. 2009 143,391 53.31 • Reduce and / or purify atmospheric emissions (fumes, odors, 2010 139,464 39.30 gases, etc.) using filters or other methods. 2011 135,065 38.11 • Reduce and / or treat waste water in coordination with the local water and sewerage authority. • Protect the health of workers with appropriate personal In addition, we continue to enforce our agreement with protection gear (gloves, uniforms, masks and other). Fundades, which consists of placing collection and deposit • Take other measures to care for the environment and well boxes on each floor of the main office. Paper deposited by being of local communities if affected by the business or workers is later picked up for subsequent recycling. This inicompany’s activities. tiative accomplishes a corporate environmental goal and a The Business Area is responsible for implementing credit major corporate social responsibility objective since this paper procedures. Loan advisors, branch managers, regional managers recycling initiative helps to support a scholarship program for and credit managers evaluate and control environmental risks low income and disabled children. and business needs. In 2011, 4,486 kg of paper were recycled through Fundades Also, a credit committee reviews and evaluates credit pro(3% of total consumption) and 691 toner cartridges (70% of total posals and technological support is available for risk analysis consumption) were recycled. through a scoring system that rates the proposal and suggests Year Bond paper Toner a strategy for approval, all in proper compliance with the Loan recycled (kg) recycled (kg) Approval Guidelines and the Bank’s Policy Manual. We firmly 2010 4,425 954 believe that social, economic and environmental balance is the 2011 4,486 987 key to developing our country and a door to new opportunities for growth. 115 Solidarity loan group at Santa Cruz and Solidarity group loan officer Verónica Falcón Morales. Office: Pisco. During 2011, 4.486 kg of bond paper were recycled (3% of total EnergY consumption) and 4,400 kg less than in 2010 were used. In 2012 we will encourage further bond paper recycling, emphasizing among Energy plays a vital role in economic development and the wellour employees the importance of this action in contributing to being of society, and while it is true that the Bank has increased its environmental conservation. consumption mainly due to the opening of eight new branches, it is also true that it constantly seeks to implement measures to promote energy saving, generating the least environmental impact possible and requiring lower spending in business operations. Year Bond paper Bond paper Bond paper used (kg). recycled (kg) recycled (%) In 2011 it consumed 34.819 GJ of electricity (12% more than the 2010 139,464 4,425 3% previous year), equivalent to an average of 9.83 GJ per employee 2011 135,065 4,486 3% (also 12% higher than the previous year). 116 2011 2010 Source* Source* Desglose (thermal or (thermal or hydroelectric) hydroelectric) Electric power in GJ 34,819 31,193 order minimize the risk of additional consumption due to faulty Number of employees 3,544 3,548 electrical systems. Electric power consumption In 2011 a pilot installation of timers in the air conditioners of by employee in GJ 9.83 8.79 ten branches resulted in up to 10% lower consumption. For this reason, this measure will be implemented in all branches in 2012. **Current electric power generation is divided equally between thermal and hydroelectric sources (Ministry of Energy and Mines) Additionally, we continue with the Green Wave campaign that encourages workers to turn off office lights, monitors and Taking this into account, the Bank introduced improvement air conditioning systems at the end of their work day, thus actions during 2011, such as using timers on lights of the advergetting involved with environment care and the efficient use tising signs of branches to run them only four hours at night. of resources. Within the framework of comprehensive maintenance of bank Total direct energy consumption in 2011 reached 24.061 GJ facilities, technical and power inspections were conducted in (7% more than in 2010), mainly due to increased Bank operations. 117 2011 2010 Source Direct energy Direct energy Direct energy Direct energy (in GJ) (per employee) (in GJ) (per employee) Gas Oil Consumption (GJ) 24,061 6.8 22,412 6.32 Total consumption (GJ) 24,061 6.8 22,412 6.32 Difference compared to previous year 7% To date, we have no agreement or existing product to use meters in toilets started in 5 branch offices and at the Bank’s renewable energy or reduce energy consumption. headquarters. Timers were installed for air conditioning in 5 Furthermore, maintenance of the Bank’s facilities is now branches. These initiatives required an investment of S/. 35.000 decentralized. Previously, maintenance personnel travelled from and reduced consumption by about 8%. We expect to introduce Lima to other regions. Now, maintenance personnel are based at these improvements in all Mibanco branches in 2012. our locations nationwide to reduce spending on transportation and overall energy consumption. Data Source 2011 2010 2009 WATER Consumption through conventional distribution Water is a scarce resource and its proper use and conservation (public service supply) 64,393 55,796 43,438 is of fundamental importance for Mibanco, which has adopted Water consumption per employee (m3/employee) 18 16 16 measures for its rational use. In 2011, we used 64,393 m3 of water (15% more than the Water consumption per employee previous year) due mainly to the opening of eight new branches, and per day (liters) * 69 62 62 though the average water consumption per employee was 18 Variation in water consumption 13% 0% n.d m3 (12% more than the previous year). Taking this into account, the Bank has introduced a number *160 workdays per year have been considered. of actions to promote efficient water consumption, such as the periodic review of faucets to avoid leaks. We also continue to raise awareness through press releases emphasizing responsible consumption. A pilot plan to install timers on water faucets and flow 118 Annual Report 2011 Mibanco uses water from the public system and therefore does not generate any impact on the sources. Mibanco does not use recycled or reused water at its headquarters or any of its 117 branches. Comunicado ¡Cuidemos nuestros recursos! ¡Ayúdanos a preservar el medio ambiente! Programas en práctica algunas recomendaciones que nos ayudarán a ser más eficientes. Regular la temperatura Apagar el monitor. Revisar al final del dia que del aire acondicionado pues ahi se concentra el mayor los caños del kitchenet y entre 18°C y 22°C. consumo de energia de tu equipo baños de tu área se pues temperaturas por debajo o encuentren por encima de este rango fuerzan completamente en demasia el motor. cerrados. 119 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT The Earth’s climate is changing due to the emission of greenIn 2011 the number of providers billing over S/. 100,000 per house gases. Any institution aware of its commitment to society year reached 3,591 (34% more than the previous year). They proand the environment should pay special attention to this issue. vided services and goods according to the operational, technical In 2011, CO2 emissions generated by the use of trucks, motorand economic specifications for each of the Bank’s procurement cycles and air travel for core business operations reached 3,239 calls, both for competitions and for special requirements. tons (8% less than the previous year), while CO2 emissions from In all procurement processes the Bank requires its suppliers electricity consumption amounted to 3,868 tons. to act consistently and responsibly. Procedure No. 273 for Supplier Evaluation, Registration and Maintenance establishes that the Bank will preferably procure services and/or products Greenhouse gas emissions (tons of CO2) from the companies or organizations that demonstrably comply with the principles of best corporate governance and/or social Detail 2010 2011 responsibility. CO2 emissions During 2011 the Bank initiated and/or continued the fofrom electric power 3,318 3,868 consumption (indirect) llowing actions: Trucks and • Encouraged using electronic auctions for procurement SUVs 27 22 CO2 emissions from fuel processes, respecting the principles of corporate social resconsumption (direct) Motorcycles 1,568 1,409 ponsibility, with a clear focus on transparency in the search for CO2 emissions from the best suppliers, ensuring the best market prices, availability air travel (indirect) 1,918 1,808 of products, lower cost buying, bypassing middlemen, and Total CO2 emissions 6,831 7,107 better using resources, among other advantages. In 2011,​ 59 electronic auctions were conducted for the procurement CO2 emissions were measured using the following calculation of goods and services. tools: Rsco2, CeroCO2 and Planet Air. • In 2011, we continued encouraging payments through account transfers, to draft less checks and reduce payment time to suppliers. We reduced the volume of checks issued by 19% compared to the previous year and made 6,294 transfers to accounts. 120 César Vásquez, branch manager, and Carol Gómez Sánchez, officer tutor. Office: Gamarra. Decrease in volume of checks printed board operation, storage, general transport, maintenance Item 2010 2011 % variation and infrastructure, among others, to ensure the competitive Checks issued 5,010 4,070 -19% services required by our organization’s standards. Note: Printing less checks saved paper and paper money. In 2012 we will continue working on improving processes and contributing to achieving the bank’s corporate objectives. • Processes were optimized and improvement proposals Additionally, for renewals of transport service contracts and implemented with new suppliers for major bank support vehicle purchases, the corresponding vehicles must feature services such as dispatch and messaging, telephone switchstrong environmental performance characteristics. 121 Claudia Vásquez, data safety head. 6 Annual Report 2011 Experience and Background Our Shareholders de. Mibanco is exceptional in its rapid growth and outstanding contribution to financial penetration in Peru, particularly in rural and semi-urban zones. Grupo ACP is a not for profit organization and Mibanco’s majority shareholder, with more than 43 years of experience promoting FORJADORES – México entrepreneurs and owners of micro and small businesses. Forjadores provides loans to micro and small business owners and Grupo ACP is a Latin American corporation headquartered in entrepreneurs, and mainly makes community and group loans. Peru. It pursues a social mission and operates with business It is headquartered in Mexico City and has 35 Service Offices in 9 efficiency, and defines poverty as a set of exclusions. The Grupo Mexican states, namely the State of Mexico, Michoacán, Querétaro, has created a specialized company to face each kind of exclusion Aguascalientes, Veracruz, Puebla, Tlaxcala, Morelos and Oaxaca. through the offer of a specific microfinance tool: micro-insurance, education and training, communication, dignified housing, technology and markets. Together these instruments make up an essential toolkit for the development of those who are at the base of the socio-economic pyramid. For this purpose, MICROFIN – Uruguay Grupo ACP has created a platform of 23 companies in 10 Latin Microfin provides financial services and loans to Uruguayan micro American countries: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, El Saland small business owners and entrepreneurs to help them meet vador, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay. Each their needs and thereby contributes to mainstreaming excluded one of these companies aims at a triple social, environmental segments into the formal financial system. and financial bottom line. MICROFINANCE EMPRENDA* Argentina An institution with a social, pioneering and leading mission in the Argentinean microfinance market, it seeks to generate and MIBANCO Peru strengthen credit relationships with working people to grow A leading microfinance bank, its mission is to provide opportutogether through production, housing and multi-purpose loans. nities for progress and access to the financial system with social * FIS Empresa Social S.A. commitment. It now has 550,000 clients and more than 110 agencies nationwi124 Annual Report 2011 Alliances portfolio, making it the leader of the Salvadoran microfinance market. Its current product offering includes a complete portfolio of loans, remittances, debt, life and health micro-insurance, community housing programs, home improvement with free technical assistance and financial education programs, all of which CEAPE MARANHAO – BRASIL effectively contribute to its clients’ sustainable development. The most important not for profit organization in North-Eastern Brazil, it is devoted to including people traditionally excluded from conventional credit sources in the financial system and to promoting the socio-economic development of micro businesses and entrepreneurs. It has more than 22,500 active clients and has awarded loans for over 405,000 businesses (exceeding INTEGRAL – GUATEMALA USD 265 million). Integral is a company specialized in microfinance, which offers quality financial products and services to micro-business entrepreneurs in Guatemala’s urban and rural areas. It offers credit lines for home improvement, as well as farm loans that include Shareholding customized technical advisory, and agile and timely service to fit clients’ needs. BANCOSOL – BOLIVIA In 1992, this microfinance-specialized institution became the FINANCIERA EL COMERCIO – PARAGUAY first commercial bank in the world to target the lowest market A leading financial entity, it is internationally acknowledged segments. Today, its loan portfolio equals roughly 3% of Bolivia’s for its work in the rural and farming microfinance area. It is GDP and offers a wide range of products and services always the oldest entity of its kind in the Paraguayan financial system geared towards its target segment. with 35 years in the market and 24 years of experience in micro loans. Its microfinance business accounts for 70% of its total placement portfolio. It is the financial entity with the most service centers in the country, with its 53 branches and 250 licensed agents covering more than 200 localities and serving over 105,000 clients. INTEGRAL – EL SALVADOR El Salvador’s first provider of regulated savings and loans, Integral has more than 42 thousand clients and a USD 76 million loan 125 MICROINSURANCE COMMUNICATION PROTECTA – Peru SOMOSEMPRESA – Peru A company offering priority protection to entrepreneurs, microA company that designs and executes relationship and posiand small business owners, and their families by designing and tioning strategies with micro and small businesses and entreimplementing simple, easy-access insurance. Protecta started preneurs in Peru and Latin America through the production operating in February 2008 with A and Aratings granted by of contents for the mass media. It broadcasts TV and radio PCR and Class & Associates, respectively. It maintains such raprograms, circulates publications, and participates in direct tings, which back more than one million outstanding insurance relationship forums to disseminate and promote a culture of policies nationwide. entrepreneurial success. HOUSING AND SECURA – Peru INFRASTRUCTURE This insurance brokerage company is a leader in micro insurance and insurance advisory, both at a mass level and with corporate programs. Its experience and negotiation capacity guarantee competitive rates and premiums for its clients. VIVENCIA – Peru Vivencia is a real estate and infrastructure developer undertaking water and sanitation, electrification and dignified housing EDUCATION AND TRAINING projects for micro and small business entrepreneurs and their families. APRENDA – Peru APRENDA creates and disseminates information for micro-and Shareholding small business owners and entrepreneurs. It designs and carries out entrepreneurship-related programs and programs related to value chain development with large companies. It trains more than 26,000 people annually, promoting sound business values and excellence. PANECONS – Ecuador Panecons manufactures and sells panels for concrete walls, prepared under the Italian M2 system. These panels are used for 126 Annual Report 2011 rooftops, walls, staircases and divisions for constructions. This system is very flexible and its strongly built panels permit safe and secure construction. MERCADOS TIGGRES – Peru Tiggres provides comprehensive web-based e-commerce solutions for micro and small business entrepreneurs. Tiggres’s platform lets companies sell their products on the web, reaching millions of potential buyers all over Peru. It features several payment plans for buyers and logistics solutions for companies.s. CONSUMPTION Janet Cuya Aspajo, internal communications analyst, Lorena Pratolongo Torres, internal communications assistant, and Joyce Vargas Egusquiza, internal communications supervisor. Participación Accionaria GONZALITO – Paraguay A household and electronics appliances retailer, car dealership CORPORATE SERVICES and consumer loan company that helps to improve the quality of life of low income families in Paraguay. This relational marketing company has five primary functions: portfolio generation, serving clients, promotion, sales and collection. It mainly operates through a cutting-edge call center and has specialized personnel, both domestic and foreign. 127 ACCION International (ACCION) (USA) ACCION International is a private not for profit organization whose CONECTÁ2 – El Salvador mission is to create a financially inclusive world. To do so, it supplies The first company specialized in supplying collection managelow-income people with the necessary financial tools to improve ment support services through field visits and telephone calls their quality of life. A true global pioneer in microfinance, ACCION for financing institutions that target micro and small business. International was founded as a community development organization in 1961 and granted the first microloan in Brazil in 1973. Since its inception, ACCION has contributed to the development of 62 microfinance institutions in 31 countries on four INNOVACCIÓN – Peru continents, which currently serve millions of clients all over the It supplies IT services to Grupo ACP companies. It is the technoworld. On the other hand, in the United States of America, the logical hub for developing company operations in line with their companies affiliated to ACCION make up the largest microfinance business needs. institution network in the country with more than USD 300 million in loans granted to date. ACCION promotes the development of microfinance institutions to reach a sustainable and profitable scale. Through a FUTURA** – Peru model that combines management and technical assistance This entity is charged with developing new projects for Grupo with investment and corporate governance, ACCION supports ACP. It summons investors to start creative alliances to sponsor microfinance institutions so they can become independent from successful micro and small business owners and entrepreneurs, donor funding, attract deposits and achieve financial leverage. and identifies new investment opportunities. Likewise, ACCION promotes developing markets beyond just (**) Acción Comunitaria del Perú providing financing through assistance and investment in technology and innovating and sustainable business models, aimed at expanding financial services and inclusion at the base of the pyramid. Finally, ACCION provides leadership in the microfinance INVIERTA – Perú industry through the Center for Financial Inclusion -“The Smart A company devoted to managing investment funds for entities Campaign-”, its seminars, workshops and publications. supporting micro and small businesses, It also provides consulACCION is proud of its pioneering role in an industry that ting, technical assistance, management and other services in is now considered a global phenomenon. However, ACCION is target sectors. aware its job is not over and that it has a commitment to use its 50 years of experience to create a more inclusive financial world. For more information on ACCION International, please visit www. accion.org. 128 Annual Report 2011 LA POSITIVA SEGUROS Y REASEGUROS (PERU) TRIODOS-DOEN / HIVOS-TRIODOS FONDS / TRIODOS Founded in 1937, La Positiva has 75 years of experience in the FAIR SHARE FUND / TRIODOS SICAV II – TRIODOS market. It provides general insurance and protects more than 5 MICROFINANCE FUND million insured persons nationwide. Through different strategies it has become one of the main and more acknowledged insuTriodos Investment Management is in charge of the four rance companies in Peru, with investments in different countries Triodos microfinance funds: Triodos-Doen, Hivos-Triodos Fonds, in the region. Triodos Fair Share Fund and Triodos Sicav II – Triodos Microfinance Fund. As a shareholder of microfinance companies, its funds LA POSITIVA VIDA SEGUROS Y REASEGUROS S.A. (PERU) have the three-dimensional approach that seeks a sustainable A subsidiary of La Positiva Seguros y Reaseguros, it provides life balance between people, the planet and commercial benefits. insurance with a focus on retirement insurance. It has grown These funds aim at establishing long-term relationships based significantly in the six years since it was established, and well on transparency and equity with organizations committed to above the insurance market average in Peru. Its professional alleviating poverty and taking care of our planet. management and commitment to high quality service enhance The four Triodos microfinance funds operate in 44 countries its clients’ confidence and are a source of comfort and peace of and, besides Mibanco, they hold stock in 18 other leading micromind for its thousands of customers. finance banks in the world and finance 97 microfinance entities. At the end of 2011, the four Triodos microfinance funds held € CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE INVERSIONES S.A.A. (CFI) 360 million in total microfinance assets. A Peruvian company with more than 14 years of experience in Triodos Investment Management is part of Triodos Bank, an economic resource development and project development, independent bank with branches in the Netherlands, Belgium, including in energy, infrastructure and agribusiness (where Peru the United Kingdom, Spain and Germany. It only funds compahas natural competitive advantages). It lists in the Lima Stock nies and initiatives that, besides being profitable, improve the Exchange since January 18, 1999, under ticket COFINC1. people’s quality of life and respect nature (www. triodos.com). DUCKTOWN HOLDING S.A. INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION Its main activity since 1996 has been investment operations in The International Financial Corporation (IFC), a member of the Lima Stock Market (BVL) and abroad, investing in long term, the World Bank, is the largest global development institution equity and fixed income instruments, as well as Peruvian real estate. exclusively devoted to the private sector in developing countries. It creates opportunities for people to emerge out of poverty and improve their living conditions. In doing so, it helps countries achieve sustainable growth by financing investments, supplying advisory services to companies and governments, and mobilizing capitals in international financial markets. 129 IFC’s three lines of activity (investment, advisory and asset from its own resources for new private-sector projects. IFC has 85 management services) are mutually complementary and allow active projects in its advisory service portfolio, and is a long-term for the transfer of global technical knowledge acquired from partner that uses its investment products and advisory services clients in more than 100 developing countries. to accelerate sustainable development, thus broadening access Its three lines of activity also allow it to mobilize resources to financing, promoting infrastructure development, helping the from its many partners, broadening its capital and available private sector to generate productive jobs, and supplying essential knowledge to improve the quality of life in developing countries. services to traditionally non-served segments of the population. As a result, low-income families have better education and health opportunities. Residents of remote villages are accessing basic ACCION INVESTMENTS IN MICROFINANCE, SPC services, such as water and energy sources, and small farmers This is an ACCION International-financed investment company. enhance their capacity to sell their produce and profit from It is devoted to reducing world poverty through microfinance. global supply chains. ACCION Investments invests in regulated microfinance instiSustainable development promotion depends more than tutions that fulfill strict efficiency requirements for operations, ever on alliances and innovation, as well as on the capacity to management and financial strength. Its main shareholders are: mobilize resources. The IFC has a fundamental role in helping the private sector rise to these challenges. Its investments and • ACCION International – USA. advisory services target projects that create jobs and help mitigate • Arthur Rock 2000 Trust – USA climate change, increasing food and health services for the people • Belgische Investeringsmaatschappij voor and giving communities access to potable water, promoting city Ontwikkelingslanden NV (BIO) – Belgium. sustainability and improving conditions in conflict-plagued areas. • BlueOrchard Private Equity Fund, S.C.A., During the 2011 fiscal year, in spite of global economic unSicav-Fis – Luxemburg certainty, it supported its clients in generating employment, • Stephen Brenninkmeijer – England. strengthening environmental performance and contributing to • Finnish Industrial Cooperation Fund Ltd. (FinnFund) – Finland their communities. At the same time, its investments reached a • International Financial Corporation (IFC) USA record USD 19 billion. Out of this sum, USD 12.2 billion of its own • Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) – Germany resources were invested in 518 projects in 102 countries, and • Nederlandse Financierings-Maatschappij voor USD 4.9 billion were aimed at 251 projects in 56 of the neediest Ontwikkelingslanden NV, (FMO) – Holland countries, with funds from Asociación Interamericana de Fomen• Responsibility Sicav (Lux) – Luxemburg. to. Additionally, it has mobilized USD 6.5 billion to support the • Responsibility Global Microfinance Fund – Luxemburg private sector in developing countries. • Responsibility Bop Investments – Luxemburg Most of IFC’s commitments are in Latin America and the Ca• Hawk Rock Foundation – USA ribbean (24.5% in FY2011), and include more than USD 3 billion • Hawk Rock Foundation – USA 130 Annual Report 2011 Andy Huamán Coicapusa and Diana Soto Ramírez, business advisors. Office: Chilca. 131 Directors • Chairman of the Board of Directors, Tiggres, Lima, Peru. • Owner/Counselor of Forjadores de Negocios, Mexico City, Mexico. Senior Directors • Deputy Chairman of the Board, BancoSol, La Paz, Bolivia. • Chairman of the Board, Microfin, Montevideo, Uruguay. Óscar Rivera Rivera • Senior Director, Emprenda, Buenos Aires, Argentina. With Mibanco since its foundation in May 1998. • Owner/Director, Apoyo Integral, San Salvador, El Salvador. Past positions: • Deputy Chairman of the Board, Apoyo Integral Guatemala, • Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mibanco. Guatemala City, Guatemala. • Senior Director of the Steering Council, • Senior Director, Conectá2, San Salvador, El Salvador. Grupo ACP, Lima, Peru. • Second Deputy Chairman of the Board, Financiera El Comercio, • Senior Director, Aprenda, Lima, Peru. Asunción, Paraguay. • Senior Director, Steering Council, Acción Comunitaria del Perú, • Winner of the Business Excellence Prize awarded by América Lima, Peru. Economía magazine. Selected as one of the 19-leading business • President, Peruvian Association of Private Banks (ASBANC), changers of Latin America. Lima, Peru. • Co-founder of Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) • Chairman of the Board of Directors, Latin American personally and representing Grupo ACP and Mibanco. Bank Federation (FELABAN), Bogotá, Colombia. • Director and Member of the Executive • Member of the Inaugural Steering Council of the Child Finance Committee, National Confederation of Private Initiative, personally and representing Grupo ACP and GABV. Business Institutions (CONFIEP), Lima, Peru. Education: • Director, Arquitectura y Diseño NeoArte S.A., Lima, Peru. • Economics, Social Sciences Academic Program – Universidad • Chairman of the Board, Institute for Nacional Agraria La Molina, Lima, Peru. Training in Banking (IFB), Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree, Agriculture Economics – Universidad Católica de Education: Chile, Santiago de Chile, Chile. • Business Administration – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. Roberto Dañino Zapata With Mibanco since March 2007. Luis Felipe Derteano Marie Past positions: With Mibanco since its foundation in May 1998. • Senior Director, Mibanco. Past positions: • Chairman of the Board, Fosfatos del Pacífico S.A., Lima, Peru. • President, Steering Council, Grupo ACP, Lima, Peru. • Senior Director, Cementos Pacasmayo, AFP Integra, Goldfields • Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mibanco. Inc. (South Africa), Goldfields La Cima, Grupo RPP, and Results for • Senior Director, Protecta Cía. de Seguros, Lima, Peru. Development (USA). • President of the Steering Council, Acción Comunitaria del Perú, • Senior Vice President and Legal Advisor, World Bank and Secretary Lima, Peru. General of ICSID, Washington D.C., USA. 132 Annual Report 2011 • Prime Minister of Peru and Peruvian Ambassador to the United Juan Otero Steinhart States of America. With Mibanco since November 2003. • Shareholder, Wilmer Cutler & Pickering, Washington, D.C., USA. Past positions: Education: • Senior Director, Mibanco. • Law – Harvard University Law School, USA. • Director, Forjadores de Negocios S.A., Mexico City, Mexico. • Law – Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, Lima, Peru. • Director, BancoSol, La Paz, Bolivia. Alfredo Llosa Barber Luis Ovalle Gates With Mibanco since March 2001. With Mibanco since March 2009. Past positions: Past positions: • Senior Director of Mibanco. • Senior Director, Mibanco. • Vice President of the Steering Council, Grupo ACP, Lima, Peru. • General Manager, Grupo ACP, Lima, Peru. • Chairman of the Board, CONECTA, Contact Center, Lima, Peru. • President of Administration Council, Forjadores de Negocios, • Senior Director, Protecta Cía. de Seguros, Lima, Peru. Mexico City, Mexico. • Owner/Counselor, Forjadores de Negocios, Mexico City, Mexico. • CEO, Acción Comunitaria del Perú, Lima, Peru. • Senior Director, Microfin, Montevideo, Uruguay. • Alternate Director, ACP Vivencia S.A., Lima, Peru. • Vice President, Steering Council, Acción Comunitaria delPerú, • Alternate Director, Somos Empresa, Lima, Peru. Lima, Peru. • Senior Director, Invierta, Lima, Peru. • Senior Director, BancoSol, La Paz, Bolivia. • Senior Director, Tiggres S.A., Lima, Peru. • Senior Director, Tiggres, Lima, Peru. • Alternate Director, CONECTA, Centro de Contacto S.A., Lima, Peru. • Senior Director, Conectá2, San Salvador, El Salvador. • Alternate Director, CSC InnovAcción S.A., Lima, Peru. • Director, Gamesa, Arequipa, Peru. • Alternate Director, Aprenda S.A., Lima, Peru. • Chairman of the Board, Fundades, Lima, Peru. • Senior Director, Microfin, Montevideo, Uruguay. Education: • Owner/Director, Sociedad de Ahorro y Crédito Apoyo Integral, • Business Administration – Georgetown University, San Salvador, El Salvador. Washington D.C., USA. • Alternate Director, Conectá2, San Salvador, El Salvador. • Master’s degree in Latin American Studies with Specialization in • Alternate Director, Apoyo Integral Guatemala, Economic Development – Georgetown University, Guatemala City, Guatemala. Washington D.C., USA. Education: • Senior Management Program (PAD) – Universidad de Piura, • Accounting – Universidad San Martín de Porres, Lima, Peru. Lima, Peru. • Senior Management Program and Monitoring – Universidad de • Strategic Leadership for Microfinance – Harvard University, Piura, Lima, Peru. Business School – Boston, MA., USA. 133 Miguel Pinasco Limas Michael Edward Schlein With Mibanco since 1999. With Mibanco since March 2010. Past positions: Past positions: • Senior Director, Mibanco. • Senior Director, Mibanco. • Executive Director, Solidaridad Sacerdotal Santa Rosa, Lima, Peru. • Alternate Director, BancoSol, La Paz, Bolivia. • Member of the Economic Council of the Peruvian • Chairman of the Board and Executive Director, ACCION Episcopal Conference. International, Washington D.C., USA. Education: • Chairman of the Board, Citigroup, New York, USA. • Mechanical Engineering and Electricity – Universidad Nacional • Team Leader, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, de Ingeniería, Lima, Peru. Washington D.C., USA. • Master’s studies in Business Administration and Finance – • Team Leader, Economic and Financial Affairs of the NY City Hall, USA. Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. • Financial Director of Mr. Dukakis’s presidential campaign in • Senior Management Program – INCAE, Nicaragua. New York, USA. • Senior Management Program (PAD) – Universidad de Piura, • Smith Barney Investment Banking Associate, New York, USA. Lima, Peru. • Director of: Citibank N.A., USA; the Bank Handlowy, Poland; Citibank Korea, Inc.; Cabinet Meeting of EMEA; Hugo Santa María Guzmán Citigroup Foundation; Wildcat Service Corporation; With Mibanco since November 2007. New York Cares. Past positions: • Corporate member of the International Affairs Council; member • Senior Director, Mibanco. of the Business Council of Sociedad de Asia; member of the NY • Shareholder – Manager of Economic Studies – Economist Financial Committee for U.S. President Barack Obama’s presidential • Head of Apoyo Consultoría, Lima, Peru. campaign, USA. • Director, APOYO Comunicación Corporativa, Lima, Peru. Education: • Director, Graña & Montero, Lima, Peru. • Economics– Phi Beta Kappa – Massachusetts Institute of Education: Technology, USA. • Economics – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Political Science – Phi Beta Kappa • Master’s Degree and PhD in Economics – Washington University – Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA. in St. Louis, USA. • London School of Economics, London, England. 134 Annual Report 2011 Alternate Directors Esteban Andrés Altschul With Mibanco since March 2010. Past positions: Fernando Arias Vargas • Operations Chief Officer, ACCION International, Boston, MA, USA. With Mibanco since March 2007. • Between 1991 and 2008, he held several Past positions: positions in the International Financial Corporation (IFC), • Alternate Director of Mibanco. Washington D.C., USA, including Director of Human Resources, • Senior Director of the Steering Council, Grupo ACP, Lima, Peru. Manager of Corporate Programs, Senior Investment Officer, • Chairman of the Board, Aprenda, Lima, Peru. Team Leader in Eastern and Southern Europe, and • Deputy Chairman of the Board, Somos Empresa S.A. Lima, Peru. Latin America Investment Officer. • Senior Director of the Steering Council, Acción Comunitaria del Perú, Lima, Peru. Enrique Osvaldo Ferraro • Alternate Counselor of Forjadores de Negocios S.A., Mexico City, With Mibanco since December 2004. Mexico. Past positions: • Chairman of the Board, Minera Andina de Exploraciones S.A.A., • Alternate Director, Mibanco. Lima, Peru. • Vice President, Banco Solidario, Quito, Ecuador. • Chairman of the Board, Peruana de Energía S.A.A., Lima, Peru. • Chairman of the Board, BancoSol, La Paz, Bolivia. • Member of the Institute of Mining Engineers of Peru, Lima, Peru. • Director/Manager, ACCION Investment • Director of Inmobiliaria EFIA S.A., Lima, Peru. Management Company, LLC. • Chairman of the Board, Renovables de los Andes SAC, Lima, Peru. • Director/Manager, ACCION, Investments in Microfinance, SPC, Education: Boston, MA, USA. • Mining Engineering – Michigan Technological University, • Alternate Director, Banco Popular, Tegucigalpa, Honduras. Michigan, USA. Education: • Master’s Degree in Business Administration – Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires, Argentina. 135 Management Wiese Sudameris, Lima, Peru. • Financial Manager, Banco de Lima, Lima, Peru. • Treasury Manager, Banco Santander Peru, Lima, Peru. Education: José Castillo Deza • Law and Political Sciences – Universidad de Lima, Lima, Peru. With Mibanco since June 2001. • HBS-ACCION Program on Strategic Leadership for Past positions: Microfinance, Harvard Business School, USA. • General Manager, Mibanco. • Manager, Management Monitoring Fernando Balbuena Favarato and Finance Division, Mibanco. With Mibanco since April 2004. • Manager, Special Projects, Banco Wiese Sudameris, Lima, Peru. Past positions: • General Accountant/Manager, Banco Wiese Ltd., Lima, Peru. • Manager, Marketing Division, Mibanco. • Central Assistant Manager of Finance and Tax • Manager, Personal Banking and Marketing Accounting at Banco Wiese Ltd., Lima, Peru. Division, Banco Sudamericano, Lima, Peru. Education: • Assistant Manager, Distribution and Sales, • Accounting. Certified Public Accountant – Banco de Crédito BCP, Lima, Peru. Universidad Ricardo Palma, Lima, Peru. • Assistant Manager for Economic Analysis, Credibolsa, • CEO’s Management – Kellogg School Sociedad Agente de Bolsa, Lima, Peru. of Management, Chicago, USA. • Assistant Manager of Operations (Finance and • Senior Management Programs in Finance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. Administration) of the National Compensation and • Senior Management Development Programs Social Development Fund (FONCODES), Lima, Peru. – Universidad de Piura, Piura, Peru. Education: • CFOs’ Executive Program – The University of Bachelor’s Degree in Economics – Chicago Booth School of Business, USA Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. Master’s Degree in Economics and Business Rafael Llosa Barrios Management – IESE, Barcelona, Spain. With Mibanco until June 2011. Past positions: Rossina Castagnola Vásquez • General Manager at Mibanco. With Mibanco until November 2011. • Chairman of the CEO’s Committee of the Peruvian Past positions: Association of Private Banks (ASBANC), Lima, Peru. • Manager of the Human Resources Division at Mibanco. • Director, Wiese Inversiones Financieras S.A., Lima, Peru. • She has 20 years of experience in human resources • Director, Wiese Sudameris Fondos SAF, Lima, Peru. management with Peruvian financial businesses. • Director, Mibanco (2001 2002), Lima, Peru. Education: • General Manager, Inversiones Mobiliarias S.A., Lima, Peru. • Bachellor’s Degree in Industrial Affairs – Universidad • Manager, Capital Market Division, Banco de San Martín de Porres, Lima, Peru. 136 Annual Report 2011 • Master’s Degree in Strategic Business Management Banking Division) at Banco de Crédito BCP. – Centro de Negocios de la Pontifica Universidad • Head of Permanent Improvement Service Católica del Perú – CENTRUM, Lima, Peru. (Quality Area) at Banco de Crédito BCP. • Certified Consultant in Institutional Transformation by the Education: Leading Consultation Master’s Program – IFSI Paris, France, • Business Administration – Universidad de Piura, Piura, Peru. and MPhil Business School of Hull University, England. • Master’s Degree in Business Management • Senior Management Program – – Universidad de Piura, Piura, Peru. Universidad de Piura, Lima, Peru. • Master’s studies in Banking and Financial • Advanced Workshop on Leadership held by Business – ESAN, Lima, Peru. the Women’s World Banking (WWB) and the Wharton’s Aresty Institute of Executive Education Leonel Henríquez Cartagena at University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA. With Mibanco since January 2009. Past positions: Miguel Gonzáles Vargas • Risk Management Division Manager, Mibanco. With Mibanco since May 1998. • Risk Management Executive Vice Past positions: President at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Manager, Division of Micro and Small Enterprises, Mibanco. • Commercial Management Executive Vice • Manager for Microenterprises at Mibanco. President at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Head of Business Management at Mibanco. • Commercial Risk Management Manager at Corp. • Regional Head of the Business Division at Mibanco. Group Interhold Chile S.A., Santiago de Chile, Chile. Education: • Central Manager of Risk Management at Banco • Business Administration – Universidad Nacional Santander Central Hispano, Lima, Peru. Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Peru. • Financial Risk and Branch Manager at Banco • Master’s Degree in Business Administration Santander Chile, Santiago de Chile, Chile. – Universidad de Piura, Piura, Peru. • Assistant Manager of South Area Risk Department at • Management Program – Universidad de Monterrey, Mexico. Banco Santander Chile, Santiago de Chile, Chile. • Specialization in Marketing and Business – Kellogg Education: School of Management, Chicago, USA. • Economic and Administrative Sciences – Universidad de Chile, Santiago de Chile, Chile. Roberto Gonzáles Peralta • Commercial Engineering – Universidad With Mibanco since June 2008. de Chile, Santiago de Chile, Chile. Past positions: • Accounting Auditor – Universidad de • Manager, Service Banking Division, Mibanco. Chile, Santiago de Chile, Chile. • Head of Channel and Process Planning Services (Marketing Division) at Banco de Crédito BCP, Lima, Peru. • Regional Head of Service Channels (Service 137 Carolina Benavides Piaggio Ana Bruckmann Corvera With Mibanco since September 2010. With Mibanco since May 1998. Past positions: Past positions: • Manager of the Human Capital Division at Mibanco. • Manager of the Micro Enterprise and • Columnist at “El Comercio” newspaper editiorial, Lima, Peru. Entrepreneurship Banking Division, Mibanco. • Executive Director at Nexos Voluntarios • Regional Head for Businesses, Mibanco. y NeVo Consultores, Lima, Peru. • Office Administrator at Mibanco. • Coordinator at Harvard Program in • Office Assistant Administrator at Mibanco Refugee Trauma, Cambridge, USA. • Business Consultant at Mibanco. • Research Head in Facetas Program, run by the Education: Peruvian National Channel and the Office of • Economics – Universidad Ricardo Palma, Lima, Peru. the President of the Republic, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Institutional Management in • Head of the Psychology and Social Research Microfinance – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. Department at “Wayna Warmi”, Merck Lab, Lima, Peru. • Senior Management Program in • Coordinator of Tutoring Service for refugee and handicapped Microfinance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. students at Westminster Kingsway College, London, England. Education: Rossana Chasseloup López • Clinical Psychology – Universidad Femenina With Mibanco since September 2009. del Sagrado Corazón, Lima, Peru. Past positions: • Master’s Degree in Psychoanalytical Theories – • Manager, Legal Counsel Division and University College London, London, England. General Secretariat, Mibanco. • Legal Counsel, Banco Financiero del Perú, Lima, Peru. • Assistant Manager, Legal Counsel Division Luz María Boza Llosa at Wiese Sudameris, Lima, Peru. With Mibanco since December 2009. • Legal Counsel, Foreign Debt Office, Peruvian Past positions: Ministry of Economy and Finance, Lima, Peru. • Manager, Risk Management Division, Mibanco. • Legal Counsel, Development Finance • Manager, Risk Management and Corporation (COFIDE), Lima, Peru. Monitoring Division, Mibanco. Education: • Manager, Personal Banking and Small Enterprise • Law – Universidad de San Martín de Porres, Lima, Peru. Management and Monitoring Division at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Civil Law – Pontificia • Manager for Products and Services for Universidad Católica del Perú, Lima, Peru. Businesses at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Senior Executive of Corporate Banking at Interbank, Lima, Peru. Education: • Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Business Administration – INCAE Business School, Costa Rica. 138 Annual Report 2011 Antonio Chumacero Sánchez César Fernández Fernández In Mibanco since January 2010. With Mibanco until November 2011. Past positions: Past positions: • Manager, Risk Management and Monitoring, Mibanco. • Manager of Commercial Intelligence and Planning at Mibanco. • Head, Monitoring and Risk Models, Mibanco. • Marketing and Product Manager at Banco • Assistant Manager, Personal Banking Management Santander Central Hispano, Lima, Peru. and Monitoring at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Marketing Assistant Manager at AFP Unión Vida, Lima, Peru. • Head of Personal Banking Management and • Head of Budget and Means – Marketing at Monitoring, Interbank, Lima, Peru. Banco de Crédito BCP, Lima, Peru. • Head for Credit Risk at Banco Ripley, Lima, Peru. Education: • Analyst for Credit Risk at Banco Ripley, Lima, Peru. • Economics – Garcilazo de la Vega University, Lima, Peru. • Analyst for Customer Service Management, • Senior Management Program in Marketing – ESAN, Lima, Peru. Telefónica del Perú, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Business Management and • Assistant for Quality Insurance and Projects, Industrias Administration – Universidad de Tarapacá, Chile. del Envase, Corporación Backus, Lima, Peru. Education: • Industrial Engineering – Pontificia Universidad Eduardo Franco Águila Católica del Perú, Lima, Peru. With Mibanco since February 2003. • Master’s Degree in Corporate Finance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. Past positions: • Operations Manager at Mibanco. José Julio Delgado Contreras • Operations Assistant Manager at Solución Financiera de With Mibanco since January 2003. Crédito del Perú, Lima, Peru. Past positions: • Head of Operations (San Isidro Office) at Banco de Crédito BCP, • Risk Manager, Mibanco. Lima, Peru. • Risks Manager, Mibanco. Education: • Risk Assistant Manager at Banco Santander • Economics – Ricardo Palma University, Lima, Peru. Central Hispano, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Business Administration • Senior Risk Auditor at Banco Santander – Universidad de Piura, Piura, Peru. Central Hispano, Lima, Peru. • Leadership Diploma – UPC (underway) • Head for Credit Auditing at Bancosur, Lima, Peru. • Senior Credit Auditor at Banco de Crédito BCP, Lima, Peru. • Credit Analyst at Banco Popular del Perú, Lima, Peru. Education: • Associated Public Accountant – Universidad Ricardo Palma, Lima, Peru. • Specialization in Financial Auditing – Association of Certified Public Accountants of Lima, Lima, Peru. • Executive MBA – Universidad San Ignacio de Loyola, Lima, Peru. 139 Javier Guinassi Portugal María del Pilar Martínez Rubio With Mibanco until July 2011. With Mibanco since December 2000. Past positions: Past positions: • Small Enterprise Banking Manager, Mibanco. • General Accountant at Mibanco. • Manager, Asset Financing, HSBC Bank Peru, Lima, Peru. • Officer of Expenses Monitoring of the Accounting • Mortgage Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. Department and in charge of implementing the • South Zone Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. accounting manual of the Superintendence of Banking Education: and Insurance (SBS) and Caja Metropolitana, Lima, Peru. •Bachelor’s Degree in Economics – Universidad • Head of the Statistical and Financial Statements Division of Católica Santa María, Arequipa, Peru. the Accounting Department at Banco • Specialization in Financial Management de Comercio, Lima, Peru. – Universidad de Tarapacá, Chile. Education: • Senior Management Program in Finance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. • Associated Public Accountant – Universidad • Activity Based Costing –Harvard University, USA. Inca Garcilaso de la Vega, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Microfinance Institutions’ Management – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. Marco Lúcar Bérninzon With Mibanco until October 2011. Past positions: Juan Manuel Morgan Ochoa • Manager, Technology and Development, Mibanco. With Mibanco since December 2011. • Head of the Process Engineering Area, Mibanco. Past positions: • Senior Analyst of the Process Engineering Area, Mibanco. • Territory Manager, Mibanco. (South Area) • Head for Projects, Organizational Design • General Manager at CCQ S.A.C., Lima, Peru. Area, Banco Sudamericano, Lima, Peru. • Regional Manager at Interbank (South Area), Lima, Peru. Education: • Office Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Master’s studies in Mechanical Engineering • Business Executive at Interbank, Lima, Peru. – Escuela Naval del Perú, Lima, Peru. • Officer for Lima Corporate Banking • Master’s Degree in Business Administration Businesses at Interbank, Lima, Peru. – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. • Credit Analyst for Lima Corporate Banking at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Commercial Officer for Enterprise Banking at Interbank, Lima, Peru. 140 Annual Report 2011 Education: Carlos Olazábal Chumán • Accounting and Administration – Universidad With Mibanco until November 2011. Nacional San Agustín, Arequipa, Peru. Past positions: • Economics – Universidad Nacional • Manager of the Planning and Finance Division at Mibanco. San Agustín, Arequipa, Peru. • Head of Finance and Management Monitoring at Mibanco. • Diploma in Strategic Management in Banking and Education: Finance – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. • Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration • Master’s Degree in Administration – – Universidad de Piura, Piura, Peru. Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Business Administration – Universidad de Piura, Lima, Peru. • Specialization in Financial Instruments Guillermo Nevado Rioja and Costs – ESAN, Lima, Peru. With Mibanco since December 2011. • Specialization in Banking – ASBANC, Lima, Peru. Past positions: • Management Methodology Manager at Mibanco. • Lima Regional Head at Caja Municipal de Ahorro Enrique Orezzoli Moreno y Crédito de Arequipa, Arequipa, Peru. With Mibanco since December 2011. • Administrative Assistant Manager at Caja Municipal Past positions: de Ahorro y Crédito de Arequipa, Arequipa, Peru. • Territory Manager at Mibanco (North Area). • Credit Assistant Manager at Caja Municipal de • Consultant in Microfinance at Development Ahorro y Crédito de Arequipa, Arequipa, Peru. Alternatives Inc. Mexico City, Mexico. Regional Head in Arequipa and Lima at Caja Municipal • Small Enterprise Banking Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. de Ahorro y Crédito de Arequipa, Arequipa, Peru • Credit Manager at Caja Municipal de Ahorro • Operations Assistant Manager at Caja Municipal de y Crédito de Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru. Ahorro y Crédito de Arequipa, Arequipa, Peru • Credit Supervisor at Caja Municipal de Ahorro • Branch Administrator at the headquarters in Arequipa of Caja y Crédito de Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru. Municipal de Ahorro y Crédito de Arequipa, Arequipa, Peru. • Credit Analyst at Caja Municipal de Ahorro Education: y Crédito de Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru. • Business Administration – Universidad Education: Particular de Piura, Piura, Peru. • Economics – Universidad Nacional de Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru. • Internship at Cajas de Ahorro de Alemania, • Master’s Degree in Business Administration Mannheim, Germany. – Universidad Nacional de Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru. • Diploma in Strategic Management in Finance • MBA in Finance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. • MBA in Finance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. • Seminar at ESADE, Spain by ESAN. 141 • The CFO’s Executive Program – The University Jessica Pacheco Lengua of Chicago Booth school of Business, USA With Mibanco since December 2002. • Master’s Degree in Business Administration – Graduate School Past positions: of Universidad Peruana de Ciencias Aplicadas (UPC) Lima, Peru. • Territory Manager, Mibanco. • MBA in Business Administration– Graduate School of • Regional Business Head, Mibanco. Universidad Peruana de Ciencias Aplicadas (UPC) Lima, Peru. • Regional Manager, Forjadores, Mexico. • Regional and MetropolitanArea Manager at Banco Compartamos, Mexico. Dante Torres Martínez • Branch Administrator of Acción With Mibanco since March 2004. Comunitaria del Perú, Lima, Peru. Past positions: Education: • Internal Auditor at Mibanco. Economics – Ricardo Palma University, Lima, Peru. • Auditing Manager at Banco Sudamericano, Lima, Peru. PADE Finance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. • Audit Assistant Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. Master’s Degree in Finance – Universidad de Las Américas, • Auditing Manager at Banco Exterior de los Andes Puebla, Mexico y de España S.A., Extebandes, Lima, Peru. • Administration and Finance Manager at EFE Comercial S.A., Lima, Peru. Ramiro Postigo Castro • Audit Assistant Manager at Banco Mercantil del Perú S.A., With Mibanco since January 2003. Lima, Peru. Past positions: • Senior Auditor at Pricewaterhouse, Lima, Peru. • Treasury Manager at Mibanco. Education: • Assistant Treasury Manager at Banco Nuevo Mundo, • Associated Certified Public Accountant Universidad de Lima, Lima, Peru. Lima, Peru. • Capitals Market and Distribution Manager at NBK Bank, • Certified in Internal Auditing – The Institute of Internal Auditors, Lima, Peru. Florida, USA. • Treasury Manager at Banco del Progreso, Lima, Peru. • Certified in Control Self-Assessment – The Institute of Education: Internal Auditors, Florida, USA. • Economics – Universidad Ricardo Palma, Lima, Peru. • Senior Management Program in Finance – ESAN, Lima, Peru. • European Master’s Degree in Strategic Financial and • Master’s Degree in Finance – Universidad del Pacífico, Administrative Management – Graduate School of Lima, Peru. Universidad Peruana de Ciencias Aplicadas (UPC) Lima, Peru. • Master’s Degree in Auditing – Universidad del Pacífico, • Management Diploma in Finance and Administration Lima, Peru. – EOI Business School, Madrid, Spain. • Master’s studies in Business Administration • Studies in Finance and Treasury – Harvard University – Universidad del Pacífico, Lima, Peru. Extension School – Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. 142 Annual Report 2011 Francisco Vargas Peralta María Luz Zegarra Seminario With Mibanco since December 2011. With Mibanco since August 2010. Past positions: Past positions: • Manager, Planning and Commercial Intelligence, Mibanco. • Banking Product Manager, Mibanco. • Manager, Local Branches at Scotiabank, Lima, Peru. • Enterprise Banking Division Manager at Banco • Commercial Head at Mibanco, Lima, Peru. Interamericano de Finanzas, Lima, Peru. • Manager, Mortgage and Real Estate at • Enterprise Banking Division Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. Banco Santander Perú, Lima, Peru. • Enterprise Banking Division Manager and Branch • Branch Manager at Banco Santander Perú, Lima, Peru. Network Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Assistant Manager of the Enterprise Banking • Lima Branch Network Manager at Interbank, Lima, Peru. Division at Banco Santander Perú, Lima, Peru. • Money Market Manager at Interbank’s Branch Network, • Assistant Manager for Businesses at Banco Financiero Lima, Peru. del Perú’s Branch Network, Lima, Peru. Education: • Head of Local Branches at Interbank, Lima, Peru. • Business Administration – Universidad Ricardo Palma, • Head of Branches at Interbank, Lima, Peru. Lima, Peru. Education: • Master’s Degree in Business Administration • Bachelor’s Degree in Management Engineering – – ESAN, Lima, Peru. Universidad Inca Garcilaso de la Vega, Lima, Peru. • Management Competence Program – • Management Development Program for Universidad de Piura, Lima, Peru. Executives – Universidad de Piura, Lima, Peru. • Commercial Management Program – Universidad de Piura, • Master’s Degree in Business – ESAN, Lima, Peru. Lima, Peru. • Master’s studies in Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability • Management Development Program – Universidad de Piura, – Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú/EADA Spain. Lima, Peru. 143 Guillermo Gutiérrez Paravecino, corporatefinance supervisor, and Miguel Vélez Peralta, management control head. 7 Annual Report 2011 Financial Statements As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, together with the Independent Auditors’ Report 146 fiNancial statements Mibanco, Banco de la Microempresa S.A. Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, together with the Independent Auditors’ Report Contents • Independent Auditors’ Report • Financial Statements Balance Sheet Statement of profits and losses Statement of changes in stockholders’ equity Statement of cash flows Notes to financial statements 147 148 fiNancial statements 149 Balance Sheet As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 2011 2010 Note S/.(000) S/.(000) Assets Available assets 4 Cash and cash equivalents 201,245 134,301 Deposits in the Central Reserve Bank of Peru 261,783 268,911 Deposits in local and foreign banks 44,926 235,918 Accrued Returns 12 310 507,966 639,440 nter-bank funds 78,136 30,005 Marketable investments available for sale 5 365,529 9,570 Loan portfolio, net 6 3,974,051 3,509,758 Property, furniture and equipment 7 127,048 122,288 Deferred assets for income tax, net: 13(e) 35,424 32,483 Other assets, net: 8 66,427 64,892 Total Assets 5,154,581 4,408,436 Memoranda accounts 14 Contingent debt 374,544 300,295 Debit memoranda accounts 2,931,338 1,983,906 3,305,882 2,284,201 The enclosed notes to the financial statements are an integral part of the balance sheet. 150 fiNancial statements 2011 2010 Note S/.(000) S/.(000) Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Obligations with the public 9 3,630,618 2,827,367 Inter-bank funds 13,196 Deposits from companies within the financial system 169,613 299,394 Short-term financial debts and obligations 10 202,957 321,492 Long-term financial debts and obligations 10 410,516 428,925 Outstanding shares, securities and obligations 11 12,558 39,478 Other liabilities 8 108,140 101,649 Total liabilities 4,547,598 4,018,305 Shareholders’ Equity 12 Capital stock 343,010 244,764 Additional capital 96,250 Legal reserve 55,200 45,485 Voluntary reserve 2,681 2,681 Unrealized income 419 58 Retained earnings 109,423 97,143 Total Shareholders’ Equity 606,983 390,131 Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 5,154,581 4,408,436 Memoranda accounts 14 Contingent credit accounts 374,544 300,295 Credit memoranda accounts 2,931,338 1,983,906 3,305,882 2,284,201 151 Statement of profits and losses For the years ended on December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 2011 2010 2009 Note S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Financial income 15 987,869 936,827 841,783 Financial expenses 15 (206,242) (165,657) (176,177) Gross financial margin 781,627 771,170 665,606 Provision for doubtful loans 6(f) (440,933) (421,748) (272,544) Provision for non-recoverable loans 6(f) 169,906 152,889 48,705 (271,027) (268,859) (223,839) Financial margin, net 510,600 502,311 441,767 Income from financial services 71,280 64,215 46,296 Expenses for financial services (2,628) (8,764) (4,572) Operating margin 579,252 557,762 483,491 Administrative expenses Personnel expenses 16 (279,242) (255,665) (208,742) Expenses for third-party services 17 (151,371) (145,657) (114,805) Taxes and contributions (4,485) (3,820) (3,363) (435,098) (405,142) (326,910) Operating margin, net 144,154 152,620 156,581 Provisions, depreciation and amortization Depreciation of property, furniture and equipment 7(a) (19,241) (19,124) (16,579) Amortization of intangibles 8(b) (4,571) (2,552) (2,069) Provisions for contingencies, other accounts receivable and (3,494) (8,763) (9,045) others (27,306) (30,439) (27,693) Income from operations 116,848 122,181 128,888 Other income, net 18 35,137 18,552 13,888 Earnings before income tax 151,985 140,733 142,776 Income tax 13(f) (42,562) (43,590) (45,687) Net earnings 109,423 97,143 97,089 Earnings per share (in nuevos soles) 19 0.363 0.325 0.324 Weighted average of the number of outstanding shares (in thousands of units) 19 301,298 299,260 299,260 The enclosed notes to the financial statements are an integral part of the balance sheet. 152 fiNancial statements Statement of changes to Net Shareholders’ Equity For the years ended on December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 Number of Company Additional Legal Optional Unrealized Accumulated Total shares capital capital reserve reserve gains profits S/.(000) (in thousands) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Balance as of January 1, 2009 140,764 140,764 26,270 2,681 85,005 254,720 Transfer to legal reserve, note 12(b) 9,253 (9,253) Capitalization of earnings, note 12(a) 46,000 46,000 (46,000) Net non-realized income, net of provision 449 449 for permanent deterioration Payment of dividends, note 12(d) (29,752) (29,752) Net earnings for the year 97,089 97,089 Balance as of December 31, 2009 186,764 186,764 35,523 2,681 449 97,089 322,506 Transfer to legal reserve, note 12(b) 9,962 (9,962) Capitalization of earnings, note 12(a) 58,000 58,000 (58,000) Transfer of realized net gain from investments available for sale to income, (391) (391) net of realized loss Payment of dividends, note 12(d) (29,127) (29,127) Net earnings for the year 97,143 97,143 Balance as of December 31, 2010 244,764 244,764 45,485 2,681 58 97,143 390,131 Transfer to legal reserve, note 12(b) 9,715 (9,715) Capitalization of earnings, note 12(a) 54,496 54,496 (54,496) Capital contribution, note 12 (c) 43,750 43,750 96,250 140,000 Unrealized net gain from investments 361 361 available for sale, note 5 Application of profit sharing deferred to (5,414) (5,414) accumulated income Payment of dividends, note 12(d) (27,518) (27,518) Net earnings for the year 109,423 109,423 Balance as of December 31, 2011 343,010 343,010 96,250 55,200 2,681 419 109,423 606,983 The enclosed notes to the financial statements are an integral part of the balance sheet. 153 Statement of cash flows For the years ended on December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Cash flow from operations Net earnings 109,423 97,143 97,089 Adjustments to reconcile net income with net cash from operations Plus (minus) Provision for doubtful loans, net recoveries 271,027 268,859 223,839 Depreciation and amortization 23,812 21,676 18,648 Provision for impairment of investments available for sale (38) Other, net 7,521 5,931 5,064 Debits and credits due to net changes in assets and liabilities Other assets 10,991 (37,971) (36,504) Other liabilities 4,738 25,640 24,626 Net cash from operations 427,512 381,278 332,724 Cash flow from investment activities Acquisition of intangibles (13,366) (8,975) (5,075) Acquisition of property, furniture and equipment (24,562) (45,900) (36,206) Net cash used for investment activities (37,928) (54,875) (41,281) 154 fiNancial statements 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Cash flow from financing activities Net increase in loan portfolio (737,928) (860,293) (695,794) Net increase (decrease) of debit inter-bank funds (48,131) 48,246 (63,248) Net (increase) decrease in investments available for sale (355,501) 248,319 (159,213) Net increase of investment in subsidiaries and related companies Net increase in deposits and obligations 802,112 537,534 711,507 Net increase in inter-bank deposits 13,196 Net (decrease) increase in deposits from companies in the financial (129,781) 108,592 (68,121) system Net (decrease) increase in indebtedness and other financial (134,214) 20,716 (11,417) obligations Net (decrease) increase in outstanding shares, securities and (26,758) (47,176) (35,043) obligations Payment of dividends (27,518) (29,127) (29,752) Capital contribution 123,465 Net cash used for financing activities (521,058) 26,811 (351,081) Net (decrease) increase of cash and cash equivalents (131,474) 353,214 (59,638) Opening cash and cash equivalent balance 639,440 286,226 345,864 Closing cash and cash equivalent balance 507,966 639,440 286,226 The enclosed notes to the financial statements are an integral part of the balance sheet. 155 Notes to financial statements For the years ended on December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 1. Economic activity Mibanco, Banco de la Microempresa S.A. (hereithird parties and invest them together with its nafter “the Bank”) is a subsidiary of Grupo ACP capital, in the purchase of credits and securities, Inversiones y Desarrollo, which owns 60.68 and to provide guarantees and warrants, perform 60.07 percent of its common stock as of December financial intermediation transactions, provide 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Note 12 (a). The banking services and engage in other activities Bank is a corporation that was established in Peru allowed by the Bank Law. on March 2, 1998. The Bank’s legal address is Av. Domingo Orué The Bank’s objective is to carry out transactions 165, Surquillo, Lima, Peru. As of December 31, as are typical of a banking company, preferably 2011 and 2010, the Bank operated 117 and 111 targeting the micro and small business sector. offices in Lima and interior regions of the country, The Bank’s operative transactions are governed respectively. by the General Law of the Financial and Insurance The Financial Statements as of December 31, System, and Organic Law of the Superintendence 2010, and for the year ended on that date, were of Banking and Insurance (SBS) (hereinafter, the approved at the Bank’s Annual General Mandatory “Bank Law”) – Public Law N°26702, which sets forth Shareholders’ Meeting, held on March 17, 2011. the requirements, rights, obligations, guarantees, The Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011, restrictions and other operating conditions to for the year ended on this date, were approved by which the juridical persons governed by private Management and the Board on January 12 and law operating in the financial and insurance system 19, 2012, respectively, and will be submitted for are subjected. The Bank is authorized to operate as approval before the Annual General Mandatory a multiple bank by the Superintendence of BanShareholders’ Meeting, within the term establisking, Insurance and Pension Fund Administration hed by law. In the opinion of Management, the Companies (AFP) (hereinafter, “SBS”), pursuant attached financial statements will be approved to the legal regulations in force in Peru. As such, by the Annual General Mandatory Shareholders’ the Bank is authorized to accept deposits from Meeting without modification. 156 fiNancial statements 2. Accounting principles and practices In preparing and presenting the enclosed finanloans, the valuation of investments, estimations cial statements, the Bank’s Management has of useful life and recovery value of properties, complied with SBS regulations in force in Peru furniture, equipment and intangible goods, as December 31, 2011 and 2010. We present the provision for tradable goods, received in below the main accounting principles used payment and already repossessed and deferred in preparing the Bank’s financial statements: income taxes, the accounting criteria for all of which are described in this note. (a) Bases for presentation, use of estimates and accounting changes (ii) Changes in accounting principles At the meeting for the International Financial (i) Bases for presentation and use of Reporting Standards Interpretations Commitestimates tee (IFRIC), hereinafter the “Council”, held on The enclosed financial statements were preNovember 2010, it was concluded that workers’ pared in nuevos soles based on accounting profit sharing should be registered pursuant records pursuant to SBS regulations and, as a to IAS 19 “‘Employee Benefits” and not under complement, International Financial ReporIAS 12 “Income Taxes.” Consequently, an entity ting Standards (IFRS), adopted in Peru by the is obligated to recognize a liability only when Regulatory Accounting Council (hereinafter, the employee has provided his/her services, “CNC”, for the Spanish acronym) and in force and consequently, under this consideration, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. deferred workers’ profit sharing should not be The preparation of the enclosed financial stacalculated for time differences, because those tements requires Management to engage in would reflect future services that should not be estimates that affect the reported assets and regarded as obligations or rights under IAS 19. liabilities’ figures, as well as those concerning In Peru, the practice enforced was to compute the revenues and expenses and the disclosure and record the deferred workers’ profit sharing. of significant events in the notes to the financial On January 21, 2011, the SBS issued Multiple statements. The final results may differ from such Letter Nº 4049-2011, adopting the IFRIC interestimates. The estimates are regularly evaluated pretation as of January 2011. and are based on historical experience and The changes applied by the Bank after the other factors. The most significant estimates accounting treatment was established by the concerning the enclosed financial statements SBS are described below: relate to the provision for collection of doubtful Employees’ profit sharing for services rende157 red during the year will be registered as personnel inter-bank funds, investments available for sale, expenses in the statement of profits and losses, loan portfolio, accounts receivable (included in without creating deferred assets and liabilities unthe “Other assets, net” line item), and generally der such concept. As a consequence of adopting liabilities, except for income tax deferred liabithis criterion, a worker’s profit sharing expense lity. Likewise, all indirect credits are regarded was entered for an amount of approximately as financial instruments. Accounting policies S/.8,455,000, included under the “Personnel Exconcerning the recognition and valuation of penses” line item of the statement of profits and these items are disclosed in the respective losses for the year ended on December 31, 2011. accounting policies described in this note. Adopting the new accounting treatment will result in cancelling the deferred assets and (c) Recognition of revenue and expenses – liabilities for workers’ profit sharing and recalRevenue and expenses from interest are reculating the assets and liabilities for deferred corded under the results for the period when income tax using the 30% income tax rate. they accrue, as a function of the time period of The net effect of such cancelling and recalthe transactions that generate them and the culation totaled approximately S/.5,414,000, interest rates freely agreed upon with clients, which appears under the “Accumulated Profits” except for interest generated by past due credits, line item on the Statement of changes on net rescheduled and legal collection loans, and shareholders’ equity. credits classified as doubtful or loss, which are recognized as revenue as they accrue. When (b) Financial instruments Management determines the financial condition Financial instruments are classified as assets, of the borrower has improved, the loan is reliabilities or equity depending on the subsclassified from its condition to normal, potential tance of the contract agreement from which problems or deficient loans, and the interest is they originate. Interests, dividends, and profits recognized again as it accrues. and losses created by a financial instrument Income from interests includes yields from classified as an asset or liability are recorded fixed income investments, as well as recognition as revenues or expenses. Financial instruments of discount and premiums on financial instruare settled when the Bank has the legal right to ments. Dividends are recorded as revenue when settle them and Management expects to pay declared. Commissions for financial services are them on a net basis, or realize assets and pay recognized as revenue when earned. the liability simultaneously. Other revenue and expenses are recognized Financial assets and liabilities presented in as earned or incurred in the period when they the balance sheet correspond to availabilities, accrue. 158 fiNancial statements (d) Loan portfolio and provision for Likewise, Management periodically reviews and doubtful loans Direct credits are analyzes the loan portfolio and classifies it as entered when funds are disbursed to normal, potential problem, deficient, doubtful, clients. or loss depending on the degree of each indiIndirect (contingent) credits are entered when vidual borrower’s default risk. the document supporting such credit facilities For loans to non-retail borrowers, classifiare issued. Rescheduled placements are thocation in one of the above mentioned catese for which the repayment schedule and/or gories takes into account, among others, the amount of the initial placement is modified as following factors: the individual borrower’s consequence of the borrower’s impediment payment record, its track record of commercial to pay. relationships with the borrower’s management, Leasing transactions are accounted for using the transactions’ track record, the borrower’s the financial method and the capital for the repayment capacity and availability of funds, leased installments pending of payment are the collateral and guarantee condition, the entered as placements. As of December 31, 2011 analysis of the borrower’s financial statements, and 2010, the provision for the doubtful loans the borrower’s risk with other market financial was established following the criteria set forth institutions, as well as other relevant factors. by Resolution SBS Nº 11356-2008 “Regulations For loans awarded to retail borrowers, the for the assessment and classification of the boclassification is based principally on delay to rrower and provisioning requirements”(in regard repay. to the application of the procyclical rule) and As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the calResolution SBS N°6941-2008 “Regulations for culation of provisioning for indirect loans, which over indebtedness risk management concerning may be 0, 25, 50 and 100 percent, depending retail borrowers.” Pursuant to Resolution SBS on the type of loan, was determined based on N°11356-2008, the loan portfolio is classified as the credit conversion factor. As of June 2010, retail borrowers and non-retail borrowers. Retail the calculation of provisioning for indirect loans borrowers include individuals or companies was performed based on the total amount of holding direct and indirect credits classified as such credits. consumer (revolving and non-revolving), loans The calculation of provisioning for direct to micro enterprises, small enterprises or resiloans is performed based on the classification dential mortgage loans. Meanwhile, non-retail made and specific percent rates, which may lenders are individuals or companies who hold vary depending on whether or not the loans are direct or indirect credits awarded to corporabacked by preferred self-liquidating guarantees, tions and large and medium-sized companies. (CGPA cash deposits and rights associated with 159 stand-by letters of credit), or readily available macroeconomic conditions triggering that rule preferred guarantees (public debt instruments were met starting on that month. See note 6. such as treasury bonds issued by the Central Government of Peru and movable securities (e) Transactions in foreign currency. used in determining the blue chip index of Assets and liabilities in foreign currency are the Lima Stock Exchange, among others) or registered at the exchange rate on the date preferred guarantees (primary lien on finanwhen those transactions are carried out, and cial instruments and movable and immovable are expressed in Peruvian currency at the end goods, primary agricultural or mining liens, of each month using the exchange rate fixed by export credit insurance, and others), considered the SBS. Note 3. Profits or losses resulting from at their estimated realization value, which is re-expressing assets and liabilities in foreign assessed by independent appraisers. currency at the exchange rates in force as of If the loans are guaranteed through subsithe balance sheet date are recorded in the diary responsibility of a company of the financial results for the year. or insurance system (credits subject to substiNon-monetary assets and liabilities acquired tution by loan counterparty) the calculation of in foreign currency are recorded in nuevos soles the provision takes into account the guarantor’s at the exchange rate on the date of acquisition. classification. For calculation of provisions for clients clas(f) Investments available for sale. sified as doubtful or loss for over 36 and 24 The initial registration and subsequent measuremonths, respectively, the value of the guarantee ment of investments available for sale is perforis not taken into account, and the provision is med pursuant to resolution SBS N°10639-2008, calculated as if such credits were not guaranas amended. The initial book entry is made at teed at all. fair value, including transaction costs directly atProvisioning for direct loans are shown after tributable to the purchase of such investments. deducting the balance of the same from the The valuation of investments available for sale assets, while provisions for indirect loans appear will be at fair value, and the profits or losses orion the liabilities’ side. ginating from the difference between the initial Through Letter SBS N°B-2193-2010 dated book entry and its fair value will be recognized September 28, 2010 and until December 31, directly in the shareholders’ equity, unless that 2011, the SBS informed companies in the fivalue has deteriorated permanently. When the nancial system of the re-entry into force of the instrument is sold or realized, the profit or loss rates of the procyclical component of provisions previously recorded as part of the shareholders’ for direct and indirect credits by borrowers equity will be included in the year-end results. classified in the “normal” category, because For debt instruments, before their valuation 160 fiNancial statements at fair value, the amortized cost must be updated Negotiation derivative financial instruments in the accounting books by using the effective owned by the Bank correspond to forward interest rate methodology and, based on the foreign currency purchases with clients, which resulting amortized cost, the profits and losses are initially recognized in the balance sheet for the changes in fair value shall be recognized. at cost, subsequently taken to their fair value, Interests will be recognized using the effecgenerating an asset or a liability in the balance tive interest rate methodology, which inclusheet, and a corresponding profit or loss in des both the interest to be charged and the the profit and loss statement. Likewise, the amortization of the premium or discount for its nominal value of the transaction is registered adjudication. The bank shall evaluate, on each in the memoranda accounts at their value of balance sheet date, whether there is evidence reference in the appropriate currency. Fair values that the value of an instrument classified as an are obtained on the basis of foreign exchange investment available for sale has deteriorated, rates and interest rates in the market. which shall be recognized in the results for the year, even if the instrument has not been sold or (h) Property, furniture and equipment. removed. Resolution SBS N°10639-2008 states The property, furniture and equipment line item that if the SBS considers that it is necessary to is presented at purchase cost less accumulated establish an additional provision for any type depreciation and the cumulative amount of of investment, such a provision will be deterlosses resulting from devaluation of asset, if mined for each individual title and recorded in applicable. See paragraph (n) below. This item the year-end results for the year in which the includes the cost of goods purchased under SBS requires the provision. financial leasing contracts. See paragraph (j) The difference between revenue earned from below. sale of investments and their book value will be The initial cost of property, furniture and recognized in the profit and losses statement. equipment includes their purchase price as well as non-refundable purchase rates and taxes (g) Derivative financial instruments. and any other cost directly related to identiResolution SBS N°1737-2006 “Regulations for fing and repairing the asset for work and use. Trading and Accounting of Derivative Financial Disbursements incurred after the beginning of Products in Companies of the Financial System” operations or use of such properties, furniture as amended, establishes certain criteria for the and equipment, such as repairs and mainteaccounting registration of transactions with denance and refurbishing costs, will be added to rivatives classified as negotiation and hedging, the results of the period when such costs were and implicit derivatives. incurred. If it is shown that such disbursements 161 will result in future benefit from the use of such (i) Realizable goods, received as payment property, furniture and equipment, beyond their and repossessed. initial standard performance, such disburseRealizable goods include goods purchased ments will be capitalized as an additional cost with the specified purpose of leasing them and of those properties, furniture and equipment. are initially registered at purchase cost; those realizable goods which are not given under Works in progress and goods receivable are financial leasing arrangements are registered recorded at cost, including the cost of purchase at cost or market value, whichever is lower. or construction and other direct costs. These Goods received as payment, adjudication goods are not depreciated until the relevant and recovery (resulting from the termination of assets are received or finished and become a lease) are initially registered at their judicial, operational. The cost and the corresponding out of court, market value or unrealized value accumulated depreciation of assets sold or of debt, whichever is lower. In addition, a proremoved are removed from the corresponding vision equivalent to 20% of the adjudication or accounts and the resulting profit or loss is inrecovery value of that good shall be recognized. cluded in the results for the year. For this, the provision established for the related loan may be used. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is comSubsequently, additional provisions will be puted following the straight-line method and established pursuant to the following criteria: using the following useful life estimates: Movable goods – a uniform monthly provision is established, starting on the first month of the adjudication or recovery, for a period of twelve months until reaching 100% of the net Years value of adjudication or recovery. Immovable goods – uniform monthly proBuildings, facilities and other 20 and 33 visions shall be established based on the net constructions Buildings under book value on the twelfth month. 5 lease Additionally, Resolution SBS N°1535-2005 Installations and allows a six-month extension, in which case enhancements in leased 5 to 10 uniform monthly provision shall be established offices based on the net book value reached on the Furniture and equipment 10 eighteenth month. In both cases, provisions Transportation units 5 shall be established until reaching one hundred Computer equipment 4 percent of the net book value over a period 162 fiNancial statements of three and a half years, starting on the date will flow to the company and that their cost when the monthly uniform provisions started. can be measured on a reliable basis. After their The annual updating of those goods’ valuainitial recognition, intangibles are measured at tions determined by an independent expert cost less accumulated amortization. will result, if so required, in provisions for loss Intangibles include principally disburseof value. ments for purchases of software related to banking transactions and are amortized using (j) Leasing. the straight-line method over their estimated The Bank recognizes leases recording assets useful life of five years. and liabilities on the balance sheet at the beLikewise, they include disbursements relaginning of the contract period, for an amount ted to goodwill contracts and are amortized equal to the fair value of the leased property using the straight-line method over the life of or, if lower, at the present value of the leased the contract. installments. Initial direct costs are consideAs of December 2011 and 2010, the Bank red as part of the asset. Leased installments does not hold any unlimited useful life intanare distributed among financial charges and gibles. payment of liabilities. Financial charges are distributed among the (l) Outstanding securities, bonds and other term fo the lease so as to record interest expenobligations ses only on the balance amount of the liability Liabilities from the issuance of outstanding for each period. Leases result in expenses for securities, bonds and other obligations are asset depreciation as well as financial expenses recorded at face value plus incremental costs for each accounting period. When the assets are related to the transaction that are attributable sold or removed, their cost and depreciation, directly to the issue of the instrument. Accrued as well as any profit or loss resulting from their interest is recognized in the income. disposition, are eliminated and included in the profit and loss statement. (m) Deferred income tax The income tax is calculated based on taxable (k) Intangibles. income determined for tax purposes, as assesIntangibles are recorded initially at cost and sed, using criteria that differ from accounting presented in the “Other assets, net” line item of principles used by the Bank. the balance sheet. Note 8 (b). The Bank recogConsequently, the Bank records the deferred nizes an asset as intangible if it is likely that the income tax, which reflects the effects of tempoattributable future economic benefits it creates rary differences between assets and liabilities 163 on the balance, for accounting purposes and the Bank’s Management reviews the carrying tax purposes. Deferred assets and liabilities value of these assets in order to verify that there are measured using tax rates expected to be is no permanent impairment of value. When applicable to taxable income in the years in the value of the asset exceeds its recoverable which temporary differences are recovered or amount, impairment loss is recognized in the settled. The measurement of deferred tax liabiprofit and loss. The recoverable amount is the lities and assets reflects the tax consequences higher between the net selling price and the arising from the expected amount of assets value in use. The net selling price is the amount and liabilities that will be recovered or settled that is obtainable from the sale of an asset in on the date of the balance sheet. Deferred tax a free market, while value in use is the present assets and liabilities are recognized regardless value of estimated future cash flows from the of the moment where it appears that the temcontinued use of an asset and from its dispoporary differences will cease to exist. Deferred sal at end of its useful life. In Management’s tax assets are recognized when it is probable opinion, there is no evidence of impairment that sufficient taxable income will exist for the in the value of such assets as of December 31, deferred tax asset to be offset. At the balance 2011 and 2010. sheet date, Management assesses unrecognized deferred assets and the balance of recognized (o) Provisions assets, registering any previously unrecognized A provision is recognized when the Bank has a deferred tax asset in the amount needed so present obligation (legal or constructive) that future tax benefits may permit recovery, As a result of a past event, it is likely that or reducing a deferred tax assets if it is unlikely resources will be required to settle the oblithat there will be sufficient future tax benefits to gation, and the amount of the obligation can allow for the use of part or the entire deferred be reliably estimated. Provisions are reviewed asset recognized for accounting purposes. and adjusted each period to reflect the best As established by the accounting standard, estimate as of the date on the balance sheet. the Bank determines its deferred income tax When the effect of the value of money over based on the tax rate applicable to undistributime is important, the amount of the provision ted profits, recognizing any additional tax on is the present value expected to be incurred in dividends on the date that liability is recognized. to settle the obligation. (n) Devaluation of long duration assets (p) Contingencies When events or economic changes indicate that Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the value of property, furniture and equipment the financial statements. They are disclosed in and intangible assets may not be recoverable, the notes to financial statements, unless the 164 fiNancial statements possibility of an economic outflow is remote. included under “Bonds payable” for Bank worker A contingent asset is not recognized in the benefits, which, from 2011 on, will appear under financial statements unless it is a probable “Other liabilities” on the Balance Sheet. contingency. Management believes that these reclassifications allow for a better presentation of the (q) Earnings per share Bank’s financial statements. Earnings per share have been calculated based on the weighted average number of shares (s) Cash and cash equivalents – outstanding on the balance sheet date. Shares Cash presented in the cash flow statement is arising from the capitalization of profits conscomprised of the balance available with original titute a stock split and therefore the weighted maturities of less than three months, without average calculation for the number of shares considering their expected accrued earnings, must consider those shares as if they had always excluding restricted funds. been outstanding. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank (t) New accounting decisions – has no dilutive financial instruments; therefore (t.1) Standards issued but not applicable the basic and diluted earnings per share are the in 2011 same. Note 19. On July 20, 2011, the SBS issued Resolution No. 8425-2011, which states that in determining (r) Reclassifications the level of additional cash equity, financial Where necessary, comparative amounts have institutions must have a process for assessing been reclassified to make them comparable the adequacy of their regulatory capital in acwith current year’s presentation. cordance with their risk profile, following the According to the SBS Multiple Letter desmethodology described in the resolution. cribed in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) above, S/.8,145,000 The additional capital required will equal and S/.8,484,000 were reclassified from “Profit the sum of the requirements of regulatory Sharing” to “Personnel expenses” in the statecapital calculated for each of the following ment of profit and loss for the years ended Decomponents: economic cycle, concentration risk, cember 31, 2010 and 2009. In the December 31, market concentration risk, interest rate risk and 2010 Balance Sheet approximately S/.3,790,000 other risks. Financial institutions have a period was reclassified (related to deferred profit shaof five years starting July 2012 to bring their ring) from “Assets for deferred income tax, net” total regulatory capital to the requested level. to “Other assets”. As of December 31, 2010, S/.20,550,000 were 165 (t.2) International Financial Reporting Stanrisks arising from these instruments. dards IFRS issued and in force internatioIFRS 8 “Operating Segments” nally and mandatory in Peru as of January This standard replaces IAS 14 “Segment Re1, 2012 or later porting” and states that the report by segment The CNC, through Resolution No. 048-2011should be in accordance with the “manageEF/94 dated January 6, 2012, approved the appliment approach”, i.e. using the same internal cation as of January 1, 2012 or later, according information formats used by management for to the effective date specified in each standard, making decisions. of the versions in force as of 2011 of IFRSs 1 to 13, IASs 1 to 41, 7 to 32 of the Interpretations (t.4) International Financial Reporting Committee (SIC) and 1 to 19 of the International Standards – IFRSs and interpretation of Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the International Financial Reporting StanOctober 2011 amendments to IASs, IFRSs and dards – IFRSs issued internationally but IFRIC issued internationally. not mandatory in Peru – The following IFRSs and IFRICs were issued in(t.3) International Financial Reporting Stanternationally as of December 31, 2011, but have dards – IFRSs issued and effective in Peru not yet been approved by the CNC or the SBS, so but not for financial entities – they do not apply to the Bank’s operations and, IFRS 7 and IFRS 8 were approved in Peru by therefore, the management has not estimated the CNC to be applied from 1 January 2009. their effects, if any, in the financial statements: However, the SBS issued Resolution No. 914IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” 2010, which postponed their entry into force (amended) applies to annual periods beginning for financial institutions without establishing a on or after July 1, 2012. defined term. These IFRSs address the following IAS 12 Income Taxes implements recovery issues of underlying assets and applies to annual IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” periods beginning on or after January 1, 2012. The objective of this standard is to provide IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” (amended) disclosures in the financial statements that applies to annual periods beginning on or afenable users to evaluate the significance of ter January 1, 2013. financial instruments on the financial position IAS 27 “Separate Financial Statements” and performance of the entity, by understanapplies to annual periods beginning on or afding the nature and extent of the financial ter January 1, 2013. instruments to which the entity is exposed, and IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint the methods used by the entity to manage the Ventures” (amended in 2011) applies to annual 166 fiNancial statements periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. finition of fair value and a source for measuring IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”: Modifies the it, as well as the requirements to use them as recording and classification of financial assets part of the IFRSs. and liabilities established in IAS 39 “Financial IFRSs 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be effective Instruments: Measurement and Valuation.”Chaninternationally on periods beginning on or ges are internationally mandatory for periods after January 1, 2013. starting on or after January 1, 2015. Because the standards detailed in paragraphs IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” (T.2) and (T.4) only apply as a supplement to the outlines the requirements for the preparation accounting standards of the SBS, they have no and presentation of consolidated financial staeffect on the preparation of the accompanying tements, when an entity controls one or more financial statements, unless the SBS adopts them entities. IFRS 10 replaces the consolidation in the future through the modification of the requirements of IAS 12 “Entities with Specific Accounting Manual for Financial System ComPurposes” and IAS 27 “Consolidated and Sepapanies or issues specific rules. The Bank has not rate Financial Statements”. estimated the effect on its financial statements IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements” addresses if those rules were to be adopted by the SBS. inconsistencies in joint business reports by requiring a single method for reporting shares in entities under shared control, and focuses on their rights and obligations rather than on their legal status. IFRS 11 replaces IAS31 “Participation in joint ventures” and IAS 13 “Entities under shared control – non monetary contribution of parties”. IFRS 12 Disclosure of Participation in Other Entities establishes the disclosure requirements for all types of participation in other entities, including entities under shared control, associated entities, special purpose entities and other out of balance investments. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement establishes new requirements for fair value measurement, improving the coherence of international standards and simplifying them by providing a de167 168 fiNancial statements 3. Transactions in foreign currency and exchange risk exposure Foreign currency transactions are at free market rates. Transactions in foreign currency are carried at free market exchange rates. As of December 31, 2011, the weighted average market exchange rate as published by SBS for transactions in U.S. Dollars was S/.2.695 for purchase and S/.2.697 for sale for every U.S. $ 1.00 (S/.2.808 for purchase and S/.2.809 for sale on December 31, 2010 for every U.S. $ 1.00, respectively). As of December 31, 2011, the exchange rate for accounting of asset and liabilities in foreign currency fixed by the SBS was S/.2.696 per U.S. dollar (S/.2.809 on December 31, 2010). Below is a breakdown of the Bank’s assets and liabilities in foreign currency, expressed in U.S. dollars. 2011 2010 US$ (000) US$(000) Assets Available 57,844 53,481 Inter-bank funds 26,014 Marketable investments available for sale 12,015 Loans portfolio, net 225,597 234,134 Other assets, net 4,130 2,522 325,600 290,137 Liabilities Obligations with the public (219,306) (176,730) Inter-bank funds (3,000) Deposits from companies within the financial system (6,298) (12,060) Debits and financial obligations (93,464) (94,062) Outstanding shares, securities and obligations (1,429) (4,286) Other liabilities (3,940) (3,830) (327,437) (290,968) Net liability position (1,837) (831) 169 As of December 31, 2011, the Bank has the public. These funds are kept in the vaults contingent foreign currency transactions of of the Bank and the Central Reserve Bank of approximately U.S. $ 272,000, equivalent to Peru (BCRP), and remain within the limits set approximately S/.733,000 (U.S. $ 459,000 equiby the legal provisions in force. valent to approximately S/.1, 289.000 as of The legal reserve maintained at the CenDecember 31, 2010). tral Bank does not bear interest, except for In previous years, devaluation (revaluation) the part payable in foreign currency and in of the Peruvian currency against the dollar and local currency if in excess of the minimum inflation, according to the Wholesale Price Index legal reserve requirement. As of December published by the National Institute of Statistics 31, 2011, excess foreign currency amounts and Information, were as follows: to approximately U.S.$35,329,000, equivalent to approximately S/.95,247,000, and accrued interest in dollars at an average rate of 0.17 Devaluation percent per year (U.S.$23,496,000, equivalent Inflation Year (revaluation) % to approximately to S/.66,000,000, at an avera% ge rate of 0.16 percent per year, to December 2007 (6.3) 3.9 31, 2010); while excess domestic currency is 2008 4.8 6.7 approximately S/.177,832,000 and accrued 2009 (8.0) 0.3 interest at an average rate soles of 2.45 percent 2010 (2.8) 2.1 per year (S/.49, 934.000, at an average rate of 2011 (4.0) 4.7 1.2 percent annually, as of December 31, 2010). As of 31 December, 2011, available funds included mainly a term deposit with the BCRP for S/.35,000,000, which matured on January 2, 4. Funds available 2012. As of December 31, 2010, available funds included principally 18 term deposits with the BCRP for a total S/.200,200,000, which matured As of December 31, 2011, the “Cash” heading in between January and February 2011. the balance sheet includes approximately U.S. Deposits in domestic and foreign are mainly $ 22,258,000 and S/.201,775.000 (U.S. $ 31,383 balances in soles, freely available and generamillion and S/.180,756,000, as of December ting interest at market rates. As of December 31, 2010) representing the legal reserve that 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had deposits with the Bank must maintain for its obligations to domestic and international banks. 170 fiNancial statements 5. Investments available for sale (a) The table below shows the composition of this of heading: 2011 2010 Estimated Estimated Amortized Unrealized Amortized Unrealized reasonable reasonable cost Profit / Loss cost Profit / Loss value value S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Common shares 97 40 137 97 45 142 Sovereign Bonds of the Republic 22,911 374 23,285 9,393 13 9,406 of Peru (b) Certificates of Deposit issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru 309,626 (30) 309,596 – BCRP (c) Mutual funds 32,356 35 32,391 364,990 419 365,409 9,490 58 9,548 Accrued interests 120 22 Total 365,529 9,570 b) Sovereign bonds are issued in soles by of December 31, 2011, certificates of deposit the Peruvian Government. As of December 31, issued by the Central Bank are denominated in 2011, the bonds bear interest at rates ranging soles, are short term and mature in December between 4.05% and 6.52% annually (between of 2012. They earned effective interest rates 5.88% and 6.77% per year between September between 4.04$ and 4.22% annually.. 2013 and December 31, 2010), and will mature between September 2013 and August 2037 (d) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Ma(between August 2020 and 2037, as of Decemnagement has estimated the market value of ber 31, 2010). investments available for sale on the basis of prices in the market or, in their absence, by (c) Certificates of deposit are issued at a discounting expected cash flows at a rate of discount and are awarded at public auction and interest that reflects the security’s risk classiare traded on the secondary market in Peru. As fication. 171 (e) Below is the balance of investments available for sale as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, classified by maturity: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Up to 1 month 94,975 From 1 to 3 months 20,828 From 3 months to 1 year 193,794 From 1 to 5 years 13,066 5 years and more 10,218 9,406 Without maturity (equity) 32,528 142 Total 365,409 9,548 6. Loan portfolio, net (a) (a) Below is a breakdown of direct loans: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Direct loans Loans 3,787,677 3,335,270 Leasing 94,008 68,482 Factoring 24,104 24,479 Credit card 5,518 6,124 Refinanced loans 122,220 108,319 Overdue and legal collection loans 153,290 113,692 4,186,817 3,656,366 Plus (minus) Accrued yield of current loans 69,925 72,533 Interest accruable and interest collected in advance (20,956) (17,111) Provision for doubtful loans (e) (261,735) (202,030) (*) The indirect loan portfolio is comprised entirely of surety Direct loans 3,974,051 3,509,758 bonds and guarantees, and is shown under “Debit contingent Indirect loans (*) 3,645 4,144 memorandum accounts” of the balance sheet. Note 14 (a). 172 fiNancial statements (b) According to SBS regulations, the Bank’s loan portfolio (direct and indirect) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is classified by risk as follows: 2011 2010 Direct Loans Indirect Loans Total Direct Loans Indirect Loans Total S/.(000) % S/.(000) % S/.(000) % S/.(000) % S/.(000) % S/.(000) % Normal 3,760,343 89.81 3,642 99.92 3,763,985 89.82 3,283,830 89.82 4,144 100.00 3,287,974 89.82 Potential problems 179,590 4.29 179,590 4.29 169,301 4.63 169,301 4.63 Deficient 66,108 1.58 2 0.05 66,110 1.58 73,980 2.02 73,980 2.02 Doubtful 77,090 1.84 1 0.03 77,091 1.84 67,375 1.84 67,375 1.84 Loss 103,686 2.48 103,686 2.47 61,880 1.69 61,880 1.69 4,186,817 100.00 3,645 100.00 4,190,462 100.00 3,656,366 100.00 4,144 100.00 3,660,510 100.00 (c) (c) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Fixed Procyclical there is no significant concentration of creType of Loan rate component (*) dit risk due to the type of operations the % % Bank runs. Corporate 0.70 0.40 Large (b) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, fi0.70 0.45 companies nancial institutions in Peru should establish Medium-size 1.00 0.30 a provision for loan losses based on the risk companies classification indicated in paragraph (b) Small 1.00 0.50 above, using the percentages fixed by SBS companies Resolution N ° 11356-2008 and SBS ResoluMicrobusinesses 1.00 0.50 tion No. 6941-2008, respectively, as follows: Housing mortgages 0.70 0.40 Consumer revolving 1.00 1.50 (i) For loans classified as “Normal” as loan of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Consumer non1.00 1.00 following percentages apply: revolving loan (*) If the credit is a preferred self-liquidating loan (CGPA), the cyclical component will be 0%, 0.25% or 0.30% depending on the type of loan. 173 (ii) For loans classified as “Potential Problem”, “Doubtful” and “Loss”, depending on whether they are Unsecured loans (CSG), loans with preferred guarantees (CGP), loans with readily available preferred guarantees (CGPMRR) or loans with preferred self-liquidating guarantees (CGPA), as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the following percentages apply: CSG CGP CGPMRR CGPA Risk category % % % % Potential problems 5.00 2.50 1.25 1.00 Deficient 25.00 12.50 6.25 1.00 Doubtful 60.00 30.00 15.00 1.00 Loss 100.00 60.00 30.00 1.00 For loans that have amounts earmarked for replacement counterparty credit, note 2 (d), the requirement of provisions depends on the classification of the respective counterparty, and the amount covered, regardless of the classification of the debtor; using the percentages listed above. (e) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 the balance of placements by loan type is as follows: 2011 2010 Types of Loans S/.(000) S/.(000) Corporate 17,233 29,146 Large companies 9,161 6,380 Medium-size companies 136,010 89,580 Small companies 2,584,372 2,116,433 Microbusinesses 1,198,913 1,189,712 Mortgage loans for housing 108,257 77,678 Consumer revolving loan 5,765 6,345 Consumer non-revolving loan 127,106 141,092 Total 4,186,817 3,656,366 174 fiNancial statements (f) The movement in the allowance for doubtful collection loans, as determined by their risk rating, requires the provisioning percentages specified in paragraph (d) above; the rules on provisions stated in note 2 (d) were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Balance as of January 1. 202,030 157,701 78,786 Provision recognized as expense for the year (*) 440,933 421,748 272,544 Provision recoveries (169,906) (152,889) (48,705) Write-offs for the year (209,331) (222,070) (142,465) Difference in exchange rate, net (1,991) (2,460) (2,459) Balance as of December 31 261,735 202,030 157,701 (*)As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, procyclical provisions totaled S/.18,850,000 and S/.16, 628.000, respectively. Notes 2 (d) and 6 (d) (i). As of December 31, 2011, the Bank kept a under the loans’ agreed timeframe and in the voluntary provision, in addition to the minicurrency in which the loan is awarded. As mum required by the SBS for loan losses, in of December 31, 2011 they ranged between order to cover estimated additional risks in 14.13 %and 59.00 % annually for MES credits the loan portfolio amounting to S/.34,513,000 in local currency and between 10.52 %and (S/.27,522,000 as of December 31, 2010), 46.08 % annually for foreign currency loans shown under “Provision for loan losses” in (from 13.00 % to 59.00 % per annum for the balance sheet. loans in local currency and between 12.00 % In the opinion of Management, the provision and 55.00 % per annum for foreign currency for loan losses recorded by the Bank as of loans, as of December 31, 2010). December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, is in accordance with the rules and authorizations (h) During 2011 and 2010, the Bank has of the SBS in force at those times. Note 2 (d). made sales from the written-off portfolio of its affiliate Conecta Centro de Contacto S.A. (g) The Bank is free to set interest rates as (Conecta Contact Center SA), See note 14 (d). a function of market supply and demand 175 (i) The direct loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, classified by maturity, appears below: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Up to 3 months 1,386,358 1,171,644 From 3 to 6 months 562,118 519,074 From 6 months to 1 year 837,776 751,482 1 year or more 1,247,275 1,100,474 Overdue and legal collection loans 153,290 113,692 4,186,817 3,656,366 176 fiNancial statements 7. Properties, furniture and equipment, net (a) The table below shows the composition of this heading: Buildings, IInstallations Works in Furniture facilities and Transportation Computer progress Land and Total 2011 Total 2010 and other enhancements units equipment and goods S/.(000) equipment S/.(000) S/.(000) constructions inleasedoffices S/.(000) S/.(000) in transit S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Cost Balance as of January 1 26,800 37,006 45,028 28,367 6,245 35,645 3,885 182,976 146,623 Additions 1,336 10,102 3,238 561 3,480 5,845 24,562 45,900 Sales (94) (282) (849) (1,225) (6,974) Transfers 2,506 1,320 494 (4,320) Withdrawals and others (411) (238) (734) (246) (1,629) (2,573) Balance as of 26,800 40,848 54,719 32,593 5,790 38,524 5,410 204,684 182,976 December 31 Accrued depreciation Balance as of January 1 4,514 23,939 9,116 3,868 19,251 60,688 48,616 Depreciation for the year 2,228 5,593 3,523 858 7,039 19,241 19,124 Sales (72) (231) (845) (1,148) (5,148) Withdrawals and others (411) (110) (414) (210) (1,145) (1,904) Balance as of 6,742 29,121 12,457 4,081 25,235 77,636 60,688 December 31 Net book value 26,800 34,106 25,598 20,136 1,709 13,289 5,410 127,048 122,288 (b) Financial entities in Peru are prohibited (c) The Bank maintains insurance on its main from pledging their fixed assets. assets in accordance with the policies established by Management. 177 8. Other assets and other liabilities (a) The table below shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Other assets, net ntangibles, net (b) 25,036 16,241 Payment on account of income tax, net 8,978 16,200 Insurance receivable 8,145 1,817 Prepaid expenses 4,179 3,737 Accounts receivable under FOGAPI Agreement 3,733 6,315 Prepaid advertising 2,851 533 Other accounts receivable, net 1,632 2,062 Operations in process (d) 919 120 Advance payment of windfall earnings (c) 844 1,873 Miscellaneous supplies 573 802 Prepaid rental 550 1,473 Goods received in payment and repossessed 205 991 Prepayment to suppliers 249 535 Tax credit from leasing value added tax (IGV) 1,937 Third-party accounts receivable 314 Other 8,533 9,942 66,427 64,892 Other liabilities Employee benefits 31,600 20,550 Vacations payable 22,319 18,953 Accounts payable to suppliers and services 9,046 13,536 Insurance payable 8,642 1,862 Profit sharing 8,146 9,061 Operations in process (d) 5,728 3,373 Other personnel expenses 3,776 12,692 Cancellation of certificates as collateral 2,660 1,530 Provisions for contingencies and others 2,008 2,270 Accounts payable under FOGAPI Agreement 1,488 3,088 Deposits insurance fund 1,416 1,237 Promotion campaigns 1,139 1,031 Accounts payable to leasing suppliers 235 3,491 Miscellaneous accounts payable 9,937 8,975 108,140 101,649 178 fiNancial statements (b) The table below shows the composition of this heading: Organization Goodwill Software (*) Total 2011 Total 2010 expenses (limited life) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Cost Balance as of January 1, 2011 1,017 33,379 821 35,217 26,242 Additions 13,259 107 13,366 8,975 Balance as of December 31, 2011 1,017 46,638 928 48,583 35,217 Amortization Balance as of January 1, 2011 1,017 17,690 269 18,976 16,424 Amortization for the year 4,413 158 4,571 2,552 Balance as of December 31, 2011 1,017 22,103 427 23,547 18,976 Net book value 24,535 501 25,036 16,241 (*) During the years 2010 and 2011, the Bank incurred disbursements related to the acquisition of a new Enterprise Resources Planner (ERP), which is being implemented (c) Corresponds to an incentive granted to the and is recorded under “Personnel expenses” Bank’s key operational staff in 2007, subject in the statement of profit and loss. Note 16. to a commitment to stay with the institution for five years. In case of breach of agreement (d) Transactions in progress are mainly reby the employee, the worker is bound to lated to operations for the last day of the refund the entire amount of the incentive month and are reclassified to their accounts received. The amount accrued for this item as in the next month’s balance sheet. of December 31, 2011 and 2010 amounted to These transactions do not affect the Bank’s S/.1,639,000, and S/. 1,633,000, respectively, income. 179 9. Obligations with the public (a) The table below shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Term deposits 2,771,556 2,215,621 Savings 476,087 315,960 Marketable certificates of deposit 191,549 160,560 Checking account 84,510 63,505 Severance payments (CTS) 48,658 25,477 Other obligations 9,711 9,885 3,582,071 2,791,008 Interest payable 48,547 36,359 Total 3,630,618 2,827,367 (b) As of December 31, 2011, the Deposit Insu(c) Interest rates applied to different bonds rance Fund (FSD) totaled S/.91,621 (S/.85,793 payable accounts are determined by the Bank to December 31, 2010). As of December 31, considering prevailing rates in the Peruvian 2011 and 2010, total deposits of approximamarket. tely S/.1,061.1 million and S/.894.5 million were protected by the Deposit Insurance (d) Following is the balance of deposits as Fund, respectively. of December 31, 2011 and 2010, classified by maturity: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Up to 1 month 491,831 509,495 1 to 3 months 671,035 535,557 3 months to 1 year 1,252,080 924,071 More than 1 year 356,610 246,498 2,771,556 2,215,621 180 fiNancial statements 10. Financial debts and obligations (a) The table below shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) By type Obligations with foreign financial institutions (b) 475,993 491,872 Obligations with local financial institutions (c) 130,368 248,703 606,361 740,575 Interest payable 7,112 9,842 613,473 750,417 By term Short-term portion 202,957 321,492 Long-term portion 410,516 428,925 Total 613,473 750,417 181 (b) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the following are included: Currency of Entity Country of origin Date due 2011 2010 origin S/.(000) S/.(000) Between May 2013 International Finance Corporation – IFC (*) United State of America S/. US$ 126,907 85,494 and January 2017 Between May 2013 Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo – BID (*) United State of America S/. 94,182 101,576 and May 2015 Nerdelandse Financierings – Maatschappij Voor Between April 2013 Holland S/. US$ 48,525 63,173 Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. – FMO (*) and March 2015 Between February 2018 Instituto de Crédito Oficial de España (*) Spain US$ 46,375 48,319 and February 2020 Global Microfinance Facility (*) Cayman Islands US$ April 2014 26,960 28,090 Societe de Promotion et de Participation pour la France S/. September 2015 26,000 26,000 Cooperation Economique S.A. – PROPARCO (*) Credit Suisse Microfinance Fund Luxemburg US$ March 2012 20,220 21,068 Microfinance Enhancement Facility – MEF Luxemburg US$ March 2016 18,872 Between November 2011 Corporación Interamericana de Inversiones (*) United States of America S/. – US$ 17,524 23,000 and September 2016 BlueOrchard Dexia Micro-Credit Fund (*) Luxemburg S/. June 2012 9,000 9,000 Between June 2019 Triodos SICAV II Triodos Microfinance Fund (*) Luxemburg US$ 8,550 16,854 and January 2020 Acción Investment In Microfinance SPC United States of America US$ August 2016 8,088 8,427 VDK Spaarbank (*) Belgium US$ August 2012 8,088 8,427 Responsability SICAV Luxemburg US$ March 2012 6,740 7,022 Wells Fargo Holland US$ April 2012 5,392 Triodos Custody BV – Triodos Fair Share Fund (*) Holland US$ January 2019 4,570 14,045 Between February Otras instituciones financieras del exterior S/. US$ 31,377 and July 2011 Total 475,993 491,872 (*) These loans include specific agreements on financial conditions to be maintained relating to compliance with financial ratios and other administrative matters. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank’s Management believes that it has substantially complied with the conditions established for these transactions. 182 fiNancial statements (c) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 it includes the following: Currency Entity of origin Date due 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Between June Banco de la Nación S/. 2011 and 70,000 83,065 August 2012 Between Scotiabank Perú S.A.A. S/. February and 19,420 14,200 May 2012 Banco Internacional del Perú S.A.A. Interbank S/. May 2012 15,000 5,112 Banco de Crédito del Perú S.A. BCP S/. May 2012 10,000 COFIDE S.A. Coficasa S/. US$ April 2024 8,995 8,331 COFIDE S.A. Fondo Mivivienda (i) US$ April 2026 6,953 8,870 COFIDE S.A. (ii) S/. October 2011 90,625 Between Citibank del Perú S.A. S/. February and 38,500 May 2011 130,368 248,703 i) The liabilities of the Mivivienda Fund are secured by promissory notes of the mortgage loans under the same heading. (ii) As of December 31, 2010, as security for the funds received from COFIDE, the Bank maintained a long-term portfolio of credit in favor of that financial institution totaling S/.90,625,000. (iii) Transactions with local financial entities yielded an annual effective interest rate ranging between 3.85 % and 7.18 % in 2011 (2.50 and 8.15 % in 2010). (iv) In general, credit lines granted by local financial institutions do not include, as part of the agreements, financial conditions that the Bank must abide by. 183 (d) As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the timetable for liquidation of debts and financial obligations is as follows: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Up to 3 months 48,965 63,888 3 months to 1 year 153,992 257,604 1 to 3 years 270,835 284,488 3 to 5 years 102,373 84,126 More than 5 years 37,308 60,311 Total 613,473 750,417 11. Outstanding shares, securities and obligations (a) The table below shows the composition of this heading: Face value Payment Amount Outstanding amounts Outstanding amounts Issuance annual of Maturity used 31.12.11 31.12.10 interest rate interest % (000) US$(000) S/.(000) US$(000) S/.(000) Corporate bonds (b) First issuance 7.38 semestral 2011 S/.30,000 10,000 Third issuance 7.00 semestral 2012 S/.30,000 8,571 17,142 Fourth issuance 6.38 semestral 2012 US$10,000 1,429 3,852 4,286 12,039 1,429 12,423 4,286 39,181 Interest payable 135 297 Total 12,558 39,478 184 fiNancial statements (b) Board meetings held November 17, 2005 12. Net equity and November 16, 2006 authorized the second program of corporate bonds by the (a) Capital Stock Bank, effective until November 14, 2008; As of December 31, 2011, the Bank’s share by Resolution N ° 908 2009, on February capital is represented by 343,010,000 ordi18, 2009 SBS authorized their extension for nary shares fully subscribed and paid out, ditwo (2) additional years under the same vided into 325,510,000 “Class A “ voting shares conditions. and 17,500,000 non-voting “Class B” shares (186,764,000 and 244,764,000 voting shares as The Bank could issue securities of up to a of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively), maximum of S/.150,000,000 or its equivalent with face value of one nuevo sol per share. in U.S. dollars. The funds raised through the As of December 31, 2011, registration in puissuance of bonds for public offering were blic registries is underway for 43,750,000 shares used to finance operations in the Bank’s line (26,250,000 “Class A” shares and 17,500,000 of business. “Class B” shares) which at that date will enjoy their full rights. (c) Corporate bonds are not backed by The Mandatory Annual General Shareholders specific guarantees. During 2011, the Bank Meeting held on March 17, 2011, approved redeemed all of its corporate bond issues capitalizing retained earnings for the year 2010 for a total of S/.26, 758,000 (S/.47,176,000 by S/.54, 495.944. of the First issue A, First issue B, Third issue The Mandatory Annual General Shareholders and Fourth issue, in 2010). Meeting held on March 18, 2010, approved capitalizing retained earnings for fiscal year (d) As of December 31, 2011, the amortization 2009 by S/.58, 000,000. schedule of these obligations only covers The Mandatory Annual General Shareholders the 2012 period. Meeting held on March 19, 2009, approved capitalizing retained earnings for fiscal year 2008 by S/.46, 000,000. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, capital stock ownership composition is as follows (in percentage): 185 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, capital stock ownership composition is as follows (in percentage): 2011 2010 2009 % % % Grupo ACP Inversiones y Desarrollo S.A. 60.68 60.07 60.07 Acción Investments in Microfinance SPC 9.36 9.36 9.36 International Finance Corporation – 6.50 6.50 6.50 Acción International 6.33 6.33 6.33 Stiching Hivos – Triodos Fonds 4.75 5.45 5.45 Stiching Triodos – Doen 4.75 5.45 5.45 Triodos Fair Share Fund 1.64 0.92 0.92 Corporación Financiera de Inversiones 1.53 Ducktown Holdings S.A. 1.22 La Positiva Cía. de Seguros y Reaseguros S.A. 1.19 2.58 2.15 La Positiva Vida Seguros y Reaseguros 0.57 2.63 2.63 Others 1.48 0.71 1.14 100.00 100.00 100.00 (b) Legal reserve The Mandatory Annual General Shareholders In accordance with the provisions of the Law of Meeting held on March 18, 2010 approved Banking and Insurance, the Bank must reach a increasing the legal reserves by S/.9,962,000. legal reserve not smaller than 35% of its paid up The Mandatory Annual General Shareholders capital. This reserve is funded through annual Meeting held on March 19, 2009 approved appropriation of at least 10% of its net income increasing the legal reserves by S/.9,253,000. and can only be used to absorb losses or its capitalization, with obligation to replenish in (c) Capital contributions both cases. As of December 31, 2011, the capital preThe Mandatory Annual General Shareholders mium for shareholders’ contributions reached Meeting held on March 17, 2011 approved S/.96,250,000. increasing the legal reserves by S/.9,715,000. 186 fiNancial statements (d) Dividend distribution (e) Non realized income – The Mandatory Annual General Shareholders As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 the net Meetings held on March 17, 2011, March 18, non realized income corresponded to the net 2010, and March 19, 2009 agreed to distribute earnings and loss from changes in investments dividends earned in 2010, 2009 and 2008 for available for sale. Note 5(a). approximately S/. 27,518,000, S/. 29,127,000, and S/. 29,752,000, respectively. (f) Effective shareholders’ equity As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank’s net shareholders’ equity was determined as follows. 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Tier 1 Effective Stockholders’ Equity Paid up capital 299,260 244,764 Capital in process 26,250 Issuance premium 57,750 Legal reserve 55,200 45,485 Results for the year under capitalization agreement 45,400 438,460 335,649 Tier 2 Effective Stockholders’ Equity Capital in process 17,500 Issuance premium 38,500 Voluntary reserve 2,681 2,681 Subordinated debt 83,728 109,716 Generic provisions for loans (mandatory) 53,127 45,757 195,536 158,154 Total 633,996 493,803 187 In June 2008, Legislative Decree No. 1028 amended the Law on Banking and Insurance, and established that regulatory capital must be equal to or greater than 10% of assets and contingent credits weighted by total risk, which equal the sum of: the capital requirement for market risk multiplied by 10; the capital requirement for operational risk multiplied by 10; and credit risk weighted assets and contingent credits. This calculation must include any exposure or asset in local or foreign currency. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the minimum requirement was 10.0 % and 9.8%, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 1028, the Bank had the following assets and contingent loans weighted by risk and effective shareholders’ equity (basic and supplemental), as follows: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Assets and loans weighted by total risks 4,350,847 3,712,903 Effective stockholders’ equity 633,996 493,803 Effective basic stockholders’ equity 438,460 335,649 Effective supplementary stockholders’ equity 195,536 158,154 Global capital to effective stockholders’ equity ratio (in percentage) 14.57 13.30 Also, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, determine the level of additional cash equity, the Bank has complied with SBS Resolutions financial institutions should have in place a No. 2115-2009, No. 6328-2009, No. 14354 process for assessing the adequacy of their net 2009, Regulations for Regulatory Capital for assets based on their risk profile, following the Operational Risk, Market Risk and Credit Risk, methodology described in the resolution. The respectively, as amended. additional capital requirement shall equal the During 2010, through Letter No. 55995-2010 sum of the effective capital requirements caldated November 29, 2010, the SBS authorized culated for each of the following components: the Bank to adopt the alternative standardized economic cycle, concentration risk, market approach. concentration risk, interest rate risk and other On July 20, 2011, the SBS issued Resolurisks. Financial institutions will have a term of tion No. 8425-2011, which establishes that to five years from July 2012 to bring their total 188 fiNancial statements regulatory capital to the level requested in capital gains arising from the sale, redemption compliance with the percentages and dates or rescue of securities through centralized traestablished in SBS Resolution No. 8425-2011. ding mechanisms in Peru have become taxable. In the opinion of Management, the Bank will In this context, the Law of Income Tax holds have no problems in meeting the requirements that to establish the gross income resulting from established in the aforementioned resolution. the sale of securities acquired prior to January 1, 2010, registered in the Public Registry of Securities, the cost computable of such securities shall be the quoted price at the close of the taxable year 2009, or the acquisition cost, or 13. Taxes value of the equity income, whichever is greater. This rule applies to legal persons when (a) The Bank is subject to Peruvian Tax Law. securities are disposed of within or outside a The rate of income tax as of December 31, centralized trading mechanism in Peru. 2011, 2010 was 30% on taxable income, after On the other hand, provisions under Law No. deducting the share of profits paid to workers, 29,645 amended the rates for the deductions which, according to the provisions of the rules allowed to ​​ non-resident individuals. force, is calculated at a rate of 5%. On this basis, from the year 2011 on, the Legal persons not domiciled in Peru and indi4.99% withholding rate applies to the interest viduals must pay a 4.1% tax on dividends from paid to non-resident individuals. This rate will companies domiciled in the country. also be applicable to interest paid by the Bank to non-resident legal persons as a result of do(b) As of January 1, 2010, only capital interest mestic use of credit lines abroad. The 1% rate income and gains from bonds issued by the will continue to apply to interest on contracts Republic of Peru are tax exempt, as well as up through the end of 2010. interest and capital gains from Certificates of Similarly, the withholding rate of 4.99% will Deposit of the Central Bank of Peru, used for apply to interest from bonds and other debt monetary regularization. Capital interest and instruments, deposits, deposits made ​​pursuant gains from bonds issued prior to March 11, to the Financial System Act, and capital gains 2007 are also tax exempt. of such deposits, as well as to deposits, repos, Additionally, the exemption for yields from lending of securities and other interest from deposits made in the national financial system, credit operations of companies. if the recipient thereof is a legal entity, has been On the other hand, it should be noted that eliminated. On the other hand, as of 2010, the through Law No. 29,546, published on June 29, 189 2010, the exemption from the General Sales terpretations that the Tax Authority can make Tax on interest on securities issued by public regarding legal norms, it is not possible to offering by legal entities incorporated or esdetermine whether the revisions will be result tablished in the country was extended until in liabilities for the Bank, so any higher tax or December 31, 2012, provided the issue is made surcharge that may result from potential tax under the Securities Market Law, approved by revisions would be applied to the results of the Legislative Decree No. 861, or the Investment year in which it is determined. In the opinion Funds Act, approved by Legislative Decree No. of Management and its legal counsel, the 862, as appropriate. result of such reviews should not generate significant additional liabilities for the Bank. (c) For purposes of determining taxes on income and general sales, prices and amounts of consideration that were agreed in transactions between related parties or which are carried out through or across countries or territories with low or no taxation, documentation and information to support the valuation methods and criteria applied in its determination must be provided. The Tax Administration has the authority to request this information from the taxpayer. Based on the analysis of the Bank’s operations, Management and its legal counsel believe that the enforcement of these standards will not result in significant contingencies for the Bank, as of 31 December 2011 and 2010. (d) The Tax Authority has the power to review and, if necessary, adjust the income tax calculated by the Bank in the four years following the year in which the tax return is filled. The affidavits of income tax for the years 2007, 2008, 2010 and 2011, are subject to audit by the Tax Authority. Because of the possible in190 fiNancial statements (e) The income tax for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 appears below: Balance (Charge) Balance (Charge) Balance (Charge) Balance as of credit to as of credit to as of credit to as of January income December income December income December 2009 31, 2009 31, 2010 31, 2011 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Deferred assets Mandatory voluntary and generic provision for doubtful loans 10,491 9,314 19,805 3,394 23,199 3,223 26,422 Leasing installments, realizable assets, assets received through payment and repossession, differences in refurbishment depreciation rates in leased offices and others 3,113 1,477 4,590 1,485 6,075 972 7,047 Provision for vacations payable 3,227 766 3,993 1,693 5,686 842 6,528 Provision for contingencies 300 1,335 1,635 145 1,780 15 1,795 Suspended interest 135 135 135 (135) 17,266 12,892 30,158 6,717 36,875 4,917 41,792 Deferred liabilities Intangibles (2,051) (731) (2,781) (1,487) (4,269) (1,945) (6,214) Goodwill (limited life) (234) 70 (164) 41 (123) (31) (154) (2,285) (661) (2,945) (1,446) (4,392) (1,976) (6,368) Total deferred assets, net 14,981 27,213 32,483 35,424 Income for the year 12,231 5,271 2,941 191 (f) Income (expenses) for income tax includes: 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Income tax Current (45,503) (48,861) (57,918) Deferred 2,941 5,271 12,231 (42,562) (43,590) (45,687) (g) The following is the reconciliation of the tax rate of income tax to the effective rate of the Bank for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) % S/.(000) % S/.(000) % Earnings before income tax 151,985 100.00 140,733 100.00 142,776 100.00 Theoretical expense 45,596 30.00 42,220 30.00 42,833 30.00 Non-deductible expenses 2,570 1.69 7,257 5.15 11,429 8.00 Exempted and excluded income (5,604) (3.69) (5,887) (4.18) (8,575) (6.00) Expenses for income tax based on effective rate 42,562 28.00 43,590 30.97 45,687 32.00 192 fiNancial statements 14. Memoranda accounts (a) The table below shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 S/.(000) S/.(000) Contingent operations Indirect loans (b) Letters of Guarantee, note 6(a) 3,645 4,144 Other contingent operations Loans granted, undisbursed 367,588 290,401 Other 3,311 5,750 370,899 296,151 Total contingent operations 374,544 300,295 Other memoranda accounts Collateral received for loans 2,428,600 1,455,803 Guarantees granted for debt and financial obligations (c) 14,703 105,651 Bad debt write-offs (d) 393,997 359,843 Suspended interest 38,380 24,593 Securities in custody 28,535 15,685 Completely impaired fixed asset 3,593 3,593 Other memoranda accounts 23,530 18,738 Total other memoranda accounts 2,931,338 1,983,906 Total debt memoranda accounts 3,305,882 2,284,201 193 (b) In the normal course of its operations, the (c) These guarantees are issued primarily to Bank carries out contingent operations (indirect support the funding received from COFIDE loans). These operations expose it to additional and the appropriations funded. Note 10 (c). credit risk above and beyond the amounts recognized in the balance sheet. (d) During the years 2011 and 2010, the Bank The Bank applies the same credit policies for sold to a related entity the rights over written granting and evaluating the provisions for direct off loans granted to clients for approximately loans when performing contingent operations, S/.171,247,000, and S/.79,966,000, respectively, note 6, including obtaining guarantees when it which were totally provisioned. Note 18. so deems necessary. Guarantees vary and include deposits in financial institutions, securities The sales price and income generated in 2011 or other assets. Whereas most contingencies amounted to S/.14,882.000 (S/.5,768,000 in should reach maturity without the Bank ha2010), which is shown under “Other income, ving to deal with them, the total contingent net”in the statement of profit and loss. Note 18. operations (indirect loans) do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. 194 fiNancial statements 15. Financial income and expenses The table below shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Financial income Interest from loans portfolio 968,116 920,700 823,034 Income from sale of investments 4,921 2,721 3,464 Income from appreciation of investments 1,812 3,184 Interests from available funds 6,407 1,480 311 Interest and fees payable for inter-bank funds 1,151 1,327 1,837 Other financial income 342 830 131 Financial income before exchange rate difference, net 980,937 928,870 831,961 Difference in exchange rate, net 6,932 7,957 9,822 Total 987,869 936,827 841,783 Financial expenses Interest and fees payable for obligations with the public 135,087 93,492 91,047 Interests for indebtedness and obligations with foreign and local financing 45,478 49,738 52,931 institutions Interest payable for deposits from companies within the financial system 9,573 5,285 10,107 Premiums for the deposits insurance fund 5,555 4,481 3,509 Fees and other charges payable for financial obligations 4,289 4,712 4,889 Interest payable for outstanding shares, securities and obligations 1,888 4,617 7,177 Fees and other charges payable for financial obligations 810 89 246 Loss due to derivative financial instruments, net 42 1,433 6,187 Other financial expenses 3,520 1,810 84 Total 206,242 165,657 176,177 Gross financial margin 781,627 771,170 665,606 195 16. Personnel expenses The following table shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Salaries 165,555 146,483 116,779 Bonuses 26,702 23,816 19,021 Compensation for years of service 15,747 13,767 11,072 Pension funds 15,026 13,075 10,563 Other compensations 8,582 1,665 1,957 Profit sharing, note 2(a)(ii) 8,455 8,145 8,484 Personnel training programs 7,221 8,373 6,808 Transportation 7,003 6,309 4,740 Board of directors’ expenses 4,797 4,385 4,048 Advance payment of windfall earnings, note 8 (c) 1,639 1,633 1,314 Allowances 1,463 1,126 1,549 Bonuses 861 919 831 Windfall profit sharing 9,650 12,423 Other personnel expenses 16,191 16,319 9,153 279,242 255,665 208,742 Average number of workers 3,458 3,244 2,767 196 fiNancial statements 17. Expenses for services received (a) ) The following table shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Professional fees (b) 37,101 28,993 23,503 Advertising (c) 24,109 28,932 13,968 Lease expenses 19,672 15,650 14,855 Repair and maintenance 9,533 12,670 11,002 Transportation 8,700 11,087 8,718 Communications 8,149 7,028 5,504 Surveillance and protection 8,080 7,327 7,360 Services 4,265 3,772 3,345 Miscellaneous supplies 3,803 5,648 6,093 Public relations and events 3,078 4,021 4,125 Insurance 1,664 1,637 1,656 Risk central expenses 1,380 1,426 1,440 Studies and projects 1,160 1,595 1,918 Other 20,677 15,871 11,318 151,371 145,657 114,805 (b) The figures for year 2011 include (c) The figures for year 2011 include S/.7,946,000 and S/.3,917,000 for informaS/.9,317,000 and S/.7,920,000 for media tion technology and call center services, advertising and promotional campaigns, respectively, provide by related entities since respectively (S/.14,283,000 and S/.8,931,000 2009 (S/.10,308,000 and S/.6,709,000 in 2010, in 2010 and S/.7,037,000 and S/.2,371,000 and S/.8,005,000 and S/10,249,000 in 2009). in year 2009). 197 18. Other revenue, net The following table shows the composition of this heading: 2011 2010 2009 S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) Recovery of write-offs 16,449 13,822 11,749 Earnings from the sale of rights over loans granted 14,882 5,768 5,472 to clients, note 14 (d) Minor others, net 3,806 (1,038) (3,333) Total other income, net 35,137 18,552 13,888 198 fiNancial statements 19. Profit per share The weighted average number of shares and the earnings per share appear below. Outstanding Share base for Effective days in Weighted average shares calculation the year of common shares (en miles) (en miles) (en miles) 2009 Balance as of January 1, 2009 140,764 140,764 365 140,764 Capitalization of earnings, note 12(a) 46,000 46,000 365 46,000 Capitalization of earnings in 2010, note 12(a) 58,000 365 58,000 Capitalization of earnings in 2011, note 12(a) 54,496 365 54,496 Balance as of December 31, 2009 186,764 299,260 299,260 Earnings per share, basic and diluted 0.324 2010 Balance as of January 1, 2010 186,764 186,764 365 186,764 Capitalization of earnings, note 12(a) 58,000 58,000 365 58,000 Capitalization of earnings in 2011, note 12(a) 54,496 365 54,496 Balance as of December 31, 2010 244,764 299,260 299,260 Earnings per share, basic and diluted 0.325 2011 Balance as of January 1, 2011 244,764 244,764 365 244,764 Capitalization of earnings, note 12(a) 54,496 54,496 365 54,496 Capital contributions, note 12(a) 43,750 43,750 17 2,038 Balance as of December 31, 2011 343,010 343,010 301,298 Earnings per share, basic and diluted 0.363 199 20. Transactions with shareholders and related parties (a) The following are the principal balances of the accounts held by the Bank with its shareholders and related parties as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: Grupo ACP Conecta Protecta S.A. CSC Other Other Inversiones y Centro de Compañía de Innovación related shareholders Desarrollo Contacto S.A. Seguros S.A. entities S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) S/.(000) 2011 Assets Loans portfolio 11 3,754 Other assets 177 2,452 505 3,643 3,564 Liabilities Obligations with the public 10,898 1,316 7,131 715 8,437 Debits 148,115 Other liabilities 663 1,463 54 72 895 Income Income from interest 524 2 91 Income from miscellaneous services 10 15,115 22,232 130 54 Expenses for interest 630 8 50 2 6,478 152 Expenses for third-party services 1,430 15,316 600 7,991 1,610 Memoranda accounts Indirect loans and guarantees 6,764 13,644 2010 Assets Loan portfolio 8,342 26 2,702 Other assets 804 32 18 15 186 Liabilities Obligations with the public 15,030 904 3,490 445 6,646 Debts 124,820 Other liabilities 162 1,781 1,175 323 435 Income Income from interest 973 3 227 Income from miscellaneous services 7 4,186 20,323 278 133 Expenses for miscellaneous financial 2,749 services Expenses for interest 131 9 53 6 12,193 117 Expenses for third-party services 676 8,171 80 10,308 3,023 Memoranda accounts Indirect loans and guarantees 8,810 11,098 200 fiNancial statements Conecta Centro de Contacto S.A. – 2010), S/.2,738,000 (S/.2,922,000 as of DecemConecta Centro de Contacto S.A., provides teleber 31, 2010) and S/.814,000 (S/.839,000 as of phone, collections and telemarketing services. December 31, 2010), respectively. In 2011 the Bank held thirteen sales from the In 2011 and 2010 the Bank incurred in expenwritten off portfolio of Conecta Contact Censes for property insurance and risk disencumter SA for a total of S/.14, 882.000, Note 14 (d) brance with the La Positiva Cia. de Seguros y (S/.5,768,000 in 2010). Reaseguros S.A. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Protecta S.A. Compañía de Seguros.– La Positiva Cia. S.A. Seguros y Reaseguros held On January 2, 2009, the Bank signed a lease term deposits and current accounts. agreement for marketing services with ProIn 2010, the Bank had revenue for financial tecta Insurance SA, through which Mibanco is advisory services to related companies Microauthorized to promote and market insurance finance Uruguay SA, Forjadores de Negocios products to its customer base. S.A. and FIS Empresa Social (Emprenda) for an approximate amount of S/.117,000. CSC Innovacción S.A. – In May 2009, the Bank signed a contract for the (b) Certain shareholders and Bank officials provision of information technology services have made​​, directly or indirectly, credit tranwith CSC Innovation S.A. sactions with the Bank as permitted by the Law of Banking and Insurance, which regulates and Other shareholders.– restricts certain transactions with employees, As of December 31, 2011, the Bank has financing directors and officers of a bank. As of December from the following shareholders: IFC, Triodos 31, 2011, loans and other credits to employees Custody BV Triodos Fair Share Fund and Trioand directors of the Bank amounted to approdos SICAV II Triodos Microfinance Fund, and ximately S/.14,534,000 (S/.11,599,000 as of Action Investment in Microfinance SPC for December 31, 2010). S/.126,907,000 (S/.85, 494,000 as of December 31, 2010), S/.13,120,000 (S/.30,899,000 as of De(c) The total remuneration of the directors cember 31, 2010) and S/.8,088,000 (S/.8,427,000 was approximately S/.3,028,000, S/.3,855.000, as of December 31, 2010), respectively, note and S/.3,828.000 for the years 2011, 2010 and 10 (b), which generated interest expenses as 2009, respectively, as shown under “Personnel shown under “Interest expense” in the staexpenses” in the statement of profits and loss. tement of profit and loss, for the amount of The total remuneration of the key personnel of S/.2,927,000 (S/.8,432,000 as of December 31, the Bank, including the General Manager and 201 other managers, for the years 2011, 2010 and specific market fluctuations and price volatility 2009 amounted to S/.7,944.000, S/.8,100,000 of financial market factors, such as interest and S/10, 257.000, respectively. rates, exchange rates, commodity and equity investments. (d) Under current law, loans to related parties The Bank establishes internal limits that cannot be made on terms more favorable than are monitored continuously. However, the use those granted by the bank to the public. The of this control measure does not eliminate Management of the Bank believes that it has all the risk that losses may occur beyond the complied with all the requirements established established limits in case of extreme market in the existing legal provisions for transactions price fluctuations. with related entities or individuals. Liquidity risk – The Bank is exposed to daily withdrawal of its 21. Risk assessment available cash resources for its bonds payable from one day to another, or from current The Bank’s activities are mainly related to the accounts, maturing deposits, smaller loans, use of financial instruments. The Bank accepts guarantees and other withdrawals. deposits from customers at fixed and floating The Bank does not maintain cash resources rates with different terms, with the intent to to meet all these needs, as experience shows make a return by investing these funds in high that it is possible to estimate with a high degree quality assets. The Bank seeks to increase these of certainty that a minimum level of funds will margins by consolidating short-term funds and be reinvested at maturity. lending for periods consistent with its funding The Bank’s Management sets limits on the to earn higher rates, using a variety of products, minimum amount of funds available to cover while maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet payment of deposits at maturity and on the all withdrawal that may occur. minimum level of interbank lending facilities and other types of loans (debts and financial Market risk – obligations) with which it should be possible to The Bank is exposed to market risks, which incover withdrawals in the event of unexpected clude the risk that the fair value or future cash levels of demand. flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due The processes of matching and mismatching to changes in market prices. Market risks arise control for the maturities and interest rates of from changes in positions inside and outside assets and liabilities are fundamental to the the balance, which are exposed to general and Bank, but it is unusual for financial institutions 202 fiNancial statements to be fully matched. Given the uncertain terms interest is coherent with fixed and variable rates of many transactions and their various types, prevailing in the market. Customer deposits and an uncovered position in the terms or rates other financial instruments are subject to risks can potentially increase profitability, but also arising from fluctuations in interest rates. The increases the risk of losses. maturity characteristics and relevant contractual The maturities of assets and liabilities and interest rates of financial instruments are disthe ability to replace, at an acceptable cost, closed in the notes to the financial statements. interest-bearing liabilities to maturity are imIn 2011 and 2010, the Bank did not engage portant factors in determining the liquidity of in transactions with hedging derivatives to the Bank and its exposure to changes in interest cover for this risk. rates and exchange rates. The notes to the financial statements include Exchange rate risk – an analysis of the Bank’s assets and liabilities The Bank is exposed to the effects of fluctuagrouped by date of contract maturity. tions in prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows. Cash flow and fair value risks due to changes Management sets limits on the level of expoin interest rates sure from currency and on the total number Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the of “overnight” transactions, which it monitors cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate constantly. because of changes in market interest rates. Fair Most assets and liabilities are held in nuevos value interest rate risk is the risk that the value soles. Foreign currency transactions are made of a financial instrument will fluctuate because at market rates. The Bank’s assets and liabilities of changes in market interest rates. in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2011 The Bank takes positions that are exposed to and 2010 are shown in note 3. the effect of fluctuations in the prevailing levels The Bank entered into transactions with of market interest rates which affect its financial forward derivative currencuy financial products position and cash flows. Interest margins may to cover part of this risk, note 3. increase as a result of such changes but may reduce or create losses in the event of unexCredit risk – pected fluctuations. The Bank’s Management The Bank is subject to credit risk positions, which sets limits on the level of mismatch acceptable, is the risk that a customer cannot meet payment and this level is constantly monitored. at maturity. To hedge this risk, provisions are The resources for financing are obtained entered for losses that have been incurred in as primarily from short-term liabilities, whose of the balance sheet date. Significant changes 203 in the economy or in the situation of a particular industry segment reflecting a concentration 22. Fair value of of the Bank’s portfolio could result in losses financial instruments that are different from those recorded at the balance sheet date, for which reason the Bank’s Management Bank continuously monitors its The estimated fair or market value is the amount exposure to credit risk. for which an asset could be exchanged or a The Bank structures its levels of credit risk by liability settled between knowledgeable and setting limits on the amount of risk accepted in willing parties in an ordinary transaction, asrelation to one borrower or group of borrowers, suming that the entity is a ongoing concern. and by geographical and industry segments. When a financial instrument is traded in an Such risks are monitored constantly and active and liquid market, its quoted market subject to frequent review. The limits in the level price in an actual transaction provides the best of risk are approved by Management and are evidence of fair value. When the market price is part of current regulations. Exposure to credit not available, or may not be indicative of the fair risk is managed through regular analysis of the value of the instrument, the fair value may be ability of borrowers to meet interest and capital determined using the market value of another payments on their obligations and by chaninstrument (proxy) that is substantially similar, ging these lending limits where appropriate. through discounted cash flow analysis or other Exposure to credit risk is also managed in part applicable techniques, which are significantly by real and personal guarantees, but there is a affected by the assumptions used. Although significant part of the MES and consumer loans Management has used its best judgment in where no such guarantees can be obtained. estimating the fair values ​​of its financial insFinancial assets that present a potential truments, any such estimation technique will credit risk consist primarily of available funds, be inherently brittle to some extent and as a marketable investments available for sale, the result, fair value may not be indicative of net loans portfolio, derivative financial instruments realizable or settlement value. and other assets. Available funds, excluding The methodologies and assumptions used cash and trade, arte deposited with prestigious to determine estimated market values d ​​ epend financial institutions. The magnitude of the on the terms and risk characteristics of various maximum exposure to credit risk is represented financial instruments as follows: by bank balances of the amounts indicated The available funds are cash and short term above. Actual exposure and their comparison deposits that present no significant credit or to established limits are constantly reviewed. interest rate risk, so that their book value is 204 fiNancial statements equivalent to their estimated market value. market value does not significantly differ from As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, inthe book value. vestments available for sale are recorded at The Bank records transactions in finantheir estimated fair values, and consequently cial derivative instruments (forwards) at their the estimated fair value includes unrealized estimated market value, so that there are no potential gains that have been determined differences with their book value. based on the valuation of investments. Most Bank loans bear interest rates that can Consequently, as of December 31, 2011 and be adjusted to changes in market conditions, 2010, the Bank’s management believes that the and consequently, their book value, net of the estimated values ​​of financial instruments of credit risk theoretical provision at rates required the Bank do not differ significantly from their by the SBS, excluding increased procyclical carrying amounts. provisions as indicated in note 6, is considered a good fair value estimate of those assets on the date of the balance sheet. The market value of deposits and bonds is similar to their book value, mainly because most have current maturities and because interest rates generated are comparable to those of similar liabilities in the market on the balance sheet date. Debts to banks and correspondents bear interest at fixed and variable rates and/or preferential fees similar to those prevailing in the market. As a result, it is estimated that their book value does not differ significantly from their respective fair values​​. Outstanding bonds and debentures bear interest at fixed and variable rates by issue type. The fair value of the bonds is calculated using discounted cash flows at the effective interest rate for bank liabilities with similar characteristics. As a result of the calculation, the estimated 205 Auditor fees Fees for the year that ended on December 31, 2010 and 2011. 2010 2011 En miles de Nuevos Soles Audit 660 360 Audit related 102 135 Taxes 36 53 Other 2,667 1,209 Total 3,465 1,757 Details of the fees billed to the Bank, including professional services by firms Medina, Zaldivar, Paredes & Asociados SCRL, and Ernst & Young Advisors S. Civil RL, member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, are described below: Audit – Corresponds to fees for the audit of the Bank’s financial statements and revisions required by auditing standards. Audit-related Mainly services such as compliance reviews, review procedures and internal accounting control and fraud prevention reviews. Taxes Mainly review services for affidavits, technical advice on tax and transfer pricing study. Others Mainly revision services for operational risk controls, operational controls and review and control processes in the revenue cycle. 206 Estados financieros 207 8 Annual Report 2011 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Yohanna Portilla Bejarano, tutor advisor and her client, Yanina Hernández. Business: Fisheries. Office: Pisco. The annual report follows the principles and guidelines established by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international benchmark organization for the preparation sustainable annual reports. The level of demand implemented corresponds to application level A (as defined by this international organization). Therefore, a formal application of external verification has not yet been requested. The annual report’s content, open to audit by third parties, includes responses to central and financial, mandatory and voluntary GRI indicators. In this sense, Mibanco has implemented specific measures to ensure that financial information and any other data issued within the institutional communications’ framework is complete, correct and truthful. As a general rule, it is important to indicate that even though the whole of the content is adjusted according to the GRI protocols’ guidelines, there are cases in which an indicator is not part of Mibanco’s activities. On the other hand, reformulations of content with regard to previous fiscal years have not been performed, nor have significant changes regarding scope, boundary and valuation methods. In cases where there is a change with regard to the previous fiscal year, it is duly justified. No relevant limitations have been identified. In cases where a variation with regard to scope or boundary can be interpreted, this is duly explained in addition to the information provided. The content of Mibanco’s annual report includes GRI indicators. Finally, according to the GRI structure, the last pages of the document show an organized index detailing the location of indicators in this annual report. 210 Annual Report 2011 DEFINING ANNUAL REPORT PRINCIPLES FOR DEFINING CONTENT, COVERAGE AND QUALITY REPORT QUALITY PRINCIPLES FOR DEFINING Balance: Complete information of the activity or activities ANNUAL REPORT CONTENT regarding the indicator is presented. Positive outcomes and those The annual report’s content was defined taking requiring improvement are reported. into account the following principles: Accuracy: This report includes accurate and detailed information. It has been elaborated based on measurement techniques Completeness. Scope: Elements and indicators required by and standardized calculation bases regarding both financial the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) were applied in the general management and sustainability. Moreover, all activities are guide as well as in the supplement for the financial services sector. included and partial or non-reported information is justified. Coverage: The annual report’s data refers to Mibanco, Banco de Reliability: The information included in the annual report is la Microempresa. Information from its 117 offices nationwide, open to audit by third parties. The financial statements comply 53 in Lima and 59 in other cities of Peru is included. with legal parameters established by Peruvian institutions. Time: Updates to information up until December 31, 2011 are Clarity: Information included in this report is easy to understand. presented and are complemented, quantitatively, with data In addition, it is available at http://www.mibanco.com.pe. Any from the 2010 fiscal year. person or organization can access the document. Sustainability context: In this report, Mibanco clearly states Comparability: Although some indicators are reported for its commitment to sustainability, which is also part of the the first time (G3.1 version), most can be compared with those organization’s strategy, operations, policies and procedures for reported for the previous fiscal year. The information included in ethical and responsible management. this report follows the same procedures for data gathering and Materiality: Information included in this report discloses calculation used previously. Therefore, no significant changes relevant issues for stakeholders, the financial sector and scenario regarding comparability may be observed. in which Mibanco operates. Regularity: Information about Mibanco’s performance is Stakeholder inclusiveness: The main stakeholders have been consolidated and presented on an annual basis. The report is identified and it is believed that the annual report responds to published after Mibanco’s Annual Shareholders Meeting approves it. their expectations and interests. For additional information or suggestions, please contact Fernando Balbuena at fbalbuena@mibanco.com.pe and/or Carolina Benavides at cbenavid@mibanco.com.pe 211 1. Estrategia y Análisis 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionthe report or its contents. Page 211 maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization REPORT ON SCOPE AND BOUNDARY and its strategy. Pages 11, 12 and 13 3.5 Process for defining report content. Page 13, 50, 210 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 3.6 Boundary of the report. Page 210 opportunities. Pages 36-43, 63 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or coverage of the report. Page 210 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 2. Mibanco Organizational Profile other entities that can significantly affect 2.1 Name of the organization. Page 18 comparability from period to period and/ 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/ or between organizations. Page 211 or services. Pages 74-76, 78-84 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. Page 26 of calculations, including assumptions and 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Page 19 techniques underlying estimations applied 2.5 Number of countries where the to the compilation of indicators and other organization operates. Page 211 information in the report. Page 211 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 18 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements 2.7 Markets served. Pages 69-72 of information provided in earlier reports, and 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. the reasons for such re-statement. Page 210 Pages 52-55, 88, 90, 124 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement regarding size, structure, or ownership. Pages 11-13 methods applied in the report. Page 210 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Pages 44-45 GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of Standard 3. Report Parameters Disclosures in the report. Pages 5, 7 REPORT PROFILE ASSURANCE 3.1 Reporting period for information 3.13 Current policy and practice with regard to provided. Pages 9, 211 external request for verification of the Report. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Page 211 If the verification report is not included in 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Page 211 the sustainability report, it must explain the 212 Annual Report 2011 scope and base of any other existing external agreements for termination of position) and verification. It must also explain the relation performance of the organization (including social between the reporting organization and the and environmental performance). Page 35 verification supplier or suppliers. Page 210 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Page 36 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body to guide the organization’s strategy regarding 4. Governance, Commitments and social, environment and economic aspects. Page 35 4.8 Internally developed statements of codes of Engagement of Stakeholders conduct and principles relevant to economic, GOVERNANCE environmental, and social performance and 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, the status of their implementation. Page 28 including committees under the highest 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body governance body responsible for specific for overseeing the organization’s identification tasks, such as setting strategy or providing and management of economic, environmental, organizational oversight. Pages 20-25 and social performance, including relevant 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest risks and opportunities, and adherence or governance body is also an executive compliance with internationally agreed standards, officer (and, if so, their function within codes of conduct, and principles. Page 35 the organization’s management and the 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance reasons for this arrangement). Page 35 body’s own performance, particularly 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board with respect to economic, environmental, structure, state the number and gender and social performance. Page 35 of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES non-executive members. Page 35 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees institution has adopted a precautionary to provide recommendations or indications approach or principle. Page 36 to the highest governance body. Page 35 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, 4.5 Connection between compensation to the and social principles or programs to which members of the highest governing body, the organization subscribes or endorses. senior directors and executives (including Pages 34, 35, 44, 45, 63, 86, 94 and 210 213 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE associations) and/or national/international INDICATORS advocacy organizations to which the organization provides funding. Page 43, 44 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page 50 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 4.14 List of stakeholder groups that participate EC1 CORE Pages 62, 65 in the institution. Pages 45, 50 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations with whom the organization engages. Pages 46, 47 and other community investments, retained earnings, 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, and payments to capital providers and governments. including frequency of engagement by type EC2 CORE Page 36 and by stakeholder group. Pages 46, 47 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised for the organization’s activities due to climate change. through stakeholder engagement, and how the EC3 CORE Page 103 organization has responded to those key topics Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to and concerns through its reporting. Pages 46, 47 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC4 CORE Pages 34, 61 Significant financial assistance received from governments. MARKET PRESENCE EC5 ADDITIONAL Page 105 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 CORE Pages 106, 107 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 CORE Page 96 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. 214 Annual Report 2011 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS energy based products and services, and reductions in EC8 CORE Page 107 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Development and impact of infrastructure investments EN7 ADDITIONAL Page 118 and services provided primarily for public benefit Initiatives to reduce indirect energy through commercial, pro-bono or in kind. consumption and reductions achieved. EC9 ADDITIONAL Page 111 Understanding and describing significant indirect WATER economic impacts, including the extent of such impacts. EN8 CORE Page 118 Total water with drawal by source. EN9 ADDITIONAL Page 119 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 ADDITIONAL Page 119 ENVIRONMENTAL Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EN11 CORE not material Location and size of land owned, leased, managed MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page 114 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. MATERIALS EN12 CORE not material EN1 CORE Page 115 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Materials used by weight or volume. and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN2 CORE Page 116 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Percentage of materials used that are valuated materials. EN13 CORE not material Habitats protected or restored. ENERGY EN14 CORE not material EN3 CORE Page 117 Strategies, current actions, and future plans Direct energy consumption by primary source. for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN4 CORE Page 116 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. EN5 ADDITIONAL Page 116, 117 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 ADDITIONAL Page 118 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 215 BIODIVERSIDAD PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN15 ADDITIONAL Page 36 EN26 CORE Page 120 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products conservation list species with habitats in areas and services, and extent of impact mitigation. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN27 CORE not material Percentage of products sold and their packing EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE materials which are recovered at the end of EN16 CORE Pages 120 their useful life, by product category. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN17 CORE no material COMPLIANCE Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN28 CORE Page 114 EN18 ADDITIONAL Page 114 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance emissions and reductions achieved. with environmental laws and regulations. EN19 CORE not material Emission of ozone layer destructive substances, by weight. TRANSPORT EN20 CORE not material EN29 ADDITIONAL Page 121 NO, SO, and other significant air Significant environmental impacts of transporting products emissions by type and weight. and other goods and materials used for the organization’s EN21 CORE not material operations, and for transporting members of the workforce. Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 CORE not material OVERALL Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EN30 ADDITIONAL Page 115 EN23 CORE not material Total environmental protection expenditures Total number and volume of significant spills. and investments by type. EN24 ADDITIONAL not material Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 ADDITIONAL not material Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. 216 Annual Report 2011 HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE CHILD LABOR INDICATORS HR6 CORE Page 108 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page 108 significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 CORE Page 109, 110 FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Percentage and total number of significant investment HR7 CORE Pages 97, 109 agreements and contracts that include human rights Operations and significant suppliers identified as having clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR2 CORE Page 106 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. SECURITY PRACTICES HR3 ADDITIONAL Page 108 HR8 ADDITIONAL REPORTED BY: MANAGEMENT/ Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures HUMAN RESOURCES Pages 106, 108 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Percentage of security personnel trained in the operations, including the percentage of employees trained. organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 CORE Page 109 INDIGENOUS RIGHTS Activities in which the right to exercise freedom of association HR9 ADDITIONAL Page 109 and collective bargaining may be violated or significantly Total number of incidents of violations involving at risk, and actions taken to support these rights. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND ASSESSMENT COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR10 CORE Page 109 HR5 CORE Page 96 Percentage and total number of operations that have been Actividades de la compañía en las que el derecho subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments a libertad de asociación y de acogerse a convenios colectivos pueda correr importantes riesgos y medidas REMEDIATION adoptadas para respaldar estos derechos. HR11CORE Page 109 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 217 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE LA7 CORE Page 105 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, LABOR PRACTICES AND ETHICAL WORK and absenteeism, and total number of workMANAGEMENT APPROACH Page 92 related fatalities, by region and by gender. LA8 CORE Page 105 EMPLOYMENT Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control LA1 CORE Pages 92, 93 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Total workforce by employment type, or community members regarding serious diseases. employment contract, region, and gender. LA9 ADDITIONAL Page 105 LA2 CORE Pages 94, 95, 96 Health and safety topics covered in formal Total number and rate of new employee hires and agreements with trade unions. employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 ADDITIONAL Page 101, 102 TRAINING AND EDUCATION Benefits provided to full-time employees that are LA10 CORE Page 97 not provided to temporary or parttime employees, Average hours of training per year per by significant locations of operation. employee, by employee category. LA15 CORE Page 103 LA11 ADDITIONAL Pages 97, 98 Return to work and retention rates after Programs for skills management and lifelong learning parental leave, by gender. that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA12 ADDITIONAL Page 99 LA4 CORE Page 96 Percentage of employees who receive regular performance Percentage of employees covered by and career development assessments, by gender. collective bargaining agreements. LA5 CORE Pages 96, 98 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, LA13 CORE Pages 93, 94 including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by employee category OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY according to gender, age group, minority group LA6 ADDITIONAL Page 96 membership, and other indicators of diversity. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help to monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 218 Annual Report 2011 EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN CORRUPtioN LA14 CORE Pages 93, 94, 105 SO2 CORE Page 111 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Percentage and total number of business units employee category, by significant locations of operation. analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 CORE Page 113 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s SOCIETY PERFORMANCE anti-corruption policies and procedures. INDICATORS SO4 CORE Page 113 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page 65 PUBLIC POLICY COMMUNITIES SO5 CORE Page 88 SO1 CORE Pages 36, 63, 65, 111, 114 Public policy positions and participation in Percentage of operations with implemented local public policy development and lobbying. community engagement and impact assessments. SO6 ADDITIONAL Pages 88, 112 SO9 CORE Page 114 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Operations with significant potential for, or actual parties, politicians, and related institutions by country negative impacts on, local communities. SO10 CORE Page 114 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR Prevention and mitigation measures implemented SO7 ADDITIONAL Pages 88, 111 in operations with significant potential or actual Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, negative impacts on local communities. anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. FS13 CORE Page 76 Access points in low-populated or economically COMPLIANCE disadvantaged areas by type. SO8 CORE Page 88 FS14 CORE Page 80 Monetary value of significant fines and total Initiatives to improve access to financial number of non-monetary sanctions for nonservices for disadvantaged people. compliance with laws and regulations. 219 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY FS16 CORE Pages 63, 64 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page 75 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 CORE Page 87 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and FS15 CORE Pages 86 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Policies for the fair design and sale of including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. financial products and services. PR7 ADDITIONAL Pages 112, 113 Total number of incidents of non-compliance CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR1 CORE Pages 81, 84 marketing communications, including advertising, Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services CUSTOMER PRIVACY categories subject to such procedures. PR8 ADDITIONAL Page 113 PR2 ADDITIONAL Page 87 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes. COMPLIANCE PR9 CORE Page 88 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Monetary value of significant fines for nonPR3 CORE Page 86, 87 compliance with laws and regulations concerning Type of product and service information required by the provision and use of products and services. procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 ADDITIONAL Page 88 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 ADDITIONAL Page 85 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 220 Annual Report 2011 SUPPLEMENTARY ENVIRONMENTAL FS7 CORE Page 73 INDICATORS SPECIFIC TO THE Monetary value of products and services designed FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT FS8 CORE Page 82 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page 114 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental PRODUCT PORTFOLIO (MANAGEMENT INDICATORS) benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. FS1 CORE Page 80 Policies with specific environmental and social AUDIT components applied to business lines. FS9 CORE Page 90, 91 FS2 CORE Page 115 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Procedures for assessing and screening implementation of environmental and social environmental and social risks in business lines. policies and risk assessment procedures. FS3 CORE Page 82 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation ACTIVE OWNERSHIP of environmental and social requirements FS10 CORE Page 65 included in agreements or transactions. Percentage and number of companies held in the FS4 CORE Page 99 institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization Process(es) for improving staff competency to has interacted on environmental or social issues. implement the environmental and social FS11 CORE Page 91 policies and procedures as applied to business lines. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. FS5 CORE Pages 63, 108 FS12 CORE Page 35 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners Voting policy or policies applied to environmental or social regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO (MANAGEMENT INDICATORS) FS6 CORE Page 69 Percentage of portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (micro, SM, large) and activity sector. 221 ADHERENCE TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT Mibanco expresses its commitment to the Global Compact and the Millennium Development Goals, both UN initiatives, promoting a respect for human rights among stakeholders and contributing to the development of a more fair and inclusive society. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) PRINCIPLES GRI indicators PAGES HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within HR1-9 96, 97, 106, their scope of influence. 108, 109, 110 2. Businesses should make sure that their branches are not complicit in HR1, HR2, 106, 109, 110 human rights abuses. HR9 LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. HR5, LA4, LA5 96, 98 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. HR7 97, 109 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. HR6 108 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination HR4, LA2, 93-96, of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LA13, LA14 105, 109 ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. EC2, EN26, SO5 36, 88, 120 8. Businesses shouldundertake initiatives EN2, EN5-6, 114-116, to promote greater environmental responsibility. EN18, EN26 117, 118, 120 9. Businesses shouldencourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN2, 116, 117, technologies. EN5-6, EN26 118, 120 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO2-SO4 111, 113 222 Annual Report 2011 223 MarianellaPomasunco MaytaandCinthiaLucenSoldevilla, sales and services executives. Office: El Tambo 9 Annual Report 2011 List of Agencies List of agencies List of agencies District Adress San Juan de Miraflores San Juan De Miraflores Av. Los Héroes 516 Rímac Rímac Av. Caquetá 998-A Zárate San Juan De Lurigancho Av. Gran Chimú 822-824, Urb. Zárate Callao Bellavista Av. Elmer Faucett 306-310-314 Villa El Salvador Villa El Salvador Av. Juan Velasco, 2Do. Sector, Gr.8, Mz. F, Lt. 17 Santa Anita Ate – Vitarte Av. Las Alondras 217 Comas Comas Av. Túpac Amaru 3857-3861, San Agustín, I Etapa Chorrillos Chorrillos Av. Guardia Civil 312 Cercado Lima – Cercado Av. Inca Garcilaso De La Vega 1390-1394-1398, Esq. Con Av. España N 200, 210, 214 Y 218 Villa María del Triunfo Villa María Del Triunfo Av. El Triunfo 101-105 Los Olivos Los Olivos Av. Alfredo Mendiola 3491 Canto Grande San Juan De Lurigancho Av. Canto Grande 3510 Ventanilla Ventanilla Av. Principal, Mz. C-3, Lt. 13, Urb. Ventanilla Chosica Lurigancho Av. 28 De Julio 393 Huaycán Ate Vitarte Av. 15 De Julio, Lt. 29, Zona B – Proyecto Especial Huaycán Puente Piedra Puente Piedra Mz. C, Lt. 2, Urb. Santo Domingo San Martín de Porres San Martín De Porres Av. Perú 3411 Sáenz Peña Callao Av. Roque Sáenz Peña 922-924 Surquillo Surquillo Av. Paseo De La República 4297 Gamarra La Victoria Prolong. Antonio Bazo 750 Independencia Independencia Av. Las Violetas 718-720 Centro Histórico Lima Cercado Jr. Cuzco 494 Próceres San Juan De Lurigancho Av. Próceres De La Indep. 1671-A, Urb. Las Flores Pardo Miraflores Av. José Pardo 175 Lurín Lurín Mz. D, Lt. 2, Urb. Las Virreinas, Km. 36.5 Carabayllo Comas Av. Túpac Amaru 3043, Mz. R, Lt. 11, Urb. El Progreso Ceres Ate – Vitarte Av. Víctor Raúl Haya De La Torre, Mz. D, Lt. 24 Magdalena Magdalena Av. Brasil 3256-3260 226 Annual Report 2011 List of agencies District Adress Covida Los Olivos Los Olivos Av. Antúnez De Mayolo 1388, Urb. Los Pinares San Gabriel Villa María Del Triunfo Av. Salvador Allende 198, Esq. Con José C. Mariátegui, Urb. San Gabriel México La Victoria Av. México 1604-1606, Urb. La Pólvora Angélica Gamarra Los Olivos Av. Angélica Gamarra, Cdra. 8, Mz. D, Lt.4, Urb. El Trébol Pro Los Olivos Av. Alfredo Mendiola 7889 Huandoy Los Olivos Av. El Naranjal 1413-1415, Parque Naranjal, Ii Etapa, Mz. I-2, Lt.15 Micro Sjm-Mercado Valle Sharon San Juan De Miraflores Av. Prolongación Canevaro Cdra. 1 Mz. F Lt. 11, S.J.M. Jose Gálvez Villa María Del Triunfo Av. Lima 1089, Pj Villa Poeta José Gálvez Parcela B, Mz. 42 Lt. 2 Pachacamac Villa El Salvador Urbanización Pachacamac, Mz. L, Lt.16, Etapa Ii. San Pedro Chorrillos Av. El Triunfo, Cdra. 3 S/N, Puerta N° 1, Aa.Hh. Túpac Amaru De Villa San Pedro De Chorrillos Mariscal Cáceres San Juan De Lurigancho Av. Próceres De La Independencia Mz. J1 Lt 23, Urb. Mariscal Cáceres San Juan de Collique Collique Av. Túpac Amaru 5469 5475, Urb. San Juan Bautista El Agustino El Agustino Av. Riva Agüero 1400, Distrito El Agustino (Costado De La Municip.) Huachipa Huachipa Av. Las Torres, Mz. A, Lt.8, Urb. El Paraíso De Puente Huachipa Musa Pachacamac Aa.Hh. Paul Poblet, Mz. A, Lt. 6, Carretera A Cieneguilla, Km 12 (Por La Curva De Manchay) Circunvalación San Luis Av. Circunvalación 21412147, Urb. Industrial Residencial El Pino Grau La Victoria Av. Manco Cápac 201 Y Jr. Raymondi Primavera Surco Av. Primavera 1754 Cavenecia Miraflores Av. Emilio Cavenecia 175 Cañete San Vicente de Cañete Calle Sepúlveda 115 215 Huacho Huacho Av. Miguel Grau Seminario 147 Barranca Barranca Jr. Alfonso Ugarte 120 A Media Cdra. Plaza Armas Huaral Huaral Calle Luis Colán 110 Gran Caquetá San Martín De Porres Av. 10 De Junio 1020 Mz 20 Y 21, Urb. Miguel Grau Santa Clara Ate-Vitarte Calle Parque Cívico N° 185 227 Agencies outside Lima List of agencies region province adress Chincha Ica Chincha Av. Mariscal Benavides 182, Chincha Alta Chiclayo Lambayeque Chiclayo Calle San José 755 Huancayo Junín Huancayo Av. Giráldez 201 Arequipa Arequipa Arequipa Esq. Calle Piérola 237 y Dean Valdivia 117 Trujillo La Libertad Trujillo Calle Bolívar 626 Cusco Cusco Cusco Av. Garcilaso de La Vega 232-238 Avelino Arequipa Arequipa Av. Daniel Alcides Carrión 265 A Huaraz Áncash Huaraz Av. José De Sucre 765 Tacna Tacna Tacna Calle Apurímac 245, Cercado Cajamarca Cajamarca Cajamarca Jr. Apurímac 888 Ica Ica Ica Jr. Independencia 156 Tarapoto San Martín Tarapoto Jr. Gregorio Delgado 142, Cercado Juliaca Puno San Román Jr. Huaynacápac 130, Zona Cercado Moshoqueque Lambayeque Chiclayo Av. El Dorado 924 Y 930, Esq. Con Av. Bolívar Puno Puno Puno Calle Puno 334-342 Piura Piura Piura Av. Sánchez Cerro 1279 Pucallpa Ucayali Crnel. Portillo Jr. Coronel Portillo 623 Iquitos Loreto Maynas Jr. Napo 200, Esq. Con Raymondi Pisco Ica Pisco Calle Progreso 181 Tarma Junín Tarma Jr. Lima 543 Chimbote Áncash Del Santa Jr. F. Bolognesi Mz.12 – Zona Casco Urbano Puerto Maldonado Madre De Dios Tambopata Av. Ernesto Rivero 716 El Porvenir La Libertad Trujillo Calle Micaela Bastidas 1233 Tumbes Tumbes Tumbes Calle Bolívar 147 Pinto Tacna Tacna Av. Pinto Mz. K, Lt.7, Frente A Cc Polvos Rosados El Tambo Junín Huancayo Av. Mariscal Castilla 1259 Cusco Sur Cusco Cusco Lt. 2 y 3 Mz. B, Asoc. Pro Vivienda Pueblo Libertador Jaén Cajamarca Jaén Calle Bolívar 1247-1249 228 Annual Report 2011 List of agencies region province adress Ilo Moquegua Ilo Jr. Zepita 423 Huánuco Huánuco Huánuco Jr. 28 de Julio 1038-1040 Cayma Arequipa Arequipa Av. Ejército 1014 Miraflores Arequipa Arequipa Av. Teniente Ferré 207 Castilla Piura Piura Esq. Av. Guardia Civil y Las Dalias B-1, Urb. Miraflores Chilca Junín Huancayo Calle Real 600 La Merced Junín Chanchamayo Jr. Tarma 244 Lambayeque Lambayeque Lambayeque Av. Ramón Castilla 1021 Túpac Amaru Puno San Román Jr. Túpac Amaru 885 La Esperanza La Libertad Trujillo Av. Condorcanqui 1264 Moyobamba San Martín Moyobamba Jr. San Martín 466, Barrio Belén Cusco Centro Cusco Cusco Av. La Cultura 2111, Urb. Magisterial, I Etapa El Dorado San Martín Tarapoto Jr. Lima 367-377-379 El Pedregal Arequipa Caylloma Calle Islay, Mz. I, Lt.2B, Villa El Pedregal La Hermelinda La Libertad Trujillo Av. América Norte 1351 (Antes Av. Circunvalación Exterior), Urb. Las Quintanas Talara Piura Talara Sub Lote C, Zona Centro Cívico, Entre Parque Grau y Mercado Nuevo De Talara Sullana Piura Sullana Av. San Martín 821-823 Satipo Junín Satipo Jr. Francisco Irazola, 251-253-255 Satipo, Letra B, Mz. 14 Chepén La Libertad Chepén Calle Lima 406 Ayacucho Ayacucho Huamanga Jr. Sol 241 Mayorista La Libertad Trujillo Av. César Vallejo 311, Urb. Palermo Piura Centro Piura Piura Calle La Libertad N° 602 Pinto Tacna Tacna Av. Pinto N° 362, Cercado Cusco Iv Cusco Cusco Av. Antonio Lorena N°394 Mollendo Arequipa Islay Centro Poblado Mollendo Mz H4, Lote 10 Mercado Modelo Lambayeque Chiclayo Calle José Balta N° 1699 229 Agencies in Shopping Centers List of agencies District Adress Aventura Plaza Bellavista Bellavista Av. Óscar R. Benavides 3866, Bellavista, Callao, locales C-1022, C-1024, C-1026, C-1028, C-1030 Y C-1032, 1° Nivel Real Plaza Pro San Martín de Porres Av. Alfredo Mendiola 7042, Lc 101, Santa Luzmila Multicenter Independencia Independencia Av. Carlos Alberto Izaguirre 275 Real Plaza Centro Cívico Lima Paseo de La República S/N, Real Plaza Centro Cívico, 2° Piso, Garcilaso De La Vega 1337, 2° Piso Minka Callao Av. Argentina 3093-3257, Callao Aventura Plaza Trujillo Trujillo Av. América Oeste 750, Urb. El Ingenio, Locales B-1259 B-1263, 1° Nivel Open Plaza Trujillo Trujillo Av. América Norte 1245, Urb. Los Jardines Plaza Sol De Ica Ica Av. San Martín Y Ayabaca, Local Lc 108, 1° Piso Real Plaza Huancayo Huancayo Local Comercial 101-105, Centro Comercial-Estación Huancayo, 1° Nivel Aventura Plaza-Porongoche Arequipa Av. Porongoche 500 230 Annual Report 2011 Impreso en Cyclus Print Matt, papel fabricado con 100% fibras recicladas, libres de cloro y blanqueadores ópticos, certificadas por NAPM (National Association of Paper Merchants). Ha sido elaborado además con Bio Energía (energía no contaminante) y está certificado por Ecoflower y Blue Angel que identifican productos hechos bajo el manejo medio ambientalmente apropiado, con responsabilidad social y económicamente viable de los recursos. Los beneficios por el uso de papel 100% fibra reciclada se refleja en un menor impacto al ecosistema, equivalente a: 243 kg. de residuos sólidos no generados 93 kg. de gases de efecto invernadero evitados 938 km que se evitaron sean recorridos en auto 6,671 lt. de agua no consumida 1,183 kWh de energía no consumida 393 kg. de fibra de árboles no usada NAPM (National Association of Paper Licence DK/11/1 RAL UZ-1(Blue Angel) Merchants) (Flower) OTRAS CERTIFICACIONES : License 544.021 Nordic Swan ISO 900 Quality management EMAS, ISO 1400 EU environmental management/certification scheme DIN 673 Archive properties, LDK class 24-85 (> 200/g years) EN 71-3 Safety of toys, migration of certain elements DISEÑO: Joe Quispe IMPRESIÓN: Comunica2
