ANNUAL REVIEW 2O12 AXCEL SUPPORTS THE GLOBAL COMPACT Axcel and its portfolio companies have signed up to the UN Global Compact. Thus we have made a commitment to comply with the Global Compact’s 10 principles for sustainability both at fund level and at the companies we own. Axcel joined the Global Compact back in 2010, and its portfolio companies followed suit in 2011. New companies added to the portfolio have a year to adapt their procedures and sign up too. In this way, Axcel is supporting the UN’s efforts to get governments, civil society, business and others to unite behind 10 principles for responsible business in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Axcel has gradually developed CSR policies based on our view of corporate governance, which includes dialogue with stakeholders and transparent communications and reporting. Axcel has updated its policies in the corporate governance area in 2013 to make CSR an explicit element that the boards of portfolio companies must actively address. Axcel also has the following procedures in place for responsible business: could put Axcel in a social, ethical or environmental dilemma. Axcel also expects its companies to: principles 12 months. the Global Compact through its CSR network and ongoing dialogue tomers and business partners concerning supply chain management with the companies. and codes of conduct Communication on Progress (COP) each year. CSR Axcel aims to invest in companies which behave responsibly, as this Axcel is keen for its companies to recognise that CSR work can creHowever, Axcel also wishes to promote socioeconomic development ate value. In this context, the implementation of a CSR programme in general and therefore encourages its companies to contribute to must be based on an individual assessment of critical focus areas, and their local communities and their development where this makes these must then be placed in relation to the resources available to the commercial sense. company. 14 ANNUAL REVIEW 2O12 AXCELFUTURE AXCEL AND THE PRI The UN Global Compact, which Axcel joined back in 2010, is come to set up Axcelfuture, which aims to support the invery well suited to companies but less so at fund level. At the vestment climate in Denmark in the interests of growth and same time, institutional investors want to be able to invest in employment. Axcelfuture will have capital of DKK 25-30m deunlisted companies safe in the knowledge that the UN’s Prinpending on the price Axcel III obtains for the remainder of its ciples for Responsible Investment (PRI) will be complied with. assets. The board of Axcelfuture consists of representatives of For this reason, Axcel has decided to apply the PRI in future and plans to become a signatory to the principles during the Hanne B. Sørensen*. course of 2013. * Hanne B. Sørensen stepped down from the boards of Axcel’s funds at the 2013 annual general meeting and will therefore also retire from the board of Axcelfuture. Axcel implemented the following CSR initiatives in 2012: Axcel’s companies and the Global Compact Axcel closely monitors portfolio companies’ work and makes suggeseach other’s experience. and all are expected to have signed up to the programme by June 2013. signed up to the Global Compact, and Netel is busy preparing to do so. Read more about CSR work at our Swedish companies on the following pages. GLOBAL COMPACT STATUS OF AXCEL-OWNED COMPANIES AS AT 1 MAY 2013 GLOBAL COMPACT – STATUS GLOBAL COMPACT – PRINCIPLES JOINED COP HUMAN LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTIGLOBAL PUBLISHED RIGHTS RIGHTS CORRUPTION COMPACT BALL GROUP t t t t t t BB ELECTRONICS t t t t t t DRICONEQ t t t t t EXHAUSTO* IDDESIGN t t t t t JB EDUCATION t t t t t JUNCKERS t t t t t t LGT t t t t t MITA-TEKNIK* NETEL* NOA NOA t t t t t t NORDIC WATERPROOFING t t t t t PANDORA t t t t t t TMK t t t t t t VPG t  t t t t * New investment – has not yet joined Global Compact. The table above shows that the majority of Axcel’s companies are now actively addressing the various components of the Global Compact. Those publishing a second COP have made progress from the year before in line with the UN’s intentions. WWW.AXCEL.DK 15 JOINED GLOBAL COMPACT IN 2O12 NORDIC WATERPROOFING environmental considerations are part and parcel of its day-to-day buildings’ lifetime and so help customers achieve sustainable work. Occupational health and safety are given high priority, with solutions. The company’s long-term business approach builds on excellent results. since 2012. The company has also introduced a new code of conduct to clarify its position in areas such as the environment, health gets at group level. an open and transparent business with simple and clear reporting lines so that any breaches of the code of conduct are picked up JOINED GLOBAL COMPACT IN 2O11 JB EDUCATION munity needs people who are not afraid to take on challenges and develop new skills. An awareness of sustainability is an important and Human Rights. factor in tackling the challenges of tomorrow, and the company works with this issue in student projects at its schools. will in future assess them also from a sustainability perspective. 16 ANNUAL REVIEW 2O12 JOINED GLOBAL COMPACT IN 2O12 DRICONEQ The mining industry faces something of a green revolution. To resulting cost savings will be invested in new sustainable soluensure a sustainable supply of raw materials worldwide, it is es2012 to cement its strong market position through a commerciallyoriented sustainability programme complete with targets and meand concentrates on preventive action. There were no production trics. stoppages due to occupational injuries in 2012. The company is building its long-term market position on leaderical position for customers, employees and suppliers. light is on product development and environmental issues. One current example is an investment in a treatment facility for cutthe form of better utilisation of resources and reduced waste. The JOINED GLOBAL COMPACT IN 2O12 LGT LOGISTICS LGT conducted a detailed review of its existing sustainability When it comes to human resources, occupational health and safety is a priority, as is skills development, an area where LGT targets. crucial factor for the company’s development. In its sustainability work, the company aims to add value for continued high levels of commitment from its employees. One key environmental issue for LGT is to reduce the impact of its services on climate change. The company attaches great importance to continuously improving its logistics together with cusWWW.AXCEL.DK 17
