2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Welcome to Cisco’s Ninth Annual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. Cisco’s CSR strategy is to use our expertise, technology, and partnerships for social, environmental, and business impact. We report using a framework of five core pillars: Governance and Ethics, Supply Chain, Our People, Society, and Environment. This report covers our approach, our objectives, our progress, and our challenges around each of these pillars. Governance and Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment We believe that ethical conduct The manufacturing of our products We share a vision of a more We use our expertise, technology, Cisco products that improve living and good governance are critical is entirely outsourced. We work connected world through what partnerships, and financial resources standards, reduce resource waste, to making us a stronger, more closely with our 600-plus suppliers we call “The Internet of Everything.” to help build thriving communities and save energy create new value for resilient company. to improve sustainability performance We rely on our talented people to that improve people’s lives and our customers through technology. throughout the supply chain. achieve this vision and we respect, support our business. recognize, and reward them with this vision in mind. Contents Introduction Supply Chain Society GRI Index How to Use This Report A2 Overview C2 Overview E2 Overview G2 Strategy and Analysis The complete report PDF includes all sections and allows A3 Message from Chairman and CEO C5 Our Supply Chain E5 Our Society Strategy G5 Performance: Economic full access to videos, search capabilities, and bookmarks. C8 Embedding Sustainability in E5 Employee Engagement G6 Performance: Environmental We have also created an A4 Message from Senior Vice Executive Summary, which President, Corporate Affairs Core Business Processes E7 Education G8 Performance: Labor provides an overview of our achievements in fiscal year A5 CSR and Our Business C13 Working with Suppliers Practices and Decent Work E13 Healthcare 2013 (FY13). to Improve Performance A6 Our CSR Strategy G9 Performance: Human Rights E15 Economic Empowerment Interactive Elements C17 Partnering to Build Capability A6 About This Report G11  Performance: Society This document contains interactive E19 Critical Human Needs elements on mouse over and A6 Assurance and Disaster Relief G12  Performance: Product click. Look for these icons Responsibility throughout this document. A6 GRI Index E22 Supplier Diversity Mouse over or click for interactive content.* A7 Key Performance Indicators E22 Product Accessibility Click to play video. Bookmarks This PDF is bookmark enabled. Governance and Ethics Our People Environment Appendix We have pre-populated bookmarks in the Environment B2 Overview D2 Overview F2 Overview H2 1. Comparison of SustainAbility section only. Materiality Matrix and Table 1 B4 Governance D5 Working Together F6 Environmental Sustainability of Environment Section Recommended Software B7 CSR Management Adobe Acrobat* Version 7.0 D7 A Safe and Healthy F14 Materials H3 2. Global Supplier and above Work Environment B13 Ethics F17 Energy and GHG Emissions Management Letter Executive Summary D10 An Inclusive and B15 Privacy and Data Protection F41 Water Use H4 3. Comparison of BAU and Our separate Executive Summary Diverse Culture ICT Solution for Remote combines the section overviews of B17 Human Rights F42 Biodiversity and Land Use Collaboration this report to give you a high-level D15 Training and Development summary of our achievements in Opportunities F43 Non-GHG Emissions fiscal year 2013 (FY13). H5 4. C omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking D17 Rewarding Our People F44 Effluents (Liquid) * Interactive content may not be available on some devices. F44 Waste 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Overview “It is up to all of us to Message from Chairman and CEO get involved to ensure Message from Senior Vice President, that the Internet, as the Corporate Affairs Internet of Everything CSR and Our Business unfolds, continues Our CSR Strategy About This Report to be a powerful Assurance force for improving GRI Index people’s lives.” Key Performance Indicators Dave Evans, Cisco’s Chief Futurist #IoE #CiscoCSR Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Introduction Our People Society Environment GRI Index Appendix Cisco is the worldwide leader in IT that helps companies seize the opportunities of tomorrow by proving that amazing things can happen when you connect the previously unconnected. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A2 < Previous View Contents Introduction Overview Introduction Founded in 1984, Cisco pioneered the development of Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking technologies. This tradition > Overview Message from continues with the development of routing, switching, and other networking-based technologies such as collaboration, data Chairman and CEO center, security, service provider video products, and wireless. All of these technologies are made possible by the evolution Message from of the network. Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs CSR and Our Business As innovators in the information and communications technology industry, Cisco and our valued partners sell Cisco hardware, Our CSR Strategy software, and services to businesses of all sizes, governments, and service providers. About This Report Assurance GRI Index Key Performance Cisco at a Glance Indicators Governance & Ethics Supply Chain US$48.6 billion net sales in FY13. More than 75,000 employees. 100 More than 600 suppliers support our supply chain. 48.6 165 600 Our People $ Society Environment BILLION Operations in more 75,000 100 percent of our manufacturing is outsourced. SUPPLIERS GRI Index than 165 countries. Appendix Our Vision Our Values Our vision is to change the way the world works, • Change the world • Win together lives, plays, and learns. • Intensely focus on customers • Respect and care for each other • Make innovation happen • Always do the right thing 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A3 < Previous View and wellbeing. At Cisco, one way we see that happening multiyear efforts that require a long-term view to Contents is through what we call the “Internet of Everything (IoE).” achieve positive outcomes. In FY13, as an example, In simple terms, IoE is the intelligent connection of we introduced new five-year environmental goals Introduction people, processes, data, and things on the network. IoE designed to focus on the issues we believe are most Overview offers countries and governments around the world the critical to Cisco’s environmental sustainability over the > Message from opportunity to provide better, richer lives for their citizens long-term — greenhouse gas emissions and energy Chairman and CEO and create new ways for companies to do business. consumption. CSR has always been one of the pillars Message from Whether it’s connected education and healthcare, of our culture, and I’m extremely proud of the global Senior Vice President, smarter cities, more efficient government services, or impact of our programs. Corporate Affairs increased job creation, we believe the societal benefits CSR and Our Business of IoE will impact our lives in ways never imagined. It’s Given all that we have been able to achieve not only not the act of getting connected — or even the number for our customers and partners, but for society and the Our CSR Strategy of connections — that creates the value; rather, it’s the environment, I am energized by the opportunity ahead About This Report as we work to become the number-one IT company. outcomes the connections make possible. The speed Assurance of change today is unprecedented, and it is critical Ultimately, the success and impact of the Internet of GRI Index Message from that companies and countries capitalize on the vast opportunities that the IoE offers. Everything will be measured by the extent to which we’re able to harness its benefits for humanity. With this John T. Chambers, Key Performance Indicators in mind, we couldn’t be more excited to see what the With companies, individuals, and governments working future holds. We are deeply committed to improving lives, Chairman and CEO together, we can help economies all over the world communities, and the environment. develop and grow equitably. Governments alone cannot Governance & Ethics In today’s world, the only constant is change — and solve the global challenges we face today; only through companies and countries that do not change are left bringing together a diverse set of stakeholders can we Supply Chain behind. My perspective on change is to embrace it, lead tackle inequities in education and employment. Our role it, and use it to shape desired outcomes. in the White House IT Training and Certification pilot, Our People which helps transitioning U.S. military personnel with John T. Chambers Society We work closely with our customers and partners to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer IT skills training, certification, and career placement, anticipate change and transitions, to understand where highlights the power of public-private partnerships in Join the discussion: #TomorrowStartsHere Environment the market is going, and to innovate to solve their creating positive impact. toughest business challenges. This approach requires a GRI Index vision, strategy, and solutions that address challenges Our focus on creating value for society, the while benefiting society and the environment. This is the environment, and our business is reflected in the Appendix course Cisco has followed since our formation, and it’s all breadth of our commitments: from investing in our made possible through networks. employees to improving labor standards in our supply chain, and from improving access to healthcare to Networking technology connects people in meaningful reducing our environmental footprint. These are all ways and has the power to create new opportunities, deliver richer experiences, and boost economic growth 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A4 < Previous View behavior. And we developed a new human rights policy Dr. Steven Knapp, President Contents and employee training to be rolled out in FY14. of George Washington University, presents the World Affairs Council Introduction As a global company with an extensive supply chain, Global Education Award to we expect our suppliers to meet the same standards on Cisco Senior Vice President Overview Tae Yoo on behalf of Message from ethics, labor, and environmental sustainability that we set Cisco Chairman and CEO Chairman and CEO for ourselves. In FY13, we promoted our Supplier Code John Chambers. of Conduct through our supplier business scorecard and > Message from Senior Vice President, audits, which have helped us identify areas for further the Middle East, girls and women make up more than Corporate Affairs capacity building and improvements. We are pleased 35 percent. Public-private partnerships are critical to CSR and Our Business Message from Tae Yoo, to see a growing number of suppliers publishing CSR reports, setting goals, and reporting their greenhouse advancing broadband connectivity and building thriving communities. Senior Vice President, Our CSR Strategy gas (GHG) emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project, About This Report just as we do. Our efforts on behalf of the environment address the full Assurance Corporate Affairs Our business and social impact depends on the diverse range of stakeholder issues from water to biodiversity GRI Index to land use. Our greatest focus, however, is on climate In the age of the Internet of Everything, networked talents and expertise of our employees. In FY13, we change, energy and GHG emissions, and product end of Key Performance Indicators connections are more valuable and relevant than ever launched efforts to connect employees with three values life. Our global efforts to reduce GHG emissions extend before. This applies to networked technology, but also we want to exemplify: make innovation happen, always from our own operations in more than 90 countries to to the people who collaborate to develop innovative do the right thing, and make a positive impact on the those of our supply base. The energy efficiency of our solutions to the world’s most pressing problems. world. We aligned our employee value proposition with products allows our customers to reduce their own GHG Governance & Ethics Our CSR approach is to help create positive impact these values to create a framework for our corporate emissions. We offer product takeback and recycling around the world by using our expertise, technology, culture and employee experience. worldwide at no cost to customers. We are adopting Supply Chain and partnerships. Being socially and environmentally circular economy principles to maximize the life of our Our People responsible is not only good for people and the planet, but Because technology can play an important role in products, offering trade-in credit to our customers, and essential to the long-term sustainability of our business. addressing some of society’s biggest challenges, we refurbishing and remarketing gear to new customers. Our Society devote resources to that end. I’ve seen firsthand in remarketing business grew by approximately 25 percent In FY13, we continued to embed CSR objectives into many countries how broadband connectivity advanced over last year. Environment our business functions, processes, and performance healthcare delivery, access to education, and economic goals. We used benchmarking, analysis, and stakeholder empowerment. For example, our Jordan Healthcare In this report, we highlight our successes, discuss GRI Index dialogue to identify the issues most material to our Initiative connects medical specialists to patients at rural some of the challenges we face, and share what we business, which helps us focus efforts for the greatest hospitals, saving patients the time and expense of travel, have learned. As expectations continue to rise, we will Appendix impact. This year we gained valuable insights from and enabling doctors and specialists to collaborate on continue to do the important work of listening to our CSR experts that we used to prioritize, set goals, and patient care. stakeholders, aligning CSR to business strategy, setting implement programs. We focus our CSR strategy on five goals, and measuring impacts, with the hope that we can areas where we can make the biggest difference. The first And because less than 10 percent of the population in all create a tomorrow full of opportunity and prosperity. is governance and ethics, which underlies the other four: developing countries has affordable, reliable broadband supply chain, our people, society, and the environment. Internet service, we consider it crucial to help extend high-speed broadband to more communities and provide To promote governance and ethics companywide, we ICT training. Our Cisco Networking Academy program launched a new interactive learning platform for our Code teaches these skills to one million students each year, of Tae Yoo of Business Conduct that helped our employees increase whom 20 percent are female, but in certain regions, like Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs their understanding of and commitment to ethical 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A5 < Previous View Contents CSR and Our Business Introduction We recognize that creating value for our customers, society, and the environment strengthens our business. Overview Our commitment to CSR is increasingly important to how Message from others perceive our brand, and our global CSR efforts Chairman and CEO help us create strong relationships built on trust with Message from customers, investors, partners, and other stakeholders. Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs Cisco’s technology enables intelligent connectivity — the > CSR and Our Business connections between people, processes, data, and Our CSR Strategy things that turn information into actions. Cisco networks enable businesses, individuals, and countries to create About This Report new capabilities, richer experiences, and economic Assurance growth. This is the Internet of Everything, and it is more GRI Index than a business opportunity. It’s an unprecedented Key Performance chance to connect the unconnected. Indicators Our networking technologies enable Cisco to deliver shared value for our customers, society, the environment, Governance & Ethics and our business. This shared value ranges from the use of collaboration tools that enable flexible Multiplying the Power of Networks at Istanbul University Supply Chain working, emissions reductions, and cost savings to the opportunities that the Cisco Networking Academy You: Dr. Alper Cihain, a general surgeon and professor at Istanbul University in Turkey, has a long history of working at Our People program brings to its students, local economies, and our the intersection of healthcare and technology. During his career, he has seen technology change the way healthcare is delivered and create lifesaving medical advances. As a university administrator, he saw that neither his university nor business. the hospital network were using technology to its full potential. Society Cloud computing, which makes shared resources, Networks: Cihain worked with the university to develop the network infrastructure necessary to improve Istanbul University Environment software, and data available to anyone with an Internet and its hospital system. As a university grounded in centuries of academic history, there was cultural resistance to making the necessary systems upgrades and infrastructure investments. Cihain saw the Cisco Networking Academy program as an connection, is helping to multiply these benefits by opportunity to inspire a cultural change and simultaneously bring Istanbul University’s academic programs to the forefront GRI Index enabling organizations and individuals to connect and of ICT education. Appendix collaborate globally. Impact x: As the Cisco Academy on campus grew, a cultural shift began to ripple across the university. “When we train one person, it affects 10. And when we train 10, it affects 100,” said Cihain. Today, Istanbul University has the necessary There are challenges, of course, including our efforts networking technology in place to remain a leading university, and it is attracting a student body with growing interests in to have the manufacturers of our products meet strict ICT careers. environmental standards and to responsibly source the materials that go into them. We are working diligently to address these challenges. In doing so, Cisco will become a stronger, even more responsible business, which we believe is critical to our long-term success. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A6 < Previous View Contents Our CSR Strategy About This Report Figure 1: Cisco’s Corporate Introduction We believe that Cisco has a responsibility to conduct our This report covers our fiscal year 2013 (FY13), running Social Responsibility Strategy business in ways that benefit global communities and from July 29, 2012, to July 27, 2013, and all of our Overview the environment, and we believe that our technology is a operations around the world, unless stated otherwise. Message from powerful enabler in transforming lives. Chairman and CEO Our CSR strategy and reporting prioritize the issues Message from Our CSR strategy focuses on the areas where Cisco’s that are most important to our business and to our Senior Vice President, expertise, technology, and partnerships can have the stakeholders, identified through a formal materiality Corporate Affairs greatest impact: assessment (see page B12). The main sections of the CSR and Our Business • Supply Chain: working closely with suppliers to report align with these high–level priorities: governance > Our CSR Strategy maintain high standards for ethics, labor rights, health, and ethics, supply chain, our people, society, and the safety, and the environment environment. We encourage feedback from stakeholders, > About This Report and we use this report to respond to those with whom > Assurance • People: helping our employees develop their talents we have engaged throughout the year (see page B8). > GRI Index and achieve their full potential in a collaborative, Changes to our approach can take time, but we aim to inclusive, and healthy workplace be open and transparent about our progress, as well as Key Performance Indicators • Society: working with other organizations to extend about the challenges we face. access to education and healthcare, respond to critical human needs and disaster relief efforts, create This interactive PDF enables easy navigation within The data presented in the Environment section of this Governance & Ethics economic development opportunities, and help the report (see How to Use This Report). Each section report is subject to internal and external audit as part communities thrive begins with an overview of our objectives, performance, of Cisco’s Environmental Management System (EMS) Supply Chain • Environment: improving our customers’ and our own and challenges. These overviews are consolidated in and in accordance with ISO 14001 requirements. an Executive Summary, which is available for download External assurance is provided for, at a minimum, all environmental sustainability through technology and Our People separately. data supporting any public commitment, such as our advocacy greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions-reduction goals Society Our strong governance and ethics systems and presented on page F17. Environment commitment to ethical behavior underpin all business and CSR efforts. Assurance GRI Index We gather input from stakeholders on a year-round The data in this report and the methodology for collecting it have been internally reviewed. We held stakeholder GRI Index Appendix basis to help us understand the most important issues engagement sessions with CSR thought leaders during We align our reporting with the Global Reporting for society and our business. Find out more about our 2013 to assess our CSR performance and reporting, Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment in and we engaged extensively with nonprofit and provide an index of conformance with the GRI G3.1 the Governance and Ethics section. nongovernmental organizations, advocates, academics, indicators on page G1 of this report. We are listening and CSR experts to gather their views on specific issues to stakeholders and reviewing our materiality process, throughout the year. which will help us prepare for how we report against the GRI’s G4 guidelines. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A7 < Previous View Contents Key Performance Indicators Introduction Our stakeholders continue to request more refined key performance indicators (KPIs). In response, Cisco has identified the following KPIs. We continue to report performance metrics throughout the report and in our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index. Overview Message from Chairman and CEO Table 1: KPIs FY11 FY12 FY13 Message from Governance and Ethics Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs Eligible1 employees completing certification in the Cisco Code of Business Conduct 100% 100% 100% CSR and Our Business Employees responding positively to the CSR statement in the Cisco Pulse Survey 2 81% 85% 86% Our CSR Strategy Supply Chain About This Report Key suppliers3 publishing Manufacturing partners n/a 86% 86% Assurance a CSR report: Component suppliers n/a 38% 52% GRI Index Logistics providers n/a 57% 100% > Key Performance Indicators Key suppliers reporting Manufacturing partners n/a 88% 100% greenhouse gas emissions Component suppliers n/a 56% 100% through CDP: Logistics providers n/a 46% 74% Governance & Ethics Our People Supply Chain Employee satisfaction (average percentage of employees who consider Cisco a great place to work) 79% 82% 86% Percentage of female employees 22% 22% 23% Our People Number of employees Over 71,000 Over 66,000 Over 75,000 Society Society Environment Total corporate and Cisco Foundation cash and in-kind contributions (US$) $295 million4 $294 million4 $297 million4 Number of hours volunteered by employees 166,445 107,150 129,000 GRI Index Environment Appendix Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2, metric tonne CO2e 416,927 251,672 312,525 Total air travel GHG emissions: Scope 3, metric tonne CO2e 127,232 139,431 * Product trade-in and return: Product return, metric tonne 11,595 13,324 12,539 Product trade-in and return: Material to landfill5 0.89% 0.43% 0.33% 1. Excluding employees in France (who have a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, and those on a leave of absence. 2. Pulse statement is: “Cisco’s Corporate Social Responsibility activities, which focus on environmental, social, and governance issues, positively impact the way Cisco is perceived around the world.” Positive result means employees agree or strongly agree. 3. We have changed the terminology throughout this document to refer to “key” suppliers rather than “preferred” suppliers. Key suppliers are defined as those that receive a business scorecard. This is a slightly different group from those we refer to internally as “preferred” (see page C5 for definition). 4. Includes Cisco Networking Academy in-kind contributions, which we included in our corporate giving data for the first time in FY11. 5. Landfilled material consists only of nonrecyclable materials such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap. * To be updated later. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Governance & Ethics Overview Governance CSR Management Ethics Privacy and Data Protection Human Rights Cisco’s Culture Fosters Ethical Behavior Supply Chain Cisco is committed to honesty, integrity, and transparency. The company’s ethics team encourages employees worldwide to uphold Our People these principles, while making it easy for them to report ethical concerns if they arise. This is just Society one of the reasons Cisco is consistently ranked on Ethisphere’s list of World’s Most Ethical Companies. Watch video Environment Governance and Ethics GRI Index Appendix We believe that ethical conduct and good governance are critical to business success. Our approach to corporate and CSR governance reflects this belief and allows us to build a stronger, more resilient company. Our governance systems are designed to help us manage risks, plan for long-term continuity, and foster sustainable growth. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B2 < Previous View Contents Governance and Ethics Overview Introduction Maintaining good governance practices involves everyone at Cisco. Cross-functional teams are responsible for overseeing Governance & Ethics corporate social responsibility (CSR) management, ethical conduct among employees and suppliers, privacy and data protection, > Overview and for respecting human rights. Governance CSR Management Our Code of Business Conduct sets out our expectation for everyone at Cisco to behave ethically in everything they do. Through Ethics regular training and a new interactive eBook version of the Code, we equip employees with the knowledge and skills to make the Privacy and Data right decisions if they are ever confronted with an ethical dilemma. Protection Human Rights 2013 at a Glance Supply Chain Our People Society 100 Environment 100 percent of eligible % employees completed certification to the Cisco We conducted five sessions with stakeholders around the 86 86 percent of employees agreed GRI Index Code of Business Conduct. world to gain feedback on our approach to environmental, or strongly agreed that Cisco’s social, and supply chain issues CSR program has a positive Appendix that inform our CSR strategy. impact on the way that Cisco is perceived around the world. We engaged with organizations that are setting best practices in CSR reporting and disclosure, such as the Global Reporting Initiative CSR 92 92 percent of employees We formalized our human rights policy in alignment with the UN and the Sustainability Accounting feel that Cisco takes Standards Board. Guiding Principles on Business ethical business concerns and Human Rights. seriously. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B3 < Previous View Contents Governance and Ethics Overview Introduction Governance & Ethics 2013 Progress toward Objectives 2014 Objectives and Beyond > Overview Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Governance 100 percent of eligible1 employees to complete annual certification to the 100 percent of eligible1 employees to complete annual certification to End of FY14 Cisco Code of Business Conduct the Cisco Code of Business Conduct CSR Management Collaborate with peer companies in the ICT sector to develop human rights Make human rights training available to all employees and mandatory End of FY14 Ethics training for employees for targeted groups Privacy and Data Continue with formal and informal stakeholder engagements throughout FY13, Continue formal and informal stakeholder engagements throughout End of FY14 Protection including additional regional sessions, with the goal of yearly improvement of FY14 to help us continue to improve our CSR programs Human Rights our CSR implementation Augment and deepen engagement with key socially responsible End of FY14 Augment and deepen engagement with key socially responsible investors as investors for more meaningful dialogue on issues of importance we continue a meaningful dialogue on issues of importance to our investors to our investors Supply Chain 83 percent of employees to respond positively to the CSR statement in our Maintain positive responses from at least 83 percent of employees End of FY14 annual employee Pulse Survey2 to the CSR statement in our annual employee Pulse Survey2 Our People Develop, implement, and communicate a formal human rights policy and Complete a robust materiality assessment of the CSR issues that are End of FY14 governance model, aligning with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and important to our stakeholders Society Human Rights and best practices Expand the “Privacy by Design” concept that privacy is not an End of FY14 add-on, but rather a core component of the development of our Environment Achieved Ongoing products, services, and systems 1. Excluding employees in France (who have a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, GRI Index those on a leave of absence, interns, and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2. Pulse statement is: “Cisco’s Corporate Social Responsibility activities, which focus on environmental, social, and governance issues, positively impact the way Cisco is perceived around the world.” Positive result means Appendix employees agree or strongly agree. Awards and Recognition Carbon Disclosure Dow Jones FTSE4Good Index1 Global 100 Most Greenpeace Cool IT oekom research Leadership Index Sustainability Index Sustainable Leaderboard Corporate Corporations in 6th Edition Responsibility Rating the World Ranked number one Member of World and North Member of Global, Global 100, Ranked number 20 Tied for number one “Prime” status in the IT sector American Indexes U.S., and U.S. 100 Indexes 1. FTSE Group confirms that Cisco has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. A full list of CSR awards is available on our website 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B4 < Previous View Contents Governance All members of the following key committees of the Board of Directors are independent: Audit, Compensation Case Studies Strong governance, operations, processes, and systems and Management Development, and Nomination and From the United States Introduction provide the foundation for everything we do at Cisco and Governance. Governance & Ethics help us work together with a clear vision for the business. Managing Hurricane Sandy Our internal audit function is responsible for overseeing All of our corporate policies are available on our Cisco Cisco’s Global Safety, Security & Business Resiliency Overview Cisco’s operational and financial processes. It reports Policy Central platform. (SSBR) team manages risk by monitoring incidents > Governance regularly to the Audit Committee. See our Corporate in an effort to protect Cisco employees and assets, Collaboration is at the heart of our approach, and we Governance website for further information. with a goal of enabling a resilient future for Cisco, our CSR Management focus on simplicity, accountability, and empowerment. customers, and our partners. The SSBR team brings Ethics Cisco’s General Counsel serves as our Chief Compliance together leadership, operations, volunteer, and incident The goal is to improve efficiency, promote consistency, Privacy and Data Officer. management teams to address a broad range of Protection and build a more focused company that is easier to incidents around the world. In FY13, SSBR managed work for and to do business with. Since FY12, we have 195 incidents through its targeted “Situation Watch” Human Rights incorporated these themes into our communications, Risk Management Protocol, where incidents are monitored and tracked processes, and relationships with customers, employees, and updates are communicated to potentially affected Cisco’s success is built on innovation. Our culture of business units. and partners. Our Ease of Doing Business score, innovation enables our research and development teams Supply Chain measured by customer satisfaction surveys that we to continually push boundaries, ask difficult questions, In FY13, SSBR responded to Hurricane Sandy on the east coast of the United States. The team began monitoring conduct to identify opportunities for meeting our and seek new ways to connect the world. This mindset Our People the storm as it moved through the Caribbean and issued customers’ needs better, has improved as a result. has enabled us to pursue growth opportunities for a “Situation Watch” to a cross-functional team. This Society our business that connect people, improve lives, and situation-specific announcement alerted Cisco to the impending storm and listed ways that Cisco people, Corporate Governance enhance communities around the world. Our focus on facilities, or business interests could be impacted. Environment innovation makes risk management essential to our Cisco’s corporate governance policies provide a success as we enter new markets and introduce new As Sandy grew into a hurricane and the extent of its framework for the proper operation of the company, potential impacts became more apparent, the SSBR GRI Index products and services. consistent with our shareholders’ best interests and team activated a Local Incident Management Team the requirements of the law. A majority of our Board of made up of business and subject matter experts, which Appendix The Board of Directors, acting directly and through Directors are independent directors who meet regularly met regularly through the duration of the storm. The its committees, is responsible for overseeing risk team also activated an Emergency Operations Center without the presence of Cisco management. Our Board management. Under the Board’s oversight, Cisco has for 36 hours to provide employees with resources and has adopted clear governance policies for: guidance throughout the storm. Six Cisco sites were implemented practices and programs designed to • Board composition temporarily closed for the safety of our people. help manage business risks and to align risk-taking • Board meetings and materials appropriately with our efforts to increase shareholder In the wake of the storm, Cisco mobilized Tactical value. The Board’s Audit Committee, which oversees Operations teams in New York and New Jersey to • Board committees provide voice, video, and data capabilities to first our financial and risk management policies, receives responders on the ground. See also page E21. • Stock ownership guidelines for non-employee regular reports on enterprise risk management (ERM) directors and executive officers functions. As part of the overall risk oversight framework, • Management responsibilities other committees of the Board of Directors also oversee certain categories of risk associated with their respective areas of responsibility. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B5 < Previous View Contents Cross-functional teams regularly evaluate existing Public Policy and emerging risks that could affect our business, our Cisco engages with governments at many different levels Case Studies customers, and society. Our risk teams research and From Around the World Introduction to help shape public policy and regulations that support analyze external reports and market trends to improve the technology sector and help governments meet their Governance & Ethics our business planning practices. Promoting Global Development goals. with Broadband Access Overview We manage risk through our ERM Program, and the Risk Cisco’s Global Government Affairs team develops and Broadband connectivity has a growing role in the global > Governance and Resiliency Operating Committee is responsible for influences pro-technology public policies and regulations. economy. Cisco believes that expanding broadband making informed decisions about risk and resiliency and CSR Management Working collaboratively with industry stakeholders and access in developing economies is critical for economic promoting effective risk management systems throughout growth and the wellbeing of communities around the Ethics association partners, the team builds relationships with the company. The committee brings together working world. A 10 percent increase in broadband penetration government leaders to influence policies that affect Privacy and Data groups from across the business to evaluate risk and can increase a country’s GDP by 3.2 percent and Protection Cisco’s business and overall ICT adoption, looking to increase productivity by 2 percent.1 Furthermore, it is develop mitigation strategies based on detailed metrics help shape policy decisions at a global, national, and estimated that every new broadband job created leads to Human Rights and quarterly risk reports. local level. the development of between 2.5 and 4 additional jobs. In FY13, we completed enterprise risk profiles for over Cisco supports government policies that expand The Government Affairs team is composed of former broadband access2 in developing economies. In Korea Supply Chain 100 risk factors. Through this process, we prioritized and elected officials, legislators, parliamentarians, regulators, and Singapore, government broadband programs examined the most critical risks, supported quantification senior U.S. government officials, and government affairs have bolstered economic growth by expanding fixed Our People with metrics, and developed risk mitigation action plans. broadband penetration by 2.5 percent and mobile professionals who help Cisco promote and protect the We validated the risk portfolio prioritization by reviewing it broadband penetration by 7.4 percent. In developing use of technology around the world. Society with senior executives, board members, and investment countries, where fixed broadband penetration is about six percent, these increases are significant. analysts. As a result, we have increased management Current policy priorities include: Environment focus on emerging business risks. For policymakers looking to boost economic productivity • Increasing broadband and next-generation network and community wellbeing, Cisco encourages the GRI Index Business resiliency is a core part of our risk management deployment globally (see case study on this page) development of national broadband strategies that bring together public and private sector stakeholders to develop activities. Our strong incident management and business • Promoting wireless networking and increasing Appendix a fair and competitive market for broadband distribution. continuity programs enhance Cisco’s ability to rapidly spectrum allocations for wireless use 1. Tae Yoo: The Importance of Broadband in the Developing World respond to internal and external disruptions or threats and • Encouraging continued innovation in network security 2. The Key to Social and Economic Development? Broadband Adoption to maintain or recover operations with a goal to limit, to a practical extent, the impact on our employees and our • Reforming the U.S. patent system business. In FY13, our incident response management • Limiting regulation of Voice over IP (VoIP) technology team responded to incidents such as Hurricane Sandy in • Maintaining freedom for service providers to develop the United States (see case study, page B4). innovative business models • Balancing consumer privacy, network security, and Internet business • Promoting reasonable intellectual property rights management 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B6 < Previous View • Reforming the U.S. tax system to be more competitive Political Support Contents globally Cisco Joins Tech Leaders in Support of Cisco does not make donations to federal candidates Introduction • Reforming the U.S. high-skilled immigration system for office. We occasionally make corporate contributions U.S. Immigration Reform (see feature on this page) in support of local and state ballot measures on issues Immigration reform was the subject of much political Governance & Ethics such as transportation or education that affect our debate in the United States in FY13. Cisco believes that We maintain an active High Tech Policy blog where we operations in California, Georgia, Massachusetts, immigration reform is critical to the success of U.S. Overview discuss public policy issues that are important to our North Carolina, and Texas. Cisco fully complies with all businesses. Sound immigration policies help recruit the best, brightest, and most ambitious minds to come > Governance business and provide insights into how we are working reporting requirements regarding such contributions. work in the United States while treating those who are CSR Management toward our policy goals. The blog details Cisco’s positions already here with more compassion. Cisco supports a Ethics on, and advocacy efforts for, policy priorities including Employee Political Action Committee reduction in the green card backlog and an increase in those listed above and others such as education and Cisco’s employee-sponsored political action committee the availability of H-1B visas for foreign workers with Privacy and Data specialty skills. Cisco believes that reform is good for cybersecurity. The blog allows all of our stakeholders to (ePAC) enables U.S. employees to contribute to the Protection industry, for our company, and for our employees and follow the conversations as well as contribute through campaigns of U.S. federal and state elected officials their families. Human Rights comments and other social media interactions. and political candidates who champion Cisco and In June 2013, Cisco Chairman and CEO John Chambers our industry’s public policy priorities and business joined more than 100 tech leaders in calling on the U.S. Cisco employees are guided by our Code of Business objectives. All campaign contributions made by Cisco’s Congress to pass immigration reforms that enable a Supply Chain Conduct, which stipulates expectations regarding political ePAC are made according to a plan that supports more open and flexible U.S. immigration system for highactivities and interactions with government entities and Cisco’s policy objectives and is approved annually skilled workers. In their call to pass the Border Security, Our People their employees or representatives. See our Government Economic Opportunity and Immigration Modernization by the ePAC board. Contributions made by ePAC Affairs website for our positions on these and other areas. Act of 2013 (S. 744), they wrote: are public and transparent. ePAC’s contributions are Society “America is the most prosperous country in the world. reported online by the Federal Election Commission and We also collaborate with peers and industry organizations The U.S. technology sector employs over 6 million Environment California Secretary of State. to build trust and develop strong relationships with Americans and contributes $1 trillion to our country’s Gross Domestic Product. Our success stems from our government leaders through industry associations around We encourage civic engagement and provide GRI Index historic diversity, and the constant infusion of new and the world. educational opportunities for employees on specific innovative ideas fostered by our democratic system of Appendix issues as well as opportunities to meet with political education and innovation.” candidates through town hall meetings and other forums. The bill passed in the U.S. Senate on June 27, 2013. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B7 < Previous View Contents CSR Management FigureBusiness CSR 1: CSR Business Process in Process Practice in Practice Introduction We believe we have a responsibility to address the issues Having a vision for how we go about setting and reaching goals helps us be more ambitious and bring together teams that are important not only to our business, but also to from across business functions to foster success. We use our six-step CSR Business Process to guide our reporting and Governance & Ethics the people and communities with whom we interact. We stakeholder engagement, set goals, implement action plans, and measure progress toward those goals. use the insights and expertise of subject matter experts This graphic shows the business process used to address greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Read more about these and Overview across the business as well as feedback from external other environmental topics in Environment. Governance stakeholders to manage CSR at Cisco. > CSR Management Business Functions Sustainable Business Practices Team Ethics In FY13, 86 percent of employees agreed or strongly Privacy and Data agreed that Cisco’s Corporate Social Responsibility Protection activities positively impact the way Cisco is perceived Measure Performance CSR Reporting Human Rights around the world, up one point from FY12. We use enterprise software to We disclose our GHG reduction track and measure progress, goals and publicly report revise plans, and create metrics. detailed data on our progress Supply Chain CSR Governance We share these metrics in our every year. Reporting keeps us next round of reporting and the accountable for our progress Our CSR vision is stewarded by Tae Yoo, Cisco’s Senior cycle begins again. and lets us share how we plan Our People Vice President of Corporate Affairs. Under her leadership, to meet our goals. Cisco engages in public-private partnerships and applies Society Implementation 1 our expertise, technology, and partnerships for positive social and environmental impact around the world. Achieving environmental goals Stakeholder Engagement Environment and Analysis is the responsibility of the The Sustainable Business Practices team monitors relevant business functions. The We gather feedback from GRI Index Sustainable Business Practices 2 emerging CSR issues and identifies areas for potential stakeholders throughout the team collaborates with these year, which helps identify the Appendix action. The team collaborates with Cisco’s subject business functions to implement most relevant issues for our matter experts on strategies and initiatives that create action plans. For example, business and how to track long-term, sustainable benefits for our business and the Workplace Resources operates 3 and report them. In FY13, global community. Its mission is to build sustainability into our buildings and labs and is stakeholders continued to normal business processes and engage employees from responsible for sourcing energy affirm the importance of all business functions within Cisco. with lower emissions factors and reducing our GHG emissions. purchasing renewable energy. The team is responsible for CSR reporting, stakeholder engagement, and benchmarking. It also works with Prioritization, Goals, Stakeholder Feedback executive leadership to review performance, help and Initiatives to the Business prioritize CSR issues and programs, and set goals. We established our next set of We share feedback internally 5-year environmental goals to with the relevant business improve energy productivity, functions, communicating source energy with lower opportunities and challenges emissions factors, and associated with environmentpurchase renewable energy. related activities. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B8 < Previous View Contents Global Frameworks and Forums We also follow globally recognized CSR management • Supporting the Committee to Encourage Corporate standards and guidelines. Our CSR report conforms to Philanthropy through membership and collaboration in Several global frameworks and forums inform and guide version 3.1 of the GRI guidelines (see our GRI Index, page its mission to “lead the business community in raising Introduction our work on CSR, and enable us to learn from, and G1). We have also implemented ISO 14001 environmental the level and quality of corporate philanthropy” share best practices with, peers, nonprofits, and other Governance & Ethics management standards at many of our facilities, and our institutions. These include: Business Management System training includes specifics • Clinton Global Initiative Stakeholder Engagement Overview on ISO 14001. This training is mandatory for relevant Cisco values the input of external stakeholders in Governance • UN Global Compact employees when it is specific to their responsibilities (see developing our CSR strategy and initiatives as well as in > CSR Management • UN Millennium Development Goals Environment, page F11). continuing to improve our CSR reporting. This input helps Ethics • World Economic Forum us align our business more closely with society’s needs Privacy and Data External Partners and prioritize issues while gaining valuable insight into Protection Members of our leadership team are actively engaged Collaboration with external partners is key to the success external perspectives, building ongoing relationships with Human Rights in these organizations, which helps us maximize what of our CSR programs around the world. This collaborative key influencers, and providing learning opportunities. we learn from them as well as what we can contribute. approach is well established at Cisco. We aim to continue Participation in these forums helps us take a long-term to develop and share best practices for public-private Our Sustainable Business Practices team manages view of sustainable development, identify technological partnerships to increase our impact. collaboration and feedback between Cisco and Supply Chain stakeholders on a wide range of CSR issues. Insights solutions to global problems, and create opportunities to collaborate within and across industries. Cisco works with a wide range of global and local partner from stakeholders, opinion leaders, and experts are Our People organizations, from nonprofits and governments to peer analyzed and shared with the relevant teams within Cisco Society For example, our engagement with the World Economic companies. See a list of our community partners online. and with our business partners. Forum (WEF) takes place at many levels. John Chambers, Environment Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is a member of the Evidence of this collaborative approach can be found International Business Council, one of three governing throughout this report as we work with others to further GRI Index bodies, which provides intellectual stewardship to the global sustainable development goals, improve standards “It was helpful to see the Appendix Forum. Each year, members of our senior leadership team, including John Chambers and Tae Yoo, attend in our supply chain, and make our products more sustainable. Examples include: suggestions that stakeholders the annual WEF meeting in Davos, as well as regional • Working with education institutions around the world have voiced in years past and meetings throughout the year. In addition, we serve on technology and community focused committees that to deliver the Cisco Networking Academy in a globally how Cisco is addressing them.” consistent and locally relevant manner to more than make use of our expertise. 1 million students in more than 165 countries Kyle Whitaker, BMW Group • Working together with peer companies and suppliers Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions In FY13, reporting and disclosure were high on the agenda for CSR experts. The Global Reporting Initiative through the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (GRI) released new guidelines, known as G4, that change (EICC) to develop a common approach to tackling the the way companies think about materiality and disclosure. issue of conflict minerals in the ICT supply chain Meanwhile, the Sustainability Accounting Standards • Working with the World Resources Institute and the Board (SASB) has begun releasing sector-specific World Business Council for Sustainable Development guidance on CSR risk disclosure and integrated reporting. to initiate the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (Scope 3) Cisco is engaged with both organizations. Product ICT Sector Supplement 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B9 < Previous View Contents Table 1: How We Engage with Key Stakeholders (continued) Introduction Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of How We Are Responding to Issues Raised Governance & Ethics Communities Social investment programs Cisco and the Cisco Foundation provide cash, products, and people to help organizations Partnering with governments, corporations, and nonprofits create scalable, replicable, and sustainable solutions that use Internet and network technology Overview to benefit individuals and communities around the world. See more on our support for Employee volunteering and participation in Cisco civic councils in their community partners. Governance local communities > CSR Management CSR Opinion Leaders Stakeholder meetings to gain feedback on our CSR performance and In FY13, we hosted five sessions with 40 stakeholders from 12 countries focusing on the Ethics reporting environment, society, and supply chain. Their feedback suggested that we had addressed Privacy and Data a number of concerns raised in the previous year and helped us to identify new areas for Protection improvement (see page B11). Human Rights Customers Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey Cisco experts host webinars and forums where customers can ask about specific topics. “We’re Listening” blog series keeping customers informed about what In FY13, topics covered included collaboration, voice and video, data centers, network Cisco is doing to address their concerns infrastructure, security, wireless, and mobility. Cisco Support Community for engaging with customers on Cisco By listening to customers, we are targeting improvements including proposal timing, product Supply Chain lead times, software updates, website search and navigation, and more. technology and solutions Our People Employees Regular informal engagement through team meetings Employees provided feedback through our Employee Pulse Survey, which covers three Internal communications categories that have the greatest impact on employee engagement at Cisco: Respect for Society People, Organizational Alignment, and Innovation and Excellence. Quarterly “All Hands” meetings We received multiple awards focused on our employee programs and benefits. In FY13, these Environment Annual leadership and sales meetings included awards for best place to work, multicultural business opportunities, and disability Focus groups advocacy. Read more on Cisco’s CSR Awards page. GRI Index Employee Pulse Survey Cisco Birthday Chats are a tradition at Cisco. John Chambers hosts six chats each year, where employees have an hour-long question-and-answer session with him during (or Annual ethics training and certification in Code of Business Conduct Appendix near) their birthday month. They get to ask him challenging questions about the business or Cisco Birthday Chats working at Cisco, and he has an opportunity to hear firsthand what is important to employees. Employees can participate in person, by TelePresence, or through Cisco TV. Governments and Contributing to policy development through our Government We worked on policy developments that affect our industry. See Public Policy (page B5) for Regulators Affairs team and industry associations a list of Cisco’s critical policy priorities, and visit our Government Affairs page for our position Partnering with governments on issues such as education on these areas and more. and healthcare We worked with government and a local university hospital in the Brazilian state of Sergipe to High Tech Policy blog: From Government Affairs improve access to pediatric care for rural children (see Society, page E14). Industry Participation in industry working groups to promote the role of ICT in We participated in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition to address issues in the ICT sustainability, respond to new regulations, and develop standardized supply chain such as conflict minerals and working hours (see Supply Chain, page C8). approaches to challenges We worked with the International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative to standardize lifecycle assessments of electronics products (see Environment, page F10). We engaged with ICT industry working groups and organizations such as the SASB, the GRI, Business for Social Responsibility, and the UN Global Compact. (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B10 < Previous View Contents Table 1: How We Engage with Key Stakeholders (continued) Introduction Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of How We Are Responding to Issues Raised Governance & Ethics Investors Regular meetings with investors Cisco’s Investor Relations (IR) team shares investor views on key sustainability issues, from Quarterly earnings announcements human rights to executive compensation, with Cisco executives and members of Cisco’s Overview Board of Directors. IR collaborates with other internal groups and meets regularly with socially Annual Meeting of Shareholders responsible investors (SRIs) and engages Cisco leaders in dialogue with SRIs as well. See a Governance Annual Report list of awards won by this team online. > CSR Management Proxy Statement Ethics This CSR Report Privacy and Data Sustainability indices Protection Investor Relations website Human Rights Nonprofits Meetings with CSR opinion leaders We worked with the Blue Planet Network and Water for People to improve access to clean Working with partners to deliver community and CSR programs water in communities around the world. We supported the Grameen Foundation’s Progress Out of Poverty Index to improve the Supply Chain Providing technology skills and expertise through employee volunteering delivery and impact of poverty alleviation programs such as microfinance. Our People Promoting NGO efficiency and effectiveness through technology grants We worked to solve global challenges through influential coalitions such as the World Economic Forum and Clinton Global Initiative. Society For more on our engagement with nonprofits, see Society. Sales Channel Quarterly and annual surveys to understand our performance and how Approximately 80 percent of our revenue flows through our sales channel partners, making Environment Partners we can help partners grow their business our relationship with these partners essential to Cisco’s business. Channels blog Our blog site for channel partners encourages honest feedback and dialogue. The “Weekly GRI Index Rewind” feature highlights partner success stories. Partners from around the world share Facebook how they are helping customers achieve their goals by using Cisco technology. Appendix Cisco Channels Twitter account In FY13, we held our 16th annual Partner Summit in San Diego for global partners. YouTube Partner Community forums for partners to learn, share, and collaborate with their peers and Cisco experts Partner Education Connection promotes our partners’ technological education and certification Suppliers Close collaboration to incorporate sustainability into all major aspects We include sustainability criteria in our business scorecards for key suppliers. of the supply chain We work with suppliers through our auditing process, webinars, and other direct Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Ethics Policy engagements to build their CSR capabilities. Regular audits We mentor diverse suppliers and participate in global business missions to support their Training opportunities business development. For more on our engagement with suppliers, see Supply Chain. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B11 < Previous View Bringing Global Stakeholders to the Virtual Table Contents Table 2: CSR Stakeholder Feedback In FY13, we held a series of five stakeholder meetings Introduction with 40 global stakeholders from 12 countries using Feedback Ongoing Activities Cisco TelePresence technology and thus eliminating Governance & Ethics the need for business air travel. The sessions brought Governance together experts from the private sector, nonprofits, Overview Articulate a clear CSR strategy and emphasize links between Our high-level strategy is articulated as You + Networks = academia, and industry organizations for discussions on CSR initiatives and business success. Impact x. This represents the potential exponential reach of Governance Cisco’s environment, society, and supply chain activities Cisco’s CSR efforts, achieved by the combined power of > CSR Management in the Asia Pacific Region, Europe and the Middle East, human networks and technology networks. In FY14, we will and the Americas. continue to engage a cross-functional team of subject matter Ethics experts to review, fine-tune, and clearly articulate our overall Privacy and Data CSR vision and strategy. Through these candid discussions, stakeholders offered Protection feedback and suggestions on our performance and Society Human Rights reporting efforts. Returning participants recognized Show how programs can be scaled up and provide metrics This is a challenging area for all companies as there are improvements from FY12, but pushed us to go even to measure the outcomes and impact of social investments, no globally consistent metrics. We are, however, working further. Table 2 summarizes key themes in the feedback not just outputs. with subject matter experts to model scaling opportunities. We believe scale can best be achieved through enabling Supply Chain and outlines how we are responding. Our stakeholders technologies. We are also researching methods that will help set high standards for Cisco, and we strive to meet them. us articulate the societal impact of our programs beyond just Our People We are proud of the progress we have made. numbers of people reached or dollars donated. Society Environment Materiality Assessment Provide greater transparency about Scope 3 environmental Additional discussion has been incorporated into the Environment With input from our stakeholders, we assess the impacts and product lifecycles. “Lifecycle Assessment” and “Scope 3” sections of this issues that are most important to our business and report (see Environment, pages F10 and F29). This includes GRI Index our stakeholders. This helps us prioritize our efforts to the lifecycle impacts of five representative products and additional detail regarding product energy efficiency address the issues with the greatest potential impacts on performance. Appendix our business, the environment, and society. Supply Chain Our most recent assessment, conducted in July Provide a clearer picture of your supply chain and The profile of our supply chain includes the main types 2012, was based on findings from prior stakeholder demonstrate how you are working with suppliers to build of suppliers we engage with and the location of key capability beyond monitoring performance. manufacturing partners. We have increased our emphasis on engagement sessions and consulting from SustainAbility. building capability among suppliers, with more examples of Together we mapped out issues that were of potential this activity as well as increased transparency on monitoring concern to different stakeholder groups including suppliers (closely linked to capability building) through our customers, employees, investors, and the communities business scorecard and audit process. Our goal is to see in which we operate. We ranked these against how year-over-year measurable improvements. much impact and influence Cisco had in each area. This Reporting process gave us a clear picture of the issues that are Be more transparent about the challenges Cisco faces in We have included more on the challenges we face and most material to our business. See the results in our implementing a CSR strategy to help others learn from Cisco’s lessons learned throughout this report, as well as more case Materiality Assessment on page B12. experience. studies, videos, and infographics to better tell our CSR story. Use interactive features, including video, to bring CSR The overview pages of each section of this report can be programs to life and provide a concise executive summary. downloaded as a separate Executive Summary PDF. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B12 < Previous View Contents Figure 2: Materiality Assessment Mouse over circles below for alternative views Introduction With our input, SustainAbility developed a list of issues with high relevance to Cisco. Each issue was then assessed based on the level of societal concern, the potential business impact, and our ability to control or influence outcomes related to the issue. The results are captured in this matrix, Governance & Ethics which visually represents priority issues for Cisco. We selected and assessed 27 issues. Overview High Degree of Control Governance > CSR Management Human Rights Ethics 21st-Century Skills Privacy and Data Protection Corruption & Bribery Freedom of High Control Operational Energy & GHGs Expression Human Rights Job Creation Land Use/Biodiversity Digital Inclusion Healthcare Efficiency Access to Healthcare Ethical Sourcing Supply Chain Education Accelerating Moderate Control Performance Entrepreneurship/SMEs Our People Water Use Product Energy & GHGs Public Policy Product Societal Concern End-of-Life Society Digital Security & Privacy Low Control Environment Poverty Alleviation Disaster Relief Supplier Diversity GRI Index Hazardous Waste Packaging Appendix Issue Group Education Access Workplace Diversity Society Operational Waste Employee Training & Development Environment Governance Low Low Impact/Relevance for Cisco High 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B13 < Previous View Contents We used this assessment throughout the year to guide strategic decisions in each of the three major issue areas: Ethics In FY13, we launched a new, interactive eBook version of the Code, making it easier to use and for employees environment, society, and governance. For example: We believe that our commitment to ethical conduct to search for information as they need it. The new COBC Introduction • Environment: Water use ranked as less of a concern offers one of the strongest returns on investment eBook includes pop-up FAQs, links to other Cisco tools Governance & Ethics to Cisco than we had anticipated. This spurred internal across the company. It helps us attract and retain and resources, and an “Ask/Report” list of ways to get conversations about how to balance our focus on customers, business partners, and talented employees. help on any topic. Pop-up definitions are provided for key Overview terms to enable our employees to clearly understand the water and other environmental issues. We used the As we enter new markets and offer new products and Governance assessment as a way to broaden our focus on water services, ethical challenges and concerns may arise. meaning of complex issues without having to refer to a CSR Management beyond operational use to global access to clean, safe Our commitment to ethical behavior guides our business glossary (see page B14). > Ethics water. Water is now a bigger part of the critical human decisions and how we approach technological advances. In addition to the Code, we use other means to raise needs portfolio. Privacy and Data awareness about business ethics among employees, In FY13, employees were polled about Cisco’s core Protection • Society: Job creation and 21st-century skills ranked business partners, and suppliers. We offer ethics training values and asked which values resonate most with them. Human Rights high in both their importance to Cisco and their for employees, helping them recognize ethics-related Across the board, they voted for “always do the right importance to society. We focused on developing situations. For example, during the holiday season every thing,” and their comments made clear that this value is metrics that measure employability outcomes for year, we conduct an internal communications campaign viewed as the foundation that makes our other corporate participants in our social programs that seek to create to remind employees about our gifts and entertainment Supply Chain values, such as “change the world,” “make innovation jobs and give people 21st-century technical and policies. happen,” and “focus intensely on customers,” possible. Our People business skills. • Governance: We have had a long-standing The Cisco Supplier Ethics Policy sets similar expectations Society commitment to protecting human rights. But the Code of Business Conduct for our business partners. Both require compliance with assessment helped us gain a deeper understanding of The Cisco Code of Business Conduct defines our all applicable regional and national laws and regulations. Environment this issue and identify which aspects of human rights expectations for our employees’ ethical behavior. All are most important for us to address. As a result, we employees must follow this Code, which provides GRI Index have redoubled our commitment to promoting access information about our policies and procedures, guidelines to information and protecting privacy. for decision making, and real-life examples of potential Appendix work-related ethical dilemmas. Our next review, scheduled for FY14, will help us refine the current assessment and better understand new The Code is available in 14 languages. It requires: and emerging issues. Our assessment process will also • Honest and ethical conduct help us prepare for how we report against the GRI’s G4 • Full, accurate, and timely disclosures to government guidelines. agencies and in other public communications where appropriate Award: Cisco Named One of the World’s • Protection of confidential and proprietary information Most Ethical Companies for Sixth Year belonging to Cisco, our customers, and our suppliers For the sixth consecutive year, Cisco was included in the • Compliance with all applicable government laws, rules, Ethisphere Institute’s World’s Most Ethical Companies and regulations ranking, which recognizes companies that excel • Prompt reporting of potential violations at putting ethics into action. Cisco was one of 145 companies included in the ranking. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B14 < Previous View Contents Employee Training and Awareness of them rated it positively. Our strong ethics resources Ethics are embedded in Cisco’s culture. Employee enable employees to address potential ethical concerns Case Studies whenever they may encounter them. From the United States Introduction responses to the ethics questions in the annual Pulse Survey show a strong and stable ethical culture. Our Business and regional management can also request Governance & Ethics training tools, including the “Cisco Has a Speak-Up Ethics on the Go on-demand training for specific employee groups. In Culture” video, help foster and demonstrate this culture. Cisco went into FY13 determined to modernize the Overview FY13, we conducted tailored, live training sessions Code of Business Conduct and make it less academic Governance with employee teams in global supplier management Each year, we require all regular employees (in countries and more relevant to our business. The interactive and human resources. These sessions built on existing COBC eBook is available to all employees and external CSR Management where this is permitted by law) to recertify compliance training options such as: stakeholders worldwide on www.cisco.com and is > Ethics with the Code of Business Conduct, to refresh their Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant. commitment to ethical conduct, and to get updated • An anticorruption course for employees who interact Privacy and Data The long-term benefits of this new platform are many. Protection information on any changes Cisco has made to the Code. with government representatives and officials, monitored by a public sector compliance team in the It includes touch-screen functions for mobile tablets In FY13, all of Cisco’s eligible1 employees completed Human Rights and supplemental content tailored to employee job recertification. Newly hired employees must certify within Legal department functions and roles. three weeks of joining Cisco. • A program for human resource professionals, The new data analysis capabilities that the eBook designed to provide the tools they need to act as provides are vital to making the Code work for our Supply Chain Our internal ethics website provides training materials, ethics advocates and respond to employee questions employees. We don’t track individual usage data, videos, links to policies, and an ethics discussion forum related to the Code of Business Conduct but we do gather information about how the book Our People for employees to share ideas and discuss issues. In is being used, how often it is being used, and what FY13, we introduced a new video, “The ROI of Ethics,” • A quarterly course for new recruits addressing Cisco’s information employees access most. This data is Society commitment to ethical business practices helping us improve both the format and the content of to accompany the annual recertification process. It uses the platform. Environment a business newscast format to highlight the business • Live training for employees joining our sales teams value of ethics from three perspectives: financial markets, The new eBook became the default version of the Code • Annual live training for employees in China for FY13 certification. More than 65,000 employees GRI Index product quality, and engagement and culture. The video used it, and 91 percent gave it a positive score in highlights Cisco’s proactive approach to ethics. More than feedback surveys. Appendix 68,000 employees saw the video and over 88 percent “We are always monitoring laws to stay current, that’s why we update our Code of Business Conduct every year. Regarding technology, protecting data and privacy will become more complex as we move into the Internet of Everything.” Jeremy Wilson, Senior Manager, Ethics and Integrity 1. Excluding employees in France (who have a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, those on a leave of absence, interns, and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B15 < Previous View • Reporting concerns through our global helpline, which The new world of networked devices and Contents Table 3: Employee Pulse Survey Results is run by a third party and available to people outside communications is what we call the The Internet of Cisco. Around 15 percent of concerns are reported Everything. It involves intelligent connections between Introduction Question FY11 FY12 FY13 using the helpline. The Cisco Ethics Line is available in people, processes, data, and things. The Internet of Governance & Ethics more than 150 languages and open 24 hours a Everything holds great benefits for companies and people I have confidence that 90% 91% 92% day. Calls can be made anonymously, if preferred as information sharing and system responses become Overview Cisco takes ethical (in countries where this is permitted by law). Our automated and happen at near-immediate speeds. It business concerns Governance seriously Ethics@Cisco website contains dialing instructions allows people to access personal or business information CSR Management for more than 60 countries. anywhere, any time, and on any device. The increasing The management team 81% 84% 87% • Disclosing gifts, entertainment, or potential conflicts connectivity of the Internet of Everything also raises new Ethics sets a good example of of interest to the Ethics Office for review by using privacy concerns. > Privacy and Data company values, culture, Protection confidential tools. and the Code Cisco believes that transparency and choice are critical Human Rights of Business Conduct elements of protecting personal and business privacy, We make clear to employees that they will not face retaliation if concerns are raised in good faith, and fear and we understand that people expect to know when I know where to go to 83% 87% 89% data is being collected about them and how it will be report an ethics question of retaliation is low. Only 16 percent of concerns were Supply Chain reported anonymously in FY13. used. They rightly expect to be given a choice about or concern whether or not to have their data and information tracked, Our People The main concerns employees raise are related to and they should be informed about the benefits they get I can report concerns 75% 78% 77% without fear of retaliation conflicts of interest, gifts and entertainment, and human from sharing personal information. Society resources issues. We make it a priority to investigate all concerns. Violations may result in disciplinary action, Like other companies, Cisco is responsible for Environment appropriately informing people about how their data is including termination of employment if warranted in GRI Index Reporting Concerns certain cases. being used and giving them the privacy choices they We encourage employees and other stakeholders want and need. We design our products with privacy in mind, providing customers with a wide range of options in Appendix to promptly report concerns to us about suspected unethical behavior. The ways they can do this include: Privacy and Data Protection how they can implement our technology to achieve their personal and business goals, while respecting privacy. • Speaking to a manager or human resources representative. As data networks and web-based information systems We use best-practice security systems, such as Security become increasingly ubiquitous, we understand that • Contacting members of our Legal or Ethics offices Intelligence Operations, to keep our networks, systems, people want to feel confident that their data, information, directly. and information secure. We regularly analyze new and communications are secure. We continue working to security trends, changing threats, and innovations in IT • Contacting the Ethics Office by email at improve our systems and processes to protect customer security. This helps us identify new opportunities and ethics@cisco.com or through our anonymous and employee data, and to raise awareness about the early warnings where security threats may occur. webform, channels that account for more than importance of privacy and data protection. 70 percent of reported concerns. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B16 < Previous View Contents Privacy by Design various security threats as new technology is used to and partner data and for employee data, which further build cloud offerings. We use our cloud security offerings demonstrates that we take data protection seriously and Designing privacy into our products helps Cisco maintain to help Cisco maintain the integrity of our own operations, will continue to improve internal controls to safeguard Introduction a market-leading position for our applications. “Privacy reducing risks and improving the protection of proprietary personal information. by Design” is the concept that privacy is not an add-on, Governance & Ethics information. but rather a core component of the development of our Overview products, services, and systems. We assess potential security risks related to cloud Promoting Security Awareness solutions based on guidance developed by the Cloud We have embedded security into corporate initiatives Governance We have created guidelines for our engineers and Security Alliance, which promotes best practices for and into our Code of Business Conduct to encourage CSR Management product managers to help them understand the privacy employees to integrate security into their daily activities. providing security assurance within cloud computing. Ethics and data protection needs of new applications. This helps Through the Cisco Security Education Program, we are Cisco security experts participate regularly in the Cloud the development teams design features and functionality using our own experience to help other organizations > Privacy and Data Security Alliance. Protection that make it easier for Cisco, customers, and users to increase awareness of security to protect privacy, comply with legal and business requirements to protect intellectual assets, and computing resources. Promoting Human Rights personal information. Privacy Compliance the right behaviors is a key focus, for example, through Regulatory privacy compliance protection is managed by campaigns to raise awareness of risks associated with Our supplier review program assesses service providers a cross-functional team with representatives from our social networking. Regular updates and tips can be found Supply Chain to mitigate potential risks, especially with respect to cloud legal, IT, information security, sales, services, marketing, on the Cisco security blog. solutions. and HR departments. Training is a key component of Our People our compliance program, and we provide appropriate We also monitor data security risks and publish a Cyber Society Securing the Cloud privacy and security training for employees specific to Risk Report that highlights current security activity. Cloud (Internet-based) computing is changing the way their responsibilities. Online privacy training modules and The report addresses seven major risk-management Environment that people and organizations share information and resources are available to all employees and contractors categories: vulnerability, physical, legal, trust, identity, data. Maintaining the trust of our customers, partners, via our internal privacy portal. human, and geopolitical. Cyber Risk Reports are powered GRI Index by Cisco Security Intelligence Operations, our advanced and employees is critical to the long-term success of Privacy and security standards are part of our Code of security infrastructure. our business, and we build our cloud systems with this in Appendix Business Conduct. Our cross-functional program for mind. Our cloud security offerings include: reporting and tracking incidents provides a standard, We value the insights and collaboration of peers in our • Capabilities to help cloud service providers and global process to report, categorize, monitor, refer, and work to protect customer security, and we share our subscribers secure their cloud infrastructure investigate alleged incidents. experience with them as well. Cisco participates in, or • Cloud-based email, web, and threat intelligence is a member of, privacy and security associations and security for customers In FY13, Cisco was again awarded alliances that include: TRUSTe’s Privacy Seal. This seal • Secure cloud access to help organizations control • Cloud Security Alliance indicates that our privacy policy and access to resources and software hosted in the cloud, • Health Information Trust Alliance programs meet best practices for enabling a trusted cloud environment transparency, accountability, and choice • National Cyber Security Alliance These security services are as important to our business regarding the collection and use of • Payment Card Industry Board of Advisors as they are to our customers and partners. Sensitive personal information. Cisco has also again certified its compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework with • International Association of Privacy Professionals personal and company data becomes susceptible to the U.S. Department of Commerce for both customer 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B17 < Previous View Contents Human Rights Human Figure 3:Rights Human Governance Rights Governance Model Model Introduction Cisco’s technology creates opportunities for connectivity, expression, and access to information to a growing Governance & Ethics number of people across the world. At the same time, we recognize our responsibility to realize these benefits in a Cisco Board of Directors Overview Nomination and Governance Committee (Annual Readout) manner that respects human rights through our operations, Governance business relationships, products, and services. CSR Management Our approach and commitment to upholding and Ethics respecting human rights is governed by our Human Privacy and Data Rights Policy, which was published in December 2012. Executive Sponsor Protection The policy is informed by international human rights > Human Rights Randy Pond, Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems frameworks, including the Universal Declaration of Human Cisco Operating Committee Member Rights (UDHR), the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core Labor standards, and the UN Global Compact. The Supply Chain policy is anchored in our commitment to applying the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which Our People establish clarity on the relationship between state duty to protect human rights and the corporate responsibility to Corporate Affairs Chief Compliance Officer Society respect human rights. Sustainable Business Practices General Counsel Environment Governance Strategy Compliance GRI Index Cisco has adopted a formal human rights governance structure to implement our commitment to human Appendix rights across the company. Our cross-functional human rights working group includes experts from across the Cross-Functional Human Rights Working Group business, including Supply Chain, Employee Relations, Ethics, Privacy, Government Affairs, Business Strategy, Investor Subject Matter Experts Public Communications, Investor Relations, and others. The Relations Relations human rights working group is overseen by our Corporate Affairs and Legal departments and is sponsored by Supply Employee Enterprise Corporate Govt. Business Randy Pond, Executive Vice President for Operations, Ethics Legal Privacy Brand Comms. Chain Relations Risk Affairs Affairs Strategy Processes and Systems. A report on our human rights performance will be made annually to the Nomination and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B18 < Previous View Contents Key Opportunities Nowhere was the potential for the Internet to support Our work across the world is guided by the following human rights more evident in FY13 than in Myanmar. principles: Information and communications technology (ICT) Cisco is donating networking equipment to two • We do not participate in business activities that would Introduction plays a powerful role in shaping the way we connect, universities — the University of Computer Studies in aid repression. communicate, and collaborate with one another. From Governance & Ethics Yangon and the University of Computer Studies in the way we access and share information to the way we • We do not support attempts by governments to Mandalay — that will use the equipment to support protect it, ICT can be a positive force for creating new balkanize the Internet or create a “closed” Internet, as Overview teaching programs with up to 15 faculty and staff. Our opportunities and advancing human rights. such attempts undermine fundamental human rights, Governance long-term vision is to work with the Myanmar government and other private and public organizations in the country including the right to freedom of expression. CSR Management We use our networking technologies to create new opportunities for more people across the world. At the to build a “Smart and Connected Myanmar.” Cisco has • We do not customize or develop specialized or unique Ethics most general level, more than one billion people have long believed that education and the Internet are two filtering capabilities to enable regimes to block access Privacy and Data great equalizers in life and that establishing a strong to information. Protection better Internet access thanks to Cisco’s products, while our Cisco Networking Academy brings technology foundation for both of these in Myanmar is fundamental • We do not supply nor do we support mediation > Human Rights for the future of the country. For more information on education, 21st-century skills, and improved job equipment that allows the interception of telephone prospects to students in more than 165 countries. To how networking technologies support positive social calls made over the Internet using Voice over Internet date, we have empowered and prepared more than outcomes, see Society. Protocol (VoIP). Supply Chain 4.75 million students for careers in the ICT field. We also partner with humanitarian organizations such as NetHope, Freedom of Expression and Privacy A full appreciation of the human rights issues associated Our People a collaboration of 32 humanitarian organizations, to meet with network equipment requires an understanding of the As a technology leader, we believe that upholding critical human needs in disaster-stricken areas. equipment’s core features. The nature of Internet routing Society the rights to freedom of expression and privacy are is such that in order to deliver messages and content, fundamental to our business and society. We strongly service providers generally can see the addresses of the Environment support freedom of expression and open communication senders and recipients of information and, in the absence on the Internet, and we are proud of our role in helping to GRI Index of adequate encryption, the contents of messages and make Internet technology ubiquitous, allowing billions of attachments. Individuals, companies, and countries make people in nearly every nation across the world to access Appendix their own decisions with respect to how they operate information previously unavailable to them. networks and network security in terms of protecting the network itself from denial of service and other attacks However, technologies, including ours, can be used by and protecting users from spam, hacking, and virus governments and organizations to both enable and impede attacks. This requires operators to have capabilities that communications, and to both protect and impair privacy. can also be used to block access to particular websites Our goal in developing ICT systems is to expand or copy and download users’ communications. For access to information and promote innovation. To meet network management purposes, network operators this objective, we build our products on open, global also require the ability to identify the protocols used for standards, which we believe are critical to overcoming different types of traffic. We cannot shut down such censorship, protecting privacy, and keeping the world networks — only network operators have that capability. connected. We advocate that users should have access to workable encryption, and we have opposed the efforts of some By making our products interoperable, we strengthen governments to block users from adequate encryption. the Internet’s capacity to be a positive force for society. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B19 < Previous View Contents For these reasons, we believe that the threat to freedom Product Use include video surveillance hardware or software. We have of expression and Internet freedom today resides not in not and will not sell video surveillance cameras or video We believe our role in providing more people across the standardized equipment, but in efforts to adopt special surveillance management software in general public Introduction world with access to the Internet is hugely important, and protocols that deviate from global norms and efforts to infrastructure projects in China. that operating in most countries brings more benefits Governance & Ethics enable special censorship or filtering systems. We have than if we were not present. In all countries where we worked in opposition to such efforts and will continue to Overview do business, our technology and systems, whether they Global Standards do so. Examples of our approach in practice include the are sold directly or through local partners and service We believe that open and global product standards play Governance following: providers, include the same standard Internet-access a very important role in protecting and respecting human CSR Management • In March 2012, we committed to not responding to a equipment and network management capabilities that rights. For this reason, we work with policy makers and Ethics public tender published by the Government of Pakistan are used by public libraries in the United States, which participate in standard-setting bodies, working groups, to build and implement a national-level Internet filtering include such capabilities as blocking inappropriate and industry coalitions to create and maintain a secure Privacy and Data Protection and blocking system. content for children. global standard for many of our leading technologies > Human Rights • We do not and will not supply video surveillance ranging from wireline and wireless connections including cameras or video surveillance monitoring software We also believe in an open Internet where people can local area network (WLAN) to video encoding/decoding in our public infrastructure projects in China. We access the same information no matter where they are and security/encryption services. are strongly committed to a standards-based in the world. We design our products and services to Supply Chain enable this access while safeguarding human rights. global Internet that maximizes the opportunities for China, however, uses a local national standard known as Our People freedom of expression, and we do not customize our WLAN Authentication and Privacy Infrastructure (WAPI) to Despite these efforts, it has been alleged that provide secure access to the Internet rather than the IEEE equipment to help any government to censor content, some customers in some countries have misused 802.11 standard, which is now universally used in Wi-Fi Society track Internet use by individuals, or intercept Internet our technology. In some cases, awareness of the networks globally. Although the International Organization communications. Read our statements in the Business Environment fact that a government does not respect the open for Standardization (ISO) has rejected the Chinese & Human Rights Resource Centre for more information Internet is confused with complicity in efforts to limit government’s application to make WAPI an international on this issue. GRI Index communications or repress freedom, even where the standard, WAPI continues to be used as the default • Cisco does not participate in PRISM (the surveillance equipment being supplied is standards-based, nonstandard in China despite concerns that WAPI remains Appendix program operated by the United States National customized access equipment necessary to facilitate incompatible with internationally recognized standards. Security Agency), and we do not allow third parties communications. While our equipment supports the globally recognized access to our source code, nor do we ourselves Wi-Fi standard, suppliers and users of our equipment monitor the communications of our customers or Our technology and systems can also play an important in China are able to add WAPI to our equipment. We government organizations in the U.S., China, or role in helping to promote public safety — through would not be able to sell our equipment and provide anywhere else in the world. crime prevention assistance, for example — but we the benefits of an open Internet in China if WAPI could recognize that there is a growing concern about the use not be added. Many western vendors of handsets of networking equipment for improper surveillance that and infrastructure, however, comply directly with and would violate individuals’ privacy rights. For instance, incorporate the WAPI protocols in their products, enabling concerns have been raised about our work on the this nonstandard encryption to proliferate. Our efforts “Smart+Connected Communities” project in Chongqing, to oppose WAPI are rendered meaningless when other China. This project is based on standard, unmodified vendors incorporate the code. Nevertheless, we continue Cisco routing and switching equipment and does not to maintain our efforts to push for international standards that are used to pursue a safe and secure open Internet. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B20 < Previous View Contents Employees Examples of our collaboration in FY13 include: To safeguard the rights of our employees, we follow Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB): Our Introduction our Code of Business Conduct, which includes our ongoing dialogue with the Institute for Human Rights and commitment to uphold human rights. We also rely on our Business, a global think tank focused on the relationship Governance & Ethics many employee policies and guidelines that incorporate between business and human rights, has deepened relevant laws and ethical principles — including those our understanding of external expectations regarding Overview pertaining to freedom of association, nondiscrimination, potential areas of concern and our ability to address Governance privacy, freedom of expression, compulsory and child them. We appreciate the relationship and important CSR Management labor, immigration, fair pay, and working hours — to guide perspectives IHRB brings on issues we are facing. Ethics our day-to-day activities and business decisions. Business for Social Responsibility (BSR): Cisco Privacy and Data continued its active participation in BSR’s Human Rights Protection Supply Chain Working Group in FY13. The group serves as a forum for > Human Rights To help protect the rights of workers in our supply companies from all industries to share ideas, exchange chain, we maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct, which best practices, and discuss challenges they face in the describes our expectations on key human rights issues, area of human rights including topics such as reporting, Supply Chain including the prevention of child and forced labor. governance structures, training, and grievance/remedy Through our supplier audit process and capabilityframeworks. In addition, we have separately engaged Our People building programs, we partner with our suppliers to BSR to inform our approach to integrating human rights networks. Where we have offered to build such networks uncover human rights violations and work with them into our management processes. and operate them temporarily, we have included Society to improve their performance. Our top priority is to contractual terms specifically permitting us to act in partner with suppliers that share the same values we Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition: Cisco is a accordance with the due process protections set forth in Environment have about human rights. For more information about founding member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship the GNI principles relative to supplying user information our supply chain program, including our positions on Coalition (EICC). The EICC Code of Conduct specifically during any period in which we might operate the GRI Index slavery and human trafficking and conflict minerals, addresses human rights issues, including forced or networks. We operate some of the networks providing Appendix see Supply Chain. involuntary labor, child labor, wages and benefits, working services that are used primarily by enterprises such hours, nondiscrimination, respect and dignity, freedom as WebEx and Callway (which allows for bridging of Our Approach to Engagement of association, health and safety, protection of the TelePresence services), and in those circumstances, we environment, supplier management systems, supplier also support the GNI principles. on Human Rights ethics, and supplier compliance with laws. For more As our business grows and reaches more people across information about our involvement with the EICC, see Other Stakeholder Engagement Efforts: In addition the world, we must continue to identify and enhance Supply Chain, page C8. to developing our internal approach to human rights, the way we address our key human rights opportunities, Cisco participated in meetings led by the World risks, and challenges. To help achieve this, we regularly Global Network Initiative (GNI): We continue to follow Economic Forum in partnership with the Office of the engage and collaborate with our stakeholders, the achievements of the GNI, and are encouraged by High Commissioner on Human Rights to discuss how including nonprofits, industry peers, investors, and its expanding membership and engagement across technology can assist in addressing human rights CSR practitioners, to help us gauge expectations and new industries. We support the principles of the GNI challenges. understand the ongoing effectiveness of our work. applicable to operators of public Internet access 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B21 < Previous View Contents Our Roadmap for Human Rights 2. Governance and addressing human rights risks through external In FY13, our cross-functional human rights working group engagements and participation in ICT and human rights We continue to implement our human rights roadmap, met on a quarterly basis to discuss implementation of forums such as the first UN Summit on Business and Introduction which focuses on four critical areas: policy, governance, Cisco’s human rights roadmap. The group will continue Human Rights in Geneva. due diligence, and remediation. We have been sharing Governance & Ethics this tool with internal risk teams as we believe this assists to meet in FY14 with a special focus on engagement with stakeholders and human rights training for Cisco Also in FY13, we finalized a human rights training Cisco in addressing human rights more systematically Overview employees. We will continue to refine the governance program that will allow our employees to gain greater across our organization. Governance model and processes to address emerging issues or clarity regarding human rights and the intersection with organizational changes. Cisco’s operations and products. The training is an online, CSR Management 1. Policy interactive module that will require relevant employees Ethics In FY13, we reviewed and updated our global human to certify its completion. We will implement this training rights policy, which articulates our commitment to human 3. Due Diligence Privacy and Data in FY14. We also intend to engage proactively with key Protection rights and outlines our approach to managing issues In 2012, we conducted an assessment that confirmed human rights stakeholders to remain abreast of important such as privacy, data security, labor rights, and freedom human rights as an important issue for Cisco and our > Human Rights global trends that affect our human rights risk profile. of expression. We will undertake an annual policy review reputation. We also refined our approach to identifying in FY14. 4. Remediation Supply Chain In FY13, we integrated human rights into our current ethics “hotline” procedures, known as Cisco’s Ethics Line. Our People This will allow employees and any other stakeholders to submit questions related to human rights concerns by Society email or telephone. In FY14, we will review the types and numbers of human rights-related questions submitted Environment through this system to assess how well employees are GRI Index aware of this resource and to analyze the content of the questions for any patterns or areas of concern. Appendix 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Overview Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes Working with Suppliers to Improve Performance Partnering to Build Capability Scoring Suppliers on Sustainability Sustainability criteria in Cisco’s supplier scorecards help us to better monitor supplier performance Our People and to collaborate with our supply chain partners to optimize environmental and labor improvements. Society Watch video Environment Supply Chain GRI Index Appendix The manufacturing of our products is entirely outsourced. More than 600 suppliers provide components for, manufacture and test, deliver, take back, recycle, or enable reuse of Cisco products. Cisco works closely with suppliers to manage sustainability issues and improve their performance throughout the supply chain and at every stage of the product lifecycle. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C2 < Previous View Contents Supply Chain Overview Introduction We expect our suppliers to meet the same high standards for ethics, labor rights, health and safety, and the environment that Governance & Ethics we apply to our own people and operations. All suppliers are expected to follow our Supplier Code of Conduct. We focus Supply Chain our engagement on a group of approximately 130 suppliers that together represent more than 80 percent of our supply chain > Overview expenditure. Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability We work to improve sustainability standards and performance throughout our supply chain by: in Core Business Processes • Embedding sustainability into core business practices by integrating the Code Encouraging suppliers to improve disclosures about their performance helps Working with Suppliers of Conduct into supplier contracts and assessing suppliers’ sustainability us understand the challenges that suppliers face. This in turn helps us support to Improve Performance performance through our business scorecard them in building their capability and improving their performance. Partnering to Build Capability • Engaging with suppliers to improve performance through audits, corrective Increasing transparency and addressing sustainability in the supply chain allows actions, and follow-up engagement us to build customer trust, reduce costs, secure continuity of supply, respond • Partnering to build capability through training, tools, and regular dialogue to stakeholder needs, and protect our brand. Collaboration with suppliers also Our People encourages innovation to develop more sustainable products for our customers We also play a leadership role in raising standards throughout the ICT supply (see Building Suppliers’ Environmental Capability to Make Our Products More Society chain by participating in industry initiatives such as the Electronic Industry Sustainable, page C18). Citizenship Coalition (EICC). Environment GRI Index Appendix “Cisco’s supply chain work appears to focus on monitoring and supplier reporting. It would be great to see more engagement on the issues and their root causes. A lot of companies have focused on collecting data, but don’t use it effectively. Really analyze that data and how you can have an impact.” Pam Muckosy, Impactt Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C3 < Previous View Contents Supply Chain Overview Introduction 2013 at a Glance Governance & Ethics Supply Chain 77 > Overview Our Supply Chain % 86 percent of key manufacturing 100 Embedding Sustainability 100 percent of key manufacturing in Core Business partners published a CSR report; partners and logistics providers 100 percent of logistics providers Processes CSR and 97 percent of key component Cisco joined the CDP Supply Chain and 52 percent of key component Working with Suppliers suppliers responded to the Program and 77 percent of key suppliers now publish a CSR sustainability survey related to our suppliers reported their greenhouse report (up from 57 percent and to Improve Performance business scorecard. gas (GHG) emissions to CDP, up 38 percent respectively in FY12). Partnering to Build from 50 percent in FY12. Capability Our People Society A new industry standard reporting tool developed by Cisco and 45 100 100 percent of Cisco’s manufacturing partner and logistics supplier managers Environment other EICC members is enabling 45 percent of key suppliers completed web-based training suppliers, particularly component have set a GHG emissions on sustainability, which will be GRI Index suppliers, to measure and share extended to component supplier reduction target. data on environmental impacts. managers in FY14. Appendix “What is missing for me is an overall picture of Cisco’s supply chain. The [FY12] report covers manufacturing partners, component suppliers, and logistics partners, but it’s missing the overall picture of the supply chain. Some kind of supply chain mapping would help you show where risk is.” Hidemi Tomita, Institute for CSR Innovation Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C4 < Previous View Contents Supply Chain Overview Introduction Governance & Ethics 2013 Progress toward Objectives 2014 Objectives and Beyond Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Supply Chain Audit half of our high-risk manufacturing facilities and one-third of our high-risk Establish a due diligence process to assess whether tantalum, May 31, 2014 > Overview component suppliers in FY13 tin, tungsten, and gold in our products are being sourced from conflict-free minerals and publish a conflict minerals report by Our Supply Chain 100 percent of key1 suppliers to complete Cisco’s supplier sustainability May 31, 2014, as required by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act survey, enabling assessment of their sustainability performance in our business Embedding Sustainability scorecards in FY13 (see page C9) Increase percentage of key suppliers that set GHG emissions End of FY15 in Core Business reduction goals in their CDP reports to: Processes 100 percent of key suppliers to report their GHG emissions through the CDP • 85 percent of key manufacturing partners questionnaire in FY13 (objective changed, see page C11) Working with Suppliers • 75 percent of key logistics partners to Improve Performance 100 percent of key suppliers to have goals in place to reduce GHG emissions 85 percent of key component suppliers to report GHG emissions End of FY14 and report progress toward their goals by end of FY15 (objective changed, Partnering to Build via CDP see page C11) Capability Develop standards of measurement for allocating supplier level End of FY14 100 percent of key suppliers to report Cisco’s share of their GHG emissions by emissions down to the component level end of FY15 (objective changed, see page C12) 100 percent of Cisco supplier managers to complete web-based End of FY14 Our People 100 percent of manufacturing partners to publish a CSR report in FY13 training on sustainability (see page C10) Society Develop and deploy a new training module on human rights in End of FY14 75 percent of logistics providers to publish a CSR report in FY13 the supply chain as a supplement to Cisco’s corporate human rights training Environment 100 percent of Cisco’s supplier managers to complete web-based sustainability training in FY13 (see page C12) GRI Index Establish a due diligence process to assess whether tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold in our products are being sourced from conflict-free minerals and publish a Appendix conflict minerals report by May 31, 2014, as required by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act Partner with suppliers to identify and realize sustainability improvements in FY13 Achieved Partially Achieved2 Ongoing 1. We have changed the terminology throughout this document to refer to “key” suppliers rather than “preferred” suppliers. Key suppliers are defined as those that receive a business scorecard. This is a slightly different group from those we refer to internally as “preferred” (see page C5 for definition). 2. Partially achieved objectives are those that have either (1) almost been fully achieved and are therefore not being included in 2014 Objectives and Beyond, or (2) been reevaluated and replaced by a similar objective for FY14 and Beyond. Please see the text for full details and future plans. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C5 < Previous View Contents Our Supply Chain but our sustainability supply chain program focuses on approximately 130 suppliers that together account for Our supply chain operations encompass everything more than 80 percent of our supply chain expenditure. Introduction involved in the development, manufacture, distribution, Suppliers making up the top 80 percent of our Governance & Ethics and takeback of our products. This includes product expenditure are subject to our audit process, in design, demand management and planning, sourcing, Supply Chain accordance with EICC guidance. Many of the suppliers order management, manufacturing, delivery, and reverse in this group are considered “key” suppliers that have a logistics. Overview close business relationship with Cisco and are assessed > Our Supply Chain using a business performance scorecard (see page C9). Embedding Sustainability Supply Chain Profile Key suppliers include nearly all of our manufacturing in Core Business We spend billions of dollars each year with more than partners and logistics service providers, as well as the Processes 600 suppliers that manufacture finished products, provide component suppliers that we work with most closely. Supply Chain and the Environment Working with Suppliers logistical services, and provide over 80,000 different Some suppliers are considered “key” even if they are Managing environmental impacts in our supply chain to Improve Performance parts to make Cisco’s core portfolio of products. We use is integral to our engagement with suppliers, and we Partnering to Build approximately 80 manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and not currently in the top 80 percent of expenditure, for highlight this at relevant points throughout this section Capability logistics hubs around the world (see Figure 1, page C6). example, emerging suppliers that we intend to increase of the report. More information on many aspects of our business with in the future. Similarly, if Cisco is in environmental performance related to our supply chain Our suppliers are numerous, complex, and globally the process of exiting a relationship with a supplier, we can be found in the Environment section, including may no longer consider that supplier “key” even if it is objectives and performance on issues such as product Our People dispersed. The majority of our expenditure is with three content, packaging, and product takeback, reuse, and types of suppliers: currently still in the top 80 percent of our expenditure. recycling (see page F44). Society • Manufacturing partners: A select group of suppliers that produce finished Cisco products Environment • Component suppliers: A much wider group of Cisco Supply Chain Sustainability GRI Index suppliers that are often contracted directly by Cisco to provide parts to our manufacturing partners according Guiding Principles Appendix to our specifications The following overarching principles apply to our own operations and those of our global suppliers: • Logistics service providers: A small number of suppliers that we use to distribute our products to • Operate ethically and in compliance with applicable laws customers • Value employees, embrace diversity, and promote a 2013 Supply Chain Leadership fair and respectful workplace Award Winner We also work with suppliers to collect and recycle • Provide a safe and healthy workplace and strive to our products at the end of their useful life, where reduce the environmental footprint of products and environmental impacts are a significant concern (see operations Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling, page F44). Cisco Wins Climate Leadership Award • Be an asset to local communities by supporting education, healthcare, and basic human needs for Supply Chain Leadership Focus of Our Sustainability Supply Chain Program programs as well as ongoing economic development The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded Cisco the agency’s 2013 Supply Chain Leadership We engage our more than 600 suppliers in different • Promote engagement with and development of diverse suppliers Award for comprehensive efforts to manage GHG ways, depending on the nature of our business emissions in the supply chain. The award recognized relationship with each supplier. All active Cisco suppliers • Strengthen management systems that govern Cisco’s extensive external collaboration across our are encouraged to have strong sustainability programs, responsible operations global supply chain on this issue. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C6 < Previous View Contents Figure 1: Cisco Manufacturing Partners and Logistics Introduction Governance & Ethics Percent of FY13 supply chain expenditure by region 6% Europe and the Middle East Supply Chain Overview > Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes Working with Suppliers to Improve Performance Partnering to Build Capability Our People Society Environment GRI Index 44% Appendix Americas 50% Asia Pacific Manufacturing and fulfillment locations Logistics centers 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C7 < Previous View Contents Figure 2: Embedding Sustainability into the Supply Chain Introduction For more on how we are reducing the environmental impacts of our products from design to end of life, see Environment. Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Cisco’s business relationships with supply chain partners Overview Cisco qualifies components and > Our Supply Chain 1 creates an approved vendor list Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Designs product and orchestrates Cisco works with manufacturing partners 2 Processes ecosystem of partners to set up assembly and test operations Working with Suppliers Cisco works with reverse logistics and to Improve Performance 3 recycling partners to appropriately manage product and parts at end of life Partnering to Build Capability Cisco works with logistics partners to 1 4 5 4 2 set up warehouses and shipping routes Cisco sells product directly to 5 customers or through channel partners Our People Society 3 Material flow to customers Environment 6 7 8 GRI Index Manufacturing partners receive parts 6 Component suppliers Manufacturing partners Forward logistics partners Customers and from Cisco’s approved vendor list make parts transform parts into final product transport and warehouse products channel partners Appendix 7 Finished products are transported purchase and use products and warehoused Product is delivered to customers or 8 9 9 channel partners 9 9 Material flow to end-of-life processes Our trade-in and takeback programs are designed to bring back to Cisco any item 9 that we have put on the market, as well as excess, obsolete, and damaged products Reverse logistics processes and parts throughout our supply chain return, reuse, and recycle 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C8 < Previous View Contents Embedding Sustainability EICC Code of Conduct Introduction in Core Business Processes The EICC Code of Conduct was established to ensure worker safety and fairness, environmental responsibility, We are embedding responsible supply chain practices and ethical business. Governance & Ethics into routine business processes to promote sustainability Approach Supply Chain as a key criterion in our evaluation of suppliers’ The Code of Conduct provides guidelines for performance. These efforts help us improve the effective Overview performance and compliance with critical CSR policies. management of our supply chain, as well as reduce risks EICC provides tools to audit compliance with the Code, Our Supply Chain to business continuity (see Risk Management, page B4). and helps companies report progress. > Embedding Sustainability in Core Business We set clear expectations through our Supplier Code of Focus Areas Copyright 2012, United Parcel Service of America, Inc. Processes Used under license. Conduct and hold key suppliers accountable through our The Code of Conduct provides guidance in five critical Working with Suppliers business scorecard process. Those that perform well areas of CSR performance: Supplier Award for Excellence in to Improve Performance are rewarded with opportunities for further business with • Environment Sustainability Partnering to Build Cisco, and exceptional leaders are recognized through • Ethics Capability In September 2012, suppliers were again recognized a supplier appreciation award (see feature on this page). • Health and Safety for outstanding social and environmental sustainability Suppliers that systemically fail to comply with the Code of • Labor performance with our “Excellence in Sustainability” Conduct are subject to termination. award at Cisco’s annual Supplier Appreciation Event. • Management System Our People Nominees for this award must report to CDP, issue a public CSR report, demonstrate industry leadership, Supplier Code of Conduct achieve high sustainability scores on their business Society To work with Cisco, suppliers must formally acknowledge The Code is reviewed and updated regularly so that scorecards, and partner with Cisco to improve the sustainability of our supply chain or products, among Environment their commitment to the EICC Code of Conduct, usually it continues to reflect best practices and account for other criteria. For the second year in a row, Cisco as part of their contractual agreements with Cisco. The emerging issues. The next review will begin in 2014 presented this award to UPS. GRI Index Code sets out our expectations on social responsibility for implementation in 2015. We worked with the EICC and human rights, the environment, governance and to develop the latest version of the Code, published in Appendix ethics, health and safety, and the implementation FY12, which was revised to comply with the requirements of related management systems. This includes an of the 2010 California Transparency in Supply Chains expectation that our suppliers extend the Code of Act, the U.S. Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Conduct to their own suppliers. Consumer Protection Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and the updated Organisation for Economic Co-operation Educating suppliers about the Code and its requirements, and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational so that they see it as an essential part of doing business Enterprises. with Cisco, is a priority. This is particularly challenging with smaller component suppliers that have not yet In addition to the Code, suppliers must also comply established strong sustainability programs. For these with the Cisco Controlled Substances Specification, suppliers, we use training, direct engagement, and which acknowledges their compliance with certain efforts with industry peers (see Developing a Scalable environmental regulations such as the EU Restriction Approach, page C9). of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) (see Environment, page F43). 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C9 < Previous View Contents Supplier Scorecard Key Challenge: Developing a Scalable to sustainability support. While some have mature We use a business scorecard to monitor key suppliers’ sustainability programs, many are smaller or less mature Introduction Approach to Improve Standards throughout companies. In many cases, Cisco is not a major customer, performance on a range of criteria, such as technology, the Supply Chain so our influence may be limited. cost, quality, responsiveness, and collaboration. Governance & Ethics Our key manufacturing partners and logistics providers To overcome this challenge, we are training our Sustainability represents between 3 and 8 percent1 of the are highly engaged in our supply chain sustainability supplier managers to engage directly with suppliers on total score (depending on supplier type), and suppliers’ Supply Chain program, and many have well-established sustainability sustainability, as well as providing introductory training on performance on sustainability metrics is reviewed at programs. Engaging our key component suppliers key topics for suppliers starting out on their sustainability Overview least once per year, and as often as quarterly, as part of is more challenging because this much larger group journey (see page C12) and targeted training for those with has such diverse business models and needs related regular business reviews. Suppliers must maintain strong Our Supply Chain more advanced programs. We are also working through industry groups to align our efforts with peer companies scores to earn and retain their status as key suppliers, > Embedding Sustainability and develop a scalable approach, although agreeing on an and those that perform particularly well often gain more in Core Business industry approach inevitably takes time. business from Cisco. Processes We work with global industry consortia such as the EICC Working with Suppliers By integrating sustainability into business reviews, we and the International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative to Improve Performance (iNEMI) to pool resources with industry peers, share best aim to show suppliers that Cisco takes sustainability in Partnering to Build practices, respond to stakeholder concerns, and influence the supply chain seriously and that they must have an Capability the development of industry standards. acceptable level of sustainability performance to do Cisco is leading the EICC initiative to develop a common business with Cisco. This process provides a channel for framework for supplier capability building, and we play an regular communication with suppliers on sustainability Our People active role in the EICC’s working groups on extractives, issues and complements our site audits as a way of environmental sustainability, and management tools. We also participate in the EICC’s Asia Network and task forces monitoring performance (see page C13) and identifying Society on transparency and working hours. areas for building capability (see page C17). Environment Our participation in iNEMI focuses on reducing the environmental impacts of our products. For example, Cisco Sustainability scores are based on suppliers’ responses co-led a working group to define standard methodologies to a survey on a range of criteria that are tailored to the GRI Index and approaches for simplifying lifecycle analyses for the type of supplier, including: ICT industry, and we participated in projects to identify Appendix alternatives to polyvinyl chloride and halogenated flame • Providing data and setting goals on environmental retardants in printed circuit boards. impacts such as water and waste, and reporting GHG emissions through the CDP • Reporting data on labor issues such as injury and illness rates, working hours, and employee turnover • Demonstrating commitment to sustainability by, for “Component suppliers seem to be the real challenge, and I would like example, publishing a CSR report with clear goals and metrics and by participating in sustainability-related to see more explanation of what the challenges are and why.” industry groups Margaret Burnett, Independent Sustainability Practitioner, Hong Kong Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 1. This range has been restated due to an error in the FY12 CSR Report. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C10 < Previous View Improving Response Rates Contents Table 1: Scorecard Sustainability Survey Table 2: Scorecard Sustainability Survey Results We recognize that many suppliers are asked to complete for Key Suppliers Introduction multiple surveys, and we are working with others in our Key suppliers publishing industry on ways to standardize the process to create Response Rate FY12 FY13 a CSR report FY12 FY13 Governance & Ethics greater efficiencies and a higher response rate. In FY13, Cisco was instrumental in developing a standard industry Manufacturing partners 100% 100% Manufacturing partners 86%1 86% Supply Chain environmental data-sharing platform for EICC members and their suppliers, and from FY14 we will begin using Overview Logistics providers 100% 100% Logistics providers 57% 100% this new industry tool to gather environmental information Our Supply Chain from suppliers instead of our own survey (see Measuring Component suppliers 81% 97% Component suppliers 38% 52% > Embedding Sustainability and Allocating Suppliers’ Carbon Footprint, page C11). in Core Business Processes Key suppliers reporting In FY13, we achieved a 100 percent response rate to the to CDP Working with Suppliers sustainability survey from our key manufacturing partners Promoting Transparency to Improve Performance and logistics providers. We also increased the response We believe that increased disclosure on sustainability Manufacturing partners 88% 100% Partnering to Build rate from 81 to 97 percent among key component issues is important to increase transparency and raise Capability suppliers by following up more vigorously with nonstandards throughout the industry supply chain. By Logistics providers 56% 100% respondents and working with them to understand and identifying key risks and impacts, we can work with overcome challenges in providing the information we suppliers and peers to improve performance. However, Component suppliers 46% 74% Our People request. This engagement has helped us better align our suppliers can be reluctant to share sensitive information, data collection processes with existing public reporting particularly in areas where their performance is less Key suppliers that have Society standards used by many suppliers. strong. set a GHG emissionsreduction target Environment We have also begun tailoring survey questions to suit Cisco is working through the EICC Transparency suppliers’ varied business models and more accurately Task Force to develop a framework to help mature Manufacturing partners Not tracked 71% GRI Index reflect their material issues. This means that a supplier sustainability reporting by EICC members and suppliers. that owns its manufacturing facilities answers questions The framework promotes disclosure and demonstrates Logistics providers Not tracked 67% Appendix about its own operations, whereas a supplier that progress on the industry’s most material issues. outsources its manufacturing faces questions about Component suppliers Not tracked 41% holding suppliers accountable. For example, for those In FY13, we focused on encouraging key suppliers suppliers that primarily employ salaried design engineers, to report their performance publicly in a CSR report: Key manufacturing working hours is a more relevant topic for their suppliers 100 percent of key logistics providers, 86 percent of partners and logistics than for their direct employees. key manufacturing partners, and 52 percent of key providers providing GHG 100% 100% component suppliers published a CSR report. These emissions related to Cisco products figures represent a significant increase, although we missed our target for 100 percent of key manufacturing 1. This figure has been restated from 75 percent reported in the FY12 partners. The remaining 14 percent are engaging with report to include original design manufacturers. the EICC Transparency Task Force, which is developing guidance on reporting, and they will reconsider producing reports once this guidance is complete. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C11 < Previous View We also encouraged key suppliers to report their GHG Contents emissions through the CDP and to set reduction targets. Suppliers that demonstrate their ability to manage and Introduction reduce emissions are rewarded with higher sustainability Governance & Ethics scores on their supplier scorecards, which are tied to business awards. In FY13, we joined the CDP Supply Supply Chain Chain program and saw dramatic increases in reporting, with all key manufacturing and key logistics suppliers now Overview disclosing their GHG emissions via CDP. The percentage Our Supply Chain of component suppliers reporting also increased from > Embedding Sustainability 46 percent to 74 percent. We hosted a webinar in FY13 in Core Business for those that were new to CDP reporting or wanted Processes to improve their CDP scores, and we will continue to Working with Suppliers encourage the remaining key suppliers to report via CDP. to Improve Performance Partnering to Build The increased disclosure from our suppliers has helped Capability us establish a baseline of their performance that will allow us to work with them more effectively to improve their sustainability performance. In FY14 we aim to Our People use the improved data we get from the CDP Supply Chain program to help suppliers understand how to Society manage and reduce their emissions (see page C17). We Key Challenge: Measuring and Allocating securely share data on environmental impacts with EICC understand from engaging with suppliers that it takes members who request it. The tool enables EICC members Environment time for them to set GHG emissions reduction targets and Suppliers’ Carbon Footprints to collect metrics, goals, and progress updates on GHG that the essential first step of measuring and reporting Supply chain impacts play an important role in emissions, energy, water, and waste in a standardized GRI Index their emissions can be a substantial challenge in itself, understanding the carbon footprint of our products over way to reduce duplication of effort for both customers and their lifecycles. However, even if suppliers measure GHG suppliers. Metrics are aligned with the indicators set out for many component suppliers in particular. Therefore we Appendix emissions from their operations, it can be difficult to allocate in the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, and the tool have revised our FY15 objective to have all key suppliers these emissions to an individual product or customer. includes a customer allocation metric, which suppliers disclose GHG emissions-reduction targets to Cisco. can calculate according to the percentage of suppliers’ Cisco is supporting industry efforts to develop Instead we are focusing on reporting of emissions for standardized tools and best practices for measuring business that each customer represents or other criteria. component suppliers while encouraging manufacturing suppliers’ carbon footprints and allocating GHG emissions We are also working to develop a standard for allocating partners and logistics providers to set targets and to specific customers and products. a supplier’s carbon footprint at the component level in disclose these via CDP, because we believe that public conjunction with the EICC and iNEMI. The focus is on the In FY13, we made significant progress by collaborating disclosure is a more effective tool to help suppliers make most common and highest impact components, such as with peers through the EICC Environmental Sustainability bare printed circuit boards, semiconductors, displays, the changes required to meet these targets. Working Group to develop and launch an industry-standard and hard drives. environmental data-reporting tool, so suppliers can 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C12 < Previous View Contents All manufacturing partners and logistics providers now Training Cisco Supplier Managers report Cisco’s share of their GHG emissions. Many Our long-term objective is to build sustainability into component suppliers are not able to provide this data Introduction standard business processes so that each business because the range of components they manufacture is function considers sustainability as a regular part of its Governance & Ethics so extensive. In the future, we plan to focus on using business activities and decisions. To effectively raise lifecycle assessment techniques to gauge Cisco’s share awareness of our requirements among suppliers, it is Supply Chain of their GHG emissions, as we believe this is more essential that our supplier management teams at Cisco effective and will provide better data at the product Overview understand sustainability and communicate about it level. To this end, we are helping to develop industry confidently. Our Supply Chain methodologies for product carbon footprint allocation > Embedding Sustainability for key components (see Measuring and Allocating In FY13, all Cisco manufacturing and logistics supplier in Core Business Suppliers’ Carbon Footprint, page C11). managers completed formal web-based training on Processes sustainability. This training explains the business case Working with Suppliers We also use the sustainability survey to ask suppliers to for sustainability and the role of managers in engaging to Improve Performance report any environmental or health and safety infractions suppliers, as well as outlining the key points of the Promoting Supplier Diversity Partnering to Build (such as regulatory violations) and describe their Supplier Code of Conduct and how Cisco monitors Working with diverse suppliers (womanand minorityCapability remedial actions. We make clear that suppliers will not owned businesses) supports our business by giving compliance. In FY14, we will extend this training to our be penalized for disclosing this information. Our aim is to us access to a wider range of innovative supply chain component supplier managers. We will also develop promote open, honest dialogue and to work together with partners, enhancing supply chain competitiveness, and deploy a new training module on human rights in and reducing the risk of disruption in our supply chain Our People suppliers to reach an acceptable resolution. the supply chain, which will be a supplement to Cisco’s by broadening our supplier base. It also contributes to corporate human rights training (see Governance and improved satisfaction for customers, some of whom Society To make sure that findings from the survey are addressed include supplier diversity in their procurement policies Ethics, page B21). appropriately, in FY14 we will integrate information and bid packages. Environment gathered through the scorecard process into our existing Cisco’s Supplier Code of Conduct is also noted in our By partnering with diverse suppliers to grow their risk assessment process, supplier monitoring, and businesses, we are also supporting economic overall Code of Business Conduct, which all eligible Cisco GRI Index improvement initiatives (see page C9). We also aim to empowerment for women, minorities, and employees review every year during their certification improve sustainability data management systems to disadvantaged communities. We offer a range of Appendix (see Governance and Ethics, page B13). increase operational efficiencies, enable targeted supplier mentoring and networking opportunities to help diverse suppliers develop their global business capability capability building, better align business decisions, and and competitiveness. For more information on how demonstrate on-the-ground progress on key issues. our supplier diversity program supports economic empowerment, see Society, page E22. To multiply the impact of our supplier diversity program, we also encourage our key suppliers to buy components, products, and services from diverse suppliers and to report their diverse expenditure as part of our supplier scorecard to increase accountability. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C13 < Previous View Contents Working with Suppliers Figure 3: Supplier Engagement Process 1 Introduction to Improve Performance Introduction to the Code Governance & Ethics In addition to our regular review of key suppliers’ We include the Supplier Code of Conduct in our agreements with suppliers, follow up as needed to see how well they sustainability performance through our business understand Cisco’s expectations, and communicate any changes to the Code as appropriate. Supply Chain scorecard (see page C9), we monitor their compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct and help them Overview 2 3 improve their performance through audits and follow-up Our Supply Chain actions (see Figure 3). Embedding Sustainability Supplier Screening Self-Assessment in Core Business Audits and corrective action plans can show us trends We identify suppliers representing the top 80 percent Suppliers identified for evaluation are asked Processes and opportunities to help suppliers enhance their of our supply chain expenditure to include them in our to complete the EICC self-assessment for > Working with Suppliers sustainability capabilities. Where suppliers fall short, evaluation process. each facility that supplies Cisco. These to Improve Performance self-assessments are used to identify facilities we help guide them to take corrective actions and raise that are considered high-risk based on Partnering to Build their standards. We believe that this is the most effective factors such as the type of activity at the Capability way to embed sustainability awareness and promote facility and whether procedures are in place improvement among suppliers. to manage labor and environmental risks. 5 4 Our People Supplier Audits Society All audits, whether sponsored by Cisco or by multiple Corrective Action and Site Audits and companies via the EICC validated audit process, are Capability Support Scorecards Environment conducted by a third-party auditor at the supplier’s Priority issues must be resolved within 30 days. Other Facilities identified as high-risk are prioritized facility. Cisco representatives participate in selected issues are expected to be closed within 180 days, for audits based on the self-assessment, or GRI Index audits when the supplier’s self-assessment or other except for certain issues that require long-term any other significant factors we see that may information raises potential high-risk issues. While improvement plans. In these cases, suppliers must warrant an audit. We share audit findings Appendix most of our audits are announced in advance, we also regularly update us on their progress. Evidence must be through EICC common audits where our needs conduct some unannounced audits. Auditors use the provided to document that issues have been resolved, align with those of other EICC member and if needed we conduct a follow-up audit to confirm companies. Sustainability criteria in supplier standard protocol and audit tools developed by the EICC. this. We continue to work closely with suppliers until scorecards incent transparency and good These include: their performance improves. performance on critical issues. • Reviewing documentation, including policies and procedures, personnel records, time sheets, and relevant permits The audit team produces a report of the audit that is The audit criteria include environment, ethics, health and • Conducting a site tour to assess conditions in different shared with Cisco and the supplier. For any issues safety, labor, and related management systems. In FY13, areas including production lines, cafeterias, resting identified, the supplier must produce a corrective action in line with the latest EICC audit protocol, we introduced areas, and dormitories plan and provide subsequent evidence that the corrective criteria into our audits for our suppliers to report how actions have been implemented. Action must be taken they are monitoring their own suppliers. These changes • Interviewing management on priority issues within 30 days, and all findings are will help to increase transparency and identify areas for • Interviewing employees in their preferred language expected to be addressed within 180 days except certain improvement throughout the supply chain. separately from management issues that require long-term improvement plans. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C14 < Previous View Contents Audit Findings Table 3: Number of Audits Conducted Figure 4: Audit Findings by In FY13, we continued to increase the number of Introduction supplier audits, completing 52 audits of our supplier Category in FY13 (%) FY11 FY12 FY13 facilities compared with 32 in FY12. Our auditing efforts Governance & Ethics focus on manufacturing partners and component Manufacturing suppliers as these have been identified as higher risk 5 11 22 Supply Chain than logistics partners. partner facilities 2% General Code and Environment 7% Legal Compliance Overview Component All of our manufacturing partners’ high-risk facilities 8 21 30 supplier facilities Our Supply Chain have been audited at least once in the past two years. Labor Embedding Sustainability Ethics We conducted more audits of component suppliers’ Total 13 32 52 in Core Business Processes facilities in FY13 to give us a better understanding of the 14% 32% potential sustainability issues in our supply chain and to > Working with Suppliers extend our influence to improve performance. Our goal to Improve Performance is to audit all high-risk manufacturing facilities every Table 4: Percentage of High-Risk Suppliers Audited Partnering to Build Capability two years, and all high-risk component suppliers every 19% three years. To reduce the burden of multiple audits Health FY11 FY12 FY13 for suppliers and increase the reach of our auditing and Safety 26% activities, we participate in common industry audits with Manufacturing Our People 29% 65% 59% other members of the EICC. Of the 52 supplier audits partner facilities Management completed in FY13, 35 were shared EICC audits. System Society Component 13% 27% 54% Previously, we have reported the percentage of highsupplier facilities Environment risk supplier facilities audited. This year, we are also disclosing the number of audits completed for the first GRI Index time. We also continue to disclose detailed information The number of health and safety findings also was Suppliers have resolved or are pursuing corrective Appendix on audit findings. We are not yet able to provide a relatively high. In addition to aggressively managing action plans to resolve all the major issues identified meaningful year-on-year comparison of supplier corrective action plans related to these findings, we in the FY13 audits. We work with suppliers to assess performance based on audit findings because the audits conducted a training webinar to educate suppliers on the adequacy of their corrective action plans and to cover a different population of suppliers each year, and the most frequently identified health and safety issues monitor their implementation (see Table 6). We usually some are full audits while others are following up on (see page C17). expect corrective actions to be resolved within three specific areas highlighted in previous audits. We are to six months, but some require monitoring over a exploring ways to provide a meaningful year-on-year We had one priority finding for underage labor in FY13. A longer period of time, such as corrective actions related comparison in the future. student from a supplier’s partner vocational school who to excessive working hours (see Tackling Excessive was younger than the required age of 16 used fraudulent Working Hours, page C17). Seventy-three percent of In FY13, the largest portion of findings (see Figure 4) identification to take part in a four-week work experience corrective actions based on FY13 audit findings were was related to labor practices, as it was in FY12. We tour. The supplier took immediate action, explaining the closed by the end of the fiscal year. identified 14 priority areas for improvement, mainly related situation to the student and paying his travel expenses to to working hours, which is a key focus for our industry return to school. The supplier also established additional (see Tackling Excessive Working Hours, page C17). controls against the use of fraudulent identification. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C15 < Previous View Contents Table 5: Audit Findings in FY13 (continued) Table 5: Audit Findings in FY13 (continued) Introduction Findings Findings Findings Total % of Audit Findings Findings Findings Total % of Audit Identified Identified Identified Number Elements Identified Identified Identified Number Elements Governance & Ethics as Priorityi as Majorii as Minoriii of Audit Resulting in as Priorityi as Majorii as Minoriii of Audit Resulting in Elementsiv,1 Findings Elementsiv,1 Findings Supply Chain General Code and Legal Environment 0 10 24 520 7% 0 3 4 154 5% Compliance Environmental permits and Overview 0 1 3 Electronic industry Code of reporting Our Supply Chain 0 3 4 Conduct Pollution prevention and 0 2 0 Embedding Sustainability Compliance with laws 0 0 0 resource reduction in Core Business Hazardous substances 0 3 17 Labor 14 85 50 1175 13% Processes Freely chosen employment 0 14 10 Wastewater and solid waste 0 3 0 > Working with Suppliers Child labor avoidance 1 8 8 Air emissions 0 1 3 to Improve Performance Working hours 10 36 14 Product content restrictions 0 0 1 Partnering to Build Capability Management System 0 66 52 1115 11% Wages and benefits 3 12 10 Company commitment 0 2 1 Humane treatment 0 7 2 Management accountability Nondiscrimination 0 6 1 0 10 9 and responsibility Our People Freedom of association 0 2 5 Legal and customer 0 4 3 Ethics 0 57 5 462 13% requirements Society Business integrity 0 21 3 Risk assessment and risk 0 10 5 Environment management No improper advantage 0 8 1 Improvement objectives 0 9 8 Disclosure of information 0 0 0 GRI Index Training 0 8 4 Intellectual property 0 3 0 Communication 0 5 6 Appendix Fair business, advertising, 0 8 0 Worker feedback and and competition 0 2 2 participation Protection of identity 0 9 1 Audits and assessments 0 5 2 Responsible sourcing of Corrective action process 0 4 5 0 3 0 minerals Documentation and records 0 1 2 Privacy 0 3 0 Supplier responsibility 0 6 5 Nonretaliation 0 2 0 Notes to table: Health and Safety 0 46 42 793 11% Audit finding: A non-conformance with the EICC Code of Conduct found during an audit. Criteria for categorization of findings are in accordance with the EICC Validated Audit Process Audit Operations Manual. Occupational safety 0 7 12 i Priority finding: A major non-conformance with significant and immediate impact. ii Major finding: A significant failure in the management system that renders established processes or procedures Emergency preparedness 0 18 10 ineffective. iii Minor finding: Typically an isolated or random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with Occupational injury and illness 0 6 6 management systems. Industrial hygiene 0 8 7 iv Total audit elements: The total number of audit criteria with the potential for a finding. Physically demanding work 0 1 3 1. The EICC audit process was revised during FY13 and therefore some audits were carried out using the old version and some using the new version. A full EICC audit now has 114 elements across six categories, whereas the previous version Machine safeguarding 0 3 1 had 184 elements across seven categories (the separate labor and environment management system categories have been combined into one overall management system category). Our total of 52 audits includes both full EICC audits as Food, sanitation, and housing 0 3 3 well as targeted follow-up audits to confirm closure of corrective actions. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C16 < Previous View Contents Examples of Common Audit Findings and Responses in FY13 We highlight some specific examples of findings from our audits in FY13 in the following table and explain how we Case Studies From Around the World Introduction required suppliers to respond by strengthening their management systems and building their capability. Governance & Ethics Translating Audit Recommendations Table 6: Sample Audit Findings and Responses into Practical Improvements Supply Chain Category Finding Response With Cisco’s support, one of our suppliers producing Overview components in China has made significant strides in Labor Insufficient communication of labor We have conducted training on the EICC Code improving working conditions and health and safety Our Supply Chain performance. Based on an audit conducted by our requirements to labor agents and service requirements for labor agents and service Embedding Sustainability providers providers and asked them to sign a declaration external auditor, we worked with the supplier to develop in Core Business committing them to follow the code. an effective corrective action plan. As a result, the Processes supplier has improved controls for a number of risk Labor Overtime hours and consecutive days worked Suppliers have enhanced their management factors. > Working with Suppliers without a break in excess of regulatory systems to monitor working hours, alert to Improve Performance requirements managers to overtime exceeding the maximum By enhancing systems for monitoring working hours, working hours set by the EICC, and increase the supplier now keeps better track of overtime and Partnering to Build management accountability. They have also redistributes work accordingly. Average overtime Capability increased the number of workers to share the hours have almost been halved over the last two workload during peak seasons. years as a result. The supplier also implemented practical improvements to create a safer and healthier Health and safety Lack of control measures to limit workers’ Suppliers have set up internal assessment work environment, including installing 38 eyewash Our People exposure to occupational health and safety processes to emphasize occupational health stations, changing the chemical agent used in the risks and safety risks and have introduced employee gluing process, and introducing new equipment that Society training to improve awareness. reduces the physical strain involved in heavy work. Health and safety Inadequate or ineffectively managed Emergency preparedness and fire drills are now Stronger health and safety management and reporting Environment emergency signals or alarms and inadequate mandatory for all workers in the facility. is helping the supplier measure performance and target fire drill training for workers improvements. GRI Index The supplier is now planning to train managers, Environment Inadequate control or governance of waste Suppliers have established audit plans and will treatment vendors monitor corrective actions for waste treatment supervisors, and workers in the EICC Code, as well as Appendix vendors. emphasizing the importance of the code with its own key suppliers. Ethics Inadequate procedures and risk assessment to Facility managers have been made accountable monitor ethics performance for ethics performance, and written policies A manager at the supplier organization commented: and risk assessment procedures have been “Thank you and your audit provider for spending so established. Management has increased ethics much time and energy to help us improve our CSR communications and training for workers and system. Your prompt reply is much appreciated when supervisors. we run into trouble. Your suggestions in the audit and improvement activities are very valuable; we have Supplier Insufficient procedures to enforce the Suppliers have provided their own suppliers learned a lot from that. They helped us improve our management requirements of the EICC Code of Conduct in with training on EICC Code requirements and working conditions and CSR concept.” the next tier of suppliers asked them to sign a declaration committing them to the code. Management system: Inadequate management review of performance Facility managers have been made accountable Management against the EICC Code of Conduct and for EICC Code performance and have accountability and insufficient documentation of managers’ and developed a CSR manual to establish clear responsibility workers’ labor and ethics responsibilities responsibilities for managers and workers. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C17 < Previous View Contents Case Studies Table 7: Webinar Attendance in FY13 From Around the World Introduction Topic Suppliers Attending Governance & Ethics Key Challenge: Preventing Exploitation CSR reporting 86 of Student Workers in China Supply Chain In China, vocational schools require students to CDP reporting 105 Overview complete an internship as part of their qualification. There have been incidents where schools have Our Supply Chain Health and safety 126 Key Challenge: Tackling Excessive exploited student workers, having them work in Embedding Sustainability factories without any education or training, or working Working Hours overtime and night shifts in violation of Chinese laws. Conflict minerals 494 in Core Business Processes The issue of excessive working hours in the ICT supply (three separate sessions) We are working through the EICC to help establish chain has been highlighted in recent years by NGO Working with Suppliers industry standards to protect student workers. The campaigns and the media. Reducing overtime remains to Improve Performance EICC Asia Network is partnering with Nanjing University one of the biggest supply chain challenges for our and an NGO called the Labour Education and Service producing their first CSR reports. In addition, we try > Partnering to Build industry because many factors contribute to excessive Network to develop improved audit protocols and to demonstrate how to integrate CSR into day-to-day Capability overtime, including production demands, availability of tool kits to help suppliers evaluate the level of risk labor, and wages. We take this issue very seriously. business operations by working to improve our own associated with the vocational schools with which Monitoring working hours is an important element of they work. Best practices for management of student practices, such as reporting GHG emissions via CDP our supplier audit and scorecard process. Nevertheless, workers will also be shared among suppliers. and setting ambitious GHG reduction goals. For more Our People many suppliers still exceed the 60-hour maximum information, see Environment. required by the EICC. We remain committed to working Society collaboratively with our supply chain partners to Our new online supplier sustainability portal gives Environment better understand and manage the circumstances that contribute to periods of excessive working hours. Partnering to suppliers easy access to a virtual training library that Build Capability helps them address specific needs. It includes guidance We have ongoing dialogue with suppliers about how GRI Index they are working to reduce overtime issues, and we documentation and information on topics such as continue to monitor their performance. In FY13, we juvenile labor, conflict minerals, and our specification on Regular engagement helps us strengthen our Appendix developed a working hour tracker tool based on the controlled substances for our products. relationships with suppliers and build their sustainability template created by the EICC. All suppliers requiring corrective actions on working hours following our capabilities. Using Cisco solutions such as Cisco In FY13, we piloted a series of webinars using WebEx audits are expected to use this tool to send us weekly TelePresence and Cisco WebEx, we are able to provide conferencing technology to train suppliers in CSR updates on compliance with EICC working hour training and discuss sensitive issues face-to-face with reporting and aspects of the EICC Code of Conduct that requirements. By the end of FY13, we had asked 23 suppliers around the world. We are exploring how we can suppliers to start using the tool, and 14 suppliers had had been highlighted as areas for improvement in audit make further use of our technology and leverage other begun submitting data. findings (see Table 7). Cisco and industry platforms to support improvements We will continue to work with the EICC Working Hours in the supply chain, for example, through Labor Link (see task force to set standards and to require our suppliers These webinars, held in English and Mandarin, allowed case study, page C18). us to articulate Cisco’s expectations for key suppliers to contain overtime within acceptable limits. The task force is currently developing training for suppliers on and better understand awareness levels. We drew on managing working hours, as well as analyzing data and Cisco’s tailored support includes talking about our own expertise and experiences and asked exemplary sharing best practices based on members’ supplier sustainability issues with our suppliers’ senior managers, suppliers to share their journeys and best practices audit findings. discussing audit findings and appropriate corrective during the sessions. We also paired up individual actions, conducting regular reviews of their sustainability suppliers to enable them to share best practices and performance, and providing feedback for suppliers learn from each other. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C18 < Previous View In FY14, we aim to tailor our support to better meet Contents specific supplier needs. To this end, we are collaborating Key Challenge: Building Suppliers’ Case Studies with industry peers through the EICC to develop a Environmental Capability to Make Our From Around the World Introduction framework to help us better identify suppliers’ capability Products More Sustainable Governance & Ethics gaps and provide appropriate resources. Giving Supplier Workers a Voice Environmental sustainability is a key focus of our capability-building activities. Helping suppliers improve with Labor Link Supply Chain Cisco also works with the EICC to develop common their management of environmental issues and reduce industry training, tools, and standards to support We are using technology to promote transparency their impacts can, in turn, help us reduce the overall Overview and communication with workers in the supply chain suppliers in improving their sustainability capabilities impacts of our products throughout their lifecycle. through Labor Link, a tool developed by the nonprofit Our Supply Chain and performance. In FY13, as part of the EICC Learning We are working with suppliers as well as product Good World Solutions with Cisco’s support. Embedding Sustainability & Capability Building Work Group, Cisco led the refresh engineers to source components that are more energy Labor Link enables workers to give direct feedback in Core Business of industry training materials on health and safety and efficient and contain less hazardous material, in on factory and working conditions anonymously using Processes contributed to the development of training materials accordance with our environmentally conscious design their mobile phones. We began a pilot of Labor Link standard. This standard highlights techniques for Working with Suppliers for customers’ commodity managers that is due to be with one of our suppliers in FY13, surveying 1200 efficient chip and board design, design for recyclability, to Improve Performance completed in FY14. workers to gather information on worker-management and efficient use of product and packaging materials. communication, worker training, community needs, and > Partnering to Build For more information on our approach to managing worker demographics. Nearly 450 workers responded Capability Cisco also co-presented a webinar for EICC members environmental issues throughout the product lifecycle, confidentially by listening to recorded questions and and suppliers to learn about the new industry tool we see Environment. answering using their telephone keypads. The results helped develop that facilitates sharing of environmental helped to assess worker satisfaction and provided data between suppliers and customers (see Measuring useful insights for both Cisco and the supplier. Our People and Allocating Suppliers’ Carbon Footprint, page C11). The tool can be used to help validate audit findings Society and determine potential areas to assist suppliers with We encourage suppliers to join the EICC and participate building their capabilities. “It is a unique means to Environment in wider industry efforts to promote standardization and identify opportunities for continuous improvement, build capability. In FY13, we nominated two suppliers to “I would like to see Cisco using its particularly around worker satisfaction,” says Tom Rausch at Good World Solutions. GRI Index participate in a program aimed at empowering workers technology to drive improvements Labor Link can also be used to send workers within our supply chain. The project, managed by the Appendix NGO Verité and sponsored by the Walt Disney Company, in the supply chain, for example, by information via their mobile phones. Providing information on topics such as labor issues, health, comprises two modules: one focusing on workers’ ability providing a peer-to-peer platform education, and financial literacy can help workers to identify and deal with health and safety hazards, and the other on improving life skills and employee wellbeing. for suppliers to encourage dialogue improve their lives. Cisco has supported Good World Solutions since FY10, within the supply base or using new beginning with seed funding to develop Labor Link and We also worked with one of our suppliers to pilot Labor test it with 100 apparel workers in Peru. Labor Link has Link, a new tool designed to increase the transparency technologies for worker outreach.” been deployed in three industry sectors since then, of our supply chain and empower workers within it (see reaching more than 20,000 workers in nine countries Pam Muckosy, Impactt (Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Colombia, India, Mexico, case study on this page). Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions Peru, Sri Lanka, and Uganda). For more information on our support of nonprofits, see Society, page E17. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C19 < Previous View Contents the products they manufacture or contract to manufacture, where the conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production. Introduction This regulation, and the underlying issue, is not exclusive to the electronics industry. It affects many other industries that use these metals in their products, including the Governance & Ethics aerospace, automotive, and jewelry industries. Resolving this issue demands extensive collaboration with many participants within and outside the ICT supply chain. Supply Chain Our Response Overview Cisco is committed to sourcing components and materials from suppliers that share our Our Supply Chain values around human rights, ethics, and environmental responsibility and to taking all steps Embedding Sustainability to comply with legislation. in Core Business Our policy on Sourcing of Minerals Originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or Processes adjoining countries asserts our commitment to source minerals in a manner that respects Working with Suppliers human rights and our support for the goals and objectives of the Dodd-Frank Act. Cisco to Improve Performance supply chain partners and suppliers are required to commit to the EICC Code of Conduct, which includes a provision related to the responsible sourcing of minerals. The revised > Partnering to Build Supplier Code of Conduct also includes a requirement for suppliers to exercise due Capability diligence on the source and chain of custody of these minerals. In FY13 we started rolling out our supplier conflict minerals due diligence survey, based on the industry questionnaire developed by the EICC, to determine whether suppliers have Our People Key Challenge: Due Diligence on Conflict Minerals implemented sourcing policies and understand what programs they need to have in place to trace the source of minerals used in the products they manufacture. Cisco has committed Society The Issue resources to educating our global suppliers, partners, and stakeholders on the subject of conflict minerals. We have introduced training on conflict minerals, which is available on Increased scrutiny from NGOs and growing interest from governments have put a spotlight our supplier portal together with frequently asked questions and information on regulatory, Environment on the use of certain metals in the electronics industry, specifically those derived from industry, and customer resources. Suppliers can also record their completion of the training potential “conflict minerals,” namely columbite-tantalite (known as “coltan,” refined to on the portal. GRI Index produce tantalum), wolframite (refined to produce tungsten), cassiterite (refined to produce tin), and gold. Supporting an Industry-Wide Approach Appendix The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is among the world’s primary sources of these Suppliers can disclose and communicate about smelters in their supply chain, and we can minerals, and many of the mines and transportation routes in the area are under the control also report this information to our customers, through the EICC’s Conflict-Free Sourcing of armed groups. The concern is that the mining and purchase of these minerals from the Initiative (CFSI). DRC and its bordering countries may be directly or indirectly financing or benefiting armed groups in the region that are often accused of major human rights abuses. We support an industry-wide approach to the complex issue of conflict minerals through our partnership with the CFSI, which engages a wide range of stakeholders, miners, The U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), smelters, and companies from various industries, and partners with leadership groups and passed in July 2010, puts the burden on companies to know and disclose the source of representatives from industry, government, and civil society. Partnering allows us to share these metals in their products. It requires any company that makes products containing information, develop guidance, and exchange best practices on conflict minerals in the these metals to conduct a reasonable country-of-origin inquiry and due diligence process of supply chain. their supply chain and to publish a report disclosing whether those minerals originated from the DRC or its bordering countries. Cisco has also adopted the CFSI’s standard industry tools and templates, which suppliers can use to disclose which smelters are in their supply chain and we can then use to report In August 2012, the final rule regarding sourcing of conflict minerals under Section 1502 of this information to customers. The accompanying Conflict-Free Smelter Program offers the Dodd-Frank Act was approved by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). companies and their suppliers an independent, third-party audit tool with a compliance This rule imposes requirements on publicly traded companies subject to the SEC to report protocol that determines which smelters and refiners can be validated as “conflict-free.” annually the presence of conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adjoining countries in 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Overview Working Together A Safe and Healthy Work Environment An Inclusive and Diverse Culture Training and Cisco Connected Women Inspire and Motivate Development In honor of International Women’s Day 2013, Cisco Opportunities Asia Pacific employees chimed in with some Rewarding inspiring words about what it means to them to Our People be women in the technology workforce and how they manage their success. Watch video Society Environment GRI Index Appendix Our People At Cisco, we all contribute to a shared vision of creating a more connected world through what we call “The Internet of Everything.” Our collective technical, creative, and professional skills create innovative solutions to respond to our customers’ needs. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented and highly skilled people who have the desire to perform at their absolute best. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D2 < Previous View Contents Our People Overview Introduction Our Employee Value Proposition focuses on making Cisco a great place to work for our more than 75,000 employees. Governance & Ethics We emphasize an inclusive, collaborative culture and flexible work environment that values innovation. We provide numerous Supply Chain development opportunities, as well as a comprehensive portfolio of employee offerings and differentiated benefits. Our People The five key pillars of our people strategy are: > Overview • Working Together: We promote a culture of honest, transparent External rankings and awards received in FY13 continue to endorse Cisco as Working Together communication, seek ongoing input from our employees, and provide a great company for individuals from all backgrounds to work for, and more A Safe and Healthy extensive opportunities to collaborate and innovate. importantly, surveys show that our employees agree. We also know there are Work Environment • A Safe and Healthy Work Environment: We invest in our employees’ health always areas where we can improve, and we continue to act upon employees’ An Inclusive and and wellbeing, offer flexible work practices, and provide a safe workplace. feedback to improve their experiences at Cisco. Our most recent employee Diverse Culture survey highlights recognition and development opportunities as key challenges, Training and • An Inclusive and Diverse Culture: We recruit a diverse workforce and foster which we will continue to address in FY14. Development an inclusive culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and Opportunities heard. Rewarding • Providing Training and Development Opportunities: We offer wideOur People ranging training, mentoring, and development programs and encourage our employees to build a career with Cisco. Society • Rewarding Our People: We provide a competitive rewards package, including wide-ranging benefits, and we recognize our employees’ Environment achievements and contributions. GRI Index Appendix “Our values represent how our employees work together. When we all focus on our values, we’re able to make them come to life for Cisco. That influences our ability to provide great customer service, deliver on our brand promise, and make Cisco a great place to work.” Kathleen Weslock, Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D3 < Previous View Contents Our People Overview Introduction 2013 at a Glance Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Spent US$153 million on more than Our People 3.1 million hours of learning and development activities for our employees. > Overview 89 percent of employees are 3.1MILLION proud to work at Cisco. Working Together Opened a new LifeConnections A Safe and Healthy Health Center on our Work Environment 89 Bangalore Campus. An Inclusive and Diverse Culture Training and HOURS Development Opportunities Rewarding 23,500 employees participated in our biannual company meeting Our People through our Jabber and other collaborative communication technologies. Launched a Diverse Ranked number 42 on the 23,500 Society Interviewer Panel initiative Fortune “100 Best Companies to increase the likelihood of To Work For” list. Environment recruiting diverse candidates. GRI Index Appendix Emergency Response Cisco employees and dependents Teams responded to earned more than $13.4 million in 224 medical incidents and 123 building drills health incentives for participating in wellness programs. 86 and evacuations globally. 13.4 MILLION 86 percent of employees $ feel that their teams value diversity. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D4 < Previous View Contents Our People Overview Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain 2013 Progress toward Objectives Case Studies Objectives Status From the United States Our People Maintain employee engagement level at 82 percent or higher in FY13 > Overview Recruiting U.S. Veterans Working Together Introduce twice-yearly compensation reviews in FY13 Many veterans find it hard to gain employment when they leave the military. The unemployment rate among young veterans is 18 percent, and we are A Safe and Healthy Provide capability training for 90 percent of directors and people looking at how we can help decrease that number. Work Environment managers by FY14 An Inclusive and “We have our own language and acronyms [in the military], and civilian Diverse Culture companies have their own language as well,” said Courtney Beard, a Achieved Ongoing combat-tested Air Force veteran who now works for Cisco as a network Training and consulting engineer. A veterans program helped Beard revise her résumé Development so her military intelligence job made sense to a civilian. Opportunities Jonathan Nichols, a program manager in the Cisco Global Services Rewarding Practice, has been so impressed with veterans like Beard that he has Our People hired 11 more. “They are disciplined, motivated, and have practical 2014 Objectives and Beyond experience,” he said. Read about Courtney’s stories on our blog: Society Objectives Target Date • From the Battlefield to the IT Field: My Story of Transition • Cisco Employee Honored as Military Veteran at the White House Launch a new People strategy focused on: FY14 – FY16 Environment • Talent: Deliver innovative and consistent career development and employee experience GRI Index • Leadership: Build diverse and global leadership capabilities and pipeline Appendix • Culture: Inspire employees to embrace culture, values, and integrity • Organizational Effectiveness: Deliver organizational transformation through Work Force Planning and Organizational Health Analytics Improve our employee survey scores in the areas of Development, End of Q3 FY14 Organizational Alignment, and Recognition Launch a new performance management program End of FY15 Increase diversity awareness with an emphasis on gender awareness Ongoing Launch new rewards and recognition program that highlights End of Q2 FY14 employee contributions 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D5 < Previous View Contents Working Together We engage with employees in a variety of ways: • Our intranet site, Cisco Employee Connection, is often Figure 1: Employee Experience Introduction Collaboration, innovation, and creativity are vital to our the first place employees go for business updates, company’s success. We nurture these strengths in our company announcements, and information to help Governance & Ethics employees by promoting open communication, fostering them do their jobs. ire your dream Insp s a culture of listening, and creating a diverse and inclusive • The “We Are Cisco” web community promotes Supply Chain t A working environment where everyone can share their peer-to-peer engagement and gives employees an es Enab your ideas. We are the worldwide leader in connecting people, opportunity to chat, share, and get to know each other Change the le y ate th world Our People whether through the Internet, video, or voice, and Cisco’s e In er th wherever they are in the world. ou on el row g s rb focu A lw networking solutions enable our connections, no matter cc g Overview a righ ys d • WebEx Social technology helps team members e ly e r s ns tom tt o where we are in the world. hi > Working Together collaborate, communicate, and share important n Cisco Values te cus A Safe and Healthy information no matter where they are located. Your Work Environment Employee Communications nd t e • Cisco TV allows employees to watch company events ta ho Experience ec h ai n n o rld An Inclusive and With employees located at 370 sites in 100 countries on from their desktops or home offices when they are Re s Re s p eac p p ova r en tio n car e fo rw Diverse Culture six continents, working both virtually and in our offices, unable to attend in person. pe ct he ak ou Training and a primary objective is keeping leaders, managers, and r W in tog ether M ty Development employees connected. We use communications that • Cisco TelePresence, using high-definition video yo u ec Opportunities technology, enables users in multiple locations to nn allow employees everywhere to interact with our leaders, Co interact in real time at company meetings as if they are Re engage with Cisco’s strategy, transformation goals, and wa r Rewarding d yo u r r e s u l t s Our People culture, and stay informed about key news regarding in the same room. Cisco and working at Cisco. We keep employees • Cisco Jabber lets employees access applications such informed, have candid dialogue, answer questions, treat as instant messaging, voice, video, voice messaging, Society concerns respectfully, and bridge physical distance with desktop sharing, and conferencing on any device. our technologies. In the 2013 employee survey, more • Our social media sites promote open, two-way Environment than 80 percent of our employees said that our top communication. Cisco reaches more than 8.2 million We want employees to live our values, and in FY13 we management is approachable, and close to 80 percent sent a powerful message by asking them to recognize people through social media, and many of our GRI Index said they are kept informed about developments at the and share examples of how that’s happening. In the executives and functional areas have their own Twitter company. summer of 2013, we asked our employees to share Appendix handles and Facebook pages. personal stories about how they are living our Cisco values by submitting their own one-sentence slogan Engaging Employees through Shared Values Key Challenge: Managing Volume about the difference Cisco makes globally. Find out what Cisco’s company values, reaffirmed in FY13, are the six of Communications most important principles we want to exemplify as a our employees created in this two-minute video. Our culture of open communication is a key part of company. We’ve aligned our Employee Value Proposition how our leaders connect with their teams. As a result, Empowering Our Leaders to Engage with with our six company values to create a framework for managing the amount of communications we produce our Employee Experience (see Figure 1) and printed Employees and Each Other throughout the company is a challenge. Over the last the values on our employees’ badges to help people Open and transparent communication is critical for year, we’ve put processes in place to better align our communications so that employees get the most understand how these values are linked with their leaders to build trust within their organizations. At Cisco, relevant information. This effort will continue to be a personal and professional growth. this starts with Chairman and CEO John Chambers. His focus area for us. candid and accessible approach sets the tone for how all of our managers and leaders interact with their teams. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D6 < Previous View Contents We expect leaders and managers to inspire their Seeking Input from Our Employees employees and champion our company culture. We Listening to our employees helps us build a better use a combination of collaborative tools, events, and Introduction company. We give employees the opportunity to speak communication programs to provide the resources they to their managers and leaders and ask questions in a Governance & Ethics need to successfully manage the business and their variety of ways, including through blogs, performance teams. These include: reviews, social media, and informal gatherings. We also Supply Chain • Management Central is a one-stop online resource for gain valuable quantitative feedback through surveys. We people managers that offers key information, tips, and regularly ask our employees in surveys and company Our People tools such as the Cisco Leader Playbook, which helps meetings how we can make their work more satisfying, Our employees produce creative work every day, but to Overview them communicate with their teams. then we ask our Employee Engagement and Experience really stretch them, we create opportunities to innovate > Working Together • Our quarterly “Learn about LIVE” event series provides teams to respond to their feedback. that are outside of their usual day jobs. Innovation events A Safe and Healthy an opportunity for people managers to learn about include: Work Environment the topics that will help them to be successful in Tapping into Employees’ Ideas • Hackathon: More than 100 of Cisco’s best Information their roles. Each session combines presentations, Giving employees opportunities to collaborate and Technology engineers gathered for HackIT II in April An Inclusive and Diverse Culture discussion panels, and practical resources to help innovate in situations outside their usual work settings 2013, a 24-hour session of problem-solving and leaders apply what they have learned. is a key part of our strategy to develop better products competition. Teams from San Jose and North Carolina Training and and solutions. Employees are able to influence Cisco’s competed to design, code, and build innovative Development • The Senior Leadership Experience (SLX) Program for Opportunities product development, services, and strategies through solutions to real-world ICT problems. directors and senior managers includes the annual our interactive forums and innovation events. In FY13, Rewarding Forum, quarterly events that provide context on the • Winnovation Challenge: More than 500 employees Our People 85 percent of employees participating in our employee company strategy and address timely topics, and worldwide have participated in this challenge over survey said they feel encouraged to come up with new online tools and materials to help these leaders stay the past three years, proposing a host of innovative and better ways of doing things. connected and aligned with the business priorities. technology ideas for our customers. Society The SLX Program focuses on tools the next generation Our crowdsourcing tool, Innovus, encourages employees • GeekFests: Engineers run these one-day collaborative of managers needs to run our business more to share ideas and help solve problems during campaigns sessions to think creatively about the future of Cisco’s Environment effectively. or “jams.” In FY13, during a jam to help shape our products and identify working solutions for real-time • Our Annual Executive Leadership Community Offsite Inclusion and Diversity strategy, employees from across business problems. GRI Index and quarterly meetings for vice presidents and above. the globe submitted more than 500 ideas, made more • iSpark: More than 350 employees submitted their Appendix These events set the company direction with the than 600 comments, and contributed 5539 votes on the most innovative product ideas at the 2013 iSpark most senior leaders of the company. They provide our ideas they preferred. event in India. The top 10 ideas were presented to a leaders with the information they need to build their technical panel as potential new products. Employees business plans and create a forum where they can Employees can contribute and help shape new product voted for their favorite ideas, and winners received engage with their peers for increased collaboration. ideas, sales models, markets, and solutions through our cash prizes. These events also set clear expectations for business online Idea Zone (I-Zone). This forum is our employees’ performance and team management. creative playground for exploring and sharing ideas Pulse Survey to create the next big thing. To date, employees have contributed more than 5100 ideas with 9500 comments Our Pulse employee survey is one of the most important to I-Zone. The most compelling ideas are taken up by our listening tools at Cisco. Feedback from this confidential Action Learning Forum to develop further. online survey for all employees helps leaders pinpoint employee concerns in 10 categories (see Table 1). 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D7 < Previous View Contents Table 1: Pulse Survey Results Key Challenge: Responding to Introduction Employee Feedback FY10 Scores FY11 Scores FY12 Scores FY13 Scores Category In FY13, scores improved in Development, (Interim Survey) Governance & Ethics Organizational Alignment, and Recognition, our three lowest scoring areas, as a result of plans we Collaboration 85 85 87 87 Supply Chain implemented following FY12 survey results. However, all three still have room for improvement, and we will Respect for People 82 84 86 87 address them again in FY14. Our People Overview Manager Index 77 83 84 85 Working Together > A Safe and Healthy Employee Engagement Index 82 79 82 84 A Safe and Healthy Work Environment Work Environment Communication 79 79 82 83 An Inclusive and Diverse Culture Inclusion Index 78 79 82 83 Technology enables our employees to work almost Training and anytime and anywhere. This gives them a great deal Development of freedom and flexibility, but it means that work can Opportunities Innovation and Excellence 77 73 78 80 encroach on their personal time. That is why it’s more Rewarding important than ever that we help make their lives easier, Our People Development 72 75 77 78 encourage them to take time for themselves and their families, and stay fit and healthy, as well as look after Organizational Alignment 79 66 73 77 their safety at work. We invest in employees’ health and Society wellbeing through a combination of benefits, resources Recognition 65 68 72 74 that encourage a culture of wellbeing, and flexible work Environment practices. GRI Index In FY13, we asked a sample of our global employees to improve our business. We also conduct in-depth analysis participate in an interim survey, following our full survey in to improve our understanding and help us address Occupational Health and Safety Appendix FY12. Among the 24 percent of our total workforce who specific areas. For example, the Inclusion & Diversity The health and safety of our employees is central to our responded, 89 percent said they are proud to work at Index allows us to collate survey results on respect, fair business. Our Occupational Health and Safety Program Cisco, 82 percent felt highly engaged, and 87 percent felt treatment, ability to voice opinions, performance, and aims to identify and reduce the risk of injury and illness that their contributions make a difference. rewards in order to analyze how well Cisco is fostering an across our operations by standardizing health and safety inclusive work environment and inform business change. management while allowing local teams to monitor We consider scores above 80 percent as positive results Data from the Index is used in executive reviews, and effectiveness. and scores from 70 to 79 as good results with room for action plans are created to address weaknesses. improvement. We also benchmark ourselves against Injury and Illness Rates other large high-tech companies to understand our We conduct segmentation-based analysis, called The majority of employee workplace injuries result from performance. Persona Research, to increase our understanding of ergonomic issues, and in FY13 we continued to focus employees who are having a disproportionately positive on ergonomic-related injury awareness and prevention. To better understand how we can improve in low-scoring or negative influence. This analysis enables us to address Our office-based employees benefit from our Global areas, we organize follow-up surveys and focus groups. these segments with solutions that support inclusivity and Ergonomic Program that provides in-person and virtual We try to use these findings to make changes that to increase the relevance of our program offerings. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D8 < Previous View support to help identify, measure, and reduce ergonomic shareholders. A Disaster Alert posted on the Cisco Contents risks. We follow global regulatory and industry standards Employee Connection website gives up-to-date in our Lab Safety Program, using a risk-based approach information on the crisis, how it impacts Cisco, how Introduction that provides guidance on assessing, communicating, employees can help, and how people in the region can Governance & Ethics and managing lab-based safety hazards. seek help. Supply Chain We are currently designing improvements to our In FY13, we developed a new Emergency Notification Occupational Health and Safety program. We are actively System, which can send Cisco employees an SMS text to Our People working to improve the way that we collect and report this their work or personal mobile phone, place a call to their data, which often has long lead times before numbers can work or home phone, or send an email alert. Employees by the company on a short-term basis. Additionally, Overview be finalized or requires revisions after the fact. can then respond to the alert to let us know they are referral services are available for areas such as childcare, Working Together safe or if they need further support or guidance. This education, college assistance, eldercare, adoption, > A Safe and Healthy system will streamline, automate, and accelerate Cisco’s parenting, and legal and financial assistance. Table 2: Health and Safety Data (U.S. operations only) Work Environment emergency response capabilities. Its global rollout began Through our Expert Medical Opinion program, Cisco An Inclusive and Category FY12 FY13 in summer of 2013. Diverse Culture employees and their families with serious, complex, When an onsite emergency strikes, Cisco’s Security or rare medical conditions can get a confidential, Training and Total incident rate 0.251 0.232 and Facilities Operations Centers dispatch Emergency independent second opinion from physicians with Development (per 100 full-time Opportunities equivalent employees) Response Teams to respond to the incident. We have expertise on their medical condition. This program is more than 120 of these teams, made up of more than provided at no cost to employees. Rewarding Our People Lost workdays 0.43 0.72 3200 volunteer employees and contingent workers. (per 100 full-time In addition, each country provides local benefits to give They are trained to be first responders to a variety equivalent employees) employees and their families access to quality healthcare, of emergency situations, from assisting with building disability and life insurance, and time away from the Society 1. In last year’s report, we reported that the total incident rate in FY12 was evacuations to administering first aid and dealing with office. Cisco also provides all employees with travel0.22. This was an estimate based on available data at the time cardiac arrest. More than 480 automated external of publication. related benefits to keep them safe during business travel. Environment 2. This figure is an estimate based on available data at time of publication. defibrillators are located in Cisco offices around the world 3. In last year’s report, we reported that the FY12 total lost workdays was for use in such a situation. Our Emergency Response 0.008. This was an estimate based on available data at the time of In the United States, our wellness programs provide GRI Index publication. Teams responded to 224 medical incidents and 123 employees with the opportunity to participate in an online building drills and evacuations globally in FY13. Appendix health assessment, lifestyle management programs, Emergency Response health coaching, programs to manage chronic conditions, Cisco’s Global Safety, Security, and Business Resiliency Health and Wellness community fitness events, and more. They also have department is responsible for the protection of the access to information and resources in the areas of We invest in creating a culture of health and wellness company’s employees, property, and information in the nutrition, fitness, sleep, life balance, and preventive and offer programs to support our employees worldwide. event of an emergency. Their work includes conducting care. Financial incentives of up to $800 per year for All Cisco employees and their immediate families have annual Incident Management Drills to monitor the employees, and $400 per year for spouses and domestic access to a range of global benefits to help them in times company’s readiness to respond to a crisis. partners, are available for taking part in wellness of need. activities. In FY13, Cisco employees and dependents In the event of a disaster, our Crisis Communication earned more than $13.4 million in health incentives for Our Employee and Family Assistance program provides Team provides timely information to employees and participating in wellness programs, and 50 percent of confidential counseling services that offer personal and their families as well as customers, partners, and employees completed a health assessment. emotional support on a wide range of issues, fully paid 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D9 < Previous View For added convenience, Cisco provides onsite health and responsibilities. At Cisco, we have fully embraced flexible We also embed flexible work practices in many of Contents medical care for Cisco employees and their families in work practices with transparent policies regarding our offices with thousands of collaborative, inviting some regions. Onsite health facilities are available at our telecommuting, remote, and flex-time work options. work environments, which are functional and fun for Introduction San Jose headquarters; at Research Triangle Park, North our employees worldwide. As part of our Connected Carolina (enabled by Cisco HealthPresence solution); and Telecommuting is used to some extent by almost all of Workplace strategy, we offer open-plan workstations, Governance & Ethics in Bangalore, India (see feature on this page). In addition, our employees, and the number of remote workers rose touchdowns for computer access, privacy rooms, Supply Chain Cisco’s telehealth solutions connect employees located 12 percent in FY13 compared with the previous year. lounges, e-cafés, and recreation spaces fitted with worldwide to a primary care doctor or specialist. Onsite Part-time opportunities are available in Europe, the United technology that meets employees’ needs. These are Our People fitness facilities at our five largest U.S. locations feature States, and parts of the Asia Pacific region. available to all without booking ahead. This welcoming high-end cardiovascular and strength training equipment, environment is designed to increase collaboration and Overview Flexible work practices are a crucial part of Cisco’s group exercise classes, sports leagues, and access encourage innovation. Many users report significantly Working Together to outdoor walking and jogging paths. All of our onsite employee engagement strategy, and we continue to higher levels of satisfaction, teamwork, and productivity. > A Safe and Healthy cafeterias feature fresh, seasonal, and nutritious menu invest in technologies that enable this flexibility. Cisco Work Environment items to give employees healthy food options. technologies such as IP phones, WebEx, Jabber, Cisco Employees have named workplace flexibility one of their An Inclusive and TelePresence, and Virtual Office allow employees to work top priorities and one of the best things about working Diverse Culture together at any time and in any place. Our technology at Cisco, according to Cisco’s annual employee survey, Flexible Working infrastructure enables greater access to information exit surveys, and focus group feedback. And it shows: Training and Development For Cisco, productivity is measured not by time spent and improved data security from a wide range of Cisco has seen greater employee productivity, retention, Opportunities in an office, but by results. Globalization requires devices, resulting in increased productivity and flexibility. and engagement, reinforcing that Cisco is a great place Rewarding employees to adapt when and where they work, and These tools give employees more control over their to work. Our People our collaborative technology helps them do this while schedules, making it easier to manage their personal and balancing family commitments and other personal professional responsibilities. Society Center offers integrated primary and family medical care; plans, preventive care is covered at 100 percent, and their Environment chiropractic, acupuncture, and physical therapy; onsite deductible is waived when they use the Health Center for health coaching and counseling services; X-ray and lab injury and illness visits. For members who use our Preferred GRI Index services; a vision center; and a full-service pharmacy. The Provider Organizations, generic prescriptions are free. dental center, which offers primary and cosmetic dentistry, The LifeConnections Clinic at our North Carolina campus opened in the summer of 2013. Appendix offers primary care; immunizations and medical travel The Health Center offers free screenings, events, and advice; and injury, illness, and chronic condition visits via webinars to inspire employees and their families to lead Cisco’s telehealth platform. The LifeConnections Health healthy lives. It also works with external providers and Center at Bangalore, opened in October 2012, offers academic institutions to offer specialized services, such onsite primary care, physiotherapy, nutritional counseling, as Stanford teledermatology, providing employees with emergency services, and an onsite ambulance. Feedback access to expert dermatologists. The LifeConnections about the experience and convenience has been extremely Health Center is visited regularly by approximately 7000 positive. employees, averaging over 2200 visits per month. All of the LifeConnections centers use Cisco’s Patients at the Health Center receive a personalized, integrated network, voice and video technologies, and LifeConnections Health Centers unhurried experience in spacious, modern, and serene HealthPresence, Cisco’s innovative telehealth solution with The state-of-the-art LifeConnections Health Center at our surroundings. The Center helps employees save money, high-definition video, audio, and biometric data capture, San Jose campus features medical, fitness, and childcare billing them at a 20 to 30 percent lower rate than enabling patients to consult with a physician located centers. Providing comprehensive services, the Health community doctors. For employees in our largest health remotely. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D10 < Previous View Contents An Inclusive and Introduction Diverse Culture Governance & Ethics Building an inclusive and diverse organization is a business imperative for Cisco. The rich mix of Supply Chain perspectives and experiences our people bring to the company enables us to better understand the needs of Our People our customers around the world and create innovative solutions to meet these needs. We want to lead our Overview industry in Inclusion and Diversity (I&D). Working Together A Safe and Healthy Work Environment Key Challenge: Improving Representation > An Inclusive and Over the past few years we have made important Diverse Culture strides in diversifying our population, particularly Training and in positions of leadership. Key challenges include Development attracting more women, who continue to be significantly Opportunities underrepresented in the ICT field, and increasing Rewarding the presence of underrepresented minorities in the Our People workforce. Society Embedding a Culture of Inclusion that identify inclusive behaviors, and a self-assessment as teaching practical tools to increase their awareness, and Diversity Environment to help employees understand where they are on their challenge their habitual actions, and change the course At Cisco, all employees and functions are responsible journey from awareness to understanding, action and of their decisions. for promoting a culture of inclusion and diversity (I&D). GRI Index advocacy, with steps to move to the next phase. To help our employees behave inclusively, we Employee representatives take part in I&D Leadership communicate to them what inclusion means in practice Appendix We offer a number of I&D training modules to help Teams and act as I&D Ambassadors, who reinforce I&D and its importance to Cisco. Within their first three employees develop new leadership and diversity skills, communications and expectations and help promote days at Cisco, all employees are introduced to Cisco’s and to be active participants in creating a more inclusive the success of our strategy and programs. We reward commitment to a culture of I&D. environment. These include videos, workshops, and employees for exceptional contributions to I&D programs training courses to help managers and team members and Employee Resource Organizations (see Employee As part of Cisco Performance Connection (for more develop I&D awareness, understand and manage Support, page D14) through additional professional information, see Development Opportunities, page D16), unconscious bias, practice inclusive behaviors, and learn development opportunities, recognition letters, and our all employees are required to set an I&D performance ways to communicate supportively and directly. One annual I&D Ambassador Recognition Program. goal that holds them accountable for inclusive behavior. example is our Minds Wide Open training, which helps The Cisco Performance Connection I&D guide includes Our holistic diversity framework is embedded throughout employees understand how unconscious bias plays short videos to make I&D concepts come alive, matrices the business. Our global I&D Coalition, comprising I&D into their judgments, decisions, and behaviors as well and HR representatives from across functions and 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D11 < Previous View Contents regions, advises and supports Cisco executives at the Equality for All functional and regional level. In FY13, we formed the Examples of Our Partner Organizations: We want to make sure that all individuals at Cisco are Integrated Workforce Planning Initiative, which requires all • The Anita Borg Institute’s (ABI) Grace Hopper Introduction treated equally and have equal opportunities to succeed, of Cisco’s top business functions to review I&D metrics, Celebration of Women in Computing (GHC), U.S., India regardless of race, gender, disability, sexual orientation, Governance & Ethics goals, and plans with the company’s top executives as • Diversity in Asia Network (DIAN), APJC veteran status, or other underrepresented minority part of a broader talent planning review. As a result of • Catalyst, U.S., EMEAR, India, Canada status. Of the employees responding to our FY13 Interim Supply Chain this requirement, I&D is considered as part of holistic Pulse Survey, 86 percent said their manager ensures fair talent planning rather than separately, highlighting its • Diversity Best Practices, U.S. treatment to everyone on the team. Our People importance as a business driver and its relevance to each • The National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), U.S. area of talent planning. Overview • Society of Women Engineers (SWE), U.S. Gender Working Together The Inclusion Index in our Pulse survey improved by • Technology Out & Equal, U.S. In early 2013, our CEO John Chambers called upon one point to 83 in FY13. Of those responding to the Cisco’s senior employees to find ways of bringing A Safe and Healthy • Hispanic IT Executive Council (HITEC), U.S. Work Environment survey, 86 percent felt that their team has a climate in more women into leadership roles. First he asked all • The Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers vice presidents and senior directors to identify three > An Inclusive and which diverse perspectives are valued and that senior (SHPE), U.S. Diverse Culture leadership emphasizes the value of a diverse workforce. or four things they would do differently to increase the • 100,000 Jobs Mission Coalition, U.S. number of women in our work environment. Then two Training and Development • Stonewall, U.K. executive sponsors were assigned to report on the Opportunities Recruitment initiative’s progress on a quarterly basis to the Operating • Employers Forum on Disability, U.K. Developing an inclusive workplace starts with recruitment Committee. A strategy and execution plan has been put Rewarding Our People from a diverse pool of candidates. A diverse recruiting in place for FY14 to act on these findings. strategy is embedded into recruiting processes at the university, professional, and executive levels, and we run and The National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Other initiatives to promote the career development of programs to encourage internal hiring managers to seek Minorities in Engineering and Science (GEM) programs, women at Cisco include: Society which support underrepresented minorities at the out diverse talent for a wide range of roles at Cisco. We use social media and mobile technology to reach a wide university level. The INROADS program develops and • WebEx Social for Women uses Cisco’s social Environment group of candidates, build strong personal relationships places talented underserved youth in business and networking platform as a forum for discussing relevant GRI Index with diverse communities through our Employee industry and prepares them for corporate and community issues, such as career development and work/life Resource Organizations, and draw from the networks of leadership. We plan to expand participation in INROADS balance. Appendix various partner organizations. to Mexico during FY14. • An annual “Women in Technology” forum is devoted to the development and advancement of women in We support programs that aim to increase the presence To increase the likelihood of hiring a diverse candidate, technology. Approximately 1400 employees from of underrepresented groups within certain fields. For we launched the Diverse Interviewer Panel initiative in the United States, China, India, the U.K., and Israel example, in the United States our scholarship program FY13. A diverse interviewer panel also helps candidates attended the second annual forum in March 2013. with the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for see themselves fitting in at the company. All of our Attendees gained practical knowledge for their career Minorities in Engineering and Science aims to improve recruiters and hiring managers have access to a hiring development and an expanded network of allies. access to top minority talent, and the Girls/Women in talent website and an interactive hiring e-learning training Technology Initiative encourages more girls to study and program to help them develop fair and effective interview consider careers in science, technology, engineering, skills. Our Executive Talent Insertion program strategically and mathematics. We also participate in the INROADS recruits diverse leaders to bring fresh ways of thinking and operating to Cisco. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D12 < Previous View • The Cisco Empowered Women’s Network, to bring their true selves into the workplace. Training Contents launched in June 2013, is a global community of focuses on better understanding and being an advocate Case Studies highly motivated, professional female employees, for co-workers with differences that are not immediately From Around the World Introduction customers, and partners. The group aims to increase recognized, such as GLBT individuals. Governance & Ethics the representation of motivated women in the ICT International Girls Day in Information industry; provide women with tools to enrich and Cisco was among the first companies to offer inclusive Communications Technology Supply Chain advance their careers; galvanize leaders to prioritize benefits and policies for GLBT employees and domestic the empowerment of women in their organizations; partners, including a GLBT tax true-up, which equalizes On April 25, 2013, more than 2100 teenage girls around the world went to “work” at 82 Cisco offices as part of Our People and contribute to advancing women in the global the cost impact to U.S. employees who cover benefits International Girls Day in Information Communications community. for same-sex partners who do not qualify as tax Technology. The girls met with senior executives and Overview dependents. Employees who have not been limited women leaders to see firsthand the opportunities the • Focused training programs include Development, Working Together in legal recognition of their partnerships have been ICT sector has for them, and more than 550 Cisco Authenticity, Readiness and Excellence (DARE), employees volunteered to make this day a success. A Safe and Healthy compensated by Cisco for the special burden of federal designed for early-in-career women to understand the Work Environment taxes owed on those benefits and for the tax they owe In addition, Cisco was invited to attend the global ICT critical role authenticity plays in creating resilience and > An Inclusive and on our contribution toward that tax bill. Other benefits for Girls Day event at the European Parliament, along with building a future career at Cisco, and JUMP Women’s three winners of a challenge to design an app for an Diverse Culture GLBT employees and domestic partners include medical Development Program, a development program for Android-based mobile device. The winning app design Training and benefits for transgender and transitioning employees, and women in entry-level management positions. The promoted healthy eating with the aid of a virtual pet and Development gender transition support for transitioning employees and included a series of challenges to tempt the player away JUMP program helps participants develop leadership Opportunities their immediate colleagues. from unhealthy foods. Cisco engineers in Brussels are and career planning skills over nine months. An Rewarding now working on turning this design into a reality. initial pilot in the U.K., France, and Spain during Our People FY13 resulted in a 30 percent movement rate for Ethnicity participants. Based on this success, we are rolling out In the United States we have made steady progress in the program to other regions during FY14. diversifying the ethnicity of our workforce over the past Society five years throughout various levels of the organization We also track gender diversity at all phases of (see Table 4). Environment recruitment, from application to interview and hire. This helps us develop action plans addressing any Nearly half of Cisco’s U.S. workforce identify themselves GRI Index as non-white. As is often the case in the technology areas where additional effort is needed. We have also conducted external research to identify top-performing industry, a great majority of our non-white employees are Appendix of South Asian and Pacific-Rim Asian descent. However, women in sales for a sales hiring initiative. people of Pacific Rim and South Asian descent remain Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity underrepresented in senior positions at Cisco in the To reinforce Cisco’s culture of equality across the United States. To address this, we run a Pac-Rim Asian workforce, we have created a climate where gay, Leadership Development Program to help employees lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) individuals from this group who are on the verge of becoming are embraced as part of the Cisco family and valued directors to develop skills such as executive presence, for their contributions. The Cisco Safe Space Program effective presentation, and networking proficiency. We advances the company’s goal of creating an environment are assessing this initiative for applicability to other in which all are treated with dignity and respect and able underrepresented groups at Cisco. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D13 < Previous View Analysis of our U.S. workforce during FY13 highlighted Contents the need for a greater focus on our African American and Table 3: Gender Diversity Performance Hispanic/Latino talent segments, and we plan to address Introduction FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 this issue in FY14. We are currently investigating greater Governance & Ethics and deeper partnerships with the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME) and Hispanic IT Percent of female employees globally 23% 23% 22% 22% 23% Supply Chain Executive Council (HITEC) to leverage their programs, resources, and training. NACME aims to increase the Percent of female new hires globally 23% 20% 19% 23% 23% Our People number of successful African American, American Indian, and Latino women and men in science, technology, Percent of female managers globally (including directors) 19% 19% 20% 20% 20% Overview engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education and Working Together careers. HITEC’s prime goal is to advance the role of Percent of female vice presidents globally 15% 15% 16%1 16%1 16% A Safe and Healthy Hispanic people in ICT leadership and to provide current Work Environment and future Hispanic ICT leaders with the skill sets, Percent of female employees in the U.S. 26% 25% 25% 25% 26% > An Inclusive and professional development, and networking opportunities Diverse Culture to become executive leaders. Percent of female managers in the U.S. (including directors) 22% 22% 22% 22% 23% Training and Development Racial and ethnic minorities vary in different countries, Percent of female vice presidents in the U.S. 17% 18% 18% 18% 19% Opportunities making it difficult to report global performance in this 1. Restated due to an error in last year’s report. Rewarding area. As a result, we have reported on race and ethnicity Our People only for the United States, which is home to the largest portion of our workforce. However, we will expand our demographic analysis into other regions in FY14. Table 4: Ethnicity Diversity Performance Society FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Environment Percent of non-Caucasian employees in U.S. operations 44%1 44% 45% 46%1 46% GRI Index Percent of non-Caucasian new hires in U.S. operations 40%1 43%1 46% 52% 48% Appendix Percent of non-Caucasian vice presidents in U.S. operations 21% 22% 24% 26% 24% 1. Restated due to an error in last year’s report. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D14 < Previous View Disability Contents Case Studies Cisco is building a culture that empowers people with disabilities through our commitment to increasing From the United States Introduction accessibility, accommodation, and opportunity. Our Governance & Ethics technology and workplace flexibility help our employees Supporting People with Disabilities with physical limitations make important contributions to Luis Lima, customer service manager at Cisco, has Supply Chain our work. a mobility disability related to Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT). Lima’s condition makes it challenging Our People For the fifth year in a row, Cisco has been honored by for him to maneuver in our many buildings. He uses Disability Matters in the workplace category, celebrating our Unified Communications and Video technologies, Overview our inclusive working practices for those with disabilities a key component of our workplace flexibility program, Inclusion and Diversity Awards Working Together to conduct his daily work. These allow him to attend and their families. In FY13, Cisco hosted the inaugural Some of the awards we have received over the past meetings without having to move from site to site, A Safe and Healthy Disability Matters Asia Pacific Conference on our campus year include: which can be painful, and avoid losing productivity Work Environment in Bangalore, India. while traveling. • Ranked number 21 on the World’s Best Multicultural > An Inclusive and Workplaces list by Great Place to Work Institute “If you focus on your performance, you’ll be a valuable Diverse Culture Veterans asset,” Lima said. “Important companies search, hire, • Disability Matters Workplace Award for the fifth Training and Cisco is a founding member of the 100,000 Jobs retain, and support their human assets, and I’ve never consecutive year in the U.S. Development felt disabled at Cisco.” Mission, a coalition of more than 100 corporations • Asia Pacific Disability Matters Workplace Award Opportunities committed collectively hiring 200,000 veterans by 2020. • Top 100 companies providing opportunities for Rewarding Since March 2011, the coalition has already hired more veterans by US Veterans magazine Our People than 78,000 veterans. We have invested more than $2 • Top Diversity Employer by Hispanic Network magazine million to help software development company Futures, Inc. create cloud-based job portals that match military job • Top Diversity Employer for African Americans by Society Black EOE Journal codes with civilian job openings. • Top 100 companies for working mothers in the U.S. Environment Veterans and members of their families are encouraged by Working Mother magazine to enroll in Cisco Networking Academy courses at • “Best Companies for Multicultural Women” in the U.S. GRI Index opportunities, community outreach, and support for almost 2000 locations nationwide, where they can learn by Working Mother magazine about information and communications technology. Our wider company inclusion and diversity initiatives. By Appendix • Ranked number 6 in the Top 50 Organizations Operation HomeForce app on Facebook lets users find connecting people across Cisco, EROs help to increase for Multicultural Business Opportunities by job openings for a veteran they know, and then make employee engagement while contributing to innovation DiversityBusiness.com it easy for the veteran to apply. We also support our and fostering business partnerships. We currently have • Scored 100 percent in “Best Places to work for LGBT veteran employees through our Veterans Enablement and nine EROs with participation from employees around Equality” in the U.S. by Human Rights Campaign Troop Support (VETS) Employee Resource Organization. the globe. EROs include Cisco’s Asian Affinity Network; • Top 100 companies in the U.S. providing opportunities For more information on how our support has benefited Conexión, for Latinos; Cisco Black Employees Network; for Latinos by Latino magazine one veteran, see the case study on page D4. Cisco Disability Awareness Network; Cisco Connected Women; and the Early in Career Network. • HITEC Top 100 companies by the Hispanic IT Executive Council in the U.S. Employee Support In addition, we support many global inclusion and • Asian American Women’s Alliance Recognition for Cisco Employee Resource Organizations (EROs) are diversity professional organizations that offer leadership CAAN, the Cisco Asian American Network global, virtual groups representing the diverse cultures development programs and additional resources such as • Cisco Conexión ranked in the top five EROs in and interests of our employees. Our EROs provide training and networking opportunities to our employees corporate America by Latina Style magazine mentoring programs, recruitment and networking (see page D11). 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D15 < Previous View Contents Training and Development with more than 500 opportunities to build knowledge Opportunities and skills in cutting-edge technologies such as cloud, Introduction big data, security, application development, and network programmability. A total of 29,776 learners registered for Governance & Ethics Cisco is founded on our people’s abilities to create, technical training in FY13. innovate, and come up with solutions to challenges faced • Conferences and expositions allow our engineers to Supply Chain by our business and by our customers. To develop our share knowledge and new ideas, inspire innovation business, we must make sure that our people have the and creativity, encourage employee development, and Our People opportunity to develop too, honing their skills and building provide insight into company direction and customer needs. In FY13, more than 200 internal learning events the careers they want and deserve. Overview reached more than 20,000 employees in the Cisco Working Together Career Growth for Engineers Development Organization. We target more than 170 A Safe and Healthy Training Fostering a learning culture within the engineering engineers at the level of vice president and above with community-based learning through our Executive Work Environment We offer a variety of programs and training courses community is one of Cisco’s primary strategic learning Leadership Connection program, bringing them together for management, technical, professional, and career and development objectives. We want our engineers every 60 days for dialogue around core business and An Inclusive and to be engaged, productive, innovative, and inspired. In leadership challenges. Diverse Culture development, starting from the first day of an individual’s FY13, Cisco provided more than 889,000 hours of training > Training and career at Cisco. We are a global company, and our to our engineering community with a focus on product • High-potential directors and managers complete a sixDevelopment career development opportunities are designed to be development, innovation, and management and leadership month action learning Leadership Breakthrough program Opportunities global as well. development. Programs included: where they experience intense leadership simulations and work in cohorts on real business opportunities, Rewarding • Websites focused on specific technologies and Learning culminating in presentations to leadership where winning Our People In FY13, Cisco spent more than $153 million on training Roadmaps combining formal training classes and recommendations are approved as business initiatives and development, compared with $139 million in FY12, informal learning opportunities that provide engineers with funding and resource commitments. and our employees collectively spent more than 3.1 million hours on learning and development. While we Society did not meet our goal to provide capability training to 90 of participation times and making more use of WebEx We also added programs to develop leadership and Environment percent of directors and people managers by FY14, we sessions. We also offer a Director Series that develops collaborative capabilities in emerging markets, specifically are continuing to work toward this objective and enhance directors’ abilities to lead large-scale initiatives, operate China and Singapore. GRI Index the portfolio of training opportunities to employees as enterprise leaders, and engage and inspire others. across the business. To further improve global collaboration, our CrossAppendix Our training programs emphasize collaboration, which Cultural Connection program offers a structured Our flexible learning portfolio includes web-based is imperative to our business success, and several curriculum and forum encompassing education, training, virtual classes, and rich media on demand, which programs are specifically designed to help employees exposure, experience, and social learning to help employees can access through our online Learning and work together more effectively. Cisco’s Center for employees develop into global leaders. We also have Development Community. We encourage employees Collaborative Leadership offers programs for employees a Cultural Competency Tool, developed from extensive to rate courses or other resources they use to help at different levels. We added several new elements to the research and interviews with local business people, that us improve the training materials we offer and enable program, including a Leadership Channel for directors gives our employees quick access to knowledge on how colleagues to search for the most highly rated content. and higher-ranking employees, featuring live and to conduct business effectively with people from more prerecorded programming, virtual office hours, blogs, than 60 countries. In our FY13 employee survey, 82 The Cisco Manager and Advanced Manager Series offers moderated chats, and discussion forums with Cisco and percent of employees said that they know which skills training for those with less than three years’ management external thought leaders, as well as an extensive library they will need in the future to be a valuable contributor to experience. In response to feedback from participants, of respected information resources. The Leadership Cisco, and 85 percent agreed that they knew how to use we have shortened this training program to 60 days and Channel is designed to inspire our executive team and available resources such as training to improve their skills. increased its flexibility by allowing managers more choice promote support of Cisco’s next-generation leaders. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D16 < Previous View Contents Development Opportunities Managers and employees meet three times a year to Key Challenge: Improving Cisco Case Studies Performance Connection From Around the World Introduction set performance, development, and career goals, and discuss progress as part of the Cisco Performance Employee Satisfaction with Cisco Performance Governance & Ethics Connection, our year-round performance management Connection was one of the lowest scoring areas in our Development in Action employee survey in FY13. As a result, we have been and development process. Employees and managers Hao Sun, a manager in global supply chain management Supply Chain conducting extensive analysis to understand employee are also able to request and provide feedback from and concerns about Cisco Performance Connection and how in Shanghai, China, has been given opportunities to about colleagues throughout the year using a tool on the we can improve. We are exploring alternative process develop his executive and leadership communication Our People skills as a result of his midyear Cisco Performance program’s website. design options and will seek feedback on these, with a view to launching a new performance management Connection review. Overview In addition to formal training programs, stretch process in FY15. According to Sun, those discussions “find your Working Together strengths and the areas you need to improve and find assignments and job rotation options give employees A Safe and Healthy support to enhance your capabilities. My manager opportunities to build new skill sets and experiences, Work Environment told me he would work with me to get me to the next while fulfilling short-term company needs. to pursue them, and that they receive ongoing feedback level.” He has been given opportunities to work on An Inclusive and that helps them improve professionally. However, this his executive and leadership communication skills by Diverse Culture Mentoring continues to be an important part of our remains an area where we aim to improve further. representing his department at events and attending > Training and culture at Cisco. On their first day at work, employees training. Sun said, “I believe at Cisco I will keep learning Development are assigned a mentor who is not part of their reporting and grow within the team and the company.” Opportunities chain to help them quickly integrate into the business Career Progression Venkateswara Mannem Rao had been working as an Rewarding and become proficient in their new job. Employees are We want our employees to progress their careers within escalation engineer in our Security Technology Group Our People the company, and we aim to fill as many job openings in India for two and a half years when he decided to encouraged to identify further mentors through the Global with internal candidates as possible. We do this through join the Talent Connection program. He said that he Mentoring Connection, a website that provides guidance wanted to “take a new step in my career and find a role and tools to develop successful mentoring relationships twice-yearly compensation reviews and our Talent that would develop me.” The HR team contacted him Society through mentoring programs including: Connection Program, which helps employees and about a number of possible opportunities, and one in managers match skills with suitable vacancies as they particular appealed to him. Within two hours of sharing • eMentorMe, a platform that intelligently matches Environment arise. Using our CareerPath tool, employees can search his interest in the role, a Cisco recruiter contacted mentor to mentee him to help him through the application process. He is a global database of job openings and apply for positions GRI Index delighted with his new role as a developer and advises • Cross-cultural mentoring, connecting employees from where they believe there is a match. In addition, they can his colleagues: “If you want to take the next step in your different world regions complete a career profile and opt for a Cisco recruiter to career, fill out the career path profile and join the Cisco Appendix contact them when trying to fill an opening. This program • One-to-one or group mentoring, to help employees Talent Connection program.” develop and enhance their skills and knowledge in allows our recruiters to proactively source internal talent, their current and future jobs rather than posting an opening to a job board and hoping a strong candidate is actively seeking a new role. • Reverse mentoring, where a junior employee mentors a more senior employee to provide both employees In FY13, more than 30 percent of our job openings with a fresh perspective, develop trust and awareness, globally were filled by internal candidates, and we and update skills promoted more than 9000 employees, or 12.5 percent of our total employee base. In our 2013 employee survey, FY13 employee survey results showed that more 74 percent of employees said they are confident they employees feel there are readily available development can meet their career goals at Cisco, up six percentage opportunities, that they are supported by their manager points from 2011. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D17 < Previous View Contents Rewarding Our People In the United States, for example, we offer our employees 20 days of paid personal time off each year, with the What We Offer We believe in sharing Cisco’s success with our possibility of accruing for future years, as well as 10 Total Rewards include: Introduction employees. Our “Total Rewards” philosophy includes paid holidays. Additional time off may be taken in special • Competitive performance-based pay Governance & Ethics competitive performance-based pay, as well as benefits circumstances, such as bereavement. Our Off/On Ramp program gives employees the opportunity to take • Comprehensive health coverage such as promoting flexible work practices, affordable Supply Chain and comprehensive health coverage, and an array of between one and two years unpaid time off work for • Long-term savings packages employee and family assistance programs. We want our personal reasons. • Employee stock purchase plan Our People people to feel rewarded professionally and personally, as We provide a range of benefits and programs to help • Time-off policies Overview well as financially. Giving our employees the recognition our employees and their families deal with personal • Health and wellness benefits through our they deserve for their achievements is an important part Working Together challenges. These include free and confidential HealthConnections program of this. A Safe and Healthy professional support for employees and family members • Employee support programs Work Environment through our Employee Assistance Program, as well as • Development and career progression opportunities An Inclusive and Compensation and Benefits issue-specific support through initiatives such as Elder Diverse Culture Our rewards strategy is to provide compensation, Care, Cancer Support Network, and Adoption Assistance. • Flexible work practices Training and benefits, and long-term savings packages that are • A positive work environment Development competitive in each of the markets where we operate. Further benefits include: • Recognition of achievements Opportunities We aim to provide “total cash” (inclusive of base pay and • Tax-efficient retirement savings support with company > Rewarding bonus) at or near the top quartile of market based upon contributions Our People competitive benchmarking of our peer companies at all • An Employee Stock Purchase Plan, in which about Cisco work locations. 70 percent of eligible fulland part-time employees participate Society We believe that every Cisco employee, whether an engineer, sales employee, or administrative assistant, • Health and wellness benefits (see page D8) Environment contributes to the company’s performance and that every • Childcare centers in San Jose and Bangalore offices employee should be able to benefit from the company’s GRI Index • Educational leave and tuition assistance success. Every Cisco employee worldwide is given performance incentives, including eligibility for an annual • Income replacement benefits and continuation of Appendix bonus. In addition to cash bonuses, we reward many of healthcare coverage for citizen soldiers in the United our employees with stock incentives. States when called to active duty In FY13, we introduced “What Cisco Offers You” to help Providing employees with the opportunity to balance educate employees about the benefits available to them their personal and work commitments makes for a more and to help them make the most of these opportunities. productive, happier, and more loyal workforce. We The site showcases the benefits, programs, and services also provide culturally relevant time-off programs for that make Cisco a great place to work, and helps employees globally. employees understand how to use them. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D18 < Previous View Contents Recognizing Achievements Through the Cisco Achievement Program, we provide Case Studies From Around the World Introduction cash bonuses to employees who make an exceptional contribution to achieving business objectives for their Governance & Ethics team or company. In FY13, $40.17 million was distributed Celebrating One Another at the Olympics to approximately 35,000 employees in the form of these Before the start of the London 2012 Olympic and Supply Chain awards. Paralympic Games, for which Cisco provided the network infrastructure and helped to “make the Games Our People In FY14, we plan to replace this program with Connected possible,” we invited employees to create a video on the topic of “What do you make possible in your Overview Recognition, a new program that was developed as daily life, for your family, friends, and community, or a response to employees’ desires for more frequent at work?” After a global panel of judges picked five Working Together recognition, to reinforce our cultural values, and favorites, nearly 4500 of our employees cast their votes A Safe and Healthy to generate positive interactions and connections for the winner, who earned an all-expense-paid trip to Work Environment the London games with his family. among employees. Connected Recognition empowers An Inclusive and employees to nominate their peers who exemplify our At the opening of the Games, our employees came Diverse Culture values (see Working Together, page D5). We anticipate together virtually for We Are Cisco celebrations, Training and that the introduction of Connected Recognition in FY14 featuring our version of a torch relay that traveled Fun Fund Development around the world to six Cisco sites and culminated will help us continue to improve our performance in this We believe that having fun with their colleagues helps Opportunities in a celebration at the Olympic Village. Our site area by increasing the frequency and reach of recognition our employees be more fully engaged by creating an representatives were selected based on the > Rewarding environment that fosters innovation, creativity, and and creating a larger number of recognition experiences. inspirational stories of what they make possible through Our People collaboration. In FY13, we launched the Fun Fund to their work at Cisco. informally, and regularly, promote fun and recognition In FY13 we reinstated our Service Anniversary Program for employees. Each quarter, Cisco gives each manager to celebrate employees when they reach key milestones $50 per employee (or the local equivalent) for the Fun Society in their years of service, including their first, fifth, and • The Patent Program, rewarding employees who apply Fund to spend on celebrating and recognizing their tenth anniversaries at the company. Employees can team. Managers can spend the money in any way they for patents on the software and hardware they develop Environment choose anniversary gifts, and we encourage colleagues for the company wish: some host cooking challenges, while others run team-building exercises to help nonprofit organizations. to post messages, photos, and videos on our Celebration GRI Index • Monthly NOVA and SuperNOVA awards for our website. We rolled this program out retroactively, so that Notable, Outstanding, and Valued Administrators Appendix all employees who reached an anniversary after July 2008 were able to claim their “thank you” gift. • The Barbarian Awards for outstanding sales We think that the best source of inspiration for our performance, as well as other function-specific employees is their own colleagues. Every week, we Other programs designed to recognize and reward our programs that recognize employees for contributing to recognize employees’ contributions by featuring at least employees include: realizing their function’s objectives two inspirational Cisco employees on the homepage of • The Chairman’s Choice Awards, celebrating • Status as Fellows and Distinguished Engineers for Cisco Employee Connection. These stories are among outstanding achievements by individuals or teams Cisco’s highest-level technical experts, who are given the most popular on our intranet and are part of a twoacross the company related to culture, innovation, or advancement opportunities paralleling executive-level article series called “What Employees Make Possible” business impact positions and “Builders of Tomorrow” that focuses on engineers. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Overview Our Society Strategy Employee Engagement Education Healthcare Teach for America: Robust networks Economic Empowerment help teachers transform education Cisco has contributed millions of dollars in Critical Human Needs networking products and collaboration technologies and Disaster Relief to Teach For America, helping the organization grow to serve more than 650,000 students in 36 states. Product Accessibility Watch video Supplier Diversity Environment GRI Index Appendix Society Cisco has a long-standing commitment to making a positive contribution to society. We use our expertise, technology, partnerships, and financial resources to help build thriving, prosperous communities that improve people’s lives and support our business over the long term. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E2 < Previous View Contents Society Overview Introduction We invest in scalable and self-sustaining programs that use technology to meet some of society’s biggest challenges. Governance & Ethics Our programs are focused on four issue areas where we believe Cisco can add the most value and make a significant Supply Chain and lasting impact: Our People • Education: using Cisco networking and cloud-computing technologies applying our technology and encouraging employees to share their expertise Society to improve education outcomes, increase student engagement and through volunteering. Our goal is to help nonprofits and NGOs build capacity performance, and provide information and communications technology and improve efficiency so that more of their resources go directly to the people > Overview (ICT) training to people, including those in underserved communities, they support. Our Society Strategy around the globe We also look for ways to increase our contribution to society through the way Employee Engagement • Healthcare: improving access to care for children and families in remote we do business. By supporting diverse suppliers as part of our procurement Education regions through the use of networking technology strategy, we promote economic empowerment in underserved communities. Healthcare • Economic empowerment: promoting financial inclusion, workforce And building accessibility into the design of our products helps to provide Economic Empowerment development, and entrepreneurship in disadvantaged populations globally, people with disabilities the opportunity to enjoy the benefits our networking while supporting diverse businesses and efforts to build strong ICT sectors technologies offer. Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief in developing economies • Critical human needs and disaster response: supporting efforts to improve In all these ways, we aim to create resilient communities that will not only benefit Product Accessibility access to food, clean water, and shelter, and to help communities recover people but also help our business to thrive by creating economic stability; giving Supplier Diversity following natural disasters us access to new markets, customers, and sources of innovation; and building a healthy pipeline of well-educated talent for our global operations, as well as Cisco supports and partners with nonprofits, nongovernmental organizations those of our customers and partners. Environment (NGOs), and governments around the world whose missions align with these four areas. We invest through corporate giving and bolster our contribution by GRI Index Appendix “Cisco’s philosophy for social investments matches our approach to development, to create long-term solutions that are embedded in local communities and there to stay for the long run. It was great to see that Cisco is investing talent, products, and financial resources into these kinds of programs.” Simona Haiduc, Opportunity International Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E3 < Previous View Contents Society Overview Introduction 2013 at a Glance Governance & Ethics Supply Chain 297 MILLION Our People Cisco HealthPresence1 has connected, $ virtually, more than 1300 patients in One million students participated in the Cisco Networking 90 Society rural areas of Jordan to specialists in Academy program. Ninety the capital of Amman since FY11. percent of students responding > Overview to exit surveys said the training 1300 Cisco and the Cisco Foundation helped them find a new or Our Society Strategy provided a total of US$297 million better job or an educational Employee Engagement to community programs in cash opportunity. and in-kind contributions. Education Healthcare Economic Empowerment 20 Critical Human Needs 12345678910 and Disaster Relief Employees volunteered % Cisco and our employees responded to emergencies and natural disasters across Product Accessibility the globe with over $2.49 million in direct 129,000 hours to support aid and communications support from our Supplier Diversity their communities, up Tactical Operations team. 20 percent from FY12. 2.49 MILLION Cisco ranked sixth among U.S. Environment companies for our commitment to supplier diversity by $ DiversityBusiness.com. GRI Index Appendix 1. Cisco networking and collaboration products are not intended for use in emergency situations or for real-time patient monitoring. Cisco technology enables enhanced communications to occur across geographies; availability varies based upon regulatory status country by country. “The Networking Academy is a fascinating model with major implications for the education sector. I would love to know what this means for the future of higher education.” Ann Florini, Singapore Management University and Brookings Institute Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E4 < Previous View Contents Society Overview Introduction Governance & Ethics 2013 Progress toward Objectives 2014 Objectives and Beyond Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Supply Chain Collaborate more closely with the Cisco Networking Academy program to Increase access to specialized pediatric care in the state of Sergipe, End of FY14 encourage military personnel interested in an ICT career to obtain their basic Brazil, by supporting remote consultations between rural family Our People CCNA certificate1 health clinics and university hospitals Society Engage our more than 80 partners in the 100,000 Jobs Mission, a coalition of Use our technology to support a digital picture archiving and End of FY14 companies committed to collectively hiring 200,000 veterans by 2020 communications system (PACS) and collaboration among healthcare > Overview clinicians in Jordan Continue to strengthen the new business model for supporting local Networking Our Society Strategy Academy programs that was introduced in FY12 Expand the number of physician specialties utilizing the pediatric End of FY14 telehealth network at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital and increase Employee Engagement Transition all Networking Academy instructors to the new learning platform, Cisco the number of patients seen Education NetSpace, to increase collaboration and opportunities for students globally Encourage women and girls to pursue education and careers in End of FY14 Healthcare Introduce new learning material to the Networking Academy community via Cisco technology fields through the Networking Academy program and NetSpace participation in events like Girls in ICT Day Economic Empowerment Continue to support and engage in programs that increase the number of Expand the use of Cisco NetSpace by establishing new partnerships End of FY14 Critical Human Needs students studying STEM subjects at primary and secondary school levels through that enable us to deliver content via the platform and Disaster Relief partnerships with nonprofit organizations and NGOs Product Accessibility Reach 150,000 employee volunteer hours End of FY14 Create Cisco Accessibility Executive Sponsors to champion accessibility among Supplier Diversity Cisco Technology Groups, continue to work with the National Technical Institute Connect U.S. military veterans to jobs by providing Cisco WebEx End of FY14 for the Deaf and other partners to incorporate accessibility features into Cisco technology to facilitate virtual interviews at military bases and by products, and roll out training for educators and employers in California to supporting further development and adoption of the Pipeline job skills support the DeafTEC initiative matching platform, h2h.jobs Environment Strengthen the self-sufficiency of our Community Knowledge Center model and complete the transition of ownership to government and local NGO partners GRI Index Achieved Ongoing Appendix 1. Cisco CCNA certification Performance Summary FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Total corporate and Cisco Foundation cash and in-kind contributions $128 million $139 million $295 million 1 $294 million1 $297 million1 Number of hours volunteered by employees 78,000 148,355 166,445 107,150 129,000 Number of active students in Cisco Networking Academy courses 800,000 900,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1. Includes Cisco Networking Academy in-kind contributions, which we included in our corporate giving data for the first time in FY11. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E5 < Previous View Contents Our Society Strategy Figure 1: Our Society Strategy Introduction Governance & Ethics Technology Expertise Partnerships Cash Supply Chain Our People Society Overview > Our Society Strategy Cisco’s CSR vision is to combine technology and human creativity to solve social issues and help communities thrive. > Employee Engagement Education Healthcare Education Healthcare Economic Critical Human Economic Empowerment We are using our technology to deliver ICT training throughout the Cisco We are improving access to quality healthcare in remote communities by Empowerment Needs and Disaster Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief Networking Academy and working with third parties to increase student using telehealth technologies to connect patients with specialists, We are empowering disadvantaged individuals and communities by Response engagement and performance, medical staff, and resources. providing skills training and employment We are helping communities meet basic human Product Accessibility particularly in STEM subjects. opportunities, promoting financial needs and respond to disasters around the Supplier Diversity inclusion, and providing access to world by supporting charitable organizations, knowledge and information. using and donating our communications technologies, and mobilizing our Tactical Operations teams and employee volunteers. Environment GRI Index Appendix Our Society Strategy Employee Engagement Volunteering gives our people the opportunity to support their communities and widen their horizons, helps them Our society strategy focuses on areas where we believe Our people’s extensive technical and business skills develop leadership skills, and promotes team-building. our expertise, technology, financial resources, and bring value to programs within and outside Cisco. We Employees are encouraged to include volunteering in partnerships can make the biggest impact. We seek encourage employees around the world to give their time their annual personal development plans. to improve education and healthcare access globally, and share their expertise to support local community In FY13, employees volunteered 129,000 hours, a 20 equip people with the knowledge and skills to become programs they are passionate about. Employee percent increase from FY12. Community Connection, our economically self-sufficient, and boost society’s ability to volunteering is one of the most effective ways for Cisco technology platform for our matching gift and volunteer meet critical human needs and respond to disasters. to support and build relationships with communities and programs, helps employees find nonprofits to support, local partners, and to strengthen our reputation as a good report volunteer hours, make gifts, and request matching corporate citizen. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E6 < Previous View funds from the Cisco Foundation. Global Cisco Civic Contents Councils, run by employees, champion social investment Case Studies Case Studies in their local communities and work with our Community From Around the World From Around the World Introduction Relations team to identify volunteer opportunities, Governance & Ethics manage product and cash grants at the local level, and France Employees Create a Buzz Bringing Holiday Cheer to Sick Children build and maintain partnerships with local nonprofits Employees from Cisco’s Paris office were concerned The holidays are a difficult time of year for hospitalized Supply Chain and NGOs. Feedback from employees, partners, and about the decline of bee populations and presented this young children and their families. Cisco employees in nonprofit organizations helps us to refine our employee topic at one of their monthly environmental meetings Canada, Germany, Ireland, the United Kingdom, and the Our People volunteering program. in 2009. Technical Marketing Engineer Gilles Clugnac United States have participated in the Connected Santa explained that, without cross-pollination by bees, many program since 2009, bringing holiday cheer to hundreds Society Our annual VolunteerX campaign, introduced in FY12, plants — including food crops — would not survive and of children across the globe. promotes employee volunteering by challenging different thus human food production would be threatened. Through Cisco TelePresence video technology, young Overview corporate functions and regions to compete for $25,000 Inspired by Clugnac’s presentation, employees formed patients and their families can share their Christmas Our Society Strategy in grants for the organization of their choice by getting “Connected Bees.” They took beekeeping training on wishes with Santa at the North Pole via a video link weekends; ordered equipment, three beehives and installed in the hospital. Cisco employees, dressed up > Employee Engagement more of their people involved. In FY13, the campaign 90,000 bees; and installed their hives in May 2010. They like Mrs. Claus and Santa’s elves, speak to the children Education culminated with 25 events hosted with executive have been harvesting over 200 pounds of honey each and families in person and send this information to Healthcare involvement in 10 countries to celebrate achieving the year since then. Santa via WebEx so he “knows” the children when they campaign goal. Major Cisco campuses in San Jose, meet. Cisco employees also donate gifts that are given Economic Empowerment The Connected Bees program allows employees to California; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; and to the children on the day of the visit. pursue their passion and demonstrates to customers Critical Human Needs Lawrenceville, Georgia, host annual Employee Volunteer and partners Cisco’s commitment to employee Using Cisco technology, Connected Santa volunteers and Disaster Relief Fairs that introduce employees to local nonprofits and engagement and environmental sustainability. Additional spread a little hope and cheer to children and families Product Accessibility opportunities. Volunteer and Civic Council of the Year Connected Bees groups have since formed in Great who need it at a difficult time in their lives. Britain and the Netherlands and keep in sync using Supplier Diversity Awards recognize employees and councils for their work collaboration tools (emails, regular web conferences, in each region. Award winners receive $5000 grants for an internal collaborative social network, and an external the organization of their choice. Facebook Cisco Connected Bees community). Environment The Connected Bees team is working on figuring out The Cisco Foundation also provides up to $1000 annually how Cisco technologies could help scientific research GRI Index per employee to match their cash gifts and volunteer on bees using sensors connected in real time with the hours (matched at $10 per hour and donated to the network to a data center where information is shared Appendix charity). Employees can choose to contribute to over using a collaborative platform. A real IoE application! 2900 approved organizations in 40 countries as part of the matching program. In FY13, Cisco employees and matching gifts from the Cisco Foundation contributed over $10 million to charities. In FY13, our annual Global Hunger Relief Campaign raised over $4 million through employee donations and matching gifts, enough to provide 16 million meals. Employees also volunteered 38,800 hours at hunger relief organizations during the campaign. Watch video 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E7 < Previous View Contents Education How It Works Using cloud computing technology, Networking Academy Case Studies Education is a global equalizer. With education, people online e-learning courses provide technical training to From Around the World Introduction and communities around the world can become selfstudents around the world. The courses teach critical Governance & Ethics sufficient and prosper. By investing in education in the thinking skills that inspire innovation and problem solving. Inspiring Entrepreneurship through communities that need it most, we are working toward We expose students to real-world business problems in ICT Training Supply Chain our corporate vision of changing the way people work, an engaging blended learning (online and in classroom) Stephen Ondieki lives in the slum community of Kibera, live, play, and learn. model to help them learn to make business decisions Kenya, where most people live on less than $1 per day. Our People and apply their technical expertise. The business skills Through the local Cisco Academy, Ondieki learned Demand for skilled workers to design, build, maintain, and they develop while pursuing their ICT training give ICT skills that now enable him to earn $8 per day at his Society secure computer networks is increasing as the Internet many students the confidence to start their own ICT computer repair shop. Overview of Everything grows. Our investment in ICT education is businesses. For an example, see the case study to the The mix of technical, critical thinking, and business opening doors to new jobs and entrepreneurial ventures, right on this page. skills that he developed through Networking Academy Our Society Strategy and strengthening local economies. courses gave him the confidence to start his own Employee Engagement We continue to seek ways to enhance the Networking business. This was an opportunity for Ondieki to improve his own life, and to give back to the community > Education We support ICT skills education through the Cisco Academy program for students and for instructors. by sharing his skills. Healthcare Networking Academy program and partner with For example, we provide professional development His repair shop doubles as a hangout for young Economic Empowerment governments, nonprofits, and NGOs with expertise in opportunities for teachers through free online ICT people, whom he mentors and teaches about IT and education and an understanding of local needs and courses. In FY12, we introduced a new business model networking. He hopes that his story and support will Critical Human Needs culture. that enables academies to select instructor training, dayinspire them to follow their passions and build a better and Disaster Relief to-day support, and other resources from global partners future: “They see me overcoming the same challenges Product Accessibility they face, and they’re motivated to try to make some that meet their unique needs, rather than through a Supplier Diversity Cisco Networking Academy changes themselves.” regional Cisco Academy center. In FY13, this has grown Since 1997, we have reached more than 4.75 million into a strong network of more than 400 Academy students through the Networking Academy program, Support Centers and Instructor Training Centers that our largest and longest-running corporate social provide flexible, academy-specific support for more than Environment responsibility initiative. In partnership with schools, 10,000 local academies. GRI Index community colleges, universities, and other organizations, this program prepares students for entry-level jobs in ICT Also in FY13, we completed the rollout of the Cisco Appendix fields, furthers their education, and allows them to earn NetSpace cloud-based teaching and learning globally recognized Cisco certifications. It also creates a environment, transferring more than 23,000 Networking skilled pool of networking professionals for the industry to Academy instructors to this new online environment with draw from. enhanced content and collaboration features. As the new users provided suggestions, we developed a formal 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E8 < Previous View mechanism to improve the NetSpace environment in Contents response to this feedback, while providing support for Figure 2:Student NetAcad Cisco NetworkingCareer Outcomes Academy Student Career Outcomes (Global) (Global) instructors through webinars, online training, and a Introduction Percentages Based upon 8,695 (out those reflect students of 243,804 Exit believe total)who SurveysCisco Networking from students Academy who’ve helped completed them CCNA attain 4 or the stated opportunities higher. “train-the-trainer” model. Using the built-in course Based upon 8695 exit surveys of students who have completed courses through CCNA4 or higher from FY11 to FY13 Governance & Ethics delivery, collaboration, and customization capabilities of NetSpace, we introduced three new or revised curricula Supply Chain this year: IT Essentials, Health Information Networking, and Cisco CCNA Routing and Switching. Our People Impact Society In FY13, over 1 million students participated in the Cisco Networking Academy program through 10,000 54% Overview academies in 165 countries. Over 590,000 members of Attained a 66% Attained any Our Society Strategy the Cisco Networking Academy Facebook community new job job opportunity Employee Engagement use the platform to connect, collaborate, and share ideas. > Education Healthcare We are proud of the impact that Networking Academy Economic Empowerment has on students’ lives. In exit surveys of students completing courses through Cisco CCNA4 or higher Critical Human Needs from FY11 through FY13, 90 percent reported that and Disaster Relief participating in Networking Academy led to job or Product Accessibility educational opportunities including a new job, a better Supplier Diversity job or promotion, increased responsibilities, higher salary, deciding on a program of study, or pursuing more education. Also, 94 percent indicated that the skills they Environment learned were important for their jobs, 94 percent said 90% 94% their new skills were important to their overall career, GRI Index and 93 percent agreed that the Networking Academy program has had a positive impact on their lives. Attained a job and/or Attained a job, education, Appendix education opportunity and/or other opportunity Job Opportunities Education Opportunities Other Opportunities • Obtained a new job • Pursued more education • Received a scholarship • Obtained a better job or higher status* • Decided on a program of study • Received financial reward • Obtained increased job responsibilities* • Pursued higher degree than intended • Completed an internship or practicum • Obtained a higher salary • Received recognition or awards • Obtained IT certifications • Made contacts in IT Source: ERS, data as of July 31, 2013 • Increased conference participation Survey data are from FY11 through FY13 • Other * Includes students already employed 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E9 < Previous View Contents Key Challenge: Measuring the Lasting Case Studies From Around the World Introduction Impact of the Cisco Networking Academy Program Governance & Ethics Measuring social impact and program outcomes is a Breaking the Cycle of Poverty in South Africa challenge for all companies and nonprofits because in Two decades after the end of apartheid in South Africa, its scars still linger for young people growing up in rural Supply Chain addition to the many outcomes we measure directly, townships. Faced with pervasive unemployment and a lack of economic or educational opportunities, few children many social impacts can be intangible or very long-term, grow up expecting a better life for themselves and their families. Less than 5 percent of the country’s 9000 high Our People and often it is difficult to attribute the benefit to one schools offer ICT training and most classrooms lack modern technology. program in particular. Ntombozuko (Soso) Luningo grew up in a rural village in South Africa’s Eastern Cape province. Her local school didn’t Society We have developed a well-functioning learning offer ICT training, but after school she walked to a nearby school built by the Nelson Mandela Foundation, which did. environment that captures data about current Cisco She then earned a scholarship to CIDA City Campus in Johannesburg, which provides higher education to students Overview Networking Academy students. But gathering data from historically disadvantaged backgrounds for little or no cost. Our Society Strategy about former students has been much more difficult because they needed to opt in to our exit surveys during Cisco has partnered with CIDA for over a decade, providing the Cisco Networking Academy curriculum, instructor Employee Engagement enrollment, and only about half did so. Measuring training, and networking lab equipment to launch an ICT Academy in 2003. Luningo became a student there and in 2007, > Education success is also difficult because students come to she achieved her Cisco CCNA certification in addition to her bachelor’s degree, and began a successful ICT career. the program at different stages of life — high school, Luningo became the youngest, and only female, IT technician at the Queens Casino in Queenstown, and her strong Healthcare college, or work — and have very different goals that ICT skills meant she was quickly promoted, earning enough to build a home for herself in Johannesburg and another Economic Empowerment often change over time. for her parents in the village where she grew up. After two years at the casino, she returned to CIDA City Campus as a Critical Human Needs In Cisco NetSpace, students are now included in exit Networking Academy instructor, helping students to develop computer skills that open doors to economic opportunity. and Disaster Relief surveys unless they choose to opt out, and participation “I love training at CIDA,” she says, “because there are different students every year. Having those faces look up to you has increased to 88 percent. Higher response rates will to learn something new is refreshing.” Product Accessibility allow us to evaluate the data in more meaningful ways Supplier Diversity than our previous research did, and better capture the long-term impact of the Networking Academy program. Environment GRI Index Appendix 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E10 < Previous View Contents Case Studies Case Studies Case Studies From Around the World From Around the World From Around the World Introduction Governance & Ethics Supporting a Smart and Creating Career Opportunities Cisco Sponsors ICT Skills Competition Connected Myanmar for Women in Saudi Arabia at WorldSkills 2013 in Leipzig, Germany Supply Chain In FY13, Cisco took first steps toward building a In Saudi Arabia, unemployment is high among women. Cisco sponsors WorldSkills, a biennial summit of presence in Myanmar. This included the launch of Cisco An estimated 30 percent of female Saudi job seekers vocational education and training that brings together Our People Networking Academy facilities at the University of cannot find employment even though 78 percent of more than 1000 participants under the age of 22 from Computer Studies, Yangon (UCSY) and the University of unemployed women have university degrees. Globally 54 national teams to compete for gold medals in 60 Society Computer Studies, Mandalay (UCSM), working with the recognized certifications like Cisco CCNA can help to skill areas from web design to cooking to aircraft U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). improve employability in sought-after ICT roles. maintenance. Overview The academies will help Cisco achieve its vision of a We have had a Cisco Academy in place at Effat At WorldSkills 2013 in Leipzig, Germany, 90 percent of Our Society Strategy “Smart and Connected Myanmar” by equipping local University, a private women’s college in Saudi Arabia, competitors in the IT Network Systems Administration Employee Engagement citizens with the necessary skills to design, build, since 2004. Most students have found jobs or gone on category were Networking Academy students. All the and maintain network infrastructure. Equipment and to pursue further education. judges in the category were Networking Academy > Education resources will be provided to train up to 15 educators instructors and two of the three medal winners Healthcare The programs have challenged traditional views about at each university to teach the Networking Academy were Networking Academy students. Ten of the 12 women’s abilities, and over time the Saudi job market Economic Empowerment curriculum. medal winners in this category at the last four global has begun to change, with more companies considering competitions were Networking Academy students. Critical Human Needs Program partner and former Rector of UCSY, Ni women for jobs traditionally held by men. Government and Disaster Relief Lar Thein, said, “We are delighted to be the first programs incentivize companies to hire women, and In FY13, we donated €50,000 in cash and €250,000 educational institution in Myanmar to host the many financial institutions now have offices where men worth of in-kind lab equipment to WorldSkills, as well Product Accessibility prestigious Cisco Networking Academy program. and women work together. as other support such as management resources, Supplier Diversity IT and communications skills are going to be very marketing, and technical services. Akila Srirete, director of the academy and chair of the important for our country as we embark on our march Computer Science Department at Effat, says, “It’s not to modernization. We have seen how technology has only about education; it’s about behavior. When my transformed economies around the world and we want students finish, they are more comfortable talking to Environment to be a catalyst for the transformation of Myanmar.” men, thinking about issues, and being outside.” GRI Index Appendix 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E11 < Previous View Contents Figure 3: Cisco Networking Academy Program Around the World Click on the numbers for more information, then click to close Introduction 150 80% 95% 200 1 Governance & Ethics Supply Chain students in 19 U.S. of students at schools in the of participants in a Russian students with new program in Our People states took the Cisco Netherlands where Networking competitive program learning disabilities Singapore will help Health Information Academy is integrated into the for Italian secondary have participated in build a workforce that Society Networking course. curriculum find employment school graduates find Cisco’s Academy of is equipped to meet within six months of graduation. work within six months. Borderless Possibilities. today’s modern Overview security needs. Our Society Strategy Employee Engagement > Education Healthcare Economic Empowerment Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief Product Accessibility Supplier Diversity Environment GRI Index Appendix 250 at-risk youth in Mexican 60 volunteer teachers in 35% 28 of Networking visually impaired 130 Australian Networking border cities have Turkey have delivered Academy students in students in India Academy students got completed the Cisco training to more than the Middle East are completed Cisco IT hands-on experience Networking Academy IT 2400 people. women. Essentials and through internships at our Essentials course. employability training. Technical Assistance Center. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E12 < Previous View Contents Education Partnerships As a technology company, Cisco views science, Case Studies Case Studies From the United States From the United States Introduction technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education as a business imperative. According to the National Math Governance & Ethics + Science Initiative, demands for skilled IT workers will Three Cisco Volunteers Recognized Improving Collaboration at Teach For All only grow. In the United States alone, jobs in computer by Citizen Schools Teach For All is a growing network of 30 partner Supply Chain systems design and related services are expected to organizations with a shared vision of expanding In August 2013, Citizen Schools, one of Cisco’s grow by 45 percent between 2008 and 2018, but among longtime nonprofit education partners, recognized three educational opportunity in their countries. Each partner Our People develops leaders to teach in their nation’s most high2011 U.S. high school graduates, only 45 percent were Cisco volunteers as “Cisco Citizen Teachers of the Year” for their dedication in FY13. need classrooms and to work throughout their lives to ready for college-level math and only 30 percent were Society increase opportunity for children. Since 2010, Cisco ready for college-level science. Citizen Schools offers 10-week after-school has provided Teach For All with technology support, Overview apprenticeships, and more than 125 Cisco employees including Cisco WebEx, to more effectively transfer Early STEM education is essential for developing a have volunteered as “citizen teachers.” Through their knowledge and innovations across the network by Our Society Strategy service, more than 700 young people have gained strengthening the connection between Teach For All workforce with the skills in math and critical thinking Employee Engagement mentors and developed stronger interests in science, staff and its network partners around the world. Teach needed to support the Internet of Everything. But technology, engineering, and math (STEM) careers. > Education For All now employs WebEx as a key tool in increasing without adequate academic support and resources, and accelerating the growth of its partners. In one Citizen Schools recognized Kimone Gooden, Business Healthcare many students interested in STEM fields do not pursue year alone, Teach For All used WebEx to host nearly Development Manager; Denise Lombard, Director Economic Empowerment them through high school and beyond. Cisco provides of Global Procurement Services; and Doug Reagan, 900 meetings and connect almost 4000 people in 30 expertise, products, and cash grants to help our partners Strategic Account Manager, for their service. Gooden countries. This increased collaboration has significantly Critical Human Needs enhanced the way that Teach For All organizations work and Disaster Relief use technology-based solutions to deliver STEM and Lombard taught “Women in Technology” with other members of Cisco’s Connected Women San Jose together on a day-to-day basis. education more effectively and better engage students. Product Accessibility employee resource organization, and Reagan taught Supplier Diversity video documentaries. We invest in education programs targeting students as young as 11 to encourage them to pursue further “Sharing my knowledge and my time to guide and influence these young students to go after what they education and careers in STEM fields. In the United are passionate about and to share all the incredible Environment States, we partnered with Futures Inc. to develop and opportunities technology has to offer is truly a gift to disseminate STEM Pipeline, a web-based STEM careerme,” said Lombard. GRI Index planning tool. Now, students in Pennsylvania and North Carolina use it to find out about STEM careers that Appendix fit their interests and skills, relevant local training and resources, and the types of jobs available. A study of 900 high school students by Duke University’s Center for Child and Family Policy found that using the STEM Pipeline increased student interest in STEM careers from 24 percent to 49 percent among low academic performers. interactive gaming software to help students learn math and from 3500 teachers to 16,000. The results are We provided $250,000 in FY13 to continue the skills despite language barriers and learning disabilities, impressive. In a pilot of ST Math at 14 schools in Arizona, development of a Spatial Temporal (ST) Math program and Cisco helped MIND put the software online so it the number of students meeting or exceeding standards by the MIND Research Institute, a nonprofit that helps could be delivered to more students in more schools. on state standardized tests increased by 6.9 percent, students master key math concepts and build problemSince moving to the web-based version, MIND has compared with 3.6 percent in schools without the solving skills. The ST Math program uses visual, expanded its reach from 55,000 students to 500,000, program. The ST Math pilot also showed benefits in 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E13 < Previous View helping to narrow the achievement gap for students in interact with patients and their local healthcare providers Contents traditionally underperforming demographics (78 percent virtually. Using handheld cameras and stethoscopes, Case Studies of students in the pilot are Hispanic or Latino, 81 percent local healthcare providers can provide patient information From Around the World Introduction from low-income families, and 29 percent are English to doctors and specialists in remote locations and Governance & Ethics Language Learners). regardless of geography. High-quality video and audio Using Technology to Create a Lasting systems create a realistic face-to-face experience Impact in Sichuan, China Supply Chain In April 2013, Cisco’s Senior Vice President for Public between the patient and physician or nurse. Sector, Patrick Finn, joined President Obama and leaders Our Connecting Sichuan program aimed to use ICT to help improve healthcare for rural people affected Our People from nine other major technology companies and The efficiencies and increased access to care made by the 2008 Sichuan earthquake in partnership with education nonprofits at the White House Science Fair possible by networking technologies also help support the Chinese government. The three-year initiative, Society to launch US2020, an initiative for connecting students the movement toward universal health coverage around completed in FY12, has rebuilt and revitalized of all ages to mentors working in STEM fields. Cisco’s the world. Cisco believes that health is a fundamental healthcare delivery and put in place cloud-based Overview networking technology so healthcare professionals can goal for US2020 is to increase the number of employees human right and that equity of access to care is Our Society Strategy collaborate and share patient information. volunteering at least 20 hours per year as STEM mentors paramount. Integrated health services made possible Employee Engagement by 20 percent by 2020. The initiative hopes to create through virtual provider networks help support the The technology deployed through Connecting millions of opportunities for students from kindergarten development of universal health coverage. Our work in Sichuan played an important role in responding to the Education Ya’an earthquake in April 2013. Mobile clinics used > Healthcare through college to discover science and technology China and Brazil (see page E14) aims to advance those networking technology to enable patient consultations through hands-on projects and academic coaching. countries’ goals in this area. with major hospitals in Chengdu and Beijing. At the Economic Empowerment earthquake’s epicenter in the town of Longmen, a Critical Human Needs Since FY11, in partnership with the Jordanian mobile clinic treated 2201 patients, performing and Healthcare and Disaster Relief offering services which included 21 major surgeries, government, Cisco HealthPresence1 has connected Product Accessibility 198 ultrasound tests, and 173 digital radiology exams. more than 1300 patients and their local healthcare Supplier Diversity Access to quality healthcare is essential for everyone. ICT providers in rural areas of Jordan with specialists at the Wenchuan Hospital uses a mobile clinic to offer free Prince Hamzah Hospital in Amman. In FY13, mobile units screening to local residents. Between March and is transforming global healthcare by improving efficiency October 2012, the clinic screened more than 35,000 and reducing costs for providers and increasing access were set up using Cisco TelePresence and networking people, helping local doctors to diagnose medical to care in remote areas. equipment to reach patients in remote areas. More than Environment problems including hypertension, diabetes, and bladder 230 patients have been screened by this method to date. and kidney stones. The Sichuan Department of Health GRI Index In developing and developed countries alike, remote has replicated the model through a network of Health communities often can’t access quality care. Using Cisco We also partnered with the Royal Medical Services Emergency Response Centers in 18 cities. Appendix networking technology, we hope to help substantially agency, which provides healthcare for more than a improve the state of healthcare by enabling medical staff third of the country’s citizens, to enable physicians and to see patients remotely. clinicians based in Amman and Tafilah to communicate Using Technology to Extend Collaborative technology enables Access to Healthcare the Jordan Healthcare Initiative to extend the reach of its medical Collaborative technologies like Cisco TelePresence, providers, increasing patient access WebEx, and Cisco HealthPresence1 enable “care-at-ato quality healthcare and improving communication and follow-up care. distance,” extending the geographic reach of doctors Watch video and other healthcare providers and allowing them to 1. Cisco networking and collaboration products are not intended for use in emergency situations or for real-time patient monitoring. Cisco technology enables enhanced communications to occur across geographies; availability varies based upon regulatory status country by country. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E14 < Previous View more effectively and visualize radiology images and are partnering with the state’s only University Hospital Contents reports in co-locations. From March to July 2013, the in Aracaju to use telehealth systems to support remote Case Studies program facilitated 1700 remote image transfers with consultations. Advanced telepresence and collaboration From the United States Introduction clinician-to-clinician virtual collaboration for 156 clinical systems will connect Family Health Clinics in Tobias Governance & Ethics cases. Barreto and Lagarto with pediatric specialists at the Putting Cisco HealthPresence1 into Federal Medical University campus in Lagarto and the Practice in California Supply Chain In FY14, we plan to launch a new program with MERGE University Hospital in Aracaju, while a team enabled with Healthcare, Optimiza, and the Jordan Ministry of Health mobile technology will provide specialist access to even Dr. William Kennedy, a pediatric urologist at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford University in Our People to develop a services exchange that will enable radiology more remote areas. Palo Alto, California, piloted the Cisco HealthPresence1 images to be viewed through a secure cloud-based program. Society exchange platform. The goal is to help enable archiving Even the United States is experiencing a severe shortage His patients used to wait a month or more for an and sharing of radiology pictures and reports, and to of pediatric care. More than 15 million children live in Overview appointment. More than a third of them used to miss a help promote consultations and collaboration among regions with fewer than 22 pediatricians and family full day of school for visits and over half of their parents Our Society Strategy physicians, radiologists, and specialists in underserved doctors for every 100,000 children. In parts of Northern missed entire days of work or more to travel to Palo Alto Employee Engagement areas. California, it can take up to nine months for children to for appointments. Dr. Kennedy himself lost precious see a pediatric specialist, and they often must travel time driving to Monterey and back, a 2.5-hour commute Education each way. long distances to do so. At the Lucile Packard Children’s > Healthcare Helping to Improve Children’s Healthcare By using telehealth technology, Dr. Kennedy is able Hospital in Palo Alto, California, Cisco HealthPresence1 Economic Empowerment Pediatric healthcare is a focus of our health programs. to see more patients, reduce wait times, and improve is improving access to care by connecting physicians to Critical Human Needs Two out of three deaths among children younger than patient satisfaction. “HealthPresence allows for faster patients at the Pediatric Group of Monterey. For more and more convenient treatment for my patients. It’s and Disaster Relief six could be prevented with effective primary care, but information, see case study on this page. amazing how much the children like it!” he said. “They Supplier Diversity there is a global shortage of pediatricians, especially in warm up to me more quickly when I pop up on-screen rural areas. In FY13, we expanded the program to the California than when I appear in person. Children are less Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco, where over intimidated by a doctor on TV. Parents are amazed In FY13, we partnered with the United Foundation for at the quality of the audio and high-definition video. Environment 180 remote consultations have already been conducted. Children’s Health (UFCH) to launch Connected Healthy It’s so realistic that within minutes, they forget they’re Participating parents reported 100 percent satisfaction interacting with me via telepresence and just become Children–China. We donated over $163,000 in cash and GRI Index with the quality of their child’s exam, and 68 percent much more relaxed.” provided Cisco WebEx and other technology solutions reported that they did not have to wait as long for an to help UFCH improve healthcare delivery for children in The initial challenge of obtaining sufficient broadband Appendix appointment. Insurance reimbursement for these virtual connectivity at the hospital to enable high-definition underserved regions of China. Within the first few weeks consultations in Monterey and San Francisco is nearly video was overcome by securing grants from the of a pilot at the Chengdu Children’s Welfare Institute, 15 California Telehealth Network, a coalition of healthcare, 100 percent — an important factor for sustainability and children had received diagnoses for complex congenital technology, and government agencies dedicated to success of the telehealth model. heart diseases, liver tumors, skin diseases, and lymphatic improving healthcare infrastructure and benefiting malformations. underserved patient populations. Supporting Health Training Watch this video to learn more. In Brazil, where 70 percent of the population relies on and Collaboration public healthcare, we began implementing Connected While network technology can bring greater efficiency Healthy Children–Brazil in FY13 to help reduce the and cost savings to healthcare providers, Cisco disparity of access to specialized care between urban recognizes that health workers need training to get the and rural areas. In the northeastern state of Sergipe, we most out of the technology. 1. Cisco networking and collaboration products are not intended for use in emergency situations or for real-time patient monitoring. Cisco technology enables enhanced communications to occur across geographies; availability varies based upon regulatory status country by country. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E15 < Previous View From October 2010 to January 2013, Cisco HealthPath Digital Divide Data (DDD) is an innovative nonprofit Contents provided online training about electronic health records that provides low-income young people, women, and Case Studies (EHR) to doctors and nurses at small and mid-sized disabled persons with the skills needed for sustainable From Around the World Introduction clinics throughout the United States. HealthPath training career development. It provides career and life-skills Governance & Ethics helped doctors and nurses learn to structure and use coaching in addition to ICT training. DDD employs its Expanding Opportunities for EHR systems in accordance with U.S. law. In total, 975 participants in paid jobs performing online ICT for public Deaf Youth in Kenya Supply Chain physicians, nurses, and administrators from almost every and private sector clients, as well as providing workers U.S. state registered for the HealthPath website. with health insurance and scholarships to pursue The typical Digital Divide Data (DDD) worker in Kenya is from an urban slum, is between ages 18 and 24, Our People university education. Cisco’s technology and financial and had an income of less than $2 per day before investments in DDD have helped it expand operations starting work at DDD. Furthermore, he or she has only Society Economic Empowerment and replicate the program at scale beyond its origins in Cambodia and Laos to additional countries in Africa a high school diploma and less than six months of work experience. Half of DDD workers are women, and Overview about 10 percent are disabled. Jobs with DDD provide Cisco invests in economic empowerment for and Latin America. Since 2001, DDD has trained and Our Society Strategy workers with more stable incomes and the training is underserved communities around the world because employed about 2000 people, and 550 have graduated linked to an eight-fold increase in lifetime earnings. Employee Engagement it’s good for society as well as business. from the full four-year program. On a recent trip to Kenya, our portfolio manager met Education Kibwana, a young man first introduced to DDD through Healthcare We invest in technology-based solutions that help people Cisco also supports Samasource, an organization that a Cisco partnership with the DeafAid Academy. For deaf access the knowledge they need to make informed trains women, youth, and refugees living in poverty in people in Kenya, getting an education, skills training, > Economic Empowerment decisions for themselves and their families; in skills Asia, Africa, and Latin America to do paid work providing and employment is particularly difficult, so the DeafAid Critical Human Needs outsourcing services to clients. All Samasource workers Academy provides IT skills training, including Cisco’s development for individuals and capacity building for and Disaster Relief IT Essentials course, to deaf people. Kibwana is one entrepreneurs; and in products and services to help previously earned less than a living wage.1 Cisco Supplier Diversity of 13 deaf students at DDD receiving IT skills training, people become financially independent. These in turn product and cash grants are helping Samasource to earning a salary for the work he does, and pursuing an help us build long-term relationships with governments, train workers more efficiently, increase workers’ skills, education. Kibwana is working toward his Cisco CCNA nonprofits, and communities while creating new sources improve quality assurance for new contracts, and certification, which he hopes will help him fulfill his Environment of innovation, talent, and suppliers, as well as new measure social impact. To date, Samasource has served educational and career goals and create a stable future 3500 workers and brought broader benefits to more for his family. markets for our business. GRI Index than 10,000 dependents while maintaining a 97 percent Watch this video to learn more. client retention rate. Samasource aims to reach 100,000 Appendix Workforce Development workers and dependents by 2016. Developing basic skills and gaining experience is essential for low-income and underserved populations to Supporting Veterans’ Transition to the Workforce launch successful careers and maintain a stable income. In FY13, we continued to support the 100,000 Jobs Cisco supports organizations that recruit students and Mission, a coalition of more than 100 businesses, and workers from the most disadvantaged areas of the world growing, dedicated to hiring 100,000 veterans by 2015 to provide skills training and help them find meaningful (this was recently increased to 200,000 jobs by 2020). employment. Many of the people served by these organizations report being able to earn two to three Military veterans exhibit strong leadership and teamwork times the average local salary. They use that money to skills, but their military experiences are often difficult pay school fees for themselves, siblings, and children, to to match with civilian job descriptions after they return cover basic household needs, and to save for the future. 1. A living wage is defined as the minimum wage that can meet basic needs to maintain a safe, decent standard of living within the community. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E16 < Previous View from service. Beginning in FY12, we provided funding Contents to Futures Inc., a software-as-a-service provider, to For people transitioning out of the Case Studies military, Cisco Networking Academy create a cloud-based job search platform called the can open doors to a new civilian From Around the World Introduction Pipeline, which uses sophisticated matching technology career. Clint Abrams, a former Army to translate military skills into civilian jobs. Active duty sergeant, says he had no idea he Governance & Ethics would end up in an IT career. But Bringing the Internet to Rural Communities military personnel, reservists, and veterans can access he used the GI Bill to pay for his in Mexico Supply Chain the Pipeline at h2h.jobs. Networking Academy courses and parlayed his knowledge into a new We partnered with One Global Economy (OGE), job as a customer support engineer in a nonprofit that works to bring the Internet to Our People In April 2013, Cisco Chairman and CEO John Chambers Cisco’s Technical Assistance Center. impoverished communities, to support the development joined First Lady Michelle Obama at the White House to Watch video of an information portal called Infofacil in Mexico. Society announce the IT Training and Certification pilot program, Infofacil provides locally relevant information and which is using the designated U.S. IT Pipeline to help facilitates communications about health, education, and Overview wellbeing to more than 1 million users. transitioning U.S. military personnel fast-track through opportunities once their military service is over. For more Our Society Strategy IT training and certifications from Cisco and other IT information about our support for veterans, see Our Cisco also has partnered with OGE and Choice Employee Engagement companies and then match them to high-demand civilian Humanitarian in rural Guanajuato to build three People, page D14. IT jobs. By the end of FY13, we had exceeded our goal of Community Knowledge Centers (CKCs) that offer Education locally relevant content. The CKCs in El Garbanzo, San Healthcare registering 1000 military service members for the pilot, Agustin, and Victoria support broadband connectivity and many were already completing their coursework and Community Knowledge Centers for seven computers in each center, and all have small > Economic Empowerment certifications, and finding work. In FY13, Cisco completed its Clinton Global Initiative video cameras and a printer available for users. Two Critical Human Needs commitment to establish a network of Community young people were selected and trained by OGE to and Disaster Relief teach others in technology and business skills, including We are also encouraging our suppliers and business Knowledge Centers (CKCs) across sub-Saharan Africa Supplier Diversity public speaking, bookkeeping, and raising capital. The partners to post opportunities through the U.S. IT that offer ICT, entrepreneurship, and language courses CKCs benefit more than 1300 people. Pipeline, as research has shown that 80 percent of through local organizations such as schools, health veterans are more interested in working for small and clinics, and community centers. Overall, the program has fostered leadership and ICT skills among youth, supported financially sustainable Environment medium-sized businesses than large corporations. CKCs, connected people with locally relevant and best In partnership with governments, Appleseeds Academy, practice content, and linked communities to outside GRI Index In August 2012, the U.S. Army used Cisco WebEx Inveneo, One Global Economy, and other nonprofits and resources and opportunities. and Pipeline technology to facilitate three job search NGOs, Cisco started 18 CKCs, providing everything Appendix events. Job seekers were pre-matched to participating from manager training, computing infrastructure, ICT and employers, and 52 percent of candidates received entrepreneurship curricula, and online portals to house job offers. Employer and soldier feedback was community-relevant information in local languages. overwhelmingly positive: 91 percent of employers said Another critical success factor is CKC manager training they met candidates better matched to the skills they on how to offer revenue-generating services to create needed, and 96 percent of soldiers found it a more a sustainable business model, as well as training on effective model for job fairs. To support military personnel how to market those services to the community. Based who are interested in ICT careers, there are 18 Cisco on this experience, Cisco developed a CKC Cookbook Academies on major U.S. military bases. In FY13, we that has led to the development of 89 additional CKCs. created new materials to recruit military personnel into The institutional knowledge and best practices being our training programs. Over 41,000 military personnel transferred to local communities and organizations in have completed ICT training through our Networking Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, South Africa, and Uganda will Academy program and are better equipped for career help with the establishment of new CKCs. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E17 < Previous View To date, the 107 existing CKCs in sub-Saharan Initiative, which has 20 locations throughout Rio and has Contents Africa have served about 190,000 people. Mission trained more than 150 students. Both initiatives connect Case Studies Measurement, a consultancy focusing on creating value marginalized communities with the broader economy and From Around the World Introduction through social change, reported in September 2012 reach underserved populations. Governance & Ethics that CKC users were twice as likely to seek economic Grameen Foundation’s TaroWorks Solution advancement opportunities as non-users and that 20 Supporting Financial Inclusion Facilitates Sustainable Beekeeping in Africa Supply Chain percent of CKC users were successful in finding jobs, compared with only 12 percent of non-users. and Entrepreneurship Honey Care Africa, a social enterprise that promotes Traditional financial products and services are sustainable beekeeping and economic development, Our People relies on the Grameen Foundation’s TaroWorks platform In addition to positive employment outcomes, the inaccessible to more than 2 billion people who live on for data collection and management decision-making. Society program has offered additional benefits for communities less than $2 a day. This makes it difficult for people to Honey Care provides microfinance, training, and other as well as for Cisco. Nyangwete, a remote village near break the cycle of poverty, understand how to manage Overview services to beekeepers in Africa. When field workers Lake Victoria in Kenya, had one of the highest HIV their money, save for the future, provide for their families, visit honey farms monthly to monitor the health of hives, Our Society Strategy infection rates in the country. Since 2010, the HIV/ or start business ventures. We know that technology is they often require access to data from previous visits. Employee Engagement AIDS death rate in the village of 20,000 has dropped the key to providing this access on a widespread and Honey Care also tracks the progress of individual hives by 80 percent. Village Chief Alloyse Ongere attributes equitable basis. in the supply chain to plan for and meet consumer Education demand. Healthcare this decline to access to the Internet through the local CKC, among other things. For the first time, community Good World Solutions’ Labor Link initiative, a mobile TaroWorks gives Honey Care Africa real-time access to > Economic Empowerment technology platform that increases transparency in data on all of its hives and their expected honey supply. members have access to prevention education and Critical Human Needs global supply chains by connecting workers — who now Using this data, Honey Care can manage field staff information about proper medication and healthcare. more effectively, plan production more reliably, and and Disaster Relief have mobile phones — directly to the companies that resolve problems shortly after they arise. Supplier Diversity For Cisco, the CKCs have provided insight into local buy their products. Companies can use Labor Link to issues. This gives us access to new markets, improves provide workers with access to relevant and actionable customer relationships, and facilitates the expansion of information on health, financial literacy, and education. Environment Internet service providers into rural areas. This builds Companies can track working conditions in real time, Cisco’s business base and creates additional businessmeasure livelihoods and social impact, and design GRI Index to-business opportunities in the long-term. programs to support communities and improve working conditions. Through the platform, workers can report Appendix In Brazil, since the launch of the first Praça/Nave do anonymously on working support and job satisfaction. Conhecimento CKC in the Nova Brasilia community of Cisco investments began with funding to design Labor Rio de Janeiro in December 2011, 14 more centers have Link, and supported the development, piloting, and full now been established in underserved neighborhoods implementation of the platform. Since 2010, Labor Link and slums across the city as part of a mayoral initiative. has scaled from 100 workers to nearly 20,000 and been Cisco collaborates with the office of the Secretary of replicated in nine countries (Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Science and Technology, which runs the centers, to offer Colombia, India, Mexico, Peru, Sri Lanka, and Uganda) Networking Academy courses. We anticipate providing and sectors (apparel, agriculture, and ICT/electronics). In ICT skills to more than 550 young people by January FY13, Cisco implemented a Labor Link pilot with one of 2014. In partnership with the Secretary of Science and our own supply chain manufacturers (see Supply Chain, Technology, Cisco is also supporting the Casa Rio Digital page C18). 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E18 < Previous View Cisco supports entrepreneurs around the world through Cisco’s initial investment in FY12 helped Living Goods Contents partnerships with nonprofits that work with micro, small, develop a mobile technology platform to manage its Case Studies and medium-size enterprises to help people launch new network of agents, help agents communicate and share From Around the World Introduction businesses and foster self-sufficiency and economic health advice with the families they serve, and increase Governance & Ethics growth. demand for the products they sell. This has dramatically Creating Livelihoods and Improving lowered the cost to market products and monitor impact. Community Health through Living Goods Supply Chain Cisco supports the Grameen Foundation’s TaroWorks To date, Living Goods is working with nearly 1000 agents initiative, a cloud-based platform providing services in Uganda and Kenya, has treated more than 75,000 Our portfolio manager visited Living Goods staff, agents, and the families they serve in Uganda. Our People compatible with mobile devices. The initiative enables children, and has supported more than 15,000 pregnant Uniformly, the agents report that people in their TaroWorks clients to collect real-time data, manage mothers (see case study at right). communities appreciate their support and feel Society field operations and customers, and measure impacts, comfortable discussing personal and family health no matter how remote their customers, field agents, In Israel, where Arab citizens are vastly underrepresented problems with them because of the relationships they Overview have developed. Living within the communities they and beneficiaries may be. For example, VisionSpring — in ICT careers, Cisco is leading Ma’antech, a coalition of Our Society Strategy serve enables agents to act quickly. For example, on which makes affordable eyeglasses available to poor, 38 ICT companies that helps place qualified Israeli-Arab receiving a call from a woman whose son was ill, an Employee Engagement hard-to-reach communities around the world — is using engineers in the Israeli ICT sector. For the third year in a agent went to the sick child’s home, diagnosed his Education TaroWorks to collect real-time demographic, satisfaction, row, we exceeded our goal, placing over 700 Israeli-Arab illness as malaria, and administered the first round of Healthcare and poverty level information on their customers, which engineers in jobs and doubling the number of Israelimedication within minutes. Pregnant and new mothers enables them to more effectively target and reach Arabs working in the industry. In FY13, we announced a shared how they receive preand post-natal health Economic Empowerment advice on their mobile phones, and act on that advice their customers. Honey Care Africa is using TaroWorks further $1 million investment over the next three years. > Critical Human Needs to improve their own and their babies’ health. Another to monitor its operations and network of farmers and On a visit to Israel in March 2013, U.S. President Barack mother reported how the automated text messages she and Disaster Relief beehives (see case study, page E17), which will boost Obama was introduced to the program firsthand. In a receives remind her to give her daughter the proper Supplier Diversity their ability to successfully grow and scale. Cisco’s early press conference that afternoon, he remarked, “I was dose of malaria treatment. Still other women shared investment and involvement is helping to promote the with President Peres this morning before I came here, how clean cook stoves are saving them money on cooking fuel. long-term financial sustainability of TaroWorks. In less looking at a high-tech exhibit that was taking place in Environment than one year of full-scale implementation, TaroWorks Jerusalem. And there was actually a program that a U.S. The agents, too, are benefiting in multiple ways. Not has 25 customers in nine countries and a pipeline of 70 company, Cisco, had set up, where it was hiring young only are they earning incomes to support themselves and their families, but the business and health skills GRI Index potential customers. Arab engineers and Palestinian engineers because they training they receive will also equip them to be were so well qualified, so talented, and there was a great economically self-sufficient throughout their working Appendix In FY13, Cisco continued its support of Living Goods, a hunger for those kinds of skills.” lives. They spoke of the pride they feel in being able to nonprofit organization that operates a network of mainly support their neighbors and communities. female micro-entrepreneurs, called agents, who earn a livelihood from selling affordable health products such as mosquito nets, clean cook stoves, and basic medications. Agents also educate families on critical health issues such as maternal and child health, nutrition, and hygiene. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E19 Cisco Social Investment Criteria and Process < Previous View Contents Critical Human Needs Figure 4: Cisco Social Investment Criteria and Process Introduction and Disaster Relief Governance & Ethics Cisco partners with and supports nonprofit organizations • Innovative solution • Path to financial sustainability • Targets >65% economically underserved around the world that help meet critical human needs • Replicable, scalable • Technology-based • Measurable social outcomes Supply Chain including food, potable water, shelter, and disaster response. Our People We use our networking skills, expertise, and technology Identify and validate Expand and scale Society to help these organizations operate more efficiently and outcomes from initial solution beyond initial Overview free up resources to help more people. We also respond deployment that Sc population, confirm d Re a l e a n u re to natural disasters by providing short-term cash and demonstrate success and impact in multiple diverse Our Society Strategy lead to long-term impact pl environments product grants to relief organizations. Te s i Employee Engagement 2 Me st d an te 3 a ca Education Focus on Water Healthcare Water resource issues are a particular priority for Cisco Fund new opportunity Economic Empowerment because of the immense impacts that water scarcity > Critical Human Needs and poor water quality have on communities around the and Disaster Relief world. A child dies from a water-related illness every 21 t ea e e Supplier Diversity seconds, children miss more than 443 million school days 1 Cr ev e ai a n 4 each year due to water-related illness, and women and Invest in innovative early D lo a n d at n d Proven in multiple stage idea development that p p e r st environments. Scalable, girls spend more than 152 million hours a year collecting has potential to scale, O Su replicable, and sustainable. Environment and purifying water for domestic use. replicate, and become Poised for further global financially sustainable expansion GRI Index We support organizations that protect water quality and provide increased access to potable water in waterAppendix scarce regions, including the Blue Planet Network1 and Water for People. We supported the Blue Planet Network (BPN) to create the AnalytiX online database that nearly Case Studies From Around the World 100 funders, nongovernmental organizations, and others use to monitor, evaluate, and report on project outcomes. Our funding has allowed BPN to improve the system AidMatrix and train people in its use. BPN partners in 27 countries AidMatrix is a nonprofit that provides technology solutions, consulting services, and training to support supply chain such as India, Vietnam, Uganda, Nicaragua, Egypt, and management, volunteer management, and fundraising technologies for humanitarian relief organizations. Cisco has Guatemala have used the platform to log information supported AidMatrix in developing SCM4Good, a web-based platform for supply chain and donated goods management. about more than 250 projects worth over $38.5 million, When piloting the tool, CARE International was able to reduce its warehouse management costs by more than $2 million a 327 percent increase since 2009. annually and serve 500,000 people. A new Cisco grant made in FY13 will help AidMatrix develop a handheld field tool that streamlines and tracks distributions to the beneficiary level and reconfigures the current supply chain software for mobile handheld devices and tablets. AidMatrix predicts that the tool could result in increased savings or reduced operating costs of as much as $1.3 million, meaning that more resources would be available to directly benefit victims of disasters and humanitarian crises. 1. In August 2013, Blue Planet Network merged with the East Meets West Foundation. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E20 < Previous View Our funding for Water for People supported the Financial Assistance Contents development of a Field Level Operations Watch (FLOW) We respond to natural disasters with targeted fundraising mobile application to collect and analyze data from the campaigns that engage our employees in supporting Introduction field, which increases the transparency, accountability, recovery efforts. Governance & Ethics and sustainability of water projects in developing regions. • In October 2012, Hurricane Sandy caused destruction Working with the Akvo Foundation, the nonprofit scaled up and down the East Coast of the United States and Supply Chain the platform as an open-source tool to expand access in the Caribbean, leaving large areas of New Jersey and make it more user friendly for the 69 organizations in and New York City without power and under water for Our People 28 countries that now use it. weeks. Employee donations and Foundation matching Society gifts to 16 relief organizations totaled $612,000. The Liberian Water and Sanitation Program used FLOW Cisco made an additional donation of $1 million to the to develop a baseline map of more than 10,000 water Overview American Red Cross in the days following the storm. access points across Liberia. Previously, no data of this Our Society Strategy kind existed. With this new information, the government • In April 2013, the Lushan earthquake in Sichuan, China Employee Engagement of Liberia developed a strategic plan to improve water injured thousands and killed at least 196 people. Supporting Nonprofit Partners Education quality and sanitation. Other agencies, NGOs, and Employee donations and Foundation matching gifts supporting four organizations totaled $36,000. Cisco Across all of our society commitments, Cisco uses Healthcare nonprofits are using the data to improve their planning technology to help nonprofit organizations scale their procedures as well. made an additional corporate contribution of $160,000 Economic Empowerment programs and make their operations more efficient. to Give2Asia to benefit the China Foundation for > Critical Human Needs Poverty Alleviation. Our best practice guidelines help us set up successful and Disaster Relief Responding to Emergencies partnerships with nonprofits from the start. We Natural disasters caused significant destruction • In May 2013, a tornado devastated the town of Moore, approach each new partnership as a long-term Supplier Diversity engagement with the expectation that we will invest around the world in FY13. Cisco provides support to Oklahoma. Cisco employees rallied in support of the community there, with six relief organizations receiving the necessary time and resources to help the program organizations that offer emergency relief in the wake of achieve its objectives. We start by developing a disasters and humanitarian crises. We offer employee $85,000 in employee contributions and Foundation clear vision, strategy, detailed execution plan, and Environment matching funds. objectives to measure long-term success. We also networking and technology expertise, cash and product • In June 2013, severe flooding in Northern India’s establish governance and operating structures with our GRI Index grants, employee donations, and matching gifts through partners to define roles and responsibilities, set clear the Cisco Foundation. In doing so, we partner with local, Uttarakhand region devastated homes and expectations, and enable effective decision-making. Appendix national, and international humanitarian agencies such infrastructure, leaving thousands dead or missing. To help us monitor and measure the impact of our as NetHope, CARE, Feeding America, Oxfam, Habitat Over 100,000 people were evacuated from the region. partnerships, we implemented a new Social Impact for Humanity, the American Red Cross, and Red Cross In the weeks following, $100,000 was donated to six Tracking Platform in FY13. Nonprofits receiving affiliates around the world. relief organizations through employee contributions grants now have a tool that enables them to report and matching gifts. against clear metrics, and for Cisco it helps us track progress during the grant period, undertake corrective action where needed, and measure the impact of our investments. Tracking these metrics also gives the organizations valuable information to help with strategic planning by identifying effective practices to scale up, challenges to resolve, and impacts on the communities and individuals they serve. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E21 < Previous View Tactical Operations Contents Case Studies Communications infrastructure is essential for effective emergency response. When natural disasters disable From Around the World Introduction or destroy normal communications networks, Cisco’s Governance & Ethics Tactical Operations team can mobilize to provide Tactical Operations in Kenya support in challenging environments. Cisco Network The Dadaab refugee camp in eastern Kenya is the Supply Chain Emergency Response Vehicles and other solutions largest refugee camp in the world, housing more bring networking and communications capabilities over than 450,000 people. A famine in 2011 brought Our People satellite, 4G, and other backhaul channels to disaster more than 1000 new people to the camp each day, sites in an emergency. This includes communications causing major overcrowding, disease, and hunger. Society trailers, portable Emergency Communications Kits, Relief organizations, already challenged in their daily operations, faced extra struggles meeting the needs of Overview smaller vehicles with satellite and other capabilities, and these new refugees. With NetHope and local service more. The Cisco Disaster Incident Response Team is a providers, Cisco has supported building network Our Society Strategy group of volunteers who support the Tactical Operations infrastructure that was previously unavailable in this Employee Engagement remote area by providing architecture design and team on disaster deployments and have been specially Education Tactical Operations Honored network support services. trained to respond quickly to emergencies and support by Computerworld There are over 20 humanitarian organizations onsite Healthcare communications during crises. In FY13, Cisco Tactical Operations was selected from that need to communicate regularly and reliably with Economic Empowerment each other and their home offices. Network and voice By responding to emergencies and natural disasters over 700 nominations as a Computerworld Honors > Critical Human Needs Laureate in the “Safety and Security” category. The service infrastructure allows them to call between within the first few days, Cisco often enables recovery awards honor companies, organizations, and individuals offices and communicate with camp guards. and Disaster Relief and relief agencies to get communications up and whose innovative technology solutions are having a Supplier Diversity In FY13, we added new services to the infrastructure, running faster than government or local providers can. positive impact on society. such as Voice over IP, videoconferencing, and network Our response teams include engineers who design management services. Additional shared data, voice, and install communications equipment, and operations and video services will be installed in FY14. We also Environment coordinators who manage logistics and planning. This established community development programs, The Tactical Operations team helps us build relationships including a Community Knowledge Center. For more specialized support removes much of the burden for GRI Index with local public sector agencies, nonprofits, other information about Community Knowledge Centers, agencies that would otherwise have to travel long companies, customers, employees, and communities. see page E16. distances to use or acquire communications equipment, Appendix In FY13, the Tactical Operations team responded to five and redirect funds and staff away from direct relief. major emergencies: • Hurricane Sandy • The Boston Marathon bombing Discover why organizations are installing ClearCaptions on their • The West Fertilizer Company explosion in West, Texas Cisco Unified IP Phones (with Cisco Unified Communication Manager) • An EF5 tornado in Moore, Oklahoma to accommodate users who have hearing loss. • Famine and infrastructure needs at Kenya’s Dadaab Watch video refugee camp 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E22 < Previous View Contents Product Accessibility Supplier Diversity Case Studies We seek to design products that meet the needs of Cisco spends millions of dollars every year on products From the United States Introduction people with disabilities so that everyone can benefit and services from suppliers. Using diverse suppliers in from the social and economic opportunities our Governance & Ethics our supply chain supports the economic empowerment External Recognition for Cisco’s technology can bring. of underserved communities and brings significant Supplier Diversity Program Supply Chain Through the Cisco Accessibility Initiative, we consider business benefits to Cisco. product accessibility at all stages of the lifecycle from In FY13, Cisco was ranked sixth among the top 50 U.S. design and shipping to product use. We regularly companies providing multicultural and diverse business Our People Working with diverse suppliers gives us access to opportunities by DiversityBusiness.com, up from 12th refresh products, packaging, and documentation and offer training to product managers to emphasize a wider group of innovative partners, enhances our place the previous year. This is the fifth year Cisco Society competitiveness, reduces the risk of supply chain has been included in the ranking, which is based on the importance of accessibility. In FY13, more than 75 project managers completed the training. feedback from over 650,000 womenand minorityOverview disruptions, and improves customer satisfaction. Delivering accessible products also helps us comply owned businesses. By supporting companies that are reflective of the Our Society Strategy with legislation and meet the needs of many of our people and communities who use our products, we Each year, DiversityBusiness.com also recognizes Employee Engagement customers, including state and federal governments. individual supplier diversity champions. In FY13, Mark look to provide the best suppliers and most innovative A mandatory record-keeping process for Cisco Williams, Cisco’s Business Development Manager, Education companies with the opportunity to participate in our products took effect on January 1, 2013 that will allow Americas Channel Distribution, was honored for his Healthcare us to monitor accessibility throughout a product’s supply chain. For more information, see Supply Chain, advocacy and efforts to promote supplier diversity in Economic Empowerment lifecycle. We also continued our support of the DeafTEC page C12. Cisco’s distribution channel. initiative in California by rolling out training for educators Williams designed and leads the Diverse Specialty Critical Human Needs and employers. DeafTEC is a resource for high schools Distribution (DSD) Program to promote supplier and Disaster Relief and community colleges that educate deaf and hardPromoting Diverse Suppliers diversity in our distribution chain. The program has > Supplier Diversity of-hearing students in STEM-related programs and for in Our Supply Chain helped to increase Cisco’s distribution, and since its employers hiring deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals. inception in 2007, the number of participants has more In FY13, we conducted our first training session and Diverse suppliers are those that are at least 51 percent than quadrupled and DSD sales have tripled. have two more planned for FY14. owned and operated by a minority or historically Environment disadvantaged group. These include the groups For example, the DSD Program has helped to develop Communications technology poses unique challenges TelecoBuy.com, a subsidiary of the minority-owned for deaf and blind people. Organizations such as the defined by the U.S. federal government: Small GRI Index World Wide Technology, Inc., into a major Cisco Center for Sight and Hearing use Cisco technologies Business, Veteran-Owned Small Business, Servicedistributor. Cisco gold partners can purchase products to enhance their clients’ quality of life. One example is Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business, Historically and services through Telecobuy.com for resale, which Appendix the use of videoconferencing for deaf people with high Underutilized Business (HUB) Zone Small Business, helps them meet their own requirements for internal and enough resolution to capture sign language gestures. end-user diversity spending. Telecobuy.com ranks third Small Disadvantaged Business, Women-Owned Small “We needed a video solution with the highest frames in DiversityBusiness.com’s Top 500 Diverse Owned per second to not only transmit our hand gestures in real Business, Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business, Companies. time, but also to capture the many minute movements Minority-Owned Business, and Women-Owned Business in American Sign Language,” says Ann Gronlund, Enterprises. Cisco actively solicits all of these groups See our full list of supplier diversity awards here. communications specialist at the Center for Sight and to give them the greatest opportunity to supply us with Hearing. Using Cisco WebEx technology, the center goods or services. now is able to connect to the people it serves in more effective ways. Learn more about Cisco product accessibility. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E23 < Previous View Supplier diversity is a regulatory requirement in many of executives from Cisco and other Fortune 500 companies Contents the markets where we operate, including Australia, South and to discuss potential business opportunities with Diverse Supplier Profile: Woodtech Africa, and the United States. customers. Our support for diverse suppliers varies Woodtech, one of Cisco’s innovative and minorityIntroduction • In Australia, we prepare a Reconciliation Action Plan from country to country depending on local needs and owned suppliers, is a U.S.-based custom wood Governance & Ethics that is designed to promote business opportunities for opportunities. manufacturer and design firm that specializes in large, complex projects with unique, intricate requirements. It Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians. supplies the custom tables for our Cisco TelePresence Supply Chain Australia videoconferencing system. Woodtech marries traditional • In South Africa, we submit information on black-owned In Australia, Cisco is a member of Supply Nation, formerly craftsmanship with precision machining and specializes Our People suppliers in line with the government’s Broad-Based known as the Australian Indigenous Minority Supply in realizing each client’s unique vision for conference Black Economic Empowerment initiative. tables, reception stations, private offices, architectural Council, which supports the growth and development Society • In the United States, our customers expect us to of indigenous-owned suppliers. Member companies walls, and furniture. These attributes make Woodtech a preferred vendor for many Fortune 500 companies. support diverse suppliers to help them meet regulatory work with Supply Nation to meet their Reconciliation Overview obligations such as those imposed by the California Action Plan procurement goals, and the group provides As a small company, Woodtech faces many of the Our Society Strategy competitive pressures of an industry that is increasingly Public Utilities Commission. This requires Cisco networking opportunities for companies and indigenousEmployee Engagement relying on computer-generated designs and overseas customers, including utility companies, to develop and owned suppliers. We attend supplier meetings labor. Its commitment to quality and service has enabled Education implement programs to increase the use of womenand business fairs, such as Supply Nation’s annual Woodtech to overcome these pressures and grow Healthcare owned and minority-owned businesses. Supporting conference and business fair. In FY13, Cisco employees tremendously since its founding in 1994. In FY13, Cisco supplier diversity is also a requirement for our participated as expert panelists in two workshops at the invited Woodtech to be part of our Executive Mentor Economic Empowerment Protégé Program. We believe that our executive support customers and partners who are suppliers to state and conference. Critical Human Needs and mentorship will help Woodtech continue to navigate federal agencies. and Disaster Relief through these barriers and challenges, enhance its At the FY13 National Minority Supplier Development capabilities, and grow globally to support Cisco and > Supplier Diversity Supplier diversity is also a prerequisite, independent Council (NMSDC) conference in Denver, Colorado, other multinational customers. of regulatory obligations, for many of our customers. In we co-hosted a delegation of Australian suppliers and FY13, we responded to information requests about our partners from Supply Nation together with Cummins, IBM, Environment supplier diversity spending from 77 companies. and Pfizer. As a result of this networking opportunity, In Australia, Cisco’s work to bring four Australian indigenous-owned firms united with three businesses run by indigenous people GRI Index Supporting Capability Building and U.S.-based diverse firms and one Canadian diverseinto the supply chain is promoting owned firm to form joint ventures. economic growth. Cisco is collaborating Appendix Business Development Opportunities with these companies and encouraging We identify potential new diverse suppliers, connect business development, contributing to Canada improved economic vitality in Aboriginal them to the Cisco business units that can use their communities. products and services, and help them secure new In FY14, we plan to focus more strongly on supplier Watch video business from Cisco and other ICT companies diversity in Canada. Cisco is a charter, corporate, and through the Cisco Global Supplier Diversity Business board member of the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Development (GSDBD) program. Supplier Council (CAMSC), a nonprofit membership organization composed of major multinational We also support diverse suppliers by helping them build corporations operating in Canada. CAMSC’s mission their capabilities and secure wider business development is to promote and facilitate procurement opportunities opportunities by connecting them with potential between major corporations in Canada and suppliers of customers. Cisco Partner Operations Diversity Forums, all sizes owned and operated by Canadian Aboriginals for example, enable diverse suppliers to meet with and Minorities. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E24 < Previous View We also support women-owned businesses in Canada At the U.S. Department of Commerce Minority Business Contents through our membership in WeConnect Canada. Development Agency (MBDA) Minority Enterprise Diverse Supplier Profile: Wintec WeConnect hosts conferences, business fairs, and Development Week conference in Washington, D.C., Wintec Industries is a womanand minority-owned Introduction networking events that help connect women-owned we hosted a networking forum attended by 28 Cisco diverse supplier that provides hub services for Cisco Governance & Ethics businesses to potential business partners like Cisco. partners and customers that sell our products to federal memory products and strategic inventory. For the past agencies. We also participate in the National Minority six years, Wintec has been an active participant in our supplier diversity initiatives, including the Executive Supply Chain South Africa Supplier Development Council. In FY13, we hosted a Mentor Protégé Program. Wintec’s participation in the In South Africa, we participate in the South African forum at its conference that was attended by 81 Cisco program has helped it better understand customer Our People Supplier Diversity Council, a group of 27 companies customers, distributors, and diverse suppliers and needs and enhance its capabilities to grow the business working to promote the growth of black-owned partners. from a focused manufacturer into a global hub service Society companies. The council is a platform for sharing best provider. For example, in FY13 Wintec proposed a Cisco supports women-owned businesses as a systematic solution and an innovative cost model Overview practices and building relationships with black-owned that brings benefits to Cisco in terms of inventory suppliers. As a member of the group’s Management corporate member of WeConnect International and the Our Society Strategy management and cost reductions. The new solution Advisory Council, we helped to develop a database of Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). has helped us fulfill urgent supply chain requests more Employee Engagement certified suppliers and member companies. These organizations promote women-owned businesses effectively. Education by connecting them to multinational companies through Healthcare United States networking events, business fairs, and conferences. In FY13, we participated in the WBENC annual conference Economic Empowerment To build skills and capability, Cisco sponsors business and business fair in Minneapolis, Minnesota, holding Critical Human Needs leaders from diverse suppliers to attend the Management individual meetings with diverse suppliers and partners, and Disaster Relief Development for Entrepreneurs Academy at the as well as hosting a booth and contributing to an expert > Supplier Diversity University of California, Los Angeles. During this fourpanel. day workshop, participants develop ideas and design strategic improvement projects to implement at their In FY13, Cisco awarded WebEx product grants worth businesses. Since 2002, we have sponsored 69 people Environment more than $20,000 to eight nonprofit organizations in the from 45 diverse companies to attend the Academy. United States that promote the development of diverse GRI Index businesses. These grants will help recipient organizations Our Executive Mentor Protégé Program enables CEOs expand their reach and presence through more efficient from diverse suppliers and partners to receive mentoring Appendix communications and networking opportunities. from Cisco executives over the course of two years. CEOs from 22 companies have participated in the program since 2009, many of whom credit the program with helping them secure significant new business. For more information, see our diverse supplier profiles on page E23 and on this page. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment Overview Environmental Sustainability Materials Energy and GHG Emissions Creating new value for our customers using Water Use sustainable Cisco technologies, products and solutions. Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Environment Effluents (Liquid) Waste GRI Index Appendix We believe Cisco technologies can improve living standards, reduce resource waste, and save energy. We call this creating new value for our customers through sustainable technologies, products, and solutions. Through our continued efforts to understand impacts on the environment from our products, our operations, and our supply chain we work to not only reduce negative externalities but create new opportunities for greater efficiencies. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F2 < Previous View Contents Environment Overview Introduction Through sustainable technologies we are creating value for our customers, society, and the planet. Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the most Cisco is changing the way we work, live, play, and learn through network important and complex environmental issues for Cisco. Energy consumption technologies that create new business and social value. For example, our Our People includes our own operations, the extended operations of our supply chain remote collaboration solutions enable “Dematerialization,” or replacing the partners, and the energy used by the products we market. In February 2013, physical with the virtual, reducing business travel and employee commuting, Society we announced five new GHG reduction goals, which we aim to achieve by 2017. which decreases costs for our customers and our employees. Remote These goals are focused on improving the energy efficiency of our operations. collaboration also increases productivity, improves employee work-life balance Environment and job satisfaction, and reduces GHG emissions. Improving the energy efficiency of our products is also a priority because > Overview energy consumed during their use accounts for up to approximately 90 percent Our aim is to build environmental sustainability into each business function Environmental of their life cycle carbon footprint. This means that innovation in our products and process and, ultimately, into every business decision our employees make Sustainability and services that promote energy efficiency and waste reduction can reduce around the world. We believe that improved sustainability creates net benefits Materials GHG emissions by users of our products. Innovation is at the core of Cisco’s to our business, our customers, and the planet. Our relationship with our Energy and GHG environmental sustainability initiatives. In developing advanced products, customers is now based on cost, quality, delivery, service, and sustainability. Emissions solutions, and updated business processes, we are multiplying the impact of Water Use the network to create sustainable business models and increased economic Biodiversity and Land Use opportunity. Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste GRI Index Appendix “We now use Cisco WebEx and Cisco TelePresence for many of our meetings and they run more smoothly and are more effective than before, and our global organization functions better as a result. That’s how Cisco products are helping CDP better accomplish our mission.” Marcus Norton, Carbon Disclosure Project Cisco’s 2013 Global Stakeholder Engagement Sessions This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F3 < Previous View Contents Environment Overview Introduction 2013 at a Glance Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society We achieved our FY12 -28 Scope 1, 2, and businessair-travel Scope 3 GHG Environment emissions reduction goal Cisco purchased 425 million kWh We achieved a 28 percent > Overview of 25 percent absolute. -25 of energy through Renewable Energy Certificates in FY13. absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide from a FY07 baseline. 425 MILLION kWh Environmental Sustainability -40 % Materials Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Customers returned 12,539 metric tonne of Cisco products for reuse Biodiversity and Land Use and recycling, and we reused over $360 million of Cisco equipment. Non-GHG Emissions We set new and aggressive Scope 7.7 MILLION 360 MILLION Effluents (Liquid) 1, 2, and business-air-travel Scope Waste 3 GHG emissions reduction goals for FY17. $ $ We cut 634 metric tonne of GRI Index packaging and saved $7.7 million in material and freight costs by Appendix In FY13, Cisco spent $13.7 million improving packaging efficiency. #1 on energy efficiency initiatives, including our global Lab Energy Management Program. Cisco was tied for #1 across all 13.7 MILLION sectors on CDP’s 2013 climate survey $ and tied for #1 on Greenpeace’s Cool IT Challenge (v6). This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F4 < Previous View Contents Environment Overview Introduction Governance & Ethics 2013 Progress toward Objectives 2014 Objectives and Beyond Objectives Progress Status Objectives Target Date Supply Chain 2008: EPA Climate Leaders This goal was met in 2012, and the Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 FY17 commitment to reduce all Scope 1, 2, commitment has been closed. percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) Our People and business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 emissions worldwide FY17 Society absolute by end of CY12 by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) Continue investment in the As a founding member of the GHGP Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net, consumption-weighted electricity emission FY17 Environment development of the Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement, Cisco factor to half of the latest International Energy Agency world average ICT Sector Supplement to the has contributed significantly to its emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17 > Overview Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) development during FY13. Additionally, standards as a member of the Steering Group, Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue FY17 Environmental Cisco is co-editor of the section on worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline) Sustainability transport substitution. The Sector Supplement is expected to be Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 FY17 Materials published in late 2013 following final percent of our electricity every year through FY17 Energy and GHG review by the Steering Committee and Emissions World Resources Institute. To address Supply Chain GHG emissions Cisco has an ongoing initiative, with accompanying goals, to encourage our suppliers Water Use Scale environmental sustainability We continue to make significant to report their Scope 1 and 2 emissions to the Carbon Disclosure reporting by our business partners advancements in our supply chain Project. The status of existing, supplier reporting goals is provided in Biodiversity and Land Use Ongoing (supply chain) engagement and reporting (see the Table 14. We will continue to report these existing supply chain goals Supply Chain section). 100 percent and add new categories of suppliers — and accompanying CDPNon-GHG Emissions of our contract manufacturers, 93 reporting goals — to our performance reporting. For more information Effluents (Liquid) percent of global transport providers, see the Supply Chain section. and 80 percent of our component Waste suppliers responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 survey. Achieved Ongoing GRI Index Appendix This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F5 < Previous View Contents Environment Overview Introduction Governance & Ethics Key Performance Indicators (Base Year, if applicable, and last 5 years reported) FY07 Supply Chain Performance Summary Baseline Year1 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Our People Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 436,489 272,880 376,141 416,927 251,672 312,525 Values from 2012 CSR Report have been and 2, metric tonne CO2e updated. Society Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -37% -14% -4% -42% -28% Cisco’s new corporate GHG reduction goal was announced in February 2013. Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, Scope 1 and 2, Environment GHG emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) > Overview Environmental Total Scope 3 air-travel GHG emissions, 205,796 118,602 106,783 127,293 139,431 * Primary air-travel data adjusted to represent Sustainability metric tonne CO2e 100 percent of Cisco business air travel. Materials Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -42% -48% -38% -32% * Energy and GHG Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, business-airEmissions travel, Scope 3 emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Product return, metric tonne n/a 10,730 8,580 11,595 13,324 12,539 Non-GHG Emissions Returned material sent to landfill n/a 0.44% 0.33% 0.89% 0.43% 0.33% Landfilled material consists only of nonEffluents (Liquid) electronic waste materials, such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap, Waste accompanying Cisco product returned by customers for recycling. 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the last five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. GRI Index * To be updated later. Appendix This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F6 < Previous View Contents Environmental Sustainability Another aspect of the energy and GHG emissions issue that is highly material to Cisco is the opportunity for Cisco Table 1: Materiality Tiers for Cisco Environment-Related Issues This section describes our environmental sustainability products to help reduce GHG emissions in other industry Introduction opportunities and challenges and how we manage them sectors. Tier Environment Topic Governance & Ethics to improve our environmental performance. It is organized We have focused our energy/GHG efforts on improving according to the GRI G3.1 reporting framework. 1 Product energy efficiency Supply Chain our operations, supply chain, product energy efficiency, This framework sets out the principles and standard and technology solutions to facilitate emissions disclosures organizations can use to report environmental Energy consumption (operations) Our People performance and impacts. reductions for our business and our customers. Society Cisco also works to minimize the environmental impact 2 Waste (product EOL) Materiality of our products by providing comprehensive product Environment Based on input from stakeholders, results of life-cycle end of life (EOL) services for our equipment. Cisco has 3 Waste (product packaging EOL) assessments (LCAs), and other analyses of Cisco built a worldwide network of qualified recyclers. Through Overview products, we prioritized environmental impact into five several programs, discussed in more detail later in this Water pollution (liquid effluents) > Environmental tiers, as shown in Table 1. These priorities are based section, customers can return any Cisco equipment Sustainability on the impact from Cisco’s operations, the impact from for credit or for recycling at Cisco’s expense. Using Transport emissions (from product logistics) Materials our supply chain, and the use of our products by our advanced recycling techniques, all recyclable products Energy and GHG customers in combination with the overall impact of the and materials are directed into various commodity waste 4 Waste (operational “trash”) Emissions streams for processing and recovery. Our challenge is to ICT industry sector. This materiality ranking is unchanged Water Use from FY12 except for the renaming of the “Controlled promote awareness of our Takeback program among our Hazardous materials Biodiversity and Land Use substances” issue, and related report section, to channel partners and customers. “Hazardous materials.” This change was made because Water use Non-GHG Emissions the section includes discussion of our efforts to reduce Discussions of issues listed in Table 1 are provided under Effluents (Liquid) use of materials identified as potentially hazardous but the appropriate topic of the Environment section. Biodiversity and land use Waste not controlled by existing regulations. We did not receive comments from stakeholders or uncover new data that Table 1 is structured around the Global Reporting 5 Non-GHG airborne emissions required any further updates. Initiative (GRI) G3.1 performance indicator categories. GRI Index Materiality also is discussed in the Governance and Energy and GHG emissions are the most important Ethics section and is based on research performed • Cisco works with its suppliers (“extended operations”) Appendix and complex environmental issues for Cisco. The issue by SustainAbility. A discussion comparing these two to integrate environmental responsibility into all life of energy consumption includes not only our own approaches to environmental materiality is provided in cycle phases of Cisco products. operations, but also the extended operations of our Appendix 1. • Cisco uses the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 supply chain partners because we outsource business performance indicators to define the minimum scope functions such as contract manufacturing, component Principles of our environmental impact assessment, reporting, supply, and transport logistics. Product energy efficiency Cisco policies are developed under the following and initiatives. All GRI indicators are accorded due is important because, depending on the product and governing principles for environmental sustainability: diligence to support a meaningful impact assessment. assumptions made, energy consumption can make up anywhere from 80 to 90 percent of the carbon footprint • Cisco integrates environmental responsibility • Cisco provides complete, accurate, and public of typical network products. throughout our business while meeting customer environmental reporting for our stakeholders. expectations with respect to product function, delivery, quality, service, and EOL management. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F7 < Previous View Contents Cisco maintains the following governance for our Organization • Focuses on the improvement of the system and environmental sustainability efforts: environmental performance Key executives, in tandem with business functions that Introduction • Cisco actively seeks out stakeholder engagement and are covered by our environmental management system, Cisco seeks to decrease our negative impacts while analysis on materiality assessment, reporting, and the create and implement operational change. Crossenhancing our positive impacts on the environment, and Governance & Ethics results of our initiatives. functional teams promote environmental sustainability this concept is set out in our Corporate Environmental • Our EcoBoard is an executive-level forum to ratify through collaboration and a wide-reaching network of Supply Chain Policy. This policy, in conjunction with our EMS, provides strategy and goals, share best practices, and provide contacts across the business, including our customers. an environmental performance framework that permits us opportunities for employee education, awareness, and The teams focus on corporate-level initiatives that Our People to monitor and manage the environmental impacts that engagement. directly enhance Cisco’s environmental performance. we find to be a priority for our business. Society • Cisco seeks and maintains ISO 14001 certification for sites with significant potential for environmental Performance-Based Compensation Cisco’s EMS is certified to the international EMS standard Environment impact. In a new effort to drive sustainability performance ISO 14001:2004. Cisco sites for ISO 14001 certification deeper into our organization, our executive leaders are selected based on a set of criteria that includes: Overview • Cisco uses our CSR Business Process to govern reporting, stakeholder engagement, feedback to have established their own environmental sustainability • Facility size and lab area > Environmental Sustainability the business, initiative prioritization and goal setting, goals which are rolled out across their organizations. • Building headcount capacity or persons housed implementation, and metrics for environmental Employees are encouraged to link their individual goals to • Primary facility function Materials sustainability issues. company priorities and management team goals, such as Energy and GHG environmental sustainability. Performance against these These criteria enable us to apply resources to certify Emissions The risk from increasing GHG concentrations in the goals influences compensation and bonus decisions. sites that we believe will make the greatest contribution Water Use earth’s atmosphere is real and significant. Cisco to managing and reducing Cisco’s environmental impacts. Biodiversity and Land Use supports the reduction of global GHG emissions through Once a site has been certified, an analysis is performed Environmental Management System Non-GHG Emissions improvements to our products and operations and to evaluate its associated environmental impacts. This An environmental management system (EMS) refers Effluents (Liquid) through the actions of our suppliers. We use our own includes an evaluation of corporate functional areas; to the management of an organization’s environmental products to demonstrate at-scale innovative and costthe associated products, activities, or services at that Waste impacts and programs in a comprehensive, systematic, effective methods for reducing GHG emissions, helping location; and the environmental impacts associated and planned manner. An EMS: our customers to do likewise. with the generation or use of materials, impacts on air • Serves as a tool to improve environmental and water, and depletion of natural resources. All of this GRI Index Cisco uses its position as a respected global leader and performance information is incorporated into the calculation of an an industry bellwether to environmental advocacy groups, • Provides a systematic way to manage environmental environmental score, which then guides the prioritization Appendix standards bodies, and policymakers to achieve practical impacts, requirements, and programs of an of facilities, materiality of the issues, and the mitigation of and effective solutions to global environmental challenges. organization the associated negative environmental impacts. Figure 1 shows Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified site locations. We believe that the most effective leadership is done by • Addresses immediate and long-term impacts of an example. We will continue to improve our environmental organization’s activities, products, services, and Scope and Implementation impact assessment, reporting, and initiatives and to processes on the environment All of Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified sites are audited by encourage our supply chain and business partners to • Gives order and consistency for organizations to an independent third party. Sites that were part of an further develop best practices for their own operations. address environmental concerns through the allocation acquisition are included in the scope of the Corporate of resources and assignment of responsibility, as Environmental Policy and corporate environmental well as through ongoing evaluation of practices, initiatives. Table 2 shows Cisco’s KPIs for our ISO 14001 procedures, and processes and their impacts certification. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F8 < Previous View Contents Table 2: Cisco Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification Introduction KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Governance & Ethics Number of Cisco sites with 26 27 28 30 30 Calendar year certifications are assigned to fiscal year (e.g., CY13 ISO 14001 certification assigned to CY13). Values from 2012 CSR Report have been updated. Supply Chain Percent of real estate 100% 96% 95% 95% 93% Reporting methodology updated in FY11; all years have been portfolio with ISO 14001 recalculated. Real estate footprint is viewed as a better measure Our People certification of potential environmental impact than a headcount-based metric. Candidate ISO 14001 sites are filtered by minimum size and Society engineering lab function. Environment Overview > Environmental Figure 1: Cisco ISO 14001 Certified Site Locations SHOW LOCATIONS BY CLICKING ON THE CERTIFICATION YEAR BELOW Sustainability Materials Energy and GHG Bedfont Lakes/ Emissions Reading, United Kingdom Boulder/Englewood, Amsterdam, Netherlands 2000 Water Use Galway, Ireland Colorado Biodiversity and Land Use Chicago, Illinois Brussels, Belgium 2002 San Jose, California Paris, France Non-GHG Emissions Vimercate, Italy 2003 Modena, Italy Richardson, Texas Effluents (Liquid) Boxborough, Massachusetts Beijing, China 2004 Tokyo, Japan Netanya, Israel Waste Austin, Texas New York, New York 2005 Shanghai, China Atlanta, Georgia Herndon, Virginia Hong Kong, China 2006 2007 GRI Index Research Triangle Park, Bangalore, India North Carolina 2008 Appendix Singapore 2009 2010 2011 2012 All Sydney, Australia This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F9 < Previous View The EMS is used to identify the most significant and external audits performed annually. In CY13 we Contents environmental impacts at each Cisco site and to set did not incorporate the corporate level programs into relevant corporate and local environmental objectives the internal ISO 14001 dashboard due to organizational Introduction or targets. Based on potential impacts, site teams adopt changes, but the programs were a part of our internal Governance & Ethics one or more initiatives to implement; when possible these and external audit plans. This will enable us to internally also align with corporate-level programs. All ISO 14001 track key corporate environmental performance goals, Supply Chain certified sites have teams that pursue environmental goals. initiatives, and metrics. We use performance tracking, metrics, and governance to monitor our progress toward Our People The site operational teams report on goals, initiatives, and meeting our goals and to guide us in finding ways to metrics that measure Cisco’s environmental performance improve our EMS. Society on an internal ISO 14001 dashboard. Our 30 ISO 14001 certified sites have a total of 58 site ISO 14001 Aspect While challenges exist balancing site-by-site ISO Environment Teams that address material site-specific environmental certification and company growth, we continue to See Certificate Overview impacts. Table 3 lists the number of Aspect Teams per improve the linkage between site work and corporateregion that report on site specific goals and activities: level goals to enable the EMS to capture all the material Best Practices > Environmental Sustainability environmental activities done globally. In addition, Cisco’s An important component of our audit process is Cisco’s primary corporate sustainability activities (such EMS aligns closely with the company’s GHG and energy identifying best practices. These are shared across Materials business functions through our internal EMS newsletter as GHG and energy management, product environmental management program and supports the company’s Energy and GHG and our ISO 14001 committee meetings, which include compliance, and supply chain management) are all enterprise-wide Sustainability Information System (SIS). Emissions the ISO 14001 key partners. During FY13 Cisco’s ISO included in our certified EMS and are part of the internal The SIS helped Cisco automate and expand sustainability 14001 internal audit program identified 2 Best Practices Water Use and 33 Positive Comments. The best practices include: Biodiversity and Land Use Waste Reduction Table 3: Aspect Teams per Region Non-GHG Emissions Boxborough’s Waste Reduction and Recycling Aspect Team won the large businesses MASS Recycle bronze Effluents (Liquid) Aspect Teams Global Teams Americas Europe and Asia Pacific, Total award for the continued improvement and growth of Waste Emerging Japan, China its onsite waste program. Compost bins were added in Markets (EUEM) (APJAC) all of the break rooms, which account for more than 40 percent of the site’s waste stream, as was an expanded plastics recycling program. Clear signage was put in Waste Reduction and 8 8 7 23 GRI Index place throughout the campus to clarify what goes in Recycling which recycling bin. These are basic improvements that Appendix can be adopted by sites across the company to improve E-scrap Management* √ 8 9 3 20 their recycling programs. Energy Management Energy Management* √ 0 1 7 8 Many Cisco labs have incorporated day-to-day changes into their operational processes to improve Green Initiative** √ 5 1 0 6 energy management. Two of these processes are of special note: an automatic turn off and manual turn on requirement for equipment to decrease energy usage Wastewater Management 1 0 0 1 overnight, weekends, or whenever the equipment is not in use, and adoption of energy management software to 22 19 17 58 track energy usage and review performance regularly. A “How Green Are We” report summarizes the energy and * These Aspect Teams have site-specific activities and goals but also support a corporate level/global goal. cost savings for the period, identifies potential issues, ** Utilized at smaller sites, typically includes activities around employee engagement, energy management, e-scrap management, waste reduction and recycling, and shares this information with local management. and local green activities unique to that site. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F10 < Previous View Contents data collection, improve the accuracy of that data, and Life-Cycle Assessment design-for-environment (DfE) principles in our product focus limited resources on more important tasks, such design standards. The benefits of this approach include: Cisco uses life-cycle assessments (LCA) to estimate as evaluating and implementing mitigation projects. The • Designing our products for ease of recycling Introduction GHG emissions associated with our products. This role of Cisco’s SIS continues to expand since its initial work is described in more detail in Scope 3 Life Cycle • Shipping our products with less material and a smaller Governance & Ethics deployment to include financial management of energy Emissions, page F30. LCA is a holistic approach for packaging footprint budgets, monitoring of sub-metered energy data, and assessing the environmental impact of a system, Supply Chain tracking of fleet fuel data. • Increasing the energy efficiency of our products process, or product. LCA analyses can cover all or selected life cycle phases including cradle-to-grave, Our People Internal audits of Cisco’s EMS provide regular We have incorporated a DfE approach into our standard cradle-to-gate, and gate-to-gate. LCA helps Cisco: assessments as to whether our environmental processes design processes that focuses on the following areas: Society and commitments have been implemented and how • Assess the materiality of various contributors to • Energy efficiency (minimum 80 percent efficient power well we are improving our EMS at our certified sites. environmental impact supply and efficient component selection) Environment The frequency of these audits depends on set criteria, • Facilitate more informed selection of alternative • Hazardous materials; see Hazardous Materials, see Overview such as the size and operational activities at the site, materials that are environmentally preferable below. in addition to the results of previous year-over-year > Environmental • Understand the impact of product power consumption findings. Typically, within a three-year period, every site • Design-for-recyclability and upgradeability Sustainability on product environmental footprints receives one onsite audit and one virtual audit. In FY13, • Recycling marking on plastic components (ISO 11469, Materials • Compare assembly and test scenarios to help develop we conducted 29 internal audits, and 7 of them were SPI codes) for ease of sorting during recycling Energy and GHG virtual audits using Cisco TelePresence or Cisco WebEx. more energy-efficient manufacturing processes Emissions • Packaging (reduction of materials and package • Inform packaging and accessory kit reduction projects Water Use As mentioned above, Cisco participates in annual volume) on the trade-offs of alternative materials and the Biodiversity and Land Use external audits by a third-party registrar for independent environmental impact improvement of reducing • Design-for-longevity Non-GHG Emissions verification and certification of our EMS to the materials • Compatibility with product takeback programs ISO 14001:2004 standard. These identify areas of Effluents (Liquid) • Understand the relative carbon efficiency of different improvement and performance, while providing external In FY13, approximately 96 percent of newly released Waste modes of transport for getting our products to logistics validation and verification of our EMS processes and products incorporated DfE principles through the product centers and customers programs. requirements document. To aid in performing LCA work in various areas, we utilize GRI Index The data and processes described here continue to be incorporated in the ISO 14001 internal audit plan tools and data sources such as PE International’s GaBI Hazardous Materials 6.0 and other publicly available data sources, such as the As a global supplier of electronic equipment to consumers Appendix to provide additional verification of the validity of the International Energy Agency (IEA), the U.K. Department and industry, Cisco is responsible for the management data reported. In calendar year 2013 this internal audit for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), and the of materials within our products. Global environmental will include nine different teams and will verify the data Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). regulations and Cisco’s interest in reducing the impact of gathering process for 126 environmental statements in the 2012 CSR Report. Verification of data, as well the materials used in the manufacturing of our products as processes, is key to reporting valid data and is a Design for Environment and in our supply chain have helped spur the development proactive process to identify data gaps. This will continue Although the largest impact of most of our products of products that use environmentally preferable materials. as part of the scope of Cisco’s ISO 14001 internal audit comes from energy consumption, many other factors Cisco has established substance requirements for program. related to materials, transportation, and disposal are products in our Controlled Substances Specification. considered during the design stage to reduce the The purpose of this specification is to communicate environmental impact of our products. We employ This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F11 < Previous View Cisco’s substance use and reporting requirements standards technical committees, and academia to resin compounds (by component volume) used in Cisco Contents to suppliers and manufacturers. The specification validate proposed alternatives for HFR and PVC. We have products either do not contain a flame retardant or utilize outlines the restricted substances, exemptions to these continued to identify, confirm, and qualify alternatives for a halogen-free flame retardant. In addition, as part of the Introduction restrictions, substances to be reported and phased out, plastics containing HFRs that are used in our products. design-for-environment guidelines, the use of alternatives Governance & Ethics and substances to be watched for potential inclusion on Over the last three years, we have performed material to HFRs in plastics is recommended for new designs. the restricted substances list. These include controlled assessments, surveyed suppliers, and identified the Supply Chain substances associated with applicable global regulations, areas within our business where we could have the PVC in Cables such as Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) greatest influence and success transitioning to HFRand Cisco helped lead reductions in cable PVC content Our People requirements and other environmental mandates. For PVC-free materials. This issue is most relevant to Cisco through the iNEMI PVC Alternatives Project, which is additional and more frequently updated information, visit as it relates to printed circuit boards, plastic parts that we focused on understanding the environmental tradeSociety Cisco’s Materials webpage. have designed, and cables. Findings from these efforts offs of standard, non-halogen, and bio-based cable for each area are described in the following sections. jacketing. Cisco continues to monitor the industry for Environment In addition, for up-to-date, product-level RoHS PVC-free cabling materials and regularly works with Overview information, visit our self-service Product Approvals HFRs in Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) cable manufacturers and resin suppliers to present on Status (PAS) tool.1 In FY12, Cisco performed its own reliability and signal industry updates and challenges. Cisco will continue its > Environmental Sustainability integrity testing of new laminate alternatives by way of efforts to identify, test, and implement PVC-free cabling Separate from the efforts just mentioned, lead-based new material qualification processes. As a result, Cisco as opportunities arise. Materials solder has been a key component of circuit boards qualified new PCB laminate materials that do not have Energy and GHG and other electronic parts. Although lead solder is Cisco also is a member of the High-Density Packaging HFRs for use in new high-end switching and routing Emissions currently exempt from the RoHS Directive for networking products. Cisco qualified several halogen-free laminates Users Group (HDPUG) BFR/PVC-Free Cables and Wires Water Use infrastructure equipment, product conversion and testing that are available for use. The cost, design flexibility, and Project, which is comparing the electrical, mechanical, Biodiversity and Land Use efforts have allowed us to make significant progress performance of these qualified laminates make them performance, and manufacturability requirements of Non-GHG Emissions toward removing lead assembly solder from Cisco attractive for a growing percentage of Cisco products, alternative materials with existing options; designing products. For the transition, we have developed a leadand we are encouraging our business units and suppliers and manufacturing test samples; and conducting Effluents (Liquid) free solder specification for components, interconnects, to select these laminates for new designs. performance evaluations. Waste and printed circuit board reliability. We also have implemented lead-free data management systems, In FY13, Cisco continued to qualify more halogen-free Batteries assessed supplier capabilities, tested the reliability PCB laminate materials and has increased their use in Products or parts containing batteries are designed in GRI Index of alternative substances, and developed a product many new products. We will continue to research new such a way that the batteries can be removed by the conversion roadmap. In the interest of protecting product laminate materials as they become available and apply end user or a service technician and more easily Appendix quality, we are working with global industry associations them to new products where quality and performance recycled. In addition, symbols indicating that batteries to develop highly reliable lead-free solder. requirements can be met. should be recycled are on the batteries or products containing batteries. Halogenated Flame Retardants and Polyvinyl HFRs in Cisco-Designed Plastic Parts Chloride Cisco is monitoring the plastic resins used in Ciscodesigned plastic parts. In FY13, we continued to gather Employee Training Two examples of substances outside the current scope of global regulatory requirements that Cisco monitors and refine information on the presence of halogenated We have incorporated environmental design principles for reduction and substitution in the manufacturing of flame retardants in Cisco-designed plastic parts into our products, systems, and solutions. The goal is its electronics are polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and nonprovided to or manufactured for Cisco through design to improve designs so that they use less raw material, regulated halogenated flame retardants (HFRs). Cisco documentation and surveys with our manufacturers. packaging, and transportation and, at the same time, has been working with manufacturing partners, industry Our research found that approximately 84 percent of they are more effectively recycled. The first step was This section is bookmark enabled. 1. Note: Cisco Connection Online registration is required. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F12 < Previous View Contents to incorporate environmental design features into our Supply Chain monitor supplier performance on a range of criteria, product requirements document. To support these goals, such as technology, cost, quality, responsiveness, and We are embedding responsible supply chain practices we implemented companywide informational and training collaboration. Introduction into routine business processes to make sustainability events, such as Virtual Earth Day and video-on-demand a key criterion in our assessment of, and ongoing classes. These show employees how they can contribute Sustainability represents between three and eight Governance & Ethics relationships with, our suppliers. This helps us improve to our environmental goal of reducing carbon emissions percent2 of the total score (depending on supplier the management of our supply chain and reduce the Supply Chain by creating new products like SmartGrid, improving upon type), and suppliers’ performance on sustainability associated environmental impacts. Key components of existing product designs, and working with our supply metrics is reviewed at least once per year, and as these efforts are outlined in the following sections. For Our People chain to make upstream operations more environmentally often as quarterly, as part of regular business reviews. more information, see the Supply Chain section. conscious. Suppliers must maintain strong scores to earn and retain Society their status as key suppliers, and those that perform Supplier Code of Conduct Cisco launched a web-based course targeting all particularly well often gain more business from Cisco. Environment employees who have a significant role in defining product Cisco has adopted the EICC Code of Conduct for all requirements or developing our products. Employees who supply chain partners and requires that they comply By integrating sustainability into business reviews, we aim Overview take this training learn about Cisco’s sustainability initiatives with it, usually as part of our contractual agreements to show suppliers that sustainability is important to our > Environmental with them. Requiring supplier compliance with the EICC and what they can do to contribute to these efforts. This business and that they must have an acceptable level of Sustainability Code of Conduct helps us further weave environmental web-based training is available in English and Mandarin sustainability performance to do business with Cisco. Materials and has been completed by over 1400 members of our sustainability into the business scorecard process Energy and GHG product development community. In addition, we have that we use to establish supplier status. The Code The scorecard encourages suppliers to track and Emissions developed webinars on product sustainability and continue of Conduct sets expectations with regard to social disclose environmental and labor impacts, helping us Water Use to educate our design and planning community on detailed responsibility, human rights, environment, governance improve transparency on sustainability issues in the areas of the DfE approach. and ethics, health and safety, and related management supply chain. Sustainability scores are based on supplier Biodiversity and Land Use systems. The Code is reviewed and updated regularly survey responses on a range of criteria tailored to the Non-GHG Emissions To further embed environmental practices as part of our so that it continues to reflect best practices and take type of supplier, including: Effluents (Liquid) account of emerging issues. For more information, see standard business operations, Cisco offers employee • Providing data and setting goals on environmental Waste training on our business management system, which the Supply Chain section. impacts such as water and waste, and reporting includes an explanation of our EMS and environmental greenhouse gas emissions through the CDP policy and how it applies to each employee. Controlled Substances Specification • Reporting data on labor issues such as injury and GRI Index Cisco regularly updates and shares with suppliers its Cisco works in collaboration with the Electronic Industry illness rates, working hours, and employee turnover Controlled Substances Specification. All suppliers Appendix Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to develop common are required to review, accept, and comply with our • Demonstrating commitment to sustainability, for industry training, tools, and standards to support Controlled Substances Specification as part of our example, by publishing a CSR report with clear goals suppliers in improving their sustainability capabilities compliance with environmental regulations, including and metrics and by participating in sustainabilityand performance. In FY13, as part of the EICC Learning RoHS requirements; see Hazardous Materials, page F10. related industry groups & Capability Building Work Group, Cisco led the refresh of industry training materials on health and safety and Supplier Scorecard Cisco’s supplier scorecard is discussed further in the contributed to the development of training for commodity Supply Chain section. In FY12, we integrated sustainability criteria into our managers, due to be completed in FY14. overall business scorecard for key1 suppliers. The scorecard is used to establish supplier status and to Training Cisco Supplier Managers Our long-term objective is to build sustainability into standard business processes so that each business This section is 1. In the Supply Chain section, suppliers that receive a scorecard are called “key suppliers.” bookmark enabled. 2. This range has been restated due to an error in the 2012 CSR report. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F13 < Previous View function considers sustainability as a regular part of its and setting ambitious GHG reduction goals. For more The audit team produces a report based on the audit Contents business activities and decisions, where relevant. information on our newly set environmental goals, see that is shared with Cisco and the supplier. For any Energy and GHG Emissions, page F17. issues identified, the supplier must produce a corrective Introduction To integrate sustainability into core business processes action plan and subsequently provide evidence that the and raise awareness of our requirements among Our new online supplier sustainability portal gives corrective actions have been implemented. Action must Governance & Ethics suppliers, it is essential that our supplier management suppliers easy access to tools and information on specific be taken on priority issues within 30 days, and all findings Supply Chain teams understand sustainability and communicate about issues, creating a virtual training library for suppliers. are expected to be addressed within 180 days except for it confidently. In FY13, all of our manufacturing and This includes guidance documentation on issues such issues that require long-term improvement plans. Our People logistics supplier managers completed formal web-based as reporting to CDP, health and safety, and controlled training on sustainability, which explains the business substances. For more information, see Partnering to Build The audit criteria include environment, ethics, health and Society case for sustainability and the role of managers in Capability in the Supply Chain section. safety, labor, and related management systems. In FY13, engaging suppliers, as well as outlines the key points of in line with the latest EICC audit protocol, we introduced Environment the Supplier Code of Conduct and how Cisco monitors Supplier Audits criteria into our audits for our suppliers to report how Overview compliance. In FY14, we will extend this training to Environmental management of our suppliers is outlined they are monitoring their own suppliers. This will help to component supplier managers. in the Supplier Code of Conduct and is included as increase transparency and identify areas for improvement > Environmental Sustainability part of the audit and continued improvement process. throughout the supply chain. For more information, see For more detail on Cisco supplier manager training, see The environmental factors that we focus on are GHG Supplier Audits in the Supply Chain section. Materials Employee Training, page F11 or Training Cisco Supplier emissions, water use and discharge, solid waste, and Energy and GHG Managers in the Supply Chain section. The text that follows includes supply chain-related hazardous materials management. Helping suppliers Emissions information for water, biodiversity, non-GHG emissions, improve their management of environmental issues and Water Use Training Our Suppliers reduce their impacts can, in turn, help us reduce the effluents, and solid waste. Supply chain GHG and energy Biodiversity and Land Use Engaging with key suppliers helps us support their overall impacts of our products throughout their life cycle. topics are discussed in Energy and GHG, page F17. Non-GHG Emissions capability building and identify opportunities where we can partner to improve their performance and support A third-party auditor performs all audits at the supplier’s Water: Water quality and availability are of concern to Effluents (Liquid) Cisco’s sustainability goals. facility using the EICC validated audit process. Cisco Cisco not only in its operations but also within the supply Waste chain. Water consumption in our supply chain wholly representatives participate in selected audits where Regular engagement helps us strengthen our potential high-risk issues have been identified in the depends on the type of supplier. For Cisco’s suppliers relationships with suppliers and build their sustainability supplier’s self-assessment or by other means. Although that manufacture finished goods, water is a very small GRI Index capabilities. Using Cisco solutions such as Cisco most of our audits are announced in advance, we are component of environmental impact. However, water TelePresence and WebEx, we are able to discuss and beginning to conduct some unannounced audits. Auditors consumption may be greater for other supplier types. Appendix resolve sensitive issues with suppliers around the world. use the standard protocol and audit tools developed by For example, pure water requirements for semiconductor the EICC. These include: manufacturing has become stricter as wafer technologies Cisco’s tailored support includes talking about advance. We work with industry groups, such as the • Reviewing documentation, including policies and sustainability issues with our suppliers’ senior managers, EICC, to identify water scarcity issues that may occur procedures, personnel records, time sheets, and discussing audit findings and appropriate corrective within our supply chain. We address supply chain-related relevant permits actions, conducting regular reviews of their sustainability water issues through the Supplier Code of Conduct, the performance, and providing feedback for suppliers • Conducting a site tour to assess conditions in different supplier audit process, and the sustainability metrics in producing their first CSR report. In addition, we aim areas, including production lines, cafeterias, resting our supplier scorecard. More information is available in to provide a practical example to suppliers on how to areas, and dorms, if applicable the Supply Chain section. integrate CSR into their day-to-day business operations • Gathering information from management by working to improve our own practices, such as our Biodiversity: Cisco has no active programs addressing • Interviewing employees in their preferred language biodiversity issues in our supply chain. As we work with continued commitment to reporting through the CDP separately from management This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F14 < Previous View our manufacturing partners on CSR reporting, it is our • Employee electronics recycling (e-scrap): Once a year, • People and partnerships: Engage and collaborate Contents expectation that all GRI performance indicators will be Cisco employees can bring in any used electronics with a wide range of subject matter experts including evaluated to determine their materiality. to have them recycled using the same vendors and economists, scientists, technical architects, and Introduction processes used in Cisco’s business. behavior change specialists. Non-GHG Emissions: Cisco addresses non-GHG Governance & Ethics • Employee commuter incentives: Cisco encourages emissions in our supply chain through our Supplier Code Currently there are over 1,800 contributing members employee use of mass transit at some sites through of Conduct, which states that all local environmental within the OneFuture community. Supply Chain programs that allow eligible employees to use prelaws must be followed, including those governing air tax dollars to purchase mass-transit passes. Cisco Our People emissions. As we work with our manufacturing partners also has begun installing electric vehicle charging Regulatory Fines on CSR reporting, it is our expectation that all GRI GRI EN28: Monetary value of significant fines and total stations for our employees in certain of our locations; Society performance indicators will be addressed. number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance this program is described in more detail in Scope 3 Employee Commuting, page F29. with environmental laws and regulations. Environment Effluents: Effluents consist of waste that is released from industrial outfalls into the environment. Water quality is We actively engage our employees in the achievement of Our EMS certifications provide a regular assessment Overview an important area of concern for our supply chain, and our corporate sustainability objectives by linking individual of our environmental compliance. Our culture is one Environmental through the supplier scorecard process, we monitor the goals to company goals. Employees are encouraged, of transparency and collaboration, and employees are Sustainability quantity of water that our suppliers are discharging from as part of their individual performance goal setting, to encouraged to raise concerns or report issues without > Materials their facilities. Although we believe the quantity of water identify linkages to company priorities and management fear of retaliation. We investigate any allegation of Energy and GHG discharged is small, the quality of that water is vital. We are noncompliance to determine root causes and implement Emissions team goals. Both Cisco presidents have established working with industry groups like the EICC to identify water their own environmental sustainability goals which roll corrective actions, if needed, to prevent their recurrence. Water Use quality issues that may occur within our supply chain. out across their organizations and align individual and Cisco’s proactive approach and close attention to Biodiversity and Land Use business objectives with our environmental sustainability environmental requirements resulted in no significant fines Solid Waste: We have added solid-waste performance or penalties greater than $10,000 in the past five years. Non-GHG Emissions improvement goals. measurements to our supplier scorecard. Effluents (Liquid) OneFuture is a sustainability forum open to all employees Waste Employee Engagement to help unleash the skills, imagination, and capabilities within Cisco to meet the needs of our changing world. Materials Cisco supports employee interest in the environment OneFuture focuses on four core areas where we GRI EN1: Materials used by weight or volume. through several efforts: GRI Index encourage our employees to envision the future direction • Virtual Earth Day: This annual activity consists of a Appendix series of webinars on a variety of environmental topics and develop creative solutions to get us there. The four Packaging areas of focus include: The growing amount of municipal solid waste being either specific to Cisco or of general interest to our worldwide employee base. • Energy solutions: Aim to highlight execution activities added to landfills from product packaging is an where Cisco can develop a strategy and vision for new environmental concern to Cisco. To address Cisco’s • Think Green, Act Green: An internal, quarterly marketplaces. impacts in this area, our packaging team designs newsletter summarizes Cisco environmental activities • Circular economy: Work with the Ellen MacArthur packages to protect against shipping damage while for the period. Foundation to provide a coherent framework for a minimizing material usage. • Civic Councils: Cisco sponsors more than 30 Civic transition to a restorative economy. Councils at major Cisco sites around the world. These During product design, packaging engineers work with councils, discussed in more detail in the Society • Operational excellence: Drive sustainability efforts the design teams to reduce protrusions and decrease the section, provide a means for groups of employees across the business, sharing ideas (projects), new fragility of the product as well as its external dimensions. to volunteer in their local communities on social or innovations, and decision-making with accountability These efforts look to reduce the size of the product for environment-related programs. on progress. an overall reduction in packaging use. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F15 < Previous View Products that are damaged in transit have both negative Contents business and environmental impacts because they need Figure 2: Four Dimensions of Environmental Packaging Design to be disposed of and replacement products shipped. Introduction Each packaging design goes through rigorous drop and Governance & Ethics vibration testing to achieve the adequate level of product Packaging Material Optimization protection while minimizing materials usage. Once basic Design a package that adequately protects the product from transport damage/waste while, at the packaging and material requirements have been met, same time, optimizing the volume of material and complying to all relevant environmental regulations. Supply Chain Cisco evaluates four additional aspects of environmental Our People package design, as shown in Figure 2. Society Cisco complies with applicable packaging regulations Space Efficiency Optimization Designing a package that optimizes space/cube efficiency during transport. that restrict the use of heavy metals and dangerous Environment substances in our packaging. For a broader discussion, Overview see Hazardous Materials, page F10. Environmental Optimizing Distribution Sustainability Packaging Material, Space Efficiency, and Designing the product for distribution in order to further reduce the overall amount Distribution Optimization of packaging material used and/or greenhouse gases emitted in transportation. > Materials GRI EN29: Significant environmental impacts of Energy and GHG Emissions transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting Water Use members of the workforce. Environmentally Friendly Materials Biodiversity and Land Use Designing in recycled content and recyclable features. Non-GHG Emissions In FY13, Cisco continued to apply the four dimensions Effluents (Liquid) of environmental packaging design as part of its release process for both new products and some legacy product Waste fulfillment optimization. Comparing these results with • “One size fits all” packaging and fulfillment design offerings. To accelerate results, the ongoing Pack It Green Initiative1 partnered with Cisco to prioritize, design, volume information enabled Cisco to select which strategies to meet varying customer needs and implement improvements across the supply chain product tiers to focus on in FY13. GRI Index In FY13, Cisco addressed these challenges in the and to our customers. Detailed investigations, including multiple customer following ways: Appendix Product packaging efficiencies were measured for all surveys and a six sigma green belt project, were • Increased business participation in Pack It Green by shippable products. In our FY12 CSR report, Cisco performed to determine the most critical root causes of 300 percent defined a packaging efficiency metric as the total, the losses of efficiencies for the targeted tiers. Some of the • Promoted the expansion of known, sustainable total weight of the product packaging over the total notable sources identified include: packaging and fulfillment solutions across the business weight of the entire product (including the packaging); • Lack of internal and external awareness of alternative • Kicked off the development of new strategies or a percent of shipped weight of packaging. Product sustainable packaging and fulfillment solutions and for transport of goods by marrying new material “tiers” were defined based on subcategories of obtained their corresponding environmental and operational technologies, system capabilities, and customer total product and packaging weight. Packaging efficiency benefits feedback ratios for each tier were compared to one another to • Packaging and fulfillment design limitations imposed by identify the largest opportunities for packaging and legacy processes, materials, and tools This section is 1. Pack It Green is a cross-functional, cross-product movement of Cisco employees with a mission to eliminate excess environmental waste and costs associated with the packaging and fulfillment of Cisco’s products, while at bookmark enabled. the same time improving the overall customer experience. “BU Champs” work to identify opportunities, sponsor pilot and best practices projects, and assist in educating others. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F16 < Previous View In total, this work has resulted in savings of approximately Environmentally Friendly Materials a small printed card that replaces large documents with Contents 634 metric tonne and $7.7 million of packaging material links for accessing product documentation and software Most of our packaging parts are made either of one and freight. material or multiple materials that are easily separable on the web. Introduction for recycling. However, the recycled content varies from Governance & Ethics Sustainable Packaging and Fulfillment Solutions item to item and with geographic regions. The ability Recycled Content Cisco’s sustainable packaging and fulfillment solutions of customers to recycle our packaging depends on GRI EN2: Percentage of materials used that are recycled Supply Chain result in a minimum set of supporting materials and, in the recycling facilities in place in their region. Except input materials. some cases, can even eliminate items that customers for metallized antistatic bags, which make up a small Our People may not require. These fall into several categories: fraction of all packaging material, all Cisco packaging Packaging • Primary Product Configurable Options: Primary should be easily recyclable in most markets. In FY13 Society Cisco continued to substitute this metallized antistatic Generally, Cisco product packaging uses corrugated product configurable options have helped to reduce cardboard that includes some recycled content. In and eliminate packaging for years at Cisco. Primary bag with a fully recyclable antistatic bag. Today, most of Environment addition, thermoformed cushions made from 100 percent product packaging is generally designed so that its our optical module spares now ship with this alternative recycled polyethylene are used on some products. Overview internal optional components can ship installed to that recyclable bag. However, this type of cushion is not suitable for every Environmental product whenever possible. product, and therefore some products use foam cushions Sustainability The plastic used in Cisco packaging falls into categories • Secondary Product Configurable Options: Secondary identified by codes 1 to 7. Polyethylene (codes 2 and made from virgin material or recycled substitutes. > Materials product configurable options allow customers to order Cisco products can use recyclable polyethylene bags 4) is the predominant material. Many but not all of the Energy and GHG cables, brackets, and similar components within the for protection and for consolidation of accessory kit plastic components are labeled. Cisco products use Emissions same carton, but not typically installed to the primary subassemblies, but we are reducing the thickness and polyethylene bags for protection or consolidation of Water Use product. accessory kit subassemblies. Over the years, Cisco has quantity of the bags we ship with our products while Biodiversity and Land Use • Multipack Products (Ecopack Products): Like products reduced the thickness of many bags such as these to maintaining adequate product protection. Non-GHG Emissions are sold in a specific volume under a unique product eliminate waste while still protecting the product. Although Cisco promotes the use of recyclable packaging Effluents (Liquid) identifier or PID. whenever possible, some applications require the use Waste • Bulk Pack: Like products are shipped in a carton Products of dissimilar materials joined together that cannot easily optimized for an order of the specified size. Understanding the materials that make up our products be recycled; for example, metallized static-shielding • E-Delivery: Software and licensing certificates are helps us identify opportunities to reduce or eliminate bags (ESD bags). When these nonrecyclable materials GRI Index delivered electronically. waste. Over the past four years, Cisco has used product are needed, we minimize the quantity and amount of dematerialization projects to identify and remove material used in the bags. Cisco continues to evaluate • Dense Pack: Optimized supply chain packaging Appendix noncritical or duplicative items that sometimes ship with internal reuse programs for these materials. Where the enables efficient transport of goods between our our products. These efforts have included the removal of amount and type of protection required permits, we use virtual factories. unnecessary accessory kit items, such as documentation, alternatives like antistatic recyclable poly bags. Best practices developed for these categories are bags, and hardware, from our products. And product regularly incorporated into our product design process design with the minimal amount of materials, compatible Products through our design-for-environment guidelines; see with performance and reliability, is a key requirement for In addition to recycled packaging content, most Design for Environment, page F10. our products. products have material that has been recycled from other products. Electronic products consist primarily of These packaging strategies not only reduce our material Similar to our Sustainable Packaging and Fulfillment electronic circuit boards, steel, and plastics. In general, usage, but also help reduce GHG emissions through Solution, best practices developed in our the steel enclosures and structures of our products utilize lower transportation weights. To learn more about Cisco’s dematerialization projects are incorporated into our recycled materials that are consistent with safety and efforts in this area, see Scope 3 Logistics, page F32. product design cycle. One example is the pointer card, performance requirements. We use reground plastic This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F17 < Previous View (a product of the excess material manufacturing) in • All plastic parts are free of metal inlays and can be 3. Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net, consumption-weighted Contents certain portions of our IP phones. Printed circuit boards separated with common tools, improving recyclability. electricity emission factor to half of the latest typically use recycled material, such as copper, and most International Energy Agency (IEA) world average Introduction electronic components make use of recycled material emission factor publicly available before the end Governance & Ethics that is reclaimed from electronics recycling. Energy and GHG Emissions of FY17 4. Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit Supply Chain Our dematerialization efforts help optimize the This section reviews Cisco’s environmental impacts and of revenue worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 amount and type of auxiliary items shipped without our initiatives concerning energy and GHG emissions. The baseline) Our People compromising the customer experience or product Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 indicator protocols quality. For items that we can’t eliminate or minimize place GHG emissions under the Emissions, Effluents, and 5. Use electricity generated from renewable sources Society further, we work toward using as many recyclable and Waste category. Because Cisco GHG emissions are almost for at least 25 percent of our electricity every year recycled materials as possible. For example, recycled all directly associated with the use of energy (typically through FY17 Environment content documentation is a Cisco standard. Many of our electricity), we report GHG emissions with energy. Cisco has been recognized for our GHG reporting by Overview documentation vendors are Forest Stewardship Council Greenpeace and CDP. (FSC) certified. Cisco has achieved two GHG emission reduction goals: Environmental • In April 2013, Greenpeace rated Cisco #1 in its Cool Sustainability • September 2006: Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) Our print vendors use state-of-the-art processes to IT Challenge Leaderboard (v6). We were rated #2 in Materials commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco minimize their environmental impact, and we encourage the previous iteration of the Leaderboard. Cisco did business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute > Energy and GHG our vendors to use natural inks where practical. However, particularly well on reporting our GHG emissions, Emissions by FY09 (against a FY06 baseline). This CGI goal was where clarity is important (safety materials, operating addressing our energy footprint with updates to our met in 2009, and the commitment has been closed. Water Use instructions), the vendor is expected to use a type of ink energy and GHG goals, providing ICT solutions that that does not bleed or fade. • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to our customers can use to reduce their GHG emissions, Biodiversity and Land Use reduce all Scope 1, 2, and business-air-travel Scope and calculating the impact of these solutions. Non-GHG Emissions In addition to reducing the paper use associated with 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute Effluents (Liquid) • In September 2013, Cisco tied for the top spot — along product documentation, Cisco optimizes the thickness by end of CY12 (CY07 baseline). This goal was met in with six other companies — on CDP’s Global 500 with Waste and types of plastic bags shipped with our products. This 2012, and the commitment has been closed. a disclosure score of 100 and an “A” performance allows us to use bags of the appropriate size, type, and In February 2013, Cisco announced a set of five new rating. We were alone in first place in the IT sector. We thickness for the items they are protecting and to be as goals related to its operational energy use and GHG also were at the top of the S&P 500 assessment, tied GRI Index efficient as possible with the plastic bags we ship with emissions. We believe formal goals should address the with two other U.S.-based companies. These rankings our products. most material environmental issues — which for Cisco are based on information submitted to CDP in June Appendix are GHG and energy. Experience with our past goals 2013.1 We also have been on the Carbon Disclosure We have incorporated new DfE guidelines, including and suggestions from stakeholders helped to inform the Leadership Index (CDLI) for six years in a row. For a design-for-recyclability and recycling marking (SPI establishment of our new goals: long-term problem like climate change, consistently codes) to aid separation, identification, and recycling of high rankings over an extended period are strong materials. For example: 1. Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions evidence of a company’s commitment to improving • All mechanical parts greater than 100 grams consist of worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions disclosure and one material. baseline) performance. • Plastic parts greater than 25 grams are designed with 2. Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 material coding, as per ISO 11469, so plastic material emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 In April 2013, Cisco was recognized as the 2013 Uptime types can be more easily identified at the recycler. (FY07 baseline) Institute Green Enterprise IT Award (GEIT) winner in the This section is 1. For this year’s CSR report, we are changing the reporting window to include CDP scoring released in September 2013 (after the fiscal year covered by this report) bookmark enabled. because the scoring is for Cisco work completed in the covered fiscal year. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F18 < Previous View Green Digital Infrastructure category. The awards go For additional information about awards Cisco received in GRI EN16: Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by Contents each year to companies that significantly improve energy 2013 for its CSR efforts, visit our website. weight. productivity and resource use in IT. Cisco was cited for Introduction its implementation of a global Lab Energy Management See Table 4 for our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions KPIs. Operations Scope 1 and 2 Governance & Ethics program in FY12 and FY13. GRI EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy All prior-year Scope 1, 2, and 3 business-air-travel In February 2013, Cisco also was recognized for its source. emissions data vary to some extent from previously Supply Chain leadership in addressing GHG emissions in its supply reported values, either in the most recent CDP survey GRI EN4: Indirect energy consumption by primary energy or in our FY12 CSR Report, because of updates to Our People chain through the EPA Climate Leadership awards. For source. emissions factors, methodology, structural adjustments more information, see the Supply Chain section. Society from acquisitions or divestitures, and correction of Environment Table 4: Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Overview Environmental FY07 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Sustainability KPI Baseline Year1 Materials Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 1, metric 50,578 52,560 52,515 60,718 65,832 55,811 Gross is used consistent with CDP > Energy and GHG tonne CO2e terminology. Gross GHG emissions do not Emissions include reductions from renewable energy Water Use purchases. Biodiversity and Land Use Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 2, metric 451,647 575,555 581,252 599,528 628,164 666,393 Non-GHG Emissions tonne CO2e Effluents (Liquid) Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 2, 385,911 220,320 323,626 356,209 185,840 256,714 Contractual is used consistent with CDP Waste metric tonne CO2e terminology. Contractual GHG emissions include reductions from renewable energy purchases. GRI Index Scope 1 and 2 emissions (gross) intensity, 14.4 17.4 15.8 15.3 15.1 14.9 Gross intensity is a measure of operational metric tonne CO2e per million dollars of efficiency commonly used by many Cisco Appendix revenue stakeholders. Scope 2 emissions from primary data, percent 96.0% 96.8% 98.5% 97.9% 97.9% 96.3% Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 436,489 272,880 376,141 416,927 251,672 312,525 Values from 2012 CSR Report have been 2, metric tonne CO2e updated. Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -37% -14% -4% -42% -28% Cisco’s new corporate GHG reduction goal Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, Scope 1 and 2, was announced in February 2013. GHG emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the last five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F19 < Previous View minor errors found upon repeated review. To support and Scope 2 emission sources and Scope 3 businessincreasing as Cisco grows in emerging markets where Contents standardization and benchmarking across companies, air-travel emissions. In FY13, this limited assurance low-carbon and no-carbon electricity is not readily Cisco uses the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting review was provided in accordance with the ISO 14064-3 available. Introduction and Reporting Standard as the basis for our Scope 1, International Standard. Governance & Ethics 2, and 3 business-air-travel emissions calculations. The Reducing Emissions from Operations EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership provides Table 5 provides use-weighted electricity emission GRI EN5: Energy saved due to conservation and Supply Chain additional program guidance. factor KPIs for all Cisco facilities, as well as for our efficiency improvements. major data centers. As the table shows, Cisco’s average Our People Cisco has reported to the CDP every year since the (gross) electricity emission factor for its global facilities GRI EN7: Initiatives to reduce indirect energy survey has been distributed. The CDP is an independent, and data centers are both 17 percent lower than the consumption, and reductions achieved. Society not-for-profit organization that holds the largest global average. When factoring in Cisco’s purchases of repository of GHG emissions data in the world. The CDP renewable energy, Cisco’s average, contractual emission GRI EN18: Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Environment questionnaire and our answers provide a comprehensive factor drops even lower and is 68 percent lower than emissions, and reductions achieved. Overview view of the following topics related to climate change: the global average. This is not only a reflection of Cisco risks and opportunities, actual emissions, reduction goals, locating the majority of its facilities in grid locations where GRI EN30: Total environmental protection expenditures Environmental avoided emissions, and regulatory and policy activities. low-carbon to no-carbon grid electricity is available, but and investments by type. Sustainability also due to Cisco’s strong engagement with utilities and Materials Reducing our energy consumption and enabling a diverse Each year, Cisco has an independent third party review green power providers to procure renewable energy > Energy and GHG our GHG inventory, including all emissions relevant to our for its facilities. The ongoing challenge in future years energy supply for our facilities makes good business Emissions current GHG reduction goals, which includes Scope 1 sense and benefits the environment. A number of will be to prevent these average emission factors from Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Table 5: Electricity Emissions Factors Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) FY07 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments KPI Waste Baseline Year1 IEA world average emission factor, 507.1 502.3 502.3 502.3 502.3 528.7 Calendar year per IEA. Latest 2010 emission g CO2e per kWh factor from IEA value used for 2010-2013. GRI Index Cisco, global average electricity emission 439.1 454.9 458.8 443.2 428.7 438.1 Values from 2012 CSR Report have been Appendix factor (gross), g CO2e per kWh updated. Cisco, major data center average electricity 394.9 418.8 435.4 435.0 423.0 438.2 emission factor (gross), g CO2e per kWh Cisco, global average electricity emission 375.2 174.1 255.5 263.3 126.8 168.8 factor (contractual), g CO2e per kWh Percent progress against reduction goal. -26% -65% -49% -48% -75% -68% Goal: Reduce Cisco’s FY17, net, consumptionweighted, electricity emission factor to half of the latest IEA world average emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17. This section is 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the last five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F20 < Previous View energy-related programs and projects were implemented of $13.7 million in energy conservation projects. Contents in FY13 that helped Cisco reduce its energy costs and Since FY09, we estimate this strategy has conserved GHG emissions. In addition, in FY13 Cisco approved approximately 177 million kWh of energy and avoided Introduction $57.5 million in funding to implement a suite of energy 72,800 metric tonne CO2e; these projects are described Governance & Ethics efficiency and renewable energy projects throughout our in more detail in the next sections. Table 6 shows Cisco’s real estate portfolio between FY14 and FY17. This funding KPIs for energy and GHG emission reduction projects. Supply Chain will not only help us achieve our new set of energy and GHG reduction goals, but help us stay competitive and See Table 7 for a summary of all of our energy-related Our People reinforce our commitment to being environmentally KPIs. responsible. Society Global Space Policy and Cisco Connected Our strategy to reduce energy consumption and GHG Workplace Environment emissions from our operations is to: As a result of Cisco’s new building space policy, Overview • Continue to deploy global space policy and the Cisco which was approved in FY11, we have expanded and Bedfont Lakes Customer Briefing Center, Feltham, United Kingdom Environmental Connected Workplace, which increases the utilization will continue to expand the use of Cisco Connected Sustainability of our office space Workplace (CCW) in our real estate portfolio by requiring eight of our buildings into the CCW environment from that all new and renovation projects must comply with Materials • Improve the efficiency of our buildings, with a focus FY13 to FY17. This plan will decrease Cisco’s buildingCCW design specifications. By the end of FY13, CCW > Energy and GHG on our engineering labs, which are Cisco’s largest related energy use and GHG emissions by increasing represented approximately 29.6 percent of Cisco’s total Emissions consumers of electricity and biggest source of GHG the density in our remaining buildings and reducing our office space. This is one of the most cost-effective GHGWater Use emissions facility footprint by approximately 1 million square feet. reduction strategies that we are deploying in our real Biodiversity and Land Use • Purchase electricity from certified low-carbon and estate operations because it helps increase the utilization Non-GHG Emissions renewable sources, where available and limit the growth of our office space, even as we Labs increase our headcount. In addition, in FY13 we approved Reducing electricity consumption is a priority for Cisco Effluents (Liquid) Through this strategy, Cisco estimates that in FY13 we because Scope 2 emissions from electricity consumption a master plan to revitalize our San Jose headquarters by Waste conserved approximately 76.5 million kWh of energy and implementing various facility upgrades and converting make up more than 91 percent of our worldwide total avoided 34,000 metric tonne CO2e through an investment Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Considering that over 60 GRI Index Table 6: Energy and GHG Emission Reduction Projects Appendix KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Number of projects implemented 31 21 19 26 103 Annual energy savings, million kWh/yr 12.4 7.4 16.8 15.6 76.5 Total estimated annual CO2e savings, tCO2e/yr 5,500 3,300 7,400 7,300 34,000 This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F21 < Previous View Contents Table 7: Energy Totals Introduction FY07 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments KPI Baseline Year1 Governance & Ethics Energy usage, GWh 1,254 1,500 1,491 1,613 1,750 1,763 Supply Chain Indirect energy usage, GWh 1,029 1,265 1,267 1,353 1,465 1,521 Indirect energy usage is electricity Our People consumption. Society Direct energy usage, GWh 225 235 224 260 285 241 Direct energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas and diesel usage for Environment heating and backup power generation and regular gasoline and diesel fuel used in Overview Cisco’s fleet. Environmental Electricity usage, GWh 1,029 1,265 1,267 1,353 1,465 1,521 Sustainability Materials Natural gas usage, GWh 148 143 115 118 144 111 > Energy and GHG Emissions Energy use per unit of revenue, GWh of energy 35.92 41.54 37.24 37.31 37.99 36.26 Note: Energy use per unit of revenue is one consumed per billion dollars in revenue of our five new goals; we have reported Water Use historical values where available. Biodiversity and Land Use Percent progress against reduction goal. n/a +15.6% +3.7% +3.9% +5.8% +0.1% Non-GHG Emissions Goal: Reduce total Cisco operational energy Effluents (Liquid) use per unit of revenue worldwide by 15 Waste percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline) 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the last five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. GRI Index percent of our electricity is used to power and cool • Lab technology: Installing approximately 11,000 smart not have been a success. We deployed a number of Appendix equipment in our engineering and services labs, making power distribution units (PDUs) to monitor power and employee engagement strategies to achieve the level of our labs more energy efficient represents a large control the use of our lab equipment commitment necessary, including: opportunity to reduce GHG and energy costs. • Change management: Deploying multiple employee • Energy champion: We recruited employees who work engagement strategies to educate our employees in the labs to be “on-the-ground” change agents As a result, we have executed a global Lab Energy and provide incentives for labs to actively monitor and and help drive a more personal energy conservation Management program from FY12 to FY13 to reduce conserve energy message throughout Cisco. electricity consumption in our labs in the following areas: • Digital signage: In over 200 of our largest labs, we • Infrastructure: Improving air flow management, All three objectives were important to the success of installed digital signs that show informative content ventilation, cooling, and similar building infrastructure the Lab Energy Management program, but the change such as lab energy consumption statistics, tips on systems management track was crucial. Our lab employees how to save energy in labs, and winners of energy manage the lab equipment on a daily basis, and without conservation awards. their buy-in and commitment, the program would This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F22 < Previous View • Enterprise collaboration platform: We utilized Cisco savings during Cisco’s FY13 year-end shutdown This multimillion-dollar strategy was approved for funding Contents WebEx Social technology and set up an online period. Reward programs have been standardized so at the end of FY11 and was deployed across the lab community that allowed lab employees to network they can be easily and effectively applied during any community in FY12 and FY13. When the program was Introduction with one another, ask questions, get feedback, submit global opportunity for extended power down, from completed at the end of FY13, it had achieved annualized Governance & Ethics ideas, and stay informed on the overall program. Thanksgiving holiday in the United States to Lunar electricity savings of approximately $8 million and • Energy management plans and performance goals: New Year in China. avoided approximately 30,000 metric tonne CO2e. Supply Chain We developed detailed energy management plans • Education and training: We created over 10 online Cisco plans on continuing many aspects of the Lab and performance goals that labs and employees could courses to provide detailed training on the various Our People adopt and get credit for their energy conservation tracks and technology components of the program and Energy Management program, in particular the change management tracks, to help achieve our next set of accomplishments from their own business unit. teach employees how to participate in the program to Society energy and GHG reduction goals. A continuation plan • Rewards and recognition: We created regular maximize energy reductions. has already been developed and implemented so that Environment opportunities for employees to be rewarded and • Program branding and marketing: To increase program the results achieved during the program are retained and recognized for exemplary energy conservation adoption and participation, we created a formal expanded. Overview efforts. For example, we recognized the employees marketing and communications plan that included Environmental of eight labs that achieved at least 60 percent energy imagery, taglines, and messaging campaigns. Sustainability Materials > Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste GRI Index Appendix Photo: Ned Bagno This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F23 < Previous View Data Centers • Low-E glass windows Contents In the last two years, Cisco has opened new energy• Reclaimed water use in cooling towers (North Carolina) Introduction efficient data centers in Research Triangle Park, North • Non-chemical water treatment system Carolina, and in Allen, Texas. The data centers are Governance & Ethics designed to achieve a Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) • Water-efficient plumbing metric of 1.41 and 1.35 at full load, respectively. Both • Occupancy sensors integrated with lighting and Supply Chain have achieved a Leadership in Energy and Environmental temperature controls Design (LEED)-NC Gold Certification (v2.2) from the U.S. Our People • Landfill diversion during construction Green Building Council. In these data center designs, Cisco incorporated numerous features to reduce energy For more information on the design and construction of Society consumption and environmental impacts, including: our latest green data centers, visit our website to select Environment • Chimney rack hot-air isolation for improved cooling from a list of case studies. efficiency Overview Building Energy Efficiency • Waterside and airside economization Cisco LEED Platinum-certified facility, Bangalore, India Environmental Cisco takes three parallel approaches to making our real Sustainability • Variable frequency drives on major equipment, estate portfolio as energy efficient as possible: Cisco worked closely with our legal counsel and real Materials including pumps, chillers, and computer-room air • Incorporate efficiency into new or significantly estate partner to create “green leasing” terms and to handler units > Energy and GHG renovated spaces by following standards in integrate these terms into our standard lease template Emissions • Higher-voltage electrical service distribution of in the United States and Canada. Green leases provide accordance with the U.S. Green Building Council LEED Water Use 480/277V; rack distribution of 415/230V corporations with a valuable opportunity to communicate standards Biodiversity and Land Use • 100 kW solar photovoltaic cells on building roofs and implement sustainability goals as well as to provide a • Apply Cisco’s “green leasing” standards in selecting foundation for measurement. We applied these standards Non-GHG Emissions • Heat recovery from data hall for office space use leased space and work with landlords to improve the globally in FY11. In FY13, we negotiated green leasing Effluents (Liquid) (North Carolina) energy efficiency of their buildings terms into ten lease agreements representing over Waste • LED exterior lighting • Identify and implement energy-efficiency projects 300,000 square feet of leased office space. The green throughout our global operations leasing terms in our standard template vary depending on the size of the premises and the length of the lease We have made significant progress toward integrating agreement, but in general, the larger the premises GRI Index green building standards into our real estate since our and the longer the lease, the more comprehensive the Appendix first LEED-certified building was built in August 2009. By green leasing terms. Sample terms in the green leasing the end of FY13, 23 Cisco facilities had achieved LEED template include: certification, 16 of them Gold or Platinum status. These • Temperature controls include our newest data center in Allen, Texas, and a renovated data center in Research Triangle Park, North • Sub-meters for major utilities Carolina, which both achieved LEED Gold certifications. • Building recycling program It also includes our latest renovation project in Bangalore, • No chlorofluorocarbons used in HVAC system India, completed in July 2012, where Building 16 received one of the highest-rated Platinum LEED ID+C scores in • Bicycle storage and facilities in which cycling the world (96 points). We now incorporate LEED elements commuters can change for work into the design standards for new construction and • Green building certification (LEED, BREEAM, ENERGY Cisco data center, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina renovation projects. STAR) This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F24 < Previous View Incorporating these terms into leases is important for of our buildings. Cisco incorporated energy-efficiency these systems collectively produced 270,000 kWh of Contents Cisco because approximately half of Cisco’s real estate requirements as part of our facility management electricity for Cisco, saving $16,000 and avoiding 170 footprint is leased, and the leases are often long-term contracts. For each year of the five-year contract, our metric tonne CO2e of GHG emissions. Cisco evaluated Introduction commitments. In addition, if we do not specify any green partners are required to identify and implement various additional locations for installing solar PV systems in Governance & Ethics leasing requirements at the time of leasing, it can be energy-efficiency projects at Cisco facilities. In FY13, FY13, and as a result, Cisco has begun to implement difficult to incorporate these requirements later. approximately $13.7 million in energy-efficiency projects more than a megawatt of new onsite solar PV within Supply Chain were identified and implemented across many Cisco our real estate portfolio and expects to install additional Not all of the terms in Cisco’s green lease template are facilities, including: capacity in FY15 and beyond if prices for this technology Our People mandatory for every lease. At a minimum, the template is • Improving lighting efficiency remain at their current levels or decrease. a tool for Cisco to negotiate with the landlord to promote Society Cisco’s sustainability goals in its leased facilities, namely • De-lamping vending machines Onsite Power Generation: Cogeneration for the landlord to provide facilities that are healthy, • Installing variable frequency drives Cisco installed a 425 kW cogeneration system on Environment efficient, and sustainable now and throughout the term • Performing buildingand lab-specific energy audits its campus in Bedfont Lakes, U.K., which became Overview of the lease. operational in FY13. This system supplies both normal • Improving lab air distribution with blanking panels and Environmental and emergency power to a critical lab facility on the Global Energy Management diffusers Sustainability campus as well as cooling through an absorption chiller. Cisco maintains a global energy management and • Retrocommissioning facilities By operating the waste-heat recovery capabilities, the Materials sustainability team that actively identifies and manages • Upgrading HVAC systems system reduced GHG emissions by more than 800 > Energy and GHG energy efficiency and onsite power generation metric tonne CO2e in FY13. In addition, the team is now Emissions opportunities across our global real estate portfolio. This Onsite Power Generation: Solar evaluating using residual heat from the chiller cycle Water Use team includes Cisco employees as well as dedicated In FY11 and FY12, Cisco installed and commissioned for under-floor heating in a planned childcare center. Biodiversity and Land Use energy managers from our current facility management Based on the results of this project, Cisco is evaluating solar photovoltaic (PV) systems at our data centers in Non-GHG Emissions partners, CB Richard Ellis and Johnson Controls, which Allen, Texas, and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. additional locations where similar systems would provide Effluents (Liquid) manage the day-to-day operation and maintenance Both pilot systems have a capacity of 100 kW. In FY13, economic and environmental benefit. Waste Table 8: FY13 Electricity Usage from Renewable Sources GRI Index Region Percent of FY13 Electricity from Renewable Sources Appendix FY07 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Baseline Year1 Europe 31.4% 62.6% 65.4% 64.4% 61.8% 73.0% United States 9.5% 41.2% 28.6% 27.4% 43.6% 40.3% Global 10.7% 37.0% 27.7% 26.5% 37.7% 34.4% Solar array at Cisco’s Allen, Texas data center 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the last five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F25 < Previous View Purchasing Renewable Energy Purchasing electricity generated from renewable and Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities, Contents non-carbon sources is an important component of our and while our Scope 3 reporting has been primarily The percent of electricity purchased from renewable energy sources for various regions is shown in Table 8. GHG reduction strategy. Cisco purchases renewable focused on reducing emissions related to business air Introduction This year we have added historical data to this table to power where it is available in the local power market. travel, we have expanded our efforts to address life Governance & Ethics accompany our new renewable energy goal; see goal We currently purchase power from noor low-carbon cycle emissions, including our supply chain, logistics, number five, page F17. sources in the United States and Europe, and have product use phase, and end of life. Cisco provides a Supply Chain recently established purchasing contracts for renewable comprehensive response to Scope 3 questions on the Cisco has increased renewable power purchases since power in India starting in FY14. We plan to support noor CDP Investor survey. Cisco also initiated the GHGP Our People FY06 by buying Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) low-carbon energy sources in other regions of the world Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement under the and by entering into green power contracts with various as they become available in the marketplace. Cisco’s auspices of the WRI and WBCSD. The following sections Society electricity suppliers in the United States. In FY13, Cisco global renewable electricity purchases are summarized in provide additional detail on our Scope 3 emissions purchased 425 million kWh of RECs and green power Table 9. reporting and reduction activities. Environment that was certified by Green-e, an independent auditor of Overview renewable energy products, generated by wind projects Operations Scope 3 Scope 3 Business Air Travel Environmental in Texas and the eGRID Midwest Regional Organization GRI EN29: Significant environmental impacts of GRI EN17: Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight. Sustainability West (MROW) region. Additionally, Cisco purchased transporting products and other goods and materials approximately 98 million kWh through various European used for the organization’s operations, and transporting Materials Cisco has prioritized its Scope 3 operations-related green power suppliers. We continue to follow the members of the workforce. > Energy and GHG efforts on reducing business-air-travel emissions and guidelines from DEFRA, and we use the grid average Emissions developing business processes, management practices, emission factor when calculating emissions associated Cisco believes that the global problem of climate change Water Use information systems, and standardized methodologies for with green power purchased in Europe. requires a significant reduction in emissions in absolute using network technologies to reduce air travel. During Biodiversity and Land Use terms. For its operations, Cisco has made the following this time, Cisco actively participated in the development Non-GHG Emissions Cisco participates in the U.S. EPA’s Green Power public commitments that impact Scope 3 emissions: of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) Scope 3 and Partnership. As of July 2013, Cisco was listed twelfth Effluents (Liquid) GHGP Product accounting standards led by the World • September 2006: Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) among the National Top 50 and ninth among Fortune 500 Waste Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco companies in the EPA’s green power ranking. This ranking Sustainable Development (WBCSD). business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute is updated quarterly by the U.S. EPA. by FY09 (against a FY06 baseline). This goal was met in 2009 and the commitment closed. GRI Index Table 9: Renewable Energy • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to Appendix reduce all Scope 1 and 2 and business-air-travel FY07 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent KPI Baseline Year1 absolute by end of CY12 (CY07 baseline). This goal was met in 2012 and the commitment closed. Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 469 351 358 552 523 • February 2013: Cisco announced a new goal to reduce GHG emissions reduction from renewable 66,000 355,000 258,000 243,000 442,000 410,000 total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 emissions energy, metric tonne CO2e worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Percent progress against reduction goal. 10.7% 37.0% 27.7% 26.5% 37.7% 34.4% Goal: Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 percent of our electricity every year through FY17 This section is 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the last five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F26 < Previous View Contents Table 10: Scope 3 Air-Travel Greenhouse Gas Emissions FY07 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Introduction KPI Baseline Year1 Governance & Ethics Total Scope 3 air-travel GHG emissions, metric 205,796 118,602 106,783 127,293 139,431 * Primary air-travel data adjusted to represent tonne CO2e 100 percent of Cisco business air travel. Supply Chain Percent Scope 3 air-travel emissions from 98.0% 97.9% 96.1% 98.2% 98.2% * primary data Our People Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -42% -48% -38% -32% * Society Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, business-air-travel, Scope 3 emissions worldwide by 40% Environment absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) Overview 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the last five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. * To be updated later. Environmental Sustainability This section reviews our progress in meeting our Scope A limited assurance review of our FY13 Scope 3 air-travel the larger Cisco TelePresence rooms is constrained by Materials 3 emission goals. Cisco’s total global GHG emissions emissions data and calculations was performed by a third room availability or substantial time differences between > Energy and GHG from business air travel over the last five fiscal years party. Our Scope 3 emissions reporting process has been endpoints. Emissions (including our baseline year FY07) are shown in Table 10. audited in the past by both our internal audit team and our Water Use Table 11 illustrates our rollout of Cisco TelePresence external ISO 14001 auditor, and was included in the scope Biodiversity and Land Use To date we have not adopted different emissions factors of an internal GHG and energy management audit in FY13. across the company since September 2006, the first Non-GHG Emissions for different classes of air service, for two reasons. First, quarter of FY07. An Executive Briefing Center (EBC) our focus is on using remote collaboration technologies Reducing GHG Emissions from Scope 3 Business refers to one of numerous regional meeting facilities Effluents (Liquid) to avoid travel. Reporting reduced emissions because Air Travel that Cisco uses for presentations to customers. Some Waste a larger fraction of employees flew economy class this To replace physical travel and meet our business year compared to last year moves the focus away from air travel reduction goal, we rely on Cisco remote travel substitution. Second, we are unsure how to treat collaboration technologies, including Cisco TelePresence, GRI Index emissions factors for different classes of air travel for a products from the acquisition of Tandberg, and Cisco given company. Even though Cisco is a large company, it WebEx desktop conferencing. Appendix is likely that scheduled air service has not been changed by our reduction in air travel, even reductions measured Worldwide utilization of general-use immersive Cisco in hundreds of thousands of flights per year. (That is, TelePresence units has increased slightly from last the same number of planes are still flying.) Of course, year, from just under 50 percent to 56 percent, both as more companies adopt these network technologies, percentages based on an eight-hour day. Many Cisco the number of plane flights should decrease. Therefore, TelePresence units are booked at or over 100 percent we have chosen not to complicate what is inherently a capacity. The larger, three-screen systems have the conceptual reduction by considering class of service highest utilization rate. For example, our CTS-3200 series flown in selecting emissions factors. We use DEFRA airunits, which seat up to 18 people, have a 75% utilization travel emissions factors in our calculations. rate based on an eight-hour day (down slightly from 80% reported in our 2012 CSR Report). Higher utilization of Cisco TelePresence CTS-3000 unit (6 users) connecting with a TelePresence CTS-3200 unit (18 users) This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F27 < Previous View employees have Cisco TelePresence units in private Contents offices, typically the CTS-500 model, and these private Table 11: Cisco-internal TelePresence Room Cumulative Deployment units are also tallied in Table 11 along with the Cisco Introduction Cumulative, as of End of Total Number of Cisco Total Number of Cities Total Number of Countries TelePresence units in our EBC facilities. Fiscal Year TelePresence Rooms Governance & Ethics As of the end of FY13 and in addition to the Cisco 2007 (general use) 72 50 20 Supply Chain TelePresence units reported in Table 11, about 8,100 2008 (general use) 179 109 37 Cisco employees also have personal, high-definition Our People videoconferencing capability — either hardware-based 2009 (general use) 369 156 44 (e.g., C40, EX90, MX200, Profile) and/or software2010 (general use) 534 214 59 Society based (Movi). This substantial installed base of personal Cisco TelePresence units, located in Cisco buildings 2011 (general use) 601 238 67 Environment and/or at employee homes, leverage video bridge 2012 (general use) 956 254 69 Overview capability available in our Cisco TelePresence Server product, further increasing the options for remote 2013 (general use) 1097 263 72 Environmental Sustainability collaboration among Cisco employees and our customers 2007 (private or EBC) 26 6 3 and stakeholders our stakeholders. Using our bridge Materials 2008 (private or EBC) 53 12 7 products, all Cisco and third-party standards-based > Energy and GHG video endpoints can attend any given videoconference. 2009 (private or EBC) 179 47 21 Emissions Water Use 2010 (private or EBC) 334 73 26 Biodiversity and Land Use 2011 (private or EBC) 433 98 28 Non-GHG Emissions 2012 (private or EBC) 453 95 28 Effluents (Liquid) 2013 (private or EBC) 460 90 27 Waste We have installed various Cisco TelePresence models can be virtualized and more physical travel can be GRI Index at many locations to accommodate the different avoided, reducing travel and commuting expenses and requirements of each site. This includes models that GHG emissions. Appendix accommodate anywhere from one or two users in a private office setting to larger group meetings of up to We also use Cisco WebEx to collaborate virtually with Endpoints compatible with Cisco TelePresence Server. 18 people in a single room connecting with multiple other Cisco employees, our customers, our partners, and TelePresence suites of varying sizes. Our Cisco other stakeholders. Table 12 shows that our use of these In addition to the Cisco TelePresence units in Table 11 TelePresence Server product can be configured in a products continues to grow, mirroring a similar growth in and the personal videoconferencing capability mentioned four-blade cluster for up to 96 high-definition (720p/30 the use of Cisco TelePresence. A “people-hour,” as used previously, Cisco also has provided about 400 desktop fps) endpoint screens, although our standard, internal in the table, is one person attending a remote meeting for videoconferencing units in the buildings that have implementation is limited to 48 screens for any given one hour, either by teleconference or using the web and implemented Cisco Connected Workplace (shared office videoconference meeting. By having a range of Cisco a personal computer. Five people attending a two-hour space). Many employees have also installed Cisco Jabber TelePresence units available, more types of interactions meeting would equal 10 people-hours. Video software (externally hosted “Movi”) on their laptops or compatible software on their phones or tablets. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F28 < Previous View Contents Table 12: Cisco WebEx Usage Figure 3: Avoided CO2 Emissions from Use of Remote Collaboration Introduction Total Web Conferencing Technologies (data through 2011) Fiscal Year (in millions of people-hours) Governance & Ethics 45 2011 2007 4.7 Supply Chain 40 2010 Tandberg acquisition 2008 2008 7.7 (FQ3) Our People 35 2009 2007 CGI commitment (FQ1) 2009 13.9 Society TelePresence start (FQ1) 2010 18.5 30 CISCO REVENUE ($US BILLION) Environment 2006 WebEx acquisition 2011 23.0 (mid-year FQ3) Overview 25 2005 2012 23.4 2004 Environmental Sustainability 20 2011 2013 30.9 60,000 CISCO AVERAGE DAILY HEADCOUNT Materials 2009 2008 > Energy and GHG 15 Emissions 2010 Tandberg Cisco TelePresence and WebEx now interoperate 50,000 acquisition (FQ3) 2007 CGI commitment (FQ1) Water Use (WebEx users see TelePresence video), expanding the 10 TelePresence start (FQ1) Biodiversity and Land Use types of remote collaboration experiences that are made 2006 WebEx acquisition 40,000 Non-GHG Emissions possible with our network technologies. 5 (mid-year FQ3) Effluents (Liquid) 2005 We use TelePresence, Tandberg products, and web 2004 Waste 0 30,000 conferencing for virtual company meetings, executive 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 400,000 operational reviews, department “all hands” meetings, our annual sales meeting, and our annual senior GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNE CO2e) GRI Index leadership “offsite” meeting, thereby expanding the types of interactions that can effectively be completed Appendix remotely. About one quarter of our global ISO 14001 site audits were performed using Cisco remote collaboration However, in response to stakeholder inquiries, Cisco Cisco’s acquisition of WebEx in mid-FY06, the start solutions. This real-world experience guides product has compared changes to our actual air-travel emissions of Cisco TelePresence use and our CGI air-travel development and helps with the rollout of supporting against changes to revenue and headcount. Revenue emissions reduction commitment in early FY07, and our management practices. and headcount are the two factors believed to be the Tandberg acquisition in the second half of FY10 also are primary drivers of air travel. In Figure 3, actual emissions shown. From FY04 to FY06, changes to GHG emissions Avoided GHG Emissions from Scope 3 Business on the x-axis are plotted against revenue (light green were roughly proportional to changes in revenue and line, left axis) and headcount (dark green line, right axis). headcount. This observation is consistent with the fact Air Travel These plots clearly show a bending of the curve toward that about two-thirds of Cisco’s air-travel emissions It is difficult to project with certainty what might reduction and away from business-as-usual emissions were from our sales and service organizations, both have happened to Cisco air-travel emissions without growth. “high touch” business functions. The more products sold widespread use of these collaborative technologies. and the more customers Cisco serves, the greater the This section is potential for business travel. bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F29 < Previous View Air-travel emissions are provided in Table 10, page F26. including Cisco Virtual Office and Cisco OfficeExtend. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Contents In prior years, Cisco worked to first overcome upward Cisco Virtual Office provides wired and wireless voice, Electric vehicles are becoming more common, particularly pressure on travel from business growth and then to data, and video service for small commercial offices or in locations where Cisco has major operations, including Introduction achieve absolute reductions in emissions compared an employee’s home. OfficeExtend is a simpler, remote California and North Carolina. One of the biggest Governance & Ethics to the base year. As a result of this earlier effort, we wireless access point in the employee’s home that concerns that prevent people from purchasing electric experienced an initial reduction in air-travel emissions provides secure communications to a WLAN controller at vehicles is the limited range. Deployment of charging Supply Chain starting in FY08. As the economy has slowly recovered, the company campus. stations is progressing, with models that include public our travel has increased over the last several years, stations, stations affiliated with retail outlets, and for-fee Our People but we successfully met our FY12 reduction goal. The As shown in Table 13, employees have rapidly adopted charging stations. However, because charging is still a net effect of our collaborative technologies has been a Cisco Virtual Office, which includes an Integrated very time-consuming process (it takes approximately 2 Society reduction in travel, carbon emissions, and travel costs Services Router and IP phone, to effectively work hours to provide 40 miles of charge), the workplace is a and an increase in employee productivity and work-life remotely. Although telecommuting or working in a logical place for charging stations. Environment balance while at the same time maintaining and growing flexible office space does not directly reduce air travel, Overview the customer relationships needed for continued it does afford opportunities to become more proficient Providing charging stations on our campuses for revenue growth. in using collaborative technologies. This proficiency can employees and guests has a few key benefits for Cisco. Environmental Sustainability be applied directly to business activities where remote As an employee service, it can assist with employee Replacing business air travel with remote collaboration collaboration reduces air travel. satisfaction, recruiting, and retention. Supporting electric Materials requires more than just installing more technology. vehicle adoption also aligns with Cisco’s sustainability > Energy and GHG Business processes, management practices, and Table 13: Cisco Virtual Office Installations in strategy and can help reduce Scope 1 emissions related Emissions culture need to be adapted to take full advantage of Employee Homes to Cisco’s fleet operations. Cisco installed its first electric Water Use these new network technologies. As experience with vehicle charging station in FY11. By the end of FY13, we Biodiversity and Land Use remote collaboration technologies increases, both within As of End of Total Installations installed a total of 121 stations available for use by Cisco Non-GHG Emissions Cisco and among our customers and partners, remote Calendar Year (Cumulative) employees and guests at no cost at several campus interactions have progressed from being the exception locations, including: Effluents (Liquid) of a few years ago to becoming standard practice within 2005 1,467 Waste • San Jose, California Cisco, and we anticipate they will be expected behavior 2006 5,006 • Research Triangle Park, North Carolina worldwide in the future. 2007 8,234 • Lawrenceville, Georgia GRI Index Scope 3 Employee Commuting • Boxborough, Massachusetts 2008 9,214 Appendix Teleworking • Bedfont Lakes, U.K. The employee skill sets developed to reduce business 2009 13,457 • Green Park, U.K. air travel and the accompanying business processes 2010 16,449 • Lysaker, Norway and management practices also are used to reduce employee travel between home and work, as well as • Amsterdam, Netherlands 2011 20,487 between buildings at a Cisco site. The wide availability of sophisticated collaboration tools within Cisco permits 2012 (through July) 22,767 Additional stations and sites are planned and funded for employees to become well versed in integrating these FY14. Cisco has directly contributed to saving 23,085 technologies into their daily business activities. Several 2013 (through July) 23,396 gallons of fuel, $51,804 in fuel costs, and 64 metric tonne Cisco technologies permit flexible working environments, of CO2e in GHG emissions as a result of employees and guests using these stations. These figures are expected to increase as electric vehicles become more prevalent This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F30 < Previous View Accounting and Reporting Standard, which is based on Contents the ISO 14040-series standards: Figure 4: IP Phone Manufacturing Introduction • Material acquisition and preprocessing Phase Impacts • Production Governance & Ethics • Distribution and storage 3% Electronic 1% Packaging Supply Chain • Use Components (excl ICs) 1% Enclosure Metals Our People • End of life 3% Cables <1% Electro-Mechanicals Plastics Society Cisco is committed to shaping our industry in this area through two avenues: 10% Integrated Circuits Environment • Internal research to develop our capabilities 35% Electric vehicle charging at Cisco (San Jose, California) • Industry engagement Memory 13% Overview Environmental Our internal LCA studies (see Figure 5, next page) have 13% Sustainability in society and as Cisco expands the number of charging focused on our most common products, including IP 22% Materials stations in its real estate portfolio. In May, Cisco joined LCD Screen phones, standalone switches/routers (which cover > Energy and GHG the U.S. Department of Energy EV Everywhere Grand a substantial portion of our product line), and Cisco Printed Wiring Board Emissions Challenge. Participation in this program helps promote TelePresence. For many of our product families, we have Water Use the installation of workplace charging stations through the determined that the use phase accounts for between 80 Biodiversity and Land Use sharing of information and best practices. and 90 percent1 of the carbon life cycle impact. of a Cisco IP Phone. The largest impact areas identified in Non-GHG Emissions this phase (integrated circuits, bare printed circuit boards, Effluents (Liquid) Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions Larger-core routers and switches are even more heavily weighted to the use phase. For lower-power devices, like displays, and assembly and test processes) are also the Cisco’s general use of life-cycle assessment (LCA) Waste consumer equipment that might have a shorter lifetime most challenging to collect accurate data for modeling. techniques was discussed in an earlier section (see and often be turned off or in a lower-power nonoperation To address this challenge, Cisco is working with industry Lifecycle Assessment, page F10. Carbon footprinting, the mode, the percentage of emissions from the use phase is peers and suppliers to collect more data and improve LCA specifically focused on the environmental impact GRI Index lower but still the largest contributor. calculations. from GHG emissions, is the subject of multiple standards activities as well as increasing inquiries from channel Cisco participates in several ICT industry efforts working Appendix In FY12, Cisco increased its capability to perform partners, service partners, and customers. toward a common approach to assessing environmental LCAs. Tools were developed to automate the electronic component bill-of-materials analysis of products by 90 impacts of products, including: ISO 14040:2006 provides the principles and framework for life-cycle assessment as part of environmental percent using design files and standardized life cycle • GHGP Scope 3 and previously referenced product management. models. In FY13, Cisco focused on specific areas within accounting and reporting standards its LCA analysis to further improve data availability and • GHGP Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement Cisco has adopted the five product life cycle stages accuracy in the materials and manufacturing phases. (Cisco is a founding member and chapter editor and defined by the GHGP in its 2011 Product Life Cycle Figure 4 shows the manufacturing phase carbon footprint is participating in the European Commission’s pilot for ICT Footprint) This section is 1. There may be as much as a 25 percent uncertainty in these values due to variation in assumed product use. Additionally, global emissions factors can vary by a bookmark enabled. factor of three, which impacts emissions factors and use phase emissions. This analysis used a global average electricity emissions factor. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F31 < Previous View Contents Figure 5: Breakdown of GHG Emissions by Life-Cycle Phase for Select Product Categories Introduction IP Phone Chassis-Based Switch Small Access Router Governance & Ethics 0.2% Transport -0.2% End of Life 1% Transport -0.4% End of Life 1.45% Transport -0.2% End of Life Supply Chain 6% Manufacturing 5.95% Manufacturing Manufacturing Our People 19.5% Society Environment 80.5% 93.4% 92.8% Overview Environmental Sustainability Use Use Use Materials Large Chassis Router Mid-Level Ethernet Switch > Energy and GHG Emissions 3.2% Transport -0.2% End of Life 3% Transport -0.5% End of Life Water Use 4% Manufacturing 8.5% Manufacturing Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste 93% 89% GRI Index Use Use Appendix Note: Negative EOL values indicate material credits associated with recycling and reuse of materials • European Telecommunications Standards Institute • High Density Packaging Users Group (HDPUG) PWB The collective intent of these efforts is to build and share (ETSI) LCA assessment of telecommunication Environmental Life Cycle Analysis project focusing knowledge, apply life cycle concepts to our product equipment and service, DTS/EE-00014 on developing a model for the manufacturing of bare design and operations, build engagement with academia, • International Electronics Manufacturers Initiative circuit boards and support the ICT sector in working toward practical (iNEMI) Eco-Impact Evaluator Project (completed in • Sponsorship of Stanford University civil engineering and useful methodologies to assess the GHG emissions FY13) to develop a simplified LCA tool for ICT products graduate program project and MIT internship on impact of our products. (Cisco is co-editor) sustainability This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F32 < Previous View Contents Scope 3 Extended Operations Emissions 3. Report Cisco’s share of the supplier’s GHG emissions to as “eco-pack PIDs,” these solutions are growing (dependent on supplier type) more popular for several of our high-volume products. (Supply Chain) Multipack PIDs have shown to reduce total packaging Introduction Cisco receives numerous inquiries from stakeholders A follow-up communication to suppliers was sent in weight per unit by up to 11.8 percent of their equivalent concerning supply chain emissions. This interest is April 2012 as part of a Cisco Supplier and Manufacturing Governance & Ethics single-product packaging options. properly founded on the concern that GHG emissions Partner newsletter. An example of this communication is “disappear” from Cisco’s Scope 1 and 2 reporting when shown in Appendix 2. We recognize that not all partners Cisco’s Aironet products are a great example of multipack Supply Chain a business function, such as manufacturing or component can complete all three objectives in their first year of success. In FY13, over 563,000 Aironet products offering supply, is subcontracted to a business partner. We reporting. As such, we are currently tracking, through a Our People multipack PIDs shipped with this option, translating subcontract the assembly of our final products and also subscription to CDP’s Reporter Services software, what into a multipack PID adoption rate of 22 percent. This Society rely on a worldwide network of component suppliers percentage of Cisco expenditures is with suppliers that represents an estimated 97 metric tonne of avoided and logistics providers. These business partners, in turn, report to CDP. We currently are tracking CDP reporting packaging waste. In FY14, we will continue to work with Environment rely on additional supply chain partners to support their KPIs from three categories of suppliers, as shown in our customers and internal infrastructure teams to further respective contributions to Cisco products. Table 14. improve this adoption rate for Aironet and other Cisco Overview products. For more information on Cisco’s packaging Environmental To target supply chain emissions, we are using our We want to continue to push this approach to other Sustainability efforts, see Materials, page F14. business relationships to encourage our suppliers to categories of business partners. We also will start Materials report to CDP. In FY13, Cisco joined the CDP Supply measuring against Cisco’s objectives for key suppliers, We continue to expand our electronic fulfillment (or > Energy and GHG Chain Project, and 75 percent of key suppliers report outlined earlier in this report. “e-Delivery”) capabilities on our software and licensing Emissions their GHG emissions to CDP, up from 50 percent in FY12. products. In FY13 we experienced an 83 percent rise Water Use We encourage our suppliers to: in total electronic fulfillment of software and licensing Scope 3 Logistics Biodiversity and Land Use 1. Report carbon emissions through CDP annually order lines, representing 74 percent of these products’ Where possible, Cisco uses unique multipack product Non-GHG Emissions 2. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal revenue stream, an increase of 8 percent and 10 percent, identifier (PIDs) packaging solutions. Also referred Effluents (Liquid) Waste Table 14: Supply Chain Partners Reporting to CDP GRI Index KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Appendix Contract manufacturing, by percent of spend 82% 100% 100% 100% * Tier 1 partner Goal: 100 percent Approved Vendor List (AVL) components, 59% 69% 69% 80% * FY11-specific metric unavailable; by percent of planned spend Tier 2 partner. Goal: 80 percent Global transportation, by percent of spend n/a 50% 50% 93% * FY11-specific metric unavailable; Tier 1 partner. Goal: 90 percent * To be updated later. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F33 < Previous View respectively, quarter over quarter. Electronic adoption the most GHG emissions, during the use phase. Product Cisco has been working closely with the EPA to define Contents of products offered both electronically and physically energy efficiency has emerged as a key design criterion ENERGY STAR standards for relevant products since also rose 1 percent year over year, ending FY13 at a in our products in light of our increasing awareness of 2008. In September 2013 the EPA released Version Introduction record high of 89 percent of the total available market. climate change issues. 1.0 ENERGY STAR specification for Small Network Governance & Ethics Of our top 50 customers in this space, 98 percent of Equipment; its objective is to differentiate more efficient their orders were fulfilled through e-Delivery. Overall, it Customers and regulators are increasingly requiring products across six types of network equipment found Supply Chain is conservatively estimated to have saved over 60 metric products that minimize energy costs and GHG in homes and small offices. The EPA estimates that if all tonne of paper, CDs, and packaging in FY13. emissions. Every year, the number of inquiries related small network equipment sold in the United States met Our People to environmental sustainability we get from analysts, ENERGY STAR requirements, the energy cost savings To promote sustainability in our supply chain, we need customers, shareholders, and NGOs continues to would grow to more than $590 million each year, and Society to have strong relationships with our suppliers, and we increase. Cisco tracks the energy-use regulations and prevent more than 2.6 million metric tonne of annual GHG must support them with their efforts in public reporting certification programs of all countries in which we do emissions. Cisco is working to qualify in scope products Environment and setting reduction goals. In the second half of FY11, business and complies with or exceeds all applicable with this and other existing ENERGY STAR certification Overview we began scoring suppliers on providing sustainability regulatory requirements. programs. To date, this includes set-top boxes, enterprise performance data and any important initiatives that have servers, IP phones, and small network equipment. Cisco Environmental led to reduction in the environmental impact of delivering For these reasons, improving product energy efficiency ENERGY STAR-qualified products are listed on the Sustainability our products. For more information on sustainability in represents more than just a regulatory requirement program website. Materials supplier scorecards, see the Supply Chain section. for Cisco; it is a significant opportunity for us to help > Energy and GHG customers save on energy costs, reduce global energy Cisco considers ENERGY STAR certifications to be a Emissions demand, and lower GHG emissions, in addition to making useful means to promote product energy efficiency Water Use Scope 3 Product Use Phase our products more competitive and less vulnerable improvements. However, we believe that an approach Biodiversity and Land Use (Product Energy Efficiency) to regulatory compliance concerns. Product energy that addresses product energy efficiency across an entire GRI EN6: Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or efficiency is a key part of product design and generation product system is a better way to measure and promote Non-GHG Emissions renewable energy-based products and services, and improvements at Cisco; see Design for Environment, product energy efficiency. ENERGY STAR standards and Effluents (Liquid) reductions in energy requirements as a result of these page F10. certifications generally apply to a single point of power Waste initiatives. supply conversion at the front end of the total system. In Advocacy and Standards Development contrast, the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry GRI EN26: Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Solutions (ATIS) Telecommunications Energy Efficiency Cisco actively engages with governments, regulatory GRI Index products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Ratio (TEER) measurement method covers all power agencies, and standard-setting bodies around the world to monitor and influence the development of conversion and power distribution from the front end of Appendix As global energy use has risen, so have GHG emissions. emerging product energy-efficiency requirements the system all the way to the data wire plug, including While the ICT industry accounts for only “2%” of the and standards, particularly around climate change. We Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASIC). For more world’s GHG emissions, its proportion is growing as believe that these activities, when done properly, bring on what Cisco is doing with ATIS TEER and ASIC, see adoption and use of technology expands. Product energy clarity and consistency to the global marketplace and Improving Product Energy Efficiency, page F34. efficiency (or reducing our products’ wasted energy create predictable requirements that reduce risk and usage) is an important focus for Cisco because of the Table 15 highlights several illustrative examples of enable companies to focus on the environmental issues number and type of energy-consuming products that we energy efficiency initiatives and organizations that Cisco important to their business. Specifically, we believe sell each year. Some of these devices are replacements; participates in. that product energy-efficiency standards can promote others are additive, contributing to the emissions from innovation by being performance-based; by taking into IT equipment. Throughout their life cycle, our products account product functionality; and by relying on objective consume the largest proportion of energy, and release criteria, real-world data, and system-level efficiency. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F34 < Previous View Contents Table 15: Energy Efficiency-Related Initiatives and Organizations Figure 6: Total System Power Introduction Organization Area/Issue of Engagement Efficiency* (percent improvement) Governance & Ethics Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions Cisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other 1 (ATIS) member organizations to develop standards relevant to 0.80 Supply Chain the telecom industry. In 2010, Cisco took a lead role in the 0.8 0.72 TOTAL POWER EFFICIENCY development of the ATIS TEER standard for the measurement of Our People product energy efficiency. 0.6 0.57 Society Minimum Energy Performance Standards — MEPS Energy performance requirements and maximum power 0.4 (Australia and Korea) consumption of standby modes. Environment European Telecommunications Standards Institute Cisco is engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for 0.2 Overview (ETSI) energy efficiency. 0 Environmental Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Cisco is a major contributor and signatory to the Broadband Code CY05 CY10 CY13 Sustainability of Conduct. Materials * Total internal system power conversion and distribution from plug to EU/EuP (Europe) Cisco is an important stakeholder that helps with the > Energy and GHG ASIC; covers the complete internal power system conversion. development of energy using product (EuP) regulations and Emissions voluntary agreements for Europe. Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use International Telecommunication Union — ITU Cisco is a major contributor to the ITU-T SG5 Lead Study Group (worldwide) on ICT and climate change. Cisco presented to ITU the ATIS Improving Product Energy Efficiency Non-GHG Emissions TEER methodology, which was then incorporated into Measure When Cisco looks at product energy efficiency, we Effluents (Liquid) L, energy-efficiency metrics and measurement for telecom consider the entire system power performance. We equipment, creating the opportunity for a single worldwide metric. Waste measure the efficiency loss as electricity passes Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry — METI Minimum energy efficiency requirement for networking router and through each component (or function). This can include (Japan) switch product groups. for example the external power supply, front-end line GRI Index card, point of load, and the ASICs. Over the last eight U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Environmental Cisco has been actively working with the EPA for more than years we have aggressively reduced our product Protection Agency (EPA), Green Grid four years to define ENERGY STAR standards for networking Appendix equipment: SNE, LNE, Telephony, Servers. Cisco also has actively energy consumption while increasing performance. For worked with Lawrence Berkeley National Labs, the EPA/DOE example, from CY05 to CY13 we have increased circuit technical arm, Navigant, NRDC, and Ecova on measurement card power from 500W to 1350W and gone from 8kW methodologies and metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to to 28kW chassis using conventional fan tray cooling these organizations on best practices, draft standards, and actual methods. These improvements have resulted in a total power measurement procedures for relevant products. available power increase of 2.5 times while increasing Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) TRAI is an Indian government regulatory organization for the our total system power efficiency by 40 percent over telecom industry; in 2011 it released recommendations and the same period; see Figure 6. Our vision is to develop guidance on energy efficiency metrics and measurement. Cisco common power designs and specifications across Cisco provided extensive document reviews and recommendations technologies to continue the improvement of system on how to align with existing and widely adopted ATIS/ANCI and power efficiency. ITU-R relevant documents. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F35 < Previous View • Transport/network systems (ATIS-0600015.02.2009) Contents Figure 7: Example of Board-Level Figure 8: ASIC Performance • Router and Ethernet switch products (ATISIntroduction Energy Consumption by Function Gbps/W (Core Routing ASICs) 0600015.03.2009) Governance & Ethics These ATIS TEER standards created a framework for 9.9 Miscellaneous 3 2.67 measuring product energy usage that takes into account Supply Chain 3.1 CPU 2.5 2.17 product functionality and uses real-world loads to determine energy efficiency across the entire product. CORE ROUTING ASICs Our People 2 This is important because it allows companies like Cisco Memory 1.48 to compare energy-usage design improvements from Society 9.5 ASIC 1.5 45.8 1 product generation to generation, and it helps consumers make more informed purchasing decisions. Environment Overview 31.7 0.5 These ATIS TEER standards have been incorporated into Environmental the Network Equipment-Building System (NEBS) design FPGA 0 Sustainability CY05 CY10 CY13 guidelines applied to telecommunications equipment in the United States. NEBS is the most common set Materials of safety, spatial, and environmental design guidelines > Energy and GHG applied to telecommunications equipment and is an Emissions industry, but not a legal, requirement. All Cisco products Water Use As part of this system power efficiency approach Cisco • Voltage scaling: To compensate for the performance that have entered the market since 2011 go through the is working to reduce energy demand for ASICs found in variation inherent in manufactured products, Cisco is Biodiversity and Land Use ATIS TEER testing. most Cisco products. ASICs are designed for a particular scaling, or adjusting, the energy consumed by ASICs Non-GHG Emissions application in a particular product. Lower-cost, higherto achieve performance standards and minimize Cisco has used the ATIS TEER standard to develop Effluents (Liquid) volume products that Cisco sells use off-the-shelf OEMenergy consumption. Cisco is adjusting the ASIC chip energy profiles for representative models and products Waste designed ASIC chips. For the enterprise and data center energy requirement (up and down) to compensate for within the family categories listed in Table 16. switches (Cisco Nexus and Cisco Catalyst series), Cisco any manufacturing variation in performance. designs its own ASIC chips. As shown in Figure 7, ASICs • Adaptive power management: This enables an ASIC account for a significant percentage of board-level energy Table 16: Cisco Product Families Tested Using the GRI Index to actively manage the energy it requires based on the ATIS TEER Standard consumption. load of work it is processing. Appendix CRS1 Catalyst 1900 Cisco is developing energy savings approaches for its Cisco ASIC power reduction techniques have shown a ASIC chips that include: cumulative power reduction of 20 percent since 2008; CRS3 Catalyst 2800 • Feature-based energy management: ASIC chips are see Figure 8. often developed to be rich in features and capability NCS 6008 Catalyst 2900 so they can be used in a large number of product In 2009, Cisco was co-editor for several of the ATIS TEER GSR Catalyst 3800 models. Cisco is developing new ASIC chips that are standards and Energy Efficiency of Telecommunications configurable to the specific features within the product Equipment: Methodology for Measurement and Reporting ASR 9000 Catalyst 4500 using such ASIC chips. As an example, such a chip standards, and specifically those regarding: would not draw the power needed to manage 48 ports • Servers and server blades (ATIS-0600015.01.2009) 15454 Catalyst 6000 when it is placed in a 24-port switch. Nexus 7000 Catalyst 6500 This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F36 < Previous View Contents The products tested make up approximately 90 percent Scope 3 Product End of Life chance” of averting warming beyond 2°C above preof Cisco products in ATIS TEER scope. Figure 9 presents industrial temperature that would lead to catastrophic The last product life cycle phase defined in the GHGP system performance improvements, Gbps per watt consequences on human and ecological systems. Introduction Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard consumed, for a sample of our core router products is end of life (EOL) management. There are minimal (CRS1, CRS3, NCS) for which first-, second-, and As part of the development of our FY17 GHG goal Governance & Ethics emissions associated with this life cycle phase for third-generation energy performance was measured we used the EPA Goal Evaluation Model. The model Cisco products, and most of them are connected to Supply Chain using the ATIS TEER standard. The results show that predicted that industry revenues will grow significantly the transport of the returned product and the recycling in these products, there was an 8.8-fold increase in through the FY17 goal year, and also predicted that the process. The largest opportunity for reduction of GHG Our People normalized bits-per-watt performance between the three industry emissions normalized to millions of dollars will emissions from recycling is in reducing upstream generations of products, with only a 2.5-fold increase in increase 16.5 percent over the same period. These emissions. For more information on our product EOL Society power usage. two projections combined indicate a business-as-usual recycling programs, see Product Takeback, Reuse, and increase in absolute emissions. Any goal that includes Environment Recycling, page F44. a reduction in absolute emissions is considered Overview Figure 9: System Performance As Cisco introduces initiatives to increase the return aggressive based on the EPA model. Our current GHG Environmental Improvements, Gbps/W of used or EOL products, we will need to study the goal is a 40 percent reduction in absolute emissions by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Sustainability relative environmental impact of earlier or later product Materials retirement. Energy efficiency usually improves with each 0.8 Cisco will continue to develop products that > Energy and GHG 0.72 new product generation, so earlier product retirement leverage network technologies and implement the Emissions 0.7 can decrease overall emissions since the use-phase recommendations of the SMART 2020 report. Roughly emissions dominate the product life cycle. However, Water Use 75 percent of energy-related GHG emissions are from 0.6 creating new products introduces other environmental Biodiversity and Land Use buildings and transportation. By advancing the Cisco impacts. A similar dynamic exists in the auto industry. CORE ROUTING ASICs Non-GHG Emissions 0.5 solutions discussed in this section, we are well positioned Overall, is it better to retire a relatively new 30-mpg car to reduce not only our own building and transportation Effluents (Liquid) 0.4 for a 50-mpg car? We will use LCA techniques to inform emissions, but also the aggregated emissions of our Waste our strategy in this area. 0.3 customers. 0.21 0.2 Benchmarking GHG Emissions GRI Index 0.1 0.07 Reduction Goals Our previous 25 percent absolute reduction goal Appendix 0 exceeded the annual reduction needed to meet CY05 CRS1 CY10 CRS3 CY13 NCS reductions suggested by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report. We set our next five-year goals based on guidance from The 3% Solution report, named for the annual emissions reduction thought to be needed through 2020 to meet IPCC guidance. According to the IPCC Annex 1, developed countries need to reduce GHG emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Such a stabilization pathway was said to provide a “reasonable This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F37 < Previous View Contents The Enabling Effect — The 98% Cisco customers are looking for ways to reduce components. Using fewer components means less their energy-related costs and their carbon footprint. electricity is used to operate both the ICT equipment and In the previous sections, we provided an overview of our This creates market opportunities for Cisco. We are the HVAC equipment used for data center cooling. Using Introduction Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions from our own operations researching, developing, piloting, and delivering network fewer components also reduces emissions due to the and offered metrics for addressing the emissions of Governance & Ethics technologies that can help reduce GHG emissions by: manufacture of underutilized equipment. our supply chain as well as other phases of the product life cycle. An additional consideration when assessing • Offering low-carbon ways to avoid business travel and Supply Chain Cisco recognizes that the application of technology alone the carbon footprint of a product or service over its employee commuting: Customers are rethinking their will not result in a drop in emissions. Changes in culture, life cycle is the so-called enabling effect. The term behaviors and finding innovative, network-enabled Our People alternatives, such as web-based collaboration as an management practices, and business processes also are “enabling” is used where ICT sector products and needed to achieve the full potential of the technology. services can be used to achieve reductions in GHG alternative to travel, and teleworking as an alternative Society However, this evolution to collaborative technologies, emissions in other industry sectors. For example, to daily commuting. smart buildings and work spaces, and connected energy Environment high-definition videoconferencing (ICT sector) can be • Providing connected energy management: Customers management creates additional benefits, including used to simulate face-to-face interaction and avoid air can employ the network to measure, monitor, report, Overview faster decision-making, improved cross-cultural travel (transportation sector), or energy monitoring and and plan for greater energy efficiencies. communications, broader dissemination of information Environmental control of IP-enabled devices (ICT sector) can be used Sustainability around the world, and increased ability to efficiently to reduce energy consumption in buildings (real estate, At Cisco, we are developing solutions for both mitigating deploy internal resources. Materials industrial sectors). and adapting to climate change. We are looking for ways > Energy and GHG to increase energy productivity and energy efficiency, Subsequent sections of this report highlight Cisco Emissions According to data from the IEA and U.S. Energy which helps reduce avoidable emissions by slowing customer solutions and research and development Information Administration (EIA), summarized in Figure 10, growth in energy demand and reducing the rate of Water Use programs that not only address the key sources of about 75 percent of energy-related GHG emissions increase in global GHG emissions from increasing energy Biodiversity and Land Use energy-related GHG emissions shown in Figure 10, but are from buildings and transportation. use. Cisco data center virtualization technologies, for Non-GHG Emissions also address the challenges associated with adapting to example, significantly reduce the number of data center climate change. Effluents (Liquid) Although the use of ICT products consumes energy, Waste there is substantial opportunity to use them to reduce global energy-related GHG emissions and make the world more energy efficient. In FY09, Cisco sponsored and contributed to the SMART 2020 report, which GRI Index identified opportunities for the ICT sector to develop and apply network technologies to reducing annual GHG Appendix emissions by 15 percent, which is a substantial positive impact considering that the ICT sector was projected to be responsible for only 3 percent of global emissions in 2020. Potential abatements are concentrated in the areas of transportation, buildings, power/energy, and industry. Innovative applications of network technologies promote change through our solutions, our products, and our operations. The GHGP Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement mentioned previously is intended to fully develop this methodology for use by practitioners in the field. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F38 < Previous View The figure in Appendix 4 depicts the second use case Contents Figure 10: Industry Sector Breakdown of Greenhouse Gases from Energy Use for transport substitution: business-as-usual employee commuting (requiring travel) and teleworking using many Introduction U.S. Energy Information Agency (U.S., 2012 data) International Energy Agency (World, 2010 data) of the same technologies used to avoid business travel Governance & Ethics (plus high-definition, video-capable broadband in the home). The left side of the figure depicts car, bus, and rail Supply Chain commuting to a multi-building campus. The teleworking Transportation Industrial depiction on the right side of the figure shows a campus Our People Transportation with fewer buildings, augmented by employees working 28% Manufacturing 23% from home or from nearby satellite offices used by one or Society 34% and Construction more companies. Environment 44% Several calculators have been released to estimate the Overview 18% enabling effect of Cisco solutions. Cisco has developed Environmental 18% Residential calculators for Remote Collaboration, Cisco Virtual Office/ Sustainability 20% 15% Telecommuting, Connected Buildings, and Connected Buildings, Workplace. We’ve collected these interactive calculators Materials Commercial into a single PowerPoint file. Each calculator has eight > Energy and GHG Buildings, Residential or nine tabs at the top that are accessible when in fullOther Emissions screen mode and are divided between inputs (on left) Water Use and results (on right). Results are net emissions. The Biodiversity and Land Use input tabs and the provided DOMANI validation letters Non-GHG Emissions provide an explanation of assumptions. There is also Transportation The increasing interoperability of our remote collaboration a web implementation of the TelePresence tab of this Effluents (Liquid) products, such as Cisco TelePresence, Cisco WebEx, There are two use cases that employ Cisco remote spreadsheet. An additional standalone web-based Waste collaboration technologies: avoiding business air travel and Tandberg technologies, further extend the potential calculator for TelePresence has also been released for and avoiding employee commuting. for remote collaboration. For instance, Tandberg devices mobile phones and web browsers. and Cisco TelePresence products can both be endpoints GRI Index The figure in Appendix 3 depicts the business-as-usual in a single meeting.1 WebEx can be connected to a Cisco Because of the need for additional, dedicated equipment, meeting (requiring travel) and the remote collaboration TelePresence meeting so that WebEx attendees who may Cisco carefully studied the energy/GHG cost of Cisco Appendix meeting (utilizing ICT) that provides voice, desktop not be near a Cisco TelePresence room can participate TelePresence operation. Most of this cost is from sharing, and high-definition video among multiple in the meeting. Cisco TelePresence exchanges, similar to operation of end user equipment (screens, lighting, and locations. telephone switchboards, are now in place with partners local electronics), the local HVAC system, and vampire such as AT&T, BT, and Tata so that Cisco TelePresence loads. Several orders of magnitude less power is used by calls can be made both within a single company and network aggregation and backbone functions, as shown between companies through the exchanges. in work partly sponsored by Cisco (IEEE). This section is bookmark enabled. 1. Cisco has combined all videoconferencing equipment under the Cisco TelePresence name. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F39 < Previous View Buildings In FY11, Cisco opened a green data center in Allen, This next-generation data center tightly integrates Cisco Contents Texas, with an architecture deploying Cisco’s entire Unified Fabric, Unified Computing, and Unified Network LEED Accreditation Where Cisco products can be shown to save energy, data center technology portfolio spanning computing, Services into a holistic data center fabric designed to be Introduction provide an innovative solution to an energy problem, switching, and data storage access to support Cisco’s simple, scalable, and highly secure and to deliver any Governance & Ethics or both, these products can contribute to achievement internal private cloud. All of these technologies are application to any location: within the data center, across of LEED credits under certain LEED rating systems. available to our customers to improve the efficiency of data centers, and to the cloud. Supply Chain For example, under LEED v3 Commercial Interiors, their data center operations. Cisco EnergyWise EAc4.4 Optimize Energy Performance, Equipment and Our People Appliances, credit is given to appliances if they are This data center incorporates numerous features to The Cisco EnergyWise Suite is a family of products and reduce the environmental impact from operations: services for customers to reduce energy costs and specified with an ENERGY STAR label. Cisco ENERGY Society • The uninterruptible power supply room in the 5 MW optimize the energy consumption of their data center and STAR servers will meet these criteria. Additionally, equipment like the Cisco EnergyWise management data center (expandable to 10 MW) uses rotary distributed office environments by monitoring, measuring, Environment and managing the energy of all IP connected systems. system also can help achieve credit in multiple rating flywheels, which require little energy to continue in Overview systems if it can be shown to contribute to overall energy motion, to start the diesel generators in case of power Using Cisco EnergyWise Management software along savings at a building level. For example, if a customer loss, instead of the hundreds of batteries typically with Cisco EnergyWise Discovery and EnergyWise Environmental Sustainability uses the EnergyWise software and calculates that it used in older data centers. Optimization Services, customers can monitor and contributes to an 18 percent cost savings, those savings analyze energy consumption and utilization of their Materials • The data center is cooled by an air-side economizer can be included in an energy model, which is required network-connected IT assets. EnergyWise Management > Energy and GHG design that reduces the need for mechanical chilling in the LEED NC rating system for new buildings. Those also provides customers active power management Emissions by using ambient air when the outside temperature savings also would potentially improve the ENERGY STAR capabilities to reduce overall energy costs. Water Use is low. Cisco calculates the facility can use filtered, score of an existing building, which helps achieve a LEED unchilled outdoor air 65 percent of the time, saving an Biodiversity and Land Use Brunel University in West London and the Council Rock EB (Existing Buildings) rating. expected $600,000 per year in cooling costs. Non-GHG Emissions School District in Newtown, Pennsylvania, have both Virtualization and Cloud Computing • A lagoon captures rainwater to irrigate the indigenous, used Cisco EnergyWise technologies for an energy Effluents (Liquid) drought-resistant landscape plants. management solution for their Ethernet switches, wireless Waste According to a Forrester Consulting study commissioned • Solar cells on the roof generate 100 kW of power for APs, IP phones, PCs and laptops, IP cameras, IPin 2009 by an independent third party, firms initially the office spaces in the building. enabled projectors, and electronic whiteboards. These deployed virtual servers to improve hardware utilization. institutions were able to save $143,000 and $200,000 Today, these firms cite improved power and cooling • Cisco received LEED Gold certification for the data GRI Index annually in energy costs, respectively. Another customer, efficiency as the motivation to adopt virtualization center in early FY12. Triton Federal Solutions, projects savings of $320,000, Appendix technology. Cisco data center solutions can achieve a reduction of energy consumption by 725 MWh, and resource savings of up to 70 percent through The data center is designed to achieve a Power Usage a reduction of carbon emissions by 304 metric tonne virtualization. Effectiveness metric of 1.35. An interview showing various features of the data center was done by Data At the Cisco Efficiency Assurance Program website, Center Knowledge in June 2011. The data center is information on product power consumption can be paired with a second one in Richardson, Texas, to form found in the “planning” box. This includes an energy what we call a Metro Virtual Data Center. Together, the Cisco EnergyyWise gives companies consumption calculator and other planning tools. A data centers form a virtualized, dynamic IT services a global view of energy management. tutorial on the calculator is available. cloud, and they serve as backup sites for one another. Energy use can be controlled through This enables both data centers to run real-time critical the network, delivering economic and environmental savings. applications, such as Cisco WebEx, simultaneously in Watch video both places for superior business resiliency. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F40 < Previous View over five years. The Austrian food store chain MPREIS is Improved network infrastructure will help utility Combined with smart meters and time-of-day pricing, Contents using EnergyWise to reduce IT energy costs as part of its companies optimize power supply and demand by customers will see how power is being used to influence sustainable business model. routing power more efficiently and by allowing demandtheir behavior to reduce energy consumption or shift Introduction side management and two-way, real-time information their demand in time to permit use of lower-carbon Cisco Connected Workplace exchange with customers. This information is critical sources of electricity. Pilot projects, including a 2010 Governance & Ethics CCW is a flexible work environment designed to support for implementing dispersed renewable generation and report sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy Supply Chain employee mobility and improve collaboration. It takes adding plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles to the utility Pacific Northwest Laboratory, have shown a 10 to 15 advantage of the fact that workplaces today are vacant grid. An Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) report percent reduction in household energy use with smart Our People up to 60 percent of the time because people are working projects the role of both technologies in the low-carbon grid technologies. Cisco is participating in the Pecan away from their desks, collaborating formally and electricity mix through 2030, as shown in Figure 11. Street Project to make the city of Austin, Texas, a test Society informally in person, and using rich remote technologies bed for clean energy and smart grid goals. Cisco is also such as Cisco WebEx and Cisco TelePresence. Renewables and plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) are a member of the GridWise Alliance, advocating for the Environment seen to constitute a significant part of the projected adoption of smart grid technologies. Overview CCW case studies show reduced costs associated generation mix in 2030, but only if enabled by smart with real estate, furniture, workplace services, and IT grid technologies. Environmental Sustainability infrastructure. Such environments typically support 30 percent more employees than a traditional layout, thereby Materials substantially reducing footprint demands and associated Figure 11: Contribution of Renewables and Plug-in Electric Vehicle (PEV) > Energy and GHG Emissions costs. to Projected Future Energy Supply Water Use Utility/Smart Grid Low-carbon generation enables electrification and CO2 reduction in other sectors of economy Biodiversity and Land Use Energy-related carbon dioxide emissions from the 3500 Non-GHG Emissions generation of electricity are about 40 percent of total Effluents (Liquid) energy-related GHG emissions. That is, industrial processes, buildings, and some transportation are 3000 Waste powered directly by electricity and total about 40 percent of all energy-related emissions. Therefore, efficiency U.S. ELECTRIC SECTOR CO2 EMISSIONS Efficiency 2500 improvements in delivering electricity have significant GRI Index Renewables potential to reduce GHG emissions. Appendix 2000 Nuclear In the electricity industry, the pace of change and (MILLION METRIC TONS) Fossil Efficiency opportunity for disruption is accelerating. Thirty years CCS of energy policy and industry structural changes are 1500 combining with accelerated social and technological PEV evolution. This is creating significant pressure for Electro1000 fundamental changes in the design, operation, structure, Technologies and regulation of the electric industry. Strategies to aid these changes require alignment among policy, 500 economics, and technology in what Cisco calls Gridonomics. 0 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F41 < Previous View Contents Integrated Solutions Smart+Connected Communities Water Use • Identify and respond to site-level water conservation opportunities for our operations Introduction Cities currently account for a significant percentage of GRI EN8: Total water withdrawal by source. • Work with partners such as local governments, water the world’s GHG emissions. Cisco has launched the utilities, and owners of our leased buildings to pursue Governance & Ethics Smart+Connected Communities initiative globally to GRI EN9: Water sources significantly affected by and replicate best practices in our operations and take advantage of the leadership, ideas, and solutions withdrawal of water. beyond Supply Chain incubated by the Connected Urban Development program and to promote economic, social, and Based on the materiality assessment discussed It is important to note that because the production of Our People environmental sustainability to our customers around the previously, water use is not a focus area. Cisco’s electrical power is one of the largest uses of fresh world. The initiative is leveraging the network to deliver primary water impacts come from office building potable water worldwide, the greatest opportunity for Cisco to Society water and sanitation, landscaping, and cooling towers reduce our impact on water resources is by continuing to integrated offerings across real estate, transportation, safety and security, utilities, health, education, and and result in significantly less water consumption per make our operations, our suppliers’ operations, and our Environment government to improve community management, employee than the average person uses each year in products more energy efficient. Overview economic growth, citizen quality of life, and sustainable the United States. However, because our facilities are Environmental development. located in regions where water rights and usage are an In FY13, we continued measuring our water use so we Sustainability issue of concern, we have been conscious and careful of can better understand the impact of our programs, A range of additional material is available on our Internet water use in our operations. Since FY07, we have been and we integrated a new Sustainability Information Materials Business Solutions Group website concerning the role of collecting and tracking water usage data for our major System (SIS) that has improved our ability to track water Energy and GHG the network in creating sustainable cities. A Forbes article campus locations. Using the World Business Council consumption data for much of our real estate operations. Emissions provides an overview of the potential impact of IT on city for Sustainable Development water tool, we believe that Given the size and geographic dispersion of our > Water Use development and living. three of these sites are located in water-scarce areas operations throughout the world, this was a challenging Biodiversity and Land Use and two sites are in water-stressed areas. Key objectives task, as many of the locations where Cisco shares a Non-GHG Emissions of Cisco’s water management program are to: building with other tenants do not have water sub-meters Effluents (Liquid) installed. In FY13, we were able to collect water data for 68 percent of our total real estate portfolio by area, as Waste shown in Table 17. GRI Index Table 17: Water Use Appendix KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Total water use, m3 1,690,348 1,753,269 1,763,536 2,311,548 2,300,266 Includes irrigation (where used) and potable water. Real estate portfolio covered by 65% 67% 68% 71% 68% water reporting This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F42 < Previous View We are minimizing our water impacts through innovative • Replacing turf with planter beds that require little GRI EN15: Number of International Union for Conservation Contents strategies for reduction and reuse. Although our efforts water, and installing drip irrigation lines to improve of Nature (IUCN) Red List species and national to date have recognized the importance of a locally irrigation efficiency conservation list species with habitats in areas affected Introduction relevant approach to water management, we are now • Utilizing a water harvesting system at our Bangalore, by operations, by level of extinction risk. Governance & Ethics acting to institutionalize water management systems. India, campus to capture rainwater for filtering and use Wherever appropriate, Cisco reduces water consumption GRI EN25: Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Supply Chain within the operation of its buildings and uses reclaimed We mitigate our impacts in water-scarce areas by value of water bodies and related habitats significantly water for landscaping and similar applications. Over the incorporating resource constraints into our local office affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of Our People years, we have been able to make many changes to building and data center development plans. Cisco water and runoff. our landscaping practices while creating attractive and seeks to site our operations in areas where we can most Society inviting landscapes for our customers, employees, and successfully serve our customers while limiting negative At Cisco, land use for facilities and office-based our surrounding communities. environmental impacts. operations represents our primary impact on biodiversity. Environment Cisco mitigates our impact by reducing the demand In FY13 we continued to support and maintain a number for physical office space. Cisco employee telework Overview Biodiversity and Land Use of water conservation initiatives throughout our campus programs and other support solutions, such as CCW, Environmental locations, many of which started as early as FY08. Cisco Virtual Office, and OfficeExtend, are instrumental Sustainability Examples of these initiatives include: to our strategy. The flexibility of CCW and Cisco Materials GRI EN11: Location and size of land owned, leased, collaboration technologies reduces the demand for • Utilizing irrigation controllers throughout the San Jose managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of Energy and GHG office space by more efficiently using existing space and Emissions main campus high biodiversity value outside protected areas. enabling employees to work remotely while remaining Water Use • Using recycled water for irrigation and fountain productive. As mentioned previously, a space using GRI EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, displays CCW could accommodate approximately 30 percent > Biodiversity and Land Use products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas Non-GHG Emissions • Installing variable-frequency drives in our cooling and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected more employees compared to a traditional office towers areas. layout, substantially reducing office space and land Effluents (Liquid) use requirements and the associated impacts on the Waste • Installing two-way valves for toilets, sink aerators, GRI EN13: Habitats protected or restored. environment. In FY13 Cisco approved a master plan low-flow showerheads, and pre-rinse spray valves for to convert eight of our buildings into the CCW work kitchen sinks GRI EN14: Strategies, current actions, and future plans for environment by FY17. By doing this, we will increase the GRI Index • Converting decorative fountains into landscaped beds density in our remaining buildings and reduce our facility managing impacts on biodiversity. planted with native drought-resistant plants footprint by approximately 1 million square feet. Table 18 Appendix shows Cisco’s KPI for biodiversity and land use. Table 18: Biodiversity and Land Use KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Percent of real estate portfolio with not reported 65% 63% 61% 61% Includes International Union for Conservation of Nature biodiversity assessment (IUCN) Red List and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations. Owned property. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F43 < Previous View Contents Cisco also evaluates the biodiversity and land-use impacts of facility sites through environmental impact Non-GHG Emissions assessments required for permitting and generates an GRI EN19: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Introduction annual biodiversity summary report that summarizes GRI weight. Governance & Ethics EN11-15 and EN25 for all existing Cisco owned land and property. For example, in Alviso, California, Cisco has a GRI EN20: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Supply Chain 20.4-acre parcel of land that is a protected habitat for the by type and weight. burrowing owl (ICUN Redlist Category Least Concern) Our People and a rare plant species (Congdon’s Tarplant). Protection Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to activities that Cisco has implemented on this land include supply chain partners, our global operations primarily Society the following: Burrowing owl in Cisco developed habitat preservation area in consist of standard office activities and research labs. Alviso, California • Developing and implementing a wetland mitigation This limits our non-GHG emissions to volatile organic Environment plan that created 0.77 acres of wetlands in the habitat compounds (VOCs) from occasional use of cleaning • Installing 12 artificial burrows in the habitat preserve products, nitrous oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) Overview preserve area and establishing a five-year monitoring area, implementing habitat maintenance measures from onsite fuel combustion, and the subsequent Environmental program and maintenance program. to encourage owls to relocate to and remain in the development of ozone from the photochemical reaction Sustainability • Implementing a rare plant species mitigation plan to preserve area, monitoring the owls during construction Materials of NOx. protect Congdon’s Tarplant. This plan requires seed activities, and installing a permanent perimeter fence Energy and GHG collection and replanting within the habitat preserve for protection of the preserve area. Table 19 summarizes other airborne emissions: VOCs, Emissions area and ongoing maintenance over a five-year period. • Locating grazing cattle on this habitat preserve area as NOx, SOx, and particulate matter. NOx and SOx Water Use • Implementing a burrowing owl mitigation plan that emissions originate from the combustion of fossil fuels in a method of weed abatement and soil compaction to Biodiversity and Land Use required us to complete preconstruction surveys for help facilitate wetlands establishment. vehicle engines, boilers, or emergency generators that > Non-GHG Emissions burrowing owls. are occasionally used and tested onsite. Effluents (Liquid) Waste Table 19: Non-GHG Emissions GRI Index KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Appendix Volatile organic compound (VOC) negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to emissions supply chain partners, Cisco’s global operations primarily consist of offices and research labs, which may require the occasional use of cleaning products containing VOCs. Quantities of VOC-based chemicals are minimal and are not required to be monitored. NOx, metric tonne 164 241 339 381 376 SOx, metric tonne 0.73 0.84 1.05 1.11 1.00 Particulate matter negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F44 < Previous View Contents At locations across Northern California, Cisco complies with California Air Resources Board requests and does Effluents (Liquid) Cisco seeks partners, such as local governments and utilities, that can provide support and share best not use any mechanical equipment, such as gasolineGRI EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled practices to help reduce water use (and effluents). We Introduction powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. on designated and reused. count on these experts and leaders as a resource in Governance & Ethics Spare the Air days, when air quality is poor in the San our own operational efforts. Cisco participates in the Francisco Bay Area. GRI EN21: Total water discharge by quality and California Environmental Dialogue Longview Committee, Supply Chain destination. a forum for frank and honest discussion about California’s In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol on long-term strategic environmental, economic, and Our People Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, we also have GRI EN23: Total number and volume of significant spills. resource management issues. Table 20 shows Cisco’s worked with our supply chain partners to phase out KPI for liquid effluents. Society ozone-depleting substances (ODS) in their manufacturing We seek to site our operations in areas where we can processes. successfully serve our customers while limiting our Environment Overview negative environmental impacts. Operations siting is an especially important consideration with our data Waste centers. We currently cool most of our data centers by Environmental air movement. However, as equipment becomes more Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling Sustainability compact and consumes more power per unit area, we GRI EN27: Percentage of products sold and their Materials packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. need to identify more efficient cooling mechanisms, and Energy and GHG one of the options we are considering is water-based Emissions Our trade-in and takeback programs are designed to cooling. Water Use bring back to Cisco any item that Cisco or our acquired Biodiversity and Land Use We also work closely with the owners of our leased companies have put on the market. Cisco recycles spaces to incorporate environmentally sound practices nearly 100 percent of the electronics sent to our e-scrap Non-GHG Emissions into lease agreements. Our green lease terms incorporate recyclers. All commodity fractions go to downstream > Effluents (Liquid) LEED criteria, allowing us to negotiate requirements such recyclers to be made into new products. Table 21 > Waste contains Cisco’s reduce, reuse, and recycle KPIs. as water use measures into new leases as well as those up for renewal. Given the nature of office buildings, these changes often benefit all tenants and frequently provide GRI Index cost savings to the landlord. Appendix Table 20: Effluent Spills and Discharges KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Spills and discharges none none none none none In FY13, there were no reportable spills or discharges to the environment from Cisco facilities or operations worldwide. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F45 < Previous View Contents Table 21: Product Trade-in and Return Introduction KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Governance & Ethics Product return, metric tonne 10,730 8,580 11,595 13,324 12,539 Supply Chain Refurbish, resell, and reuse rate, – – 17% 25% 25% Data unavailable prior to FY11. percent Our People Society Returned material sent to landfill 0.44% 0.33% 0.89% 0.43% 0.33% Landfilled material consists only of non-electronic waste materials, such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap, accompanying Cisco product returned by customers for recycling. Environment Overview Environmental Sustainability Cisco complies with applicable electronics recycling Program are combined in one box in the upper left of this regulations. Cisco’s products are labeled with a crossedTable 22: Cisco Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling figure. Each program or process is formvally documented Materials Programs out “wheelie bin” symbol to encourage end users to and is part of the contracting process with each of our Energy and GHG reuse or recycle electronics instead of disposing of them contracted recyclers. Emissions Category Material Stream in the trash. Water Use Customer Programs Customer programs • Cisco Technical Migration Biodiversity and Land Use During FY13, Cisco’s Reverse Logistics Group Cisco has trade-in programs for customers that Program (TMP) Non-GHG Emissions refurbished, resold, or reused over 3182 metric tonne are purchasing new equipment and have qualifying • Exceptional Pick-Up Program of products returned to Cisco, a 25 percent reuse rate. equipment to upgrade. Eligible customers receive an (EPUP) Effluents (Liquid) Information regarding all Cisco e-scrap recycling and additional discount for returning working used equipment > Waste • Cisco Takeback and Recycle our recycling programs is provided in the following to Cisco for possible reuse. These programs are the Program description and supplemented by our reverse logistics single largest flow of materials back to Cisco’s reverserecycling web portal.1 logistics programs. These trade-in programs provide the Programs for companies • Scrap/Reuse Program GRI Index newest and best-quality used equipment with the highest producing or repairing • Global Scrap Program Cisco has nine different reverse-logistics recycling Cisco products potential for refurbishment and reuse. Appendix programs to support our independent producer Internal programs • eBin/Lab Scrap Program responsibility efforts. These fall into three categories, as Engaging with our reuse/recycling programs is easy for Cisco • Cisco Data Center Server shown in Table 22. and straightforward. Customers go to the web portal, Recycling Program select the program that applies to them, and submit a • Non-Genuine Brand Program A flow diagram of these reverse-logistics material pick-up request form. Cisco then contacts the customer streams is shown in Figure 12. Note that the Cisco • E-scrap events to arrange the pick-up and work out the logistics for Technical Migration Program and the Exceptional Pick-Up returning the materials to the appropriate location. This section is bookmark enabled. 1. Cisco Connection online registration required. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F46 < Previous View Contents Figure 12: Reverse Logistics Material Sources and Flow of Materials for Reuse and Recycling Introduction SOURCES OF REVERSE Governance & Ethics Cisco End Customer Cisco End Customer Contract Repair eBin & Lab Data Center Server Recycle IT Non-Geniune Brand Contract Manufacturers Trade-In Program Takeback & Manufacturers & RFDsScrap Program Recycling Program Events Program Protection Program Scrap/Reuse Program LOGISTICS MATERIALS Supply Chain (TMP/EPUP) Recycle Program Global Scrap Program (Internal) (Internal) (Internal) (Internal, Not Public) Our People Society RL RECEIVING Cisco Reverse Logistics Cisco Reverse Logistics Cisco RL Value Recovery Value Recovery Value Recovery Non-Proprietary Parts Environment CENTER Receiving Center Reuse Program Components Resale Overview Environmental Sustainability REFURBISH, Cisco Capital Cisco Capital Cisco Service Supply Cisco Service Supply Remarketing Remarketing Reuse to Customer REUSE, RESALE Materials Refurbishment Vendor Refurbishment Vendor Resale to Customer or RFD Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use RECYCLERS Biodiversity and Land Use Reverse Logistics Recyclers Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) > Waste The traded-in items are routed to a returns receiving Reuse is always the first priority. In FY13, Cisco reused equipment from other manufacturers that has been center for analysis of each item to evaluate its reuse or over $360 million of Cisco equipment, calculated at displaced in the customer’s network by newly purchased GRI Index refurbishment potential; items that are not capable of standard cost. This amount has been above $200 million Cisco items. The equipment is typically old and has no reuse or refurbishment are routed to a recycler. for each of the last four fiscal years. If an item does not reuse value, or it is damaged. These materials go to Appendix qualify to be reused, it goes to one of our authorized the closest approved recycling site. Currently, there are Our two customer trade-in programs are the Cisco recyclers. 31 recycling locations around the world, as shown in Technical Migration and the Exceptional Pick-Up Figure 13, page F48. The number and location of Cisco Program. All trade-in materials are routed to a receiving The Cisco Takeback and Recycle Program is focused authorized recyclers continue to expand based on the center where each item is analyzed for possible reuse. If on Cisco branded items that do not qualify for either of growth in our business and the requirements of local there is demand for the specific product being received, our two trade-in programs. This program also accepts regulations. it is refurbished before being sent for reuse to Cisco Capital Remarketing, Cisco Service Supply, or an internal Cisco lab. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F47 < Previous View Programs for Companies Producing or Repairing The Non-Genuine Materials Program handles items that Cisco holds quarterly business reviews with each of the Contents we occasionally receive in equipment returns that are four contracted recyclers to review the past quarter’s Cisco Products The Cisco manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program takes non-genuine Cisco products. Non-genuine items also results and to go over all action items that were to be Introduction all excess, obsolete, or damaged materials from our come to Cisco through law enforcement actions that worked on during the quarter and the focus areas for the Governance & Ethics contract manufacturers, MPAs, OEMs, ODMs, and seize counterfeit Cisco equipment. When non-genuine next quarter. Cisco also does random spot site audits of proprietary component suppliers. First, each load is equipment is found, we use a special witnessed protocol the recycling facilities. Supply Chain reviewed by the Cisco Value Recovery group for possible whereby the collected materials are properly destroyed. reuse or resale. If it is not economically viable to reuse E-Scrap Recycling Process Our People or resell the materials, the materials are sent to approved We hold annual Recycle IT Days for our employees. Each load of e-scrap is weighed on calibrated scales e-scrap recyclers. Cisco employees and contractors can bring in their upon arrival. Next, each unit is de-manufactured, and Society e-scrap from home and have Cisco pay to have the a high-level sort into “commodity fractions” separates Cisco’s contracted repair manufacturers and distribution materials recycled properly. Any Cisco office location the steel, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, wire/cable, and Environment can host a recycling day event. In April 2013, we held depots use the Global Scrap program for their excess, printed circuit boards. Certain fractions may then be Overview obsolete, or damaged materials. Again, the Cisco Value our 18th e-scrap event, with 118 Cisco sites around the shredded. Some Cisco printed circuit boards contain a Recovery team reviews all items and retains any that are world participating and over 207 metric tonne of used rechargeable battery that is removed prior to shredding. Environmental Sustainability economically viable to reuse, sending the remainder to electronics collected. Since Cisco started holding these After the shredding, an additional hand sorting is done our approved recyclers. events, our employees and contractors have helped to pull off any loose pieces of the commodity fractions. Materials recycle over 2018 metric tonne of used electronics. All fractions are sent to downstream or second-level Energy and GHG Emissions Internal Programs for Cisco recyclers to be made into new products. Shredded The largest of Cisco’s internal programs is the eBin/Lab E-Scrap Recyclers printed circuit boards go to a secondary smelter where as Water Use Scrap Program. The eBin program began at our San Cisco currently has four contracted e-scrap recyclers. many as 19 metals are harvested from the boards. These Biodiversity and Land Use Each recycler has several company-owned facilities. harvested metals re-enter the metals markets to make Jose campus, where 185 labs produce a large amount of Non-GHG Emissions e-scrap, and now eBin includes all Cisco labs and offices Each recycler also has several subcontracted recyclers new products. Any batteries or packaging materials sent Effluents (Liquid) worldwide. The eBins are green plastic rolling bins where to provide global recycling coverage. Cisco contracts to recycling facilities are sent to downstream recyclers. materials are collected for recycling. Smaller labs may require recyclers to enforce our strict recycling processes > Waste have only one eBin, and large labs may have more than upon their subcontractors doing Cisco work. Cisco must approve of each prospective recycling company Product Packaging End of Life a dozen. Each eBin has an owner, and when the eBin is and each recycling location prior to sending any Cisco We have not adopted a packaging takeback program, full, the owner visits our recycling web portal and fills out GRI Index equipment for processing. as the environmental impact, including transportation a pick-up request. The recycler responds to arrange the and emissions, from a packaging takeback program Appendix date and time of pick-up and to deliver empty eBins. Each contracted recycler provides us with monthly outweighs the potential benefits when compared with reports delineating all cases opened and processed on a using the local recycling stream. This is primarily because The Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program lot-by-lot basis. When each lot is processed, the report packaging material logistics are significant, and thus serves data centers in 12 countries. When a data center includes a mass balance showing the weight as received packaging creation is local to the point of shipment. no longer needs a server, it is offered to other Cisco and the weights of each fractional commodity separated Therefore, Cisco takes the approach of designing our data centers for possible reuse. When one of these from the lot. packaging to be easily separable and as recyclable as servers reaches the end of its useful life, it is recycled, possible so it can be easily absorbed into local packaging with all parts being shredded. These servers are not material recycling programs. reused because they have sensitive data residing in their memory. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F48 < Previous View Contents Figure 13: Cisco Reverse Logistics Locations Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Sweden Russia Netherlands Society United Kingdom Germany Environment Belgium Switzerland Overview Nevada France Canada Italy Japan California Environmental Spain Sustainability South Carolina Hong Kong Arizona Texas Materials Florida China Energy and GHG India Emissions Mexico Thailand Water Use Costa Rica Venezuela Biodiversity and Land Use Malaysia Non-GHG Emissions Colombia Effluents (Liquid) Singapore > Waste Peru Brazil GRI Index South Africa Appendix Chile Argentina Receiving and Reuse Recycling Recycling Subcontractor Warehouse/Disassembly This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F49 < Previous View Contents Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Table 23 shows our solid waste KPIs. Note that In addition, a breakdown of our waste stream for the operational waste recycling performance depends on San Jose site in Figure 15 illustrates our key sources of GRI EN22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal both Cisco performance and the availability of supporting operational waste, the complexity of proper waste stream Introduction method. services by local waste hauling and disposal vendors. segregation, and the need for local recycling services. Governance & Ethics GRI EN24: Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Supply Chain Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage Figure 14: Recycling Rates for Solid Waste from Major North American of transported waste shipped internationally. Our People Operations (Trash) Cisco’s Waste Reduction and Recycling Program is Society a key component of our ISO 14001 certification and 100% global environmental policy. We routinely collect and Environment recycle waste streams, including batteries, CDs and 90% Overview diskettes, beverage containers, trash, wood and pallets, Environmental cardboard, mixed paper, confidential waste, packaging 80% Total Sustainability materials, toner cartridges, compost, polyurethane Materials foam, landscape waste, mobile phones, food waste, and San Jose construction waste. Electronic waste collection programs 70% Energy and GHG Boxborough Emissions are described in the previous section. Figure 14 shows our trash recycling rates for solid wastes for some of our RTP Water Use 60% major campus locations. Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions We encourage all Cisco facilities to take steps to reduce 50% Effluents (Liquid) their operational waste and recycle any materials that can be recycled in each location. For example, initiatives 40% > Waste at our San Jose headquarters led the way by diverting 81 percent of all waste streams in FY13. In addition, 30% Cisco campuses in San Jose, California, and other North GRI Index American locations host programs for composting and recycling food wastes where municipal facilities are 20% Appendix available to process these materials. During FY13, the food waste separation program at the San Jose campus 10% diverted approximately 800 metric tonne of food waste that otherwise would have been sent to local landfills. 0% The waste was then turned into compost and made 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 available by the municipality for purchase by gardeners. FISCAL YEAR In addition, Cisco’s facilities in San Jose and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, recycle waste vegetable oil. This vegetable oil is converted into biodiesel fuel used to power traditional diesel vehicles. This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F50 < Previous View Contents Table 23: Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Introduction KPI FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Comments Governance & Ethics Total operational waste generated, 6,246 4,845 4,643 4,524 5,015 metric tonne Supply Chain Percent real estate portfolio covered 48% 46% 51% 58% 52% Includes all U.S. and Canada Cisco campuses. Our People by waste reporting Society Total operational waste recycled, 4,250 3,443 3,345 3,119 3,772 metric tonne Environment Operational waste recycled, percent 68% 71% 72% 69% 75% Overview Environmental Sustainability Materials Energy and GHG Figure 15: Breakdown of Solid-Waste Streams (Trash) at San Jose, California, Emissions Headquarters Campus Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use 1% Foam 1% Special Projects Non-GHG Emissions 2% Mixed Recycling <1% Cans & Bottles Effluents (Liquid) 4% Mixed Paper <1% Media > Waste 4% Confidential Paper 4% Recycled Construction Waste Landscape Waste GRI Index Wood Appendix 6% 36% Surplus Donation 7% 10% Cardboard 25% Compost This section is bookmark enabled. 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Governance & Ethics GRI Index Supply Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index Strategy and Analysis Performance: Economic Performance: Environmental Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance: Human Rights Performance: Society Performance: Product Responsibility Appendix Global Reporting Initiative Index The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are a set of internationally recognized indicators covering a company’s governance, economic, labor, human rights, society and environmental impacts. “(The) GRI’s mission is to make sustainability reporting standard practice for all companies and organizations. Its Framework is a reporting system that provides metrics and methods for measuring and reporting sustainability-related impacts and performance.” 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G2 < Previous View This table covers the GRI G3.1 indicators found in Cisco’s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2013 Annual Report, and company websites. Contents Introduction GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the CEO Letter Supply Chain organization and its strategy Our People 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Section Overviews, Executive Summary, Society Governance and Ethics/Materiality Assessment Profile Environment 2.1 Name of reporting organization Cisco Systems, Inc. GRI Index 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Cisco Products and Services > Strategy and Analysis 2.3 Operational structure of the organization including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint About Cisco Performance: Economic ventures Performance: 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Environmental Corporate Headquarters Performance: Labor 170 West Tasman Drive Practices and Decent Work San Jose, CA 95134 USA Performance: Human Rights Performance: Society 2.5 Number of countries where organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are Worldwide Contacts, specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Cisco Corporate Overview Performance: Product Responsibility 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form FY13 Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) FY13 Annual Report, Cisco Corporate Overview Appendix 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization including: FY13 Annual Report, • Number of employees Cisco Corporate Overview • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity • Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership, including: FY13 Annual Report • Location of, or changes in operations, including facility operations, closings, and expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR Awards, Diversity Awards, Investor Relations Awards (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G3 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Introduction/About This Report Governance & Ethics 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Cisco Fiscal Year 2012 Supply Chain 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual Our People Cisco Fiscal Year 2013 Society 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr_report@cisco.com Report Scope and Boundary Environment 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Governance and Ethics/CSR Management, GRI Index • Determining materiality Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement, • Prioritizing topics within the report Governance and Ethics/Materiality Assessment > Strategy and Analysis • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Performance: Economic 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Introduction/About This Report Performance: 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Only as noted in report Environmental Performance: Labor 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 2013 Annual Report Practices and Decent Work can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Performance: Human Rights 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying Introduction/Assurance Performance: Society estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report Assumptions and techniques are explained throughout the sections Performance: Product 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such No major changes — any adjustments are explained within Responsibility restatement the sections 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in No major changes — any adjustments are explained within the report the sections Appendix GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard disclosures in the report This table Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance Introduction/Assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also We continue to explore the viability of external assurance explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider. for the CSR report. (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G4 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance & Ethics 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for Corporate Governance Supply Chain specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Our People 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and if so, his or her function Corporate Governance, within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) John T. Chambers, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Society 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body Corporate Governance that are independent and/or non-executive members. Environment 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance Governance and Ethics/Ethics, GRI Index body Share Your Concerns 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives As addressed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis > Strategy and Analysis (including departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental of Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement, 70% of the three major Performance: Economic performance) components of annual compensation (base salary, variable cash Performance: incentive awards and long-term, equity-based incentive awards) Environmental for each of Cisco’s named executive officers is performancebased. See Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement. Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided Corporate Governance, Code of Business Conduct Performance: Human Rights Performance: Society 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding For a description of the qualifications of Cisco’s Board of the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Directors, see pages 5-8 of Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement. Performance: Product Responsibility The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing, reviewing and making periodic recommendations concerning Cisco’s corporate governance policies, and for recommending to the full Board of Directors candidates for Appendix election to the Board of Directors. For a more detailed description, see pages 12-13 of Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Introduction, Executive Letters, Code of Business Conduct, environmental, and social performance, and the status of their implementation Supplier Code of Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of For Cisco’s corporate governance policies and practices, see economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or page 9 of Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement. compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles For an overview of “The Role of the Board of Directors in Risk Oversight,” see page 10 of Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement. See Cisco’s Code of Conduct 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, As noted on page 10 of Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement, environmental, and social performance the Lead Independent Director is responsible for presiding over the annual self-evaluation of the Board of Directors. Cisco’s 2013 Proxy Statement (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G5 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Not reported Governance & Ethics 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Governance and Ethics/Global Frameworks and Forums, Supply Chain organization subscribes or endorses Governance and Ethics/External Partners, Governance and Ethics/Human Rights, Our People Supplier Code of Conduct 4.13 Members in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Governance and Ethics/Global Frameworks and Forums, Society • Has positions in governance bodies Governance and Ethics/Human Rights, • Participates in projects or committees Supply Chain/Partnering to Build Capability, Environment • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Our People/An Inclusive and Diverse Culture, • Views membership as strategic Support for Community Partners, Environment GRI Index Stakeholder Engagement Strategy and Analysis 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement > Performance: Economic Stakeholder comments are included in each section Performance: Environmental 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement Performance: Labor 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement Practices and Decent Work Performance: Human Rights 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement, responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Governance and Ethics/How We Engage with Key Stakeholders Performance: Society Stakeholder comments are included throughout the report Performance: Product Responsibility Performance: Economic Disclosure on management approach Introduction/Executive Letters, Annual Report 2013/Letter to Shareholders Appendix Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, FY13 Annual Report donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Not reported EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations See pages 111-115 of Cisco’s 2013 Annual Report (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G6 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Cisco does not receive financial government support Aspect: Market Presence Governance & Ethics EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of We provide competitive levels of compensation above local Supply Chain operation minimum wage requirements Our People EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced Society significant operation Environment Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through Society GRI Index commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement Strategy and Analysis EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Society Performance: Economic Performance: Environmental > Performance: Environmental Disclosure on management approach Environment/Overview, Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Principles Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Environmental Performance Indicators Performance: Human Rights Aspect: Materials Performance: Society EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment/Materials Performance: Product Responsibility EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environment/Materials/Recycled Content Aspect: Energy Appendix EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/ Reducing Emissions from Operations EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 Product Use requirements as a result of these initiatives Phase (Product Energy Efficiency) (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G7 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/ Reducing Emissions from Operations Governance & Ethics Aspect: Water Supply Chain EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment/Water Use Our People EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environment/Water Use EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environment/Effluents (Liquid) Society Aspect: Biodiversity Environment EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use outside protected areas GRI Index EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use Strategy and Analysis of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Performance: Economic EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use > Performance: Environmental EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use Performance: Labor EN15 Number of IUCN Red List Species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use Practices and Decent Work operations, by level of extinction risk Performance: Human Rights Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Performance: Society EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2 Performance: Product Responsibility EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 3 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/ Reducing Emissions from Operations Appendix EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Environment/Non–GHG Emissions EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Environment/Non–GHG Emissions EN21 Total water discharged by quality and destination Environment/Effluents (Liquid) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment/Effluents (Liquid) EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G8 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Governance & Ethics Aspect: Products and Services Supply Chain EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Product Energy Efficiency) Our People EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Environment/Waste/Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling Society Aspect: Compliance Environment EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Regulatory Fines environmental laws and regulations GRI Index Aspect: Transport Strategy and Analysis EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 3/ Performance: Economic organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Scope 3 Business Air Travel, Environment/Materials/Packaging/Packaging Material, Space Performance: Efficiency, and Distribution Optimization Environmental > Performance: Labor Aspect: Overall Practices and Decent Work EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/ Performance: Human Rights Reducing Emissions from Operations, Performance: Society Environment/Materials/Packaging/Packaging Material, Space Efficiency, and Distribution Optimization Performance: Product Responsibility Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach Our People, Supply Chain Appendix Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Our People/An Inclusive and Diverse Culture LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Not Reported LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, Our People/Rewarding Our People, by major operations 2013 Annual Report Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Not Reported (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G9 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements We meet all applicable laws, regulations, and standards where we do business. Governance & Ethics Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Supply Chain LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Not reported help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Our People LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment Society LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment, families, or community members regarding serious diseases Our People/Rewarding Our People, Environment Our People/Health and Wellness GRI Index LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not reported Aspect: Training and Education Strategy and Analysis Performance: Economic LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Our People/Training and Development Opportunities Performance: LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Our People/Training and Development Opportunities Environmental assist them in managing their careers Performance: Labor LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender Our People/Training and Development Opportunities Practices and Decent Work > Performance: Human Rights Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Performance: Society LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, Our People/An Inclusive and Diverse Culture Performance: Product minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Responsibility LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Not Reported Appendix Performance: Human Rights Disclosure on management approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights, Supply Chain Human Rights Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Activities HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes, undergone human rights screening Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Improve Performance HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions Supply Chain/Our Supply Chain taken (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G10 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant Governance and Ethics/Ethics, to operations, including the percentage of employees that are trained Governance and Ethics/Human Rights Governance & Ethics Aspect: Nondiscrimination Supply Chain HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Not reported Our People Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes Society significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Environment Aspect: Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having a significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Supplier Code of Conduct, GRI Index to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Improve Performance Strategy and Analysis Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Performance: Economic HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Supplier Code of Conduct, Performance: contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Improve Performance Environmental Aspect: Security Practices Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced > Performance: Human Rights rights that are relevant to operations Performance: Society Aspect: Indigenous Rights Performance: Product HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Not material: Cisco’s operations do not uniquely impact Responsibility indigenous people Aspect: Assessment Appendix HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G11 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction Aspect: Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not reported Governance & Ethics Performance: Society Supply Chain Disclosure on management approach Society Our People Society Performance Indicators Society Aspect: Community Environment SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, Society/Employee Engagement, and development programs Society/Cisco Networking Academy/Impact GRI Index Aspect: Corruption Strategy and Analysis SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Governance and Ethics/Risk Management Performance: Economic SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Governance and Ethics/Code of Business Conduct Performance: Environmental SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Governance and Ethics/Ethics, Governance and Ethics/Code of Business Conduct Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Public Policy Performance: Human Rights SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Governance and Ethics/Public Policy, > Performance: Society Global Policy and Government Affairs (GPGA) Performance: Product SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Governance and Ethics/Public Policy Responsibility Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 2013 Annual Report Appendix Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with 2013 Annual Report laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Not material (continues on next page) 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G12 < Previous View Contents GRI G3.1 guideline (Continued) Location Introduction SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts Not material on local communities Governance & Ethics Performance: Product Responsibility Supply Chain Disclosure on management approach Not Reported Our People Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Society PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Not Reported Environment percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety Supply Chain/Cisco Supply Chain Sustainability Guiding Principles, GRI Index impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes, Supply Chain/Audit Findings Strategy and Analysis Performance: Economic Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Performance: PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and service Not Reported Environmental subject to such information requirements Performance: Labor PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service Not Reported Practices and Decent Work information and labeling, by type of outcomes Performance: Human Rights PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Governance and Ethics/How We Engage with Key Stakeholders, Performance: Society Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey > Performance: Product Responsibility Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Marketing communications are regulated by national and advertising, promotion, and sponsorship international law, and are also subject to voluntary codes. Appendix Cisco’s marketing communications are also governed by our Code of Business Conduct and by additional guidelines and best practices. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning market Zero communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Not Reported Aspect: Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 2013 Annual Report products and services 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H1 < Previous View Contents Introduction Governance & Ethics Appendix Supply Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index Appendix 1. Comparison of SustainAbility Materiality Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section 2. G lobal Supplier Management Letter 3. C omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration 4. C omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H2 < Previous View Contents 1. Comparison of SustainAbility Materiality There is general agreement between the two materiality by voluntary action, and not simple legal compliance. assessments: We therefore treat issues of legal compliance, such as Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section • Energy/GHG emissions related both to operations and RoHS, REACH, and WEEE, separately to mainstream Introduction our products, product EOL, and packaging are Cisco’s sustainability initiatives. Table 1: Materiality Tiers for Cisco Governance & Ethics Environment-Related Issues highest priorities in both assessments. • SustainAbility ranks land use, biodiversity, and water • Hazardous waste in the SustainAbility assessment is use lower in relevance to Cisco. These issues are Supply Chain Tier Environment Topic similarly placed in the lower Tier 4 as defined by the ranked more highly than Cisco’s original ranking (from 2011 and updated slightly for 2012). We interpret GRI performance indicators. Our People 1 Product energy efficiency the underlying concern of survey respondents to Materiality is the foundation upon which Cisco’s Society be the same for hazardous waste and product Energy consumption (operations) sustainability strategy and initiatives are built. EOL. However, we place issues controlled by legal Environment requirements in Tier 5 since compliance is a given. If you have comments or need further clarification, please 2 Waste (product EOL) Stakeholder feedback has consistently indicated that a send us an email. GRI Index company’s commitment to sustainability is measured 3 Waste (product packaging EOL) Appendix > 1. C  omparison of Water pollution (liquid effluents) SustainAbility Environmental Materiality Assessment SustainAbility Materiality Matrix and Table 1 of Transport emissions (from product logistics) High Degree of Control Environment Section 2. G  lobal Supplier 4 Waste (operational “trash”) Management Letter Operational Energy & GHGs High Control 3. C  omparison of BAU Hazardous materials Land Use/Biodiversity and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration Water use Moderate Control 4. C  omparison of BAU Water Use Product Product Energy & GHGs and ICT Solution for Biodiversity and land use End-of-Life Societal Concern Teleworking Low Control 5 Non-GHG airborne emissions Hazardous Materials Packaging SustainAbility’s assessment of materiality, discussed in the Governance and Ethics section and reproduced on this page, was organized around issue categories whose Operational Waste boundaries don’t correlate exactly with GRI performance indicators. Cisco’s materiality ranking, discussed in the Environment section and reproduced on this page, uses GRI performance indicators as part of our standardization of our CSR reporting. Low Low Impact/Relevance for Cisco High 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H3 < Previous View Contents 2. Global Supplier Management Letter Introduction Governance & Ethics Please report your GHG emissions directly to the Carbon Disclosure Project (www.cdproject.net) via CDP’s Online Supply Chain Response System (ORS). Cisco will obtain your reporting status and emissions information via an analytics package offered by CDP. Do not send your emissions information to Cisco. Several useful references are provided at the end of this email. Our People Please forward this request to the appropriate party within your company. If you have any questions about Cisco's or your company's carbon reporting, please contact Cisco’s Environmental Sustainability team at cisco-cdpSociety questions@cisco.com. Environment Best regards, Cisco Supply Chain Operations GRI Index 9 April 2013 REFERENCES: Appendix Dear Valued Business Partners and Suppliers: 1. CDP 2013 questionnaire. Companies are encouraged to answer all CDP survey questions. The minimum question set to meet Cisco requirements is highlighted in the following markup of CDP’s survey. 1. Comparison of Cisco is committed to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2012, Cisco met our public commitment to reduce Cisco’s worldwide Scope 1, 2, and Scope 3 business-air-travel GHG emissions by 25 percent absolute by 2012 (against a 2. CDP reports summarizing 2012 responses: SustainAbility Materiality 2007 baseline).We have recently announced our new five-year reduction goals (Reference 5). a. Global 500: https://w ww.cdproject.net/CDPResults/CDP-Global-500Climate-ChangeReport-2012.pdf Matrix and Table 1 of b. S&P 500: https://www.cdproject.net/CDPResults/CDP-SP500-2012.pdf Environment Section Cisco, our stakeholders and our own customers are concerned about GHG emissions, both from Cisco's products and operations and from the operations of our suppliers and business partners. Therefore, for the fourth year, we are again c. Other reports are available at: https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Results/Pages/reports.aspx > 2. G  lobal Supplier extending to our partners and suppliers an invitation to report to CDP. 3. Guidance to respond to the CDP Survey: Management Letter https://www.cdproject.net/Documents/Guidance/CDP2013ReportingGuidance.pdf Your organization will receive an invitation to report from CDP in one of two ways: 3. C omparison of BAU 4. Guide to CDP's Online Response System (ORS): • On February 13, 2013, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) formally released the 2013 edition of its Investor https://www.cdproject.net/Documents/Guidance/guidance-to-using-the-online-response-system.pdf and ICT Solution for Survey (sent to large, public companies listed on many of the world’s stock exchanges). Responses are due on Remote Collaboration May 31, 2013 for those companies that have already received an invitation directly from CDP. 5. Cisco Blog: Cisco Announces New Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals: http://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-announces-new-greenhouse-gas-reduction-goals/ 4. C omparison of BAU • In April, CDP will release the Supply Chain Survey to other companies, public and private, identified as suppliers and ICT Solution for and partners by companies participating in CDP’s supply chain program. Responses to the Supply Chain Survey Cisco ConfidentialInternal Distribution only will be due on July 31, 2013. The Investor and Supply Chain surveys are similar. Teleworking This message contains confidential information of Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems International BV and their respective affiliates, and may be used only by the intended recipient(s) of this communication for the purpose set forth and in a manner consistent with your agreements with Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco Systems International BV to preserve their confidential information. By copy of this letter, Cisco is requesting that our partners and suppliers respond to the CDP survey, making your © 2013 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliated entities response publicly available via the option provided for this purpose in CDP's Online Response System (ORS). Cisco.com|Privacy Statement|Trademarks It is Cisco's long-term objective for all suppliers and partners to: 1. Report to CDP annually. 2. Make your responses publicly available. 3. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal (absolute reduction goals are preferred). 4. Provide for some level of third-party review of your GHG emissions data collection, analysis and reporting. 5. Request that your suppliers and business partners also report to CDP in accordance with this email. By the middle of April, if you have not received an invitation from CDP to respond to CDP’s survey, please contact CDP at respond@cdproject.net. Although the questionnaire is distributed as a PDF file, your CDP submittal is made online through CDP's Online Response System (ORS). 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H4 < Previous View Contents 3. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration (Avoiding Business Travel) Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index Appendix 1. Comparison of SustainAbility Materiality Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section 2. G lobal Supplier Management Letter > 3. C  omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration 4. C omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking 2013 Cisco CSR Report 2013 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H5 < Previous View Contents 4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking (Avoiding Employee Commuting) Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index Appendix 1. Comparison of SustainAbility Materiality Matrix and Table 1 of Environment Section 2. G lobal Supplier Management Letter 3. C omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration > 4. C  omparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco Logo are trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. A listing of Cisco’s trademarks can be found at www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
