Social and Environmental Report 2013 The OKI Group´s initiatives of corporate social responsibility (CSR) focus on contributing to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world through sound corporate activities based on our corporate philosophy. Corporate Philosophy The people of OKI, true to the company’s “enterprising spirit,” are committed to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent information and communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the information age. OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct For the betterment of corporate value, the OKI Group (Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and members of its group of companies) seeks to provide satisfaction to its customers at all times and to become a trusted partner for our stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, employees, customers and suppliers, and the local societies of the areas in which it operates. In addition to complying with all related laws and regulations, the OKI Group will implement sound corporate activities consistent with social norms, and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world. Customer Satisfaction A Better Working Environment The OKI Group is dedicated to developing and providing products The OKI Group ensures and maintains a safe and comfortable and services that ensure continued customer satisfaction, in full working environment for all employees. consideration of safety and ease of use. Respect for Employees Fair Corporate Activities Respecting the individuality of each employee, the OKI Group The OKI Group conducts appropriate transactions and works to creates a corporate culture in which its personnel are encouraged to ensure fair, transparent, and free competition. engage challenges facing the groupwith courage and determination. Good Communication Environmental Conservation The OKI Group engages with society through a variety of In order to realize and pass on a better global environment, the OKI interactions, and discloses company information in manners that are Group promotes environmental management and makes efforts to appropriate and fair. conserve the environment through its products and its business activities. Intellectual Property and Information Management The OKI Group recognizes the importance of intellectual property, Social Contribution and properly manages and protects company and customer As a good corporate citizen, the OKI Group implements social information, including personal information. contribution activities dedicated to the betterment of society. Respect for Human Rights Regional Awareness The OKI Group respects the human rights of all persons involved in The OKI Group endeavors to build a positive relationship and grow its corporate activities and eliminates illicit discrimination of any kind. together with local societies, respecting the cultures and customs of It does not allow child labor nor forced labor. the countries and regions in which it operates. OKI Group’s 2 Social and Environmental Report 2013 The OKI Group, as described in its corporate Foundation of CSR at the OKI Group philosophy, aims at contributing to improve the quality of life for people around the world through its core business, namely the manufacturing and distribution of Corporate Philosophy products and services that can serve the development of the information age. Our commitment to the pursuit and fulfillment of this idea underlies the group’s Statement of values OKI Group companies need to share corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Based on this understanding, in order to cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, we enacted the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, as a statement of values Code of conduct to be conformed by all OKI executive officers and employees to be shared by all member companies of the group. OKI Group Code of Conduct We also established the OKI Group Code of Conduct, which is to be conformed to by all executives and employees of the group. We are working to thoroughly CSR Initiatives by the OKI Group implement the charter and the code across the group, Contributing to the Improvement of the Quality of Life through various means such as training programs. We for People around the World have also defined priority themes to be pursued. The Shareholders/Investors Customers Business Partners CSR Division, an organization dedicated to CSR-related Local Communities Global Environment Governments NPO/NGO efforts, takes the initiative in promoting activities under Corporate Activities Creation of Economic Value these themes. コーポレート・ガバナンス Corporate Governance We will continue to consider the UN Global Compact Respect for HumanRights IntellectualProperty and Customer Satisfaction Fair Corporate Activities Good Communication Respect for Employees A Better Regional Awareness which states 10 principles in the areas of human rights, Social Contribution labor, the environment and anti-corruption, and the Environmental Information Management Working Environment international standard ISO26000 regarding social Conservation responsibility. OKI Group will reconfirm the social responsibilities it should fulfill in its global corporate Compliance activities, and expectations from stakeholders. We will Employees The OKI Group’s reconsider CSR activities from both aspects, and Activities Social Responsibilities further strengthen contributions in our core business. Stakeholders in Business Participation in the United Nations Global Compact OKI declared its support for the UN The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Global Compact in May 2010. The OKI Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Group supports the Global Compact’s internationally proclaimed human rights; and Rights Principle 2:  make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and antiLabor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; corruption, and works to contribute to Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; building a sustainable society. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Corruption including extortion and bribery. OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 3 A Message from the President We keep people’s trust through our sincere business activities based on an “enterprising spirit.” OKI Group’s corporate philosophy is “The people of OKI, true maintaining social infrastructures. Among them are to the company’s “enterprising spirit,” are committed to creating telecommunication infrastructure for carriers, operational superior network solutions and providing excellent information systems for financial institutions, automated teller machines and communications services globally to meet the diversified (ATMs), and various public service systems including disaster needs of communities worldwide in the information age.” This is prevention systems. the foundation for OKI Group’s view of corporate social In order to further serve customers and society in this age of responsibility (CSR). Based on this “enterprising spirit” since our volatility and change, our mid-term business plan for the period founding, we have strived to keep people’s trust by our sincere from 2011 to 2013 focuses on bolstering efforts for growth corporate activities and unceasing work to face challenges. under the following two strategies: However, very regrettably, in fiscal 2012 it was found that •O  KI provides products and services to contribute to the inappropriate accounting procedures were being done in an development of the information society, through joint efforts by overseas consolidated subsidiary. Due to their effects, past fiscal sales and marketing, technology development, production, years’ results were restated. We are truly sorry for the great worry and maintenance. and troubles this caused for stakeholders. In order to firmly •O  KI aims to become a company that makes steady growth by eliminate such situations, based on our newly established generating profit stably. Compliance Commitment, management is taking the initiative to In fiscal 2012, the Group worked closely together on policies set an example, foster compliance awareness in the Group, and for business expansion. Each employee considered what work to thoroughly implement it. We are reviewing the customers need, and advanced our business by market-in governance system, strengthening Group management, etc. We thinking, producing solid results. Fiscal 2013 is the final year of vow to continue implementing policies to prevent its our mid-term business plan, in which we continued to reoccurrence, and build a corporate culture which prevents such restructure our business and work on initiatives for growth. a situation from arising again. Through our products and services, we are helping people enjoy an improved quality of life. We contribute to society through our products and services. We promote responsible corporate management as a global corporation. Based on this philosophy, the OKI Group’s mission is to contribute to society through our products and services. They are In order to advance responsible management, the OKI Group created by the results of our business activities, characterized by has enacted and thoroughly implemented the OKI Group the integration of sales and marketing, technology development, Charter of Corporate Conduct, the statement of values to be production, and maintenance. More specifically, we accurately shared with all group companies, and the OKI Group Code of understand the needs of society, establish element technologies Conduct that should be conformed to by all executive officers and manufacturing technologies, achieve a level of quality that and employees. Part of such efforts was the enactment and truly satisfies customers, and offer reliable maintenance systems thorough implementation of the OKI Group Charter of Corporate ensuring secure, long-time use of our products and services. As Conduct, the statement of values to be shared with all group an outcome of such activities, today we provide many products companies, and the OKI Group Code of Conduct that should and services that play important roles in providing and be conformed to by all executive officers and employees. OKI Group’s 4 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Furthermore, OKI participated in the United Nations Global Compact in 2010. Since then, we have further promoted our CSR activities based on the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. Fully aware of our responsibilities as a global enterprise, we will continue to help build a sustainable society, as part of our expansion of our ATM business, etc. We contribute to the realization of a better global environment, in accordance with the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020. From this perspective, we believe that proactive actions for reducing environmental load are some of the most important corporate activities of the OKI Group. In order to contribute to the achievement of a better global environment considering global environmental issues, we enacted the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 in April 2012. The vision sets targets for 2020 in the four fields of “Realization of a low-carbon society,” “Prevention of pollution,” “Resource circulation” and “Biodiversity conservation.” To achieve these targets, we will enhance our efforts in business activities and products. This Social and Environmental Report 2013 is intended to help all stakeholders better understand the OKI Group’s initiatives. We sincerely hope that as many people as possible will read this report. Your honest opinions regarding our CSR initiatives would be greatly appreciated. June, 2013 President Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 5 Company Profile Net Sales Profile Billions of yen 600 Corporate Name: Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Founded in: January 1881 442.9 432.7 455.8 423.5 Company Established: November 1, 1949 400 Capital: 44 billion yen Employees: 17,459 (Consolidated), 226.0 200.5 189.9 205.1 3,678 (Non-consolidated) *As of March 31, 2013 200 Head Office: 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan TEL: +81-3-3501-3111 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Business Segments Consolidated Non-consolidated Info-Telecom Systems The OKI Group offers telecommunication systems, Employees social systems, mechatronics systems, and various Number of employees solutions & services, utilizing its core technologies of 20,000 18,111 17,459 info-telecommunication and mechatronics, etc. 16,697 16,736 15,000 Printers The OKI Group manufactures printers for business 10,000 use utilizing its LED technology, and distributes them throughout the world. 5,000 3,170 3,103 3,373 3,678 EMS and Others The OKI Group offers EMS (Electronics Manufacturing Services) and 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 other services, based on its highly sophisticated design and production (Fiscal year) Consolidated Non-consolidated expertise developed within the group. Editorial Policy [ Information featured in this report ] greater Stakeholders´ interests • The OKI Group “Social and Environmental Report” featuring our social and Meeting •Discussions related to GRI and ISO26000 •Initiatives in the industry such as environmental efforts and results is published in order to inform our EICC, GeSI and JEITA stakeholders of the group’s CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiatives in Our CSR •Opinions from stakeholders on last year’s Commitments Stakeholders´ interest an easy-to-understand way. Social and Environmental Reports •Opinions from stakeholders collected • This year’s report has featured articles on the background and work to through various surveys of employees and others prevent reoccurrence of a restatement of past years' results due to the ● Corporate governance inappropriate accounting procedures of an overseas consolidated subsidiary, ● Priority themes Significance to the OKI Group (Achievements in fiscal 2012) •Corporate Philosophy discovered in fiscal 2012. •The OKI Group Charter of Corporate • This report features two articles under the title “Meeting Our CSR Conduct, the OKI Group Code of Conduct [ Information provided on the website ] •The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 Commitments” that cover four key challenges for the OKI Group in which our ● Priority themes (Policies and systems and •The OKI Group Environmental Policy other related information) •The United Nations Global Compact stakeholders as well as the public show an intense interest. The report also •Priority themes about CSR describes the seven themes we continue working on, with a focus on activity Significance to the OKI Group greater •Risk management and other issues results in fiscal 2012. • Detailed information on each priority theme, such as that on specific policies and systems for it, are provided on our website. The information on the website also includes a comparative table that shows the relationship between the OKI Group’s CSR activities and the core themes of ISO26000. •GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): An international NGO that develops and disseminates globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.  •ISO26000 (International Organization for Standardization 26000): An international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility (published in November, 2010). Reference Guidelines  (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition): An alliance of electronic •EICC manufacturers focusing on CSR that has enacted a code of conduct in the supply Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 (GRI) chain. Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 (Ministry of the Environment) •GeSI (Global e-Sustainability initiative): A partnership of information and Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (Ministry of the Environment) communications technology companies that collaborates with EICC about CSR UN Global Compact COP (Communication on Progress) Policy management in the supply chain. OKI Group’s 6 Social and Environmental Report 2013 CONTENTS Net Sales by Business Segment in fiscal 2012 (Consolidated) OKI Group’s CSR 2 A Message from the President 4 EMS Other 7.2% 4.1% Company Profile / Editorial Policy 6 CONTENTS 7 Printers Featured Articles 8 24.4% 455.8 billion yen Info-telecom systems 64.3% Special Features: Meeting Our CSR Commitments OKI’s very convenient and 1 reliable cash recycling ATMs contribute to society 10 Net Sales by Market in fiscal 2012 (Consolidated) Other 13.3% Europe 10.2% Towards Achieving the OKI Group North 455.8 billion yen Japan 2 America 72.2% Environmental Vision 2020 12 4.3% Corporate Governance 16 Scope Covered by this Report Promoting CSR at the OKI Group 17 Time Period Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations 18 This report covers fiscal 2012 (the year from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013). However, the report also discusses some facts preceding this period, Information Security 19 as well as policies and plans to be implemented in subsequent periods. Improvement of Customer Satisfaction 20 Organizations Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors 21 The report covers the activities of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (OKI), and its consolidated subsidiaries. However, environmental performance data Respect for Employees 22 covers OKI’s 13 locations and 29 subsidiaries in Japan, and our 7 Social Contribution 23 overseas production subsidiaries. (1 domestic production subsidiary established in fiscal 2012 was added) Consideration for the Environment 24 Detailed Data 26 Corporate Names / Names of Organizations Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. aims to be a globally known growth company. It is commonly called “OKI.” In this report, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. is referred to as “OKI,” and its corporate group, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, as the “OKI Group.” The names of the organizations referred to in this report, in principal, are those used as of April 2013. Forecasts, Plans and Targets In addition to factual information about the past and current activities of the OKI Group, this report also includes forecasts, plans and targets for For further information, please contact the future. They reflect assumptions and judgments based on information CSR Division available at the time of writing. Thus, readers are requested to understand Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. that the future results of the company’s activities could be different from email: oki-csr@oki.com what is described in this report. OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 7 featured articles Report on inappropriate accounting practices and improvements Improvement policy thoroughly executed by every individual, to become a trusted company. In fiscal 2012, due to the effects of inappropriate accounting practices in an overseas consolidated subsidiary, the fiscal 2012 first quarter report was submitted late, and OKI submitted revision reports for past fiscal years’ securities reports, etc. and internal controls reports, which greatly troubled stakeholders. Here, we provide an outline of inappropriate accounting practices and responses taken, and the status of implementation of improvement policies the entire group is working on. Outline of inappropriate accounting Initiatives to prevent reoccurrence practices and responses taken OKI established the Reoccurrence Prevention Committee in In June 2012, OKI Data (ODC) runs our printers business, September 2012, chaired by the President. This sorted out the and OKI Europe which manages ODC’s European sales business reasons the inappropriate accounting practices occurred, became aware that figures recorded in the accounting system reasons they were discovered and understood late, and issues were inaccurate, due to a confession by the President (fired in which must be handled. It then established specific September 2012) of sales company OKI Systems Iberica (OSIB) improvement policies. Each policy is being implemented by the in Spain. committee member in charge of that policy. After an internal investigation, on August 8 OKI announced The committee was disbanded in April 2013, but related these inappropriate accounting practices, and that it would delay departments continue to solidly execute and operate the submission of its fiscal 2012 first quarter report. OKI also policies. As part of improvement actions, their progress and established an investigative committee comprised of external effects are continually verified by the Risk Management experts (External Investigative Committee), and proceeded to Committee established in October 2012 (President as clarify all details and studied policies to prevent reoccurrence. Committee Chairman, outside director and company audit & The External Investigative Committee clarified that the supervisory board members as advisors). These are efforts for inappropriate accounting practices in OSIB were as shown in the solid implementation. table. Based on this investigation result and audit results of Accounting Auditors, on September 14 OKI completed 1. Improvement policies in response to the submission of its first quarter report, and disclosed regarding causes at OSIB submission of revision reports for its past years’ security reports OSIB’s own warehousing and its own fundraising enabled etc. and internal controls reports. The cumulative effects on improper accounting. These were eliminated and prohibited, consolidate results from the beginning of fiscal 2006 until fiscal and data entered into the accounting system was checked 2012 first quarter were: 7.5 billion yen decrease in net sales, 21.6 for validity. billion yen decrease in operating income, 21.5 billion yen Also, OKI’s Whistleblowing System was revised to be a new decrease in ordinary income, and a 30.8 billion yen decrease in system, which now enables anonymous whistleblowing and net income. whistleblowing to the outside director and company audit & Inappropriate Accounting Practices Details 1 Printers and consumables business   y repeatedly cancelling sales and recording fictitious sales, uncollectable accounts receivables were B related disguised to be normal Funds obtained by discounted bills and factoring were used to disguise accounts receivables as properly collected 2 TV sales activities (own business) related  Took over purchase debts of brokers, and concealed this by diverting borrowings etc. to repay debts Disguised reductions of broker accounts receivables 3 Duplicate finance Used the same accounts receivables to raise funds by factoring and discounted bills  4 Other inappropriate accounting Rebate obligations not recorded practices, etc. Raised funds by prepayments and did not record them Raised funds by borrowings and did not record them Recorded reduced accounts receivables of specific companies OKI Group’s 8 Social and Environmental Report 2013 OKI Compliance Commitment October 30, 2012 Based on its corporate philosophy, OKI strives to contribute to society through the provision of products and services that play a role in the development of an information society. To accomplish this mission, honorable corporate activities that respond to our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders/investors, employees, partners and society are vital. With the conviction that gaining the trust of our stakeholders is the basis for enhancing our corporate value, we, OKI's management team, will make every effort to execute honorable and reliable corporate activities using sensible judgment. Therefore, we will strive to establish and operate an effective internal control by engaging with internal and external voices at all times. OKI will take the lead to steadily implement thorough compliance by educating executives and employees of OKI and our Group companies. Should a situation occur which goes against this belief, OKI will promptly investigate the cause, take preventive measures and clarify responsibility. On this basis, OKI will realize the enterprising spirit nurtured since the company's founding and provide products and services that contribute to fulfilling a comfortable existence. President Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. supervisory board members. All consolidated companies have are striving to thoroughly implement these revisions, by providing also prepared and are implementing similar rules. training, etc. Along with these, all consolidated companies are renewing 2. Improvement policies in response to the efforts to thoroughly implement accounting practices policy, and causes at OEL and ODC we established operating procedures to verify the validity of ODC sets appropriate targets for and monitors sales business indices of subsidiaries. For internal controls concerning companies, and it does monthly reviews to know the status of financial reports, we confirmed the state of preparations of distribution inventory, etc. internal controls in OSIB, and for major consolidated companies, ODC also transfers officers to work temporarily in sales we renewed efforts to thoroughly implement policies, and companies, and monitors their business indices, to strengthen reconfirmed the state of preparations of internal controls. our system of checks. ODC is also reviewing its judgments on whether to renew the contracts of sales company presidents. 4. Other improvement policies Moreover, in order to strengthen compliance, firstly, training is Considering the background and indirect causes of these provided to the European companies on the importance of inappropriate accounting practices, we are implementing financial reporting; on the other hand, the teams of the internal improvement policies which should be applied across the audit divisions of ODC and OEL are strengthened, and the 5 organization: stronger subsidiary boards of directors, revise and main sales companies under OEL were audited from January to thoroughly implement Group Company Management Rules, March 2013. review personnel management and implement personnel rotation, clarify and thoroughly inform staff about disciplinary 3. Improvement policies in response to the rules, review authorization rules for information systems, causes at OKI and OKI Group strengthen checks on accounting departments, expand the OKI adopted its Compliance Commitment in October 2012. submission scope of accounting audit situation investigations In this, management promised anew to stakeholders that and audit situation reports, review the internal audit periods, hold management itself reconfirms the importance of compliance, meetings of audit department heads, provide compliance leads by example, and strives to foster compliance awareness training, do compliance awareness surveys, etc. and thoroughness in the group. In December 2012, OKI also revised the OKI Group Code of OKI Group continues to operate and implement more Conduct, from 3 viewpoints: Foster a corporate culture in which thoroughly each policy: provide ongoing compliance training, people “express, encourage others to express and listen” to solid responses to business risks by the Risk Management enable them to quickly share issues and respond accurately, Committee, etc. By doing these, we are earnestly striving to Make more specific items concerning financial reports, Improve foster a corporate culture in which such a situation will never effectiveness of the Code of Conduct. All consolidated arise again, and become a company which earns your trust. companies also adopted these revisions by March 2013, and we * These featured articles were summarized based on content of the Improvement Status Report, which OKI submitted to the Tokyo Stock Exchange and Osaka Securities Exchange on April 15, 2013. OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 9 Meeting Our CSR Commitments ATM-Recycler G7 used in Alfa-Bank (Russia) Special OKI’s very convenient and reliable cash recycling ATMs Features 1 contribute to society Developed the world’s first cash Then in 1996, we developed a space-saving ATM for retail recycling ATM, which are still evolving markets. We delivered ATMs for overseas to China and Korea in to meet the needs of society. 2003. OKI’s cash recycling ATMs evolve with the aim of constantly improving customer satisfaction, along with the needs ATMs are one of OKI’s mainstay products. They are still of society and people, such as “More transactions possible in taking root as essential social infrastructure for daily life. OKI ATMs,” “Addition of security and other functions for peace of developed the first large ATM in Japan in 1977, and the world’s mind,” and “Improve quality so customers don’t have to wait.” In first cash recycling ATM in 1982. Recycling is the function where 2006 we developed the ATM-BankIT, with high security cash deposited in the ATM is also reused to pay out. This is functions, reliability and pleasant operation. Then in 2009 we common now, but around 1970 there were only cash dispensers developed the ATM-Recycler G7, which can handle128 banknote and deposit machines. So this cash recycling ATM which handles denominations of multiple currencies; this was successfully sold both deposits and withdrawals in one machine and also reuses to customers in Japan, China, Korea, then to Russia in 2012, cash was highly valued as achieving revolutionary functions. and Indonesia in 2013. Evolution Path of OKI ATMs 1G 2G 3G 4G 5G 6G 7G 2003: C  ash recycling 2009: A  TM-Recycler G7, handling banknotes of ATM for overseas multiple currencies, launched launched 2012: C urrency exchange machine handling banknotes of multiple currencies launched 2012: O rder from Alfa-Bank in Russia World’s first cash recycling ATM For Global Markets launched 2013: O  rder from major Indonesian private bank For Financial Markets Pioneered the ATM era: AT-20P. March 2012, certified as Cash recycling Information Processing Technology & space-saving Heritage by the Information ATM launched For Retail Markets Processing Society of Japan 1970 1977 1982 1990 2000 2010 2013 OKI Group’s 10 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Aiming for people-friendly systems, with Secure, safe and very convenient cash high security, pleasant operation, etc. recycling ATM, for people around the world When general users deposit or withdraw cash, they view In 2001, OKI expanded its cash recycling ATM business into ATM security as important. While user convenience is improving, the Asian markets of China and Korea. In recent years, China has various crimes which take advantage of technology continue to seen rapid economic growth, and the increase in personal increase. OKI is actively working to develop new security incomes has brought an increase in the frequency of handling functions and technologies. We are constantly strengthening cash, and an increasing need to use banks to send money and security to prevent crimes using stolen cards, counterfeit cards, pay public fees, etc.; at the same time, crowding at bank and skimming which steals card data. For example, Personal counters is becoming a problem. Cash recycling ATM Identification Number (PIN) scrambling and “visible angle-limiting installations accelerated rapidly, and OKI gained the top market filter” etc. are installed, so PIN cannot be copied from behind a share in China. These greatly reduce wait times at banks, person. And we use biometric authentication functions such as improve convenience and safety of deposits and withdrawals, vein authentication, instead of PIN. and bring great benefits to users’ lives. It is thought these will And we think an ATM must be easy to use for anyone, so we continue to play a role in improving the quality of life. also emphasize pleasant operation. For example, the ATMAnd in 2012, OKI was the first Japanese manufacturer to sell BankIT Pro is currently the most widely used ATM in Japan; it a cash recycling ATM to a Russian bank. Today, Russia continues implements universal design: voice guidance by handset for to grow economically, and dollars and euros are used in addition visually disabled people, and “easy operation mode” which is to its own ruble currency. The ATM-Recycler G7 is valued also easy for elderly to use, etc. And for wheelchair users, it has because it can handle multiple currencies at the same time, and an ATM body shape which is easy to get close to, slanted easy has a high utilization rate and high security functions, etc. Its full to see screen, etc. There is a universal basic need to improve scale use began in November 2012. It was also sold to a major ease of operation, so ATMs can be used without trouble by private Indonesian bank, which plans to steadily install them everyone, including elderly and challenged people. We will keep starting in August 2013. working on this as one of our important themes. OKI will keep contributing to society and people throughout the world, by providing secure, safe and highly convenient cash recycling ATMs. ATM-Recycler G7: Handles 128 banknote denominations of multiple currencies When the cash recycling ATM which directly dispenses and receives cash was first developed, various functions were User Comment required. The most basic function was technology which can instantly recognize counterfeit banknotes, bad condition OKI’s Cash Recycling ATMs banknotes, different sized banknotes, etc., when banknotes are Improve Customer Service deposited. Especially in a cash recycling ATM, counterfeit Economic growth in Russia has brought growth in banknotes must not be received, so OKI’s mechatronics numbers of installed ATMs and cash dispensers. But to technologies were used to recognize and reject this, providing advanced functions. ATM-Recycler G7 is the 7th generation cash achieve our aim of “providing the highest level of recycling ATM, in which these technologies were evolved further; customer service,” it is essential to fundamentally renew it achieves recognition of 128 banknote denominations of our ATM network to multiple currencies, with different sizes, types of handle multiple pictures, and security data, used in various currencies including countries. It can receive and dispense dollars and euros, in banknotes of multiple countries at the same addition to rubles. OKI’s time: Japanese yen, dollars, and euros; the cash recycling ATMs same machine can also exchange between the meet this need, and in local country’s currency and foreign currency, in the trial period we both directions. This dramatically improves the confirmed their high convenience of foreign exchange service. This utilization, convenience, is expected to have great usage value in safety, etc., in addition to Head of Retail Business Processes countries where in addition to local currency, Department the fast and sincere Alfa-Bank (Russia) there is great need for exchange into other responses by OKI’s staff. Maksim Dareshin major currencies. ATM-Recycler G7 OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 11 Meeting Our CSR Commitments Special Towards Achieving the OKI Group Features 2 Environmental Vision 2020 Active Promotion of the OKI Group OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 Environmental Vision 2020 OKI Group began its environmental activities in the 1970s. The OKI Group achieves a better global environment The basis of our environmental management is our environmental for the next generation and inherits the environment. management system, which was integrated across the entire Therefore, we promote environmental management and Group. Through our products and business activities, we are set targets for 2020 in the four fields of “Realization of continually working to reduce environmental impacts. a low-carbon society,” “Prevention of pollution,” “Resource circulation” and “Biodiversity conservation” The Environmental Vision 2020 was established in April 2012. and then actively work on the targets. This shows the direction of OKI Group’s environmental activities in 4 areas. This vision is linked to achieving the targets of our 1. Realization of a low-carbon society mid-term business plan that OKI Group is now working on, and Contribute to realize a low-carbon society by the to our growth program that is focused on future business maximization of energy efficiency, through provision of expansion. This vision is for more advanced environmental environmentally conscious products and services and management than practiced until now. It is being pushed forward business activities. as a long term initiative. Also, in recent years, as a global warming countermeasure, 2. Prevention of pollution the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren) has been Minimize the use of chemical substances and emissions to the atmosphere and discharges to water encouraging the creation of low carbon society execution plans. which affect on human health and environment. And to prevent pollution by chemicals, various regulations have been created and revised. There are also dramatic moves to 3. Resource circulation create activity targets and plans against environmental problems Minimize new input resources by the expansion of in Japan and overseas. For example, the 11th Meeting of the recycling process of used products and production Conference of the Contracting Parties to the Ramsar Convention wastes, and reduction of materials at the time of (COP11) was held in October 2013. OKI Group aims to achieve production. the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020, and thereby respond 4. Biodiversity conservation to such activities in Japan and overseas, achieve a better global Establish a management system to work on the environment for the next generation, and inherit the environment. biodiversity conservation and sustainable use. OKI Group’s 12 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Realizing a Low Carbon Society connections to the internet etc., the number of OLT operated units is increased. In this way, in response to communications OKI Group continues to raise global warming volume, OLTs are turned on/off and the number of connected countermeasures as an important theme. We are using IT ONUs are controlled, so instead of the previous situation of OLTs technologies which are OKI’s strengths, and working to create always fully operating, average utilization rate is decreased, products and services which contribute to realizing a low carbon which enables reduction in power consumed during society, in response to the government’s IT policies and product communications. energy regulations. At the same time, considering the *1 Green IT: Environmental efforts related to IT that are classified into two categories: government’s global warming countermeasures trend and “Green of IT” and “Green by IT”. *2 FTTH (Fiber To The Home): Until now, phone lines (copper wires) have been used inclinations of the electrical and electronics industry, we are also for cabling into homes, etc. FTTH is the name of a service which achieves high speed internet by using optical fiber instead. pouring effort into saving energy in our business activities. In *3 OLT (Optical Line Terminal): Optical access circuit terminal device installed in March 2012 we announced our participation in Nippon building of business etc. which builds a network system. Optical signals sent from ONUs are converted into electrical signals, and when sending to ONUs, the electriKeidanren’s Commitment to a Low Carbon Society, and in fiscal cal signals are converted into optical signals and transmitted. The OLT also does 2012 we participated in trials for full scale operations. other tasks, such as monitoring of ONUs. *4 ONU (Optical Network Unit): Optical access terminal device installed in homes, etc. Optical signals sent from the OLT are converted into electrical signals, and when Green IT*1 to Reduce Electricity Use in Next sending to the OLT, the electrical signals are converted into optical signals and transmitted. The actual circuit connection is PC etc. – ONU – OLT – internet conGeneration Access Systems nection device; optical signals are sent between ONU – OLT, with others transmitted in electrical signals. As companies which have participated in the evolution of IT until today, OKI Group actively creates green IT products and OLT Drive Control Overview services which help save energy. In September 2012, OKI developed OLT Drive Control Technology for next generation Concentrating switch optical access systems. This is a new technology which Run Sleep Sleep Run contributes to achieving an energy conserving society. OLT OLT OLT OLT In recent years, FTTH*2 has spread rapidly, communications volume on the internet is forecast to grow, and there is progress in development of technologies for fast communication speeds. Virtualized wiring However, with higher speeds, network systems also consume more electricity, so lower power consumption during communication is growing in importance. ONU ONU ONU ONU ONU ONU ONU ONU For next generation optical access systems which achieve fast communications by FTTH, OLT Drive Control Technology Communications volume developed by OKI reduces OLT power consumption by about 30%. Full utilization Previous In optical access systems, optical fiber is used to connect Full utilization Uses 30% OLT*3 installed in buildings of businesses etc., to device ONUs*4 Several less power units run Average utilization installed in homes. One optical fiber coming out from the OLT New ratio method side is split into multiple lines before it reaches the home, and Several each line is pulled into a home and connected to the ONU. With units run this design, one OLT connects to multiple ONUs, and 1 unit runs simultaneously sends and receives signals with them. The spread OLT drive control corresponding to Time communications volume of FTTH has created a trend of increasing ONUs installed in homes, creating a corresponding need to also increase OLTs. An Energy-saving Efforts in Business Activities OLT must maintain a state which enables simultaneous As proclaimed in the Environmental Vision 2020, the OKI transmitting and receiving with all ONUs it is connected to, and Group has been committed to energy-saving activities, because the OLT is always in a fully utilized state. Therefore, if there are it believes the reduction of greenhouse gases such as carbon few ONUs which transmit and receive, or if there is little dioxide (CO2) emitted from its business activities is important for communications volume, the OLT consumes more electricity than realizing a low-carbon society. In fiscal 2012, in order to respond necessary. The OLT Drive Control Technology now developed enables to the Commitment to a Low Carbon Society and the Revised new cabling design for one OLT and the ONUs it connects to, Energy Saving Act, we are setting new targets and will work with cabling in a virtual network with all ONUs connected to all towards them in fiscal 2013. OLTs. In this situation, the communication volumes of all ONUs Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, we have continued are monitored, and if there is little communications volume, only to work on our previous energy saving policies. We have also one OLT operates, and other OLTs are put in a sleep state. In worked on new policies: boosting production efficiency by each home, during time periods when there are more improving facility operations, and planned renewal of worn out OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 13 Meeting Our CSR Commitments facilities (active introduction of energy saving products). substances in products from early on, the OKI Group established As a result of these efforts, CO2 emissions from the OKI and began operating the Product Assessment System in 1998. Group’s major production sites in Japan during fiscal 2012 The group was also a pioneer in the development and amounted to 53,800 tons, a 33% increase over the previous implementation of a system to manage and calculate chemical fiscal year. This means that we substantially exceeded a goal set substances in products, utilizing OKI’s network technology. The in the Voluntary Action Plan of the Japanese electric and group has always made prompt responses to the enactment and electronics industry, “improving the basic unit for CO2 emissions the revision of relevant regulations. More specifically, it has with respect to real output* in fiscal 2010 by 35% or more enhanced its systems to manage chemical substances, by compared to 1990,” by making an 84% improvement. revising the OKI Guidelines for Managing Chemical Substances We will continue to actively work towards realizing a low in Products, and the OKI Green Procurement Standards. carbon society, focusing on products and services and business Furthermore, the system to manage and calculate chemical activities from OKI Group’s long term viewpoint. substances in products was developed later into a more * Basic unit for CO2 emissions with respect to real output: CO2 emissions / real output comprehensive system which determines conformity with (real output = nominal output / Bank of Japan’s Domestic Corporate Goods Price regulations, from the registration and calculation of chemical Index for electrical machinery and equipment with fiscal 1990 as the base year) substances information. Called COINServ-COSMOS-R/R, we are CO2 Emissions working to enhance its functions. It has been sold to outsiders (from Major Production Sites of the OKI Group in Japan) since April 2009. 1,000 tons CO2 100.0 % In June 2012, we strengthened the calculation functions of 100 100 COSMOS-R/R, enabling it to manage and calculate in the latest 80 80 standard survey formats of JAMP*1 and JGPSSI.*2 Moreover, we 57.8 added functions to total and manage the contained amounts of 60 53.8 60 44.3 46.9 multiple Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC*3) required under 41.7 40.6 40 40 REACH regulations, and strengthened conformity with regulations. 17.3 18.3 16 *1 JAMP (Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium): Launched in September 20 14.3 20 2006, with the aim of spreading specific mechanisms for appropriately managing 17.9 chemical substances information etc., and smoothly disclosing and communicating 0 0 this in supply chains. 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 *2 JGPSSI (Japan Green Procurement Survey Standardization Initiative): Group which (Base Year) (Fiscal year) studies standardization of lists of substances subject to surveys, and survey Emissions Volume response formats, with the aim of reducing survey labor involved in surveys of Compared to Fiscal 1990 (%) CO2 Emissions Basic Unit for Real Output chemical substances in parts and materials. This group was disbanded in May 2012, and its work was taken over by VT62474 in Japan. *3 SVHC (Substances of Very High Concern): Substances of Very High Concern regarding harm to the human body. Also called the Candidate List of Substances of Prevention of Pollution Very High Concern for Authorisation. Chemical substances bring people considerable Management and Reduction of Chemical convenience. Some of them contain substances which harm Substances in Business Activities people’s health and the environment, so they need stronger In our business activities, while chemical substances used at relevant regulations and strict controls. our production sites are managed appropriately in accordance The OKI Group continues working to properly manage with the levels of environmental impact, the group is making chemical substances in products and chemical substances ongoing efforts for operational improvements, to reduce the use handled when manufacturing, use alternate substances with less of chemical substances as well as their emissions. impact on human health and the environment, and reduce the During fiscal 2012, partly because we added sites into this amounts used. calculation, the emissions volume was 17.7 tons, an 84% Especially in regulations on chemical substances in products, increase over the previous fiscal year. in the EU, there is expansion of substances subject to control under REACH regulations, and the CE mark display and Use and Emission of PRTR Chemical Substances t expansion of products subject to the revised RoHS directive, 120 109.1 which has applied since January 2013. Regulations are being 101 93.1 greatly strengthened, with studies for adding substances subject 90 to regulations, etc. OKI Group responds appropriately to such regulations, and meets customer needs. 60 46.9 41.5 Prompt Response to Regulations about Chemical 30 18.2 15.6 16.2 17.7 Substances in Products 9.6 Recognizing the importance of management of chemical 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Amount Used Amount Emitted OKI Group’s 14 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Outline of System to Manage and Calculate Chemical Substances in Products Supplier Scope subject to COINServ-COSMOS-R/R IUCLID5 Handle latest formats SVHC: Product Calculate, composition determine Number of AIS/ data SVHC calculation submission, units shipped MSDSplus/ registration & assessment monitor JGP sheet AIS（Ver4） Supplies  heck supplies C MSDSplus（Ver4） AS connection JGPSSI（Ver4,2） composition  heck packaging C data module materials Number of registration  urvey sheet S units shipped collection % JAMP Packaging Unique format application materials service (AS) MSDSplus composition SVHC contained data AIS conversion amounts registration Report to registration consumers function Add composition data relations JAMP Strengthen functions information core Report to Create AIS/ global portal (GP) CAS number grouping downstream JGP sheet function companies Collect chemical Assess design Product data report substance data Resource Circulation Biodiversity Conservation In order to help build a resource circulation society, the OKI Since the 1990s, OKI Group employees at production sites in Group is actively promoting resource saving and recycling in its Japan and overseas have been volunteering to work on forest business activities. In recent years, customers increasingly desire conservation activities: planting trees and thinning forests, etc. recycling of used products. The group has also tried to recycle as OKI Group has also supported activities concerning conservation many used products as possible, utilizing the Cross-jurisdictional of ecosystems for many years. For example, since fiscal 2001 we Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme. We are also working to have sponsored the National School and Kindergarten Biotope use fewer resources at production sites. Contest held by the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan. In OKI Metaltech designs and manufactures sheet metal parts recent years, for spring forest conservation activities, OKI of computer and communications equipment. It is actively participates in the Green Wave* campaign of the Secretariat of working to use nesting technology, to reduce materials used. the Convention on Biological Diversity. We strive to raise the This technology provides a technique to design for uniform awareness of participants: before the work, we explain the materials and sheet thickness of parts, and assign parts of significance of forest maintenance, etc. multiple products to one sheet of sheet metal material, and In response to the increasing interest in biodiversity process them without waste. This initiative reduces waste of conservation, in fiscal 2010, we endorsed the Declaration of materials, and reduced material purchase costs by 8% in fiscal Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren, participated in the Japan 2012. Business & Biodiversity Partnership, and started initiatives in our main business. In fiscal 2012, we launched the Biodiversity Working Group for activities throughout the OKI Group: studying policy, sharing information, providing training, etc. We are continuing these initiatives, and will support activities for biodiversity conservation. * Green Wave: Campaign to plant trees etc., on the occasion of the International Day for Biological Diversity (May 22) sanctioned by the UN. This is promoted by the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity. In Japan, the Ministry of the Environment, the Processing by nesting Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, technology Transport and Tourism call on companies and organizations to participate. OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 15 Corporate Governance The OKI Group regards ongoing improvements in corporate value as its most important management priority in its quest to earn the trust of stakeholders. To this end, we are working to reinforce corporate governance based on our fundamental policies, including “the enhancement of management fairness and transparency,” “the acceleration of decision-making processes,” and “full compliance and the fortification of risk management.” Corporate Governance Structure Committee Organizations OKI maintains a corporate auditor system, with a Board of As part of its efforts to reinforce corporate governance, the Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Board. To enhance Compensation Committee, whose members include an outside management efficiency, it has also introduced an executive director, takes responsibility for ensuring transparency in the officer system, with the aim of separating the roles of the Board criteria and mechanisms used to set executive remuneration. We of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members/ Audit & have set up the Risk Management Committee to ascertain and Supervisory Board (supervision and auditing of business address risks related to our business activities. We also have the execution) and executive officers (business execution). CSR Committee to deliberate basic policies related to our CSR The Board of Directors makes decisions on fundamental activities as well as several dedicated committees. These include management policies and other important issues, and also the Compliance Committee to deliberate fundamental supervises the execution of business. Audit & Supervisory Board compliance-related policies and the Information Security members audit the business execution functions of directors— Committee to ensure the thorough implementation of information based on audit policies and methods decided at Audit & security measures. In addition, the Disclosure Committee Supervisory Board meetings—through attendance to Board of ensures that disclosure to stakeholders is accurate and timely. Directors’ meetings and other important meetings. Audit & Supervisory Board members also liaise closely with the Internal Control accounting auditors and the Internal Auditing Division to In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the accurately ascertain the overall status of company operations as Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Board of well as to carry out audits of business executions. The Board of Directors in May 2006 passed a resolution concerning the Basic Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board include three Policy for the Establishment of an Internal Control System and independent director/Audit & Supervisory Board members who OKI has been developing a system to secure appropriate have no conflict of interest with general shareholders. business operations. Pursuant to the Financial Instruments and The Executive Officer Committee makes decisions related to Exchange Act, we also have an internal control reporting system the execution of Group operations. Through participation by all in place, through which we submit internal control reports to the executive officers, the Committee seeks to accelerate decisionKanto regional bureau of the Ministry of Finance and disclose the making and business advancement and clarify business assessment results of the effectiveness of internal controls responsibilities. related to financial reporting. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Compensation including Outside Audit & including Outside Accounting Auditors Collaboration Supervisory Board Members Audit Director Committee Supervision President Risk Management Committee Internal Auditing Audit Executive Officer Committee Collaboration CSR Committee Division Corporate Audit Marketing & Sales Compliance Committee Section Business Section Information Security Committee Audit Subsidiaries and Affiliates Disclosure Committee OKI Group’s 16 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Promoting CSR at the OKI Group In order to fulfill CSR based on the corporate philosophy, we cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, in accordance with the basic policies determined by the CSR Committee, through the cooperation between the CSR Division and other relevant business units. Our CSR focuses on the seven priority themes shown in the diagram. Details of each activity in fiscal 2012 are shown below. CSR Priority Themes: Focal Points and Achievements Priority Themes Focal Points for Fiscal 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Focal Points for Fiscal 2013 Full Compliance • Effective follow-up for risk • Top management of business units • Solid sharing and communication management activities at group fully participate in activities of risk information, and with Laws and companies • Utilization of a booklet called “Case enhancement of its management Regulations • Enhancement of measures to Examples of Compliance.” Series of • Enhancement of measures to communicate the contents of case articles published in company communicate the contents of p.18 education programs news. education programs Information • Safe use of smartphones • Prepare environment for using • Safe use of smartphones • Continuation and improvement of smartphones via OKI’s cloud • Deploy information security Security the checking systems for the group service management policy to overseas p.19 companies and business partners • Support improvements for sites problems at business partners Improvement of • Improvement of educational • Enhance quality control training in • Enhance quality control training, programs for mid-level engineers as business units matching unique aspects of Customer a group • Use technology for universal design business Satisfaction • Expansion of the application range to support disabled who telework • Expansion of the application range of universal design technique (introduction examples) of universal design technique p.20 Good • Fair and timely disclosure of how • Printer business strategy • Fair and timely disclosure of how the mid-term business plan is being explanation meeting the mid-term business plan is being Communication implemented for the group's further • Training to prevent insider trading implemented in its final fiscal year with Shareholders growth and Investors p.21 Respect for • Recruitment and training of diverse • Support for employment of • Continue to strengthen fiscal 2012 human resources challenged people focal points Employees • Continuing entrenchment of the • Support for use of various systems: p.22 supports for the development of the telework system, etc. next generation • Introduction of tools for solid • Continuing promotion of work-life management of work hours balance • Continuing support for the mental and physical health of employees Social • Continuation of the activities that • Volunteer programs for recovery • Study for continuation of Great provide reconstruction assistance from the Great East Japan East Japan Earthquake Contribution to those affected by the Great East Earthquake, etc. reconstruction assistance p.23 Japan Earthquake • Installation of water weir barriers • Continuing promotion of • Continuing promotion of social etc. in Thailand to protect the contribution activities inside and contribution activities inside and environment outside Japan outside Japan Consideration for [Achievement of a low-carbon society] [Achievement of a low-carbon society] [Achievement of a low-carbon society] • Improvement of the OKI Group's • Achieve targets for the OKI Group's • OKI Group’s basic unit for CO2 the Environment basic unit for CO2 emissions basic unit for CO2 emissions emissions p.24 • Preparatory efforts for the Nippon • Participate in trials for Nippon • Start full scale operation for Nippon Keidanren’s Commitment to a Low Keidanren's Commitment to a Low Keidanren’s Commitment to a Low Carbon Society Carbon Society Carbon Society [Prevention of pollution] [Prevention of pollution] [Prevention of pollution] • Improvement of operational • Improve operational procedures • Improve operational procedures procedures and IT systems in and IT systems, and start operation and IT systems in compliance with compliance with relevant laws and [Resource circulation] relevant laws and regulations, as regulations, as well as industry • Examine targets for reducing well as industry standards standards materials newly input at production [Resource circulation] [Resource circulation] sites, and recycling ratio targets • Establish targets for reducing • Examination of targets for reducing [Biodiversity conservation] materials newly input at production materials newly input at production • Formulate policy, and launch sites, and recycling ratio targets sites biodiversity working group in OKI [Biodiversity conservation] [Biodiversity conservation] Group • Study and build assessment • Formulation of a clear policy, • Add biodiversity conservation into methods construction of a management environmental training, and deploy framework, implementation of to entire company training programs OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 17 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations The OKI Group has worked to strengthen compliance, in In fiscal 2012, top management of divisions where Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Fair Corporate Activities order to comply with all related laws and regulations and prevention polices were deployed fully participated in activities, implement sound corporate activities consistent with social and we strengthened communication between risk norms. Under the leadership of the Compliance Committee management divisions and divisions where deployed, so headed by the Chief Compliance Officer, we focus on the prevention polices are solidly implemented where deployed. enhancement of training and the promotion of integrated, * A compliance risk: a risk associated with violation of laws, regulations and systematic, companywide risk management. Furthermore, in-house rules we have established consultation and reporting channels as well as whistle-blowing regulations such as those about the For Fair Business Activities protection of whistle-blowers. We thus try to discover and To practice fair business activities, our “OKI Group Code of rectify improper activities at an early stage. Conduct” clearly states that we comply with each country’s and region’s regulations on prohibition of monopolies and fair competition, we work for fair and free competition, and that we Enhancement of Compliance Training do not give bribes of money nor in other forms to any third In order to deploy compliance-related measures across the parties (government officials, customers, agents, etc.), nor do group, the OKI Group gives training sessions for Compliance we receive bribes from third parties. This is thoroughly Managers at six sites in Japan. Participants learn in these implemented in all group companies. In fiscal 2012, we sessions, and roll out this knowledge in their business units. provided training in e-learning (workplace compliance) The deployment of such knowledge is checked through an regarding trends in corruption prevention related regulations e-learning program for all executive officers and employees of (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, etc.) which are the group. becoming stricter globally. In fiscal 2012, in order to confirm the compliance issues being promoted in the Group and to reflect them in policies, a compliance awareness survey was done when e-learning was Initiatives in Procurement Activities held in November. Also, a booklet called “Case Examples of The cooperation of suppliers and customers in our supply Compliance” that features possible compliance problems and chain is essential to fulfill our social responsibilities. Based on actions to be taken in a Q&A style was handed out in training this awareness, OKI works to build trusting relations as a sessions held for each employee rank. A series of compliance partner, and the “OKI Group Procurement Policy” raises example explanation articles were also published in our Compliance with laws, regulations, and societal norms, company news (intranet). We “Environmental considerations,” “Appropriate management are thus strengthening our work and protection of information,” etc. as cooperation “Requests to communicate training for suppliers.” In fiscal 2012, “Continue supplying when information in specific formats. unavoidable situations occur such as disasters” and “Basic policy for conflict minerals illicitly mined in conflict-affected Our company news published a regions” were added to this policy, and it was revised. series of articles explaining compliance examples Participation rates in compliance training programs (for Emergency / Disaster Response the OKI Group in Japan) in fiscal 2012 The OKI Group has established “Safety Countermeasures Training sessions for Compliance Managers 100% e-learning program (about on-the-job compliance) 100% Committees” and emergency communication networks at its domestic and overseas sites, as well as in its group companies. In the event of a disaster, appropriate Improvement of Measures to Deal countermeasures are enacted to protect people’s lives, prevent secondary accidents, contribute to local communities and with Compliance Risks foster good relationships with them, and ensure continuity of OKI has steadily promoted risk management based on its business operations. For continuity of business operations, in Risk Management Regulations, and established a system to fiscal 2008 we set guidelines for creating a Business Continuity deal with risks. As OKI regards compliance risks* as an Plan (BCP). especially important category thereof, each business unit of In fiscal 2012, based on announced revisions of the the company needs to register potential risks related to its damage scale and scope of an earthquake directly under the operations with the Risk Management Promotion Office. We capital, Nankai Trough Huge Earthquake, etc., each business have also established a management cycle to develop proceeded to revise its BCP, and we also proceeded to revise measures against them and monitor the implementation the BCP of the corporate (headquarters) division. In order to thereof within the group on a regular basis. accurately respond to risks such as earthquakes, we will continue to work on this as a Group. OKI Group’s 18 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Information Security Based on the OKI Group Security Policy, the OKI Group partners and suppliers which received relatively low evaluations Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Intellectual Property and Information Management has established a system to ensure information security in investigations until now. Based on the self-check results, under the leadership of the Information Security Committee. OKI shared issues with business partners and suppliers, and We properly manage and protect company and customer as a result of working to improve problems, half of them information, including personal information, through various achieved a “high evaluation” under OKI’s criteria. activities such as reviews of efforts for information security (biannual), and information security audits. OKI-CSIRT for Prompt Response to Security Accidents Three Perspectives of Information In order to enhance our preventive measures against Security System threats to computer security and improve our capacity to As a company which provides products and services respond to them, we established OKI-CSIRT*1 as an designed for information security, in order to boost its own organization specializing in responding to security accidents. It information security, OKI Group uses the 3 perspectives shown also coordinates our Group with outside organizations: Nippon in the diagram below to advance its security measures. CSIRT Association (NCA), other company CSIRTs, related In fiscal 2012, as a “system for visibility,” we strengthened ministries and agencies, etc. monitoring against cyber-attacks, etc. As a “system for In fiscal 2012, as a response to the increase in targeted support,” OKI introduced its EXaaS Mobile Desk Service, a emails*2 etc., countermeasures we have taken in Japan until cloud service for smartphones which provides an environment now were also deployed at Group sites in China, we in which people can safely and easily view company internal implemented thorough intrusion detection, and strengthened information from smartphones. As a “system for protection,” countermeasures to block information leak routes from PCs we held group training sessions for Information Security and servers infected by viruses. Deployment Promoters in Charge / Promoters newly assigned *1 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team in each Group company and business unit. We revised the *2 Targeted email: Email sent to a specific organization or individual, as a cyberinspection points of our Information Security Simultaneous attack to steal information Inspection which is done in October each year, and warned employees to be careful to protect information and trade secrets from customers, personal information etc. We worked Promotion of Acquiring ISMS Certification to enhance awareness of information security overall. The OKI Group is working to acquire the ISMS* certification for divisions involved in building and operating internal Monitoring at security Protection from Automatic update of information systems, and for divisions engaged in general center computer viruses virus pattern files system design development, in order to improve the reliability Systems for Visibility of network solution construction and related services. Five (monitoring, etc.) companies and seven business units of the OKI Group are OKI Group Information Security ISMS-certified organizations as of June 2013. Basic Policy Systems for Support (IT governance) Systems for Protection * ISMS: Information Security Management System (introduction of IT) (rules, training, etc.) Management of confidential data Clarification and definition of data using a shared server and business processes Implementation of information Enhancing the Protection of Development of IT infrastructure security training Personal Information The OKI Group has enhanced the protection of personal information, based on the Privacy Policy enacted in 2004. We Enhancement of Information Security have committed to the protection of personal information Levels in Partners and Suppliers under the leadership of our Chief Privacy Officer. Privacy In order to improve the quality of information security managers have been appointed at the corporate level, and in throughout the supply chain, since fiscal 2008 OKI has business units and group companies. The OKI Group has also continually checked the information security measures of its promoted its member companies’ acquisition of the business partners and suppliers handling important PrivacyMark certification, so they can take confidential information. More specifically, we have asked such appropriate measures to protect personal companies to self-check their information security measures information. OKI and eight group using a check list designed by us, used our own scoring companies have acquired the PrivacyMark system to evaluate the results of their self-checks, and shared certification as of June 2013. with them the status and issues found in this process. In fiscal 2012, we did priority rechecking of business OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 19 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Believing that quality entails “customer satisfaction,” used to link multiple sites for training. Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Customer Satisfaction OKI’s quality philosophy focuses on “providing products Also, that business unit is aware of the importance of that always make customers happy.” OKI’s Quality fostering project managers (PM) who are key people for Assurance Regulations and Product Safety Basic Policy maintaining and enhancing quality. Therefore, they also provide define the company’s quality philosophy, responsibility, PM training for mid-level engineers. They put effort into authority, etc. These philosophy, regulations and policy are providing practical know-how. For example, the training incorporated into the quality management system of each discusses causes of failures and methods to avoid common business division, in accordance with its unique business issues which easily trouble PMs. characteristics. Furthermore, we have obtained ISO9001 certification at all our production sites, and have built the Customer Comments for Feedback most appropriate quality control system for each production line or product. on Product Development OKI Data operates our printers business. For customers to be consistently satisfied when using its products, it collects Initiatives to Strengthen Manufacturing customer satisfaction surveys and failure information each OKI is in charge of the entire Group’s production month globally. The customer desires and quality problems management function which works to optimally use the entire obtained thereby are summarized in a Customer Service group’s production resources and coordinate issues, and the Feedback Request Form, and a Customer Service Feedback product safety management function which handles the Checklist. These are shared with each stage of new product Consumer Products Safety Act, Product Liability Act, etc. development, as we work to use this feedback to make better Therefore, corporate headquarters has a Production & Product products. In fiscal 2012, we also began visiting overseas sales Safety Department. This office aims to enhance our subsidiaries and agencies, to directly collect product requests organizational abilities in “manufacturing” which links directly to and customer comments. quality. Since fiscal 2011, OKI Group has held Workshops on And in Japan, about 300 to 500 customers who registered Production Reform and Improvement. At the second workshop as buyers of the COREFIDO series LED printers launched in held in December 2012, we 2009 submit survey forms on why they bought the printer, its shared use cases of 8 performance, ease of use, etc. Those results are used when business units at Group developing new products of the series. production sites in Japan and overseas. Activity results presentation at Workshop Universal Design Initiatives on Production Reform and Improvement OKI Group achieves universal design at high levels of usability and accessibility (consideration for the elderly and disabled, etc.). We define this as a situation where all Improvement of Training on Quality customers properly and efficiently use with satisfaction. User OKI has provided training on quality for different types of opinions gathered in verification experiments etc. are reflected employees at different levels, such as when joining OKI, after in our products and services. assigned to a department, and mid-level engineers. We have also offered various elective training programs, from among Example of introduction of universal design applied which each employee can choose the most appropriate technology: Workwel Communicator supports telework program for his or her need. An example is the Company of severely disabled Network System Business Department, which holds quality Qol Co., Ltd. operates a prescription pharmacy business seminars for employees twice each year, to practice our quality nationwide. It has the special purpose subsidiary* Qolpolicy of “Build customer trust by quality” created based on Assist, Co., Ltd., which provides telework to the severely our quality philosophy. This provides training which directly disabled. As a mechanism for teleworkers to easily links to practical work: policy explanation by the department communicate and exchange information in each region manager, quality situation analysis results, examples of nationwide, Qol-Assist introduced the Multipoint Voice successes and failures Communication System (Workwel Communicator) for explained by people who telework, developed by OKI Group’s special purpose experienced them, etc. To subsidiary WorkWel (OWW), with technical cooperation from make it easier for people to OKI’s research and development center. participate from each site, Workwel Communicator is a system which OWW itself the Visual Nexus video uses daily. For working at home, we focused on the fact that meeting system (a product voice communication is more effective than video, so it is of that business unit) is Seminar on quality focused on voice phone calls. Multiple virtual conference OKI Group’s 20 Social and Environmental Report 2013 rooms are set up in the system, to enable timely information * Special purpose subsidiary: Company established to provide special considerations for the sharing. The user interface applies OKI’s universal design employment of challenged people, as defined in concepts. It has an automatic speech function with standard the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. conversation texts stored, etc. Telework Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Good Communication In a system for teleworkers, video calls which see into their homes is not needed, but virtual conference rooms where members can speak Qol-Assist Co., Ltd. Director and Gen. Mgr. of freely are essential. Using the Workwel Communicator solidly enhances Telework Dept. employees’ communication and conversation abilities. It is highly evaluated Challenged Employment Living Advisor by teleworkers, who say “It gives me the feeling that I went to the office,” “I Ei Aoki get a strong feeling that I am working” and “I don’t feel alone.” Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors The OKI Group appropriately discloses useful it. Our site won the bronze award in the information to shareholders and investors in a timely “Gomez IR Site Comprehensive manner, including, management strategies and operating Ranking 2013” from the Gomez results. We actively work on disclosure and IR activities, Consulting Division of Morningstar focused on the IR Unit which is dedicated to such work. The Japan, Inc., as announced in March 2013. group also makes every effort to prevent insider trading. We also send OKI News Emails (in Japanese and English) to approximately 1,500 people, including our institutional investors. This email newsletter includes the latest financial Briefing Focusing on results, information on filings to securities exchanges, press Printer Business Strategy releases on topics such as new products and services, and OKI recognizes that the appropriate utilization of the views information on updates to our IR Website. of the market in management practices and business activities serves to further increase operating efficiency and raise corporate value. Based on this recognition, the President and Thorough Prevention of Insider Trading the other members of the management team conduct investor In order to protect shareholders and investors and gain the briefings, hold IR meetings and engage in various other trust of securities markets, OKI Group clearly states in our OKI communication activities. In fiscal 2012, we worked to provide Group Code of Conduct that we will neither buy nor sell stock fast and accurate disclosures and explanations of information or other securities based on insider information, nor provide on inappropriate accounting practices in an overseas any such information to other parties. We strive to prevent subsidiary; we also held a corporate briefing on our printer insider trading. In fiscal 2012, this was a theme at our business strategy, which is a key aspect of our mid-term Compliance Managers Training, where we discussed cases of business plan, where the violations at other companies in recent years, as we renew our President of OKI and the efforts for thorough prevention. President of OKI Data which operates our printer SRI Index Efforts business explained the A socially responsible investing (SRI) index is a stock positioning and growth index which looks at CSR as important evaluation criteria strategy for our printer Corporate briefing on printer business in addition to financial aspects. As of April 1, 2013, OKI is business. strategy (March 2013) a stock in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investing Index (MS-SRI).* * The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first Communication via IR Website socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. selects 150 companies from among approximately 3,600 listed companies and Email Newsletters in Japan by assessing their social responsibility, and converts their stock prices into the index. OKI has an IR Website where a range of investor relations information, including financial data, is posted simultaneously in English and Japanese, in order to maintain fairness in information disclosure. We aim to make the site more accessible to investors, and are continually working to improve OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 21 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Respect for Employees Believing that protection of each employee's human rights Company Ethics Charter on Recruiting. Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Respect for Human Rights / A Better Working Environment / Respect for Employees underlies all business activities, the OKI Group has proclaimed In fiscal 2012, OKI received 16 high school students, at our “Respect for Human Rights” in the OKI Group Charter of Public Systems Plant in Numazu City, Shizuoka and our Systems Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of Conduct, and Hardware Business Division in Takasaki City, Gunma. Participants works for their thorough implementation through training new voiced impressions such as “A valuable opportunity to experience hires, training by rank, e-learning, etc. The group has a strong various operations” and “I felt the importance of communication.” commitment to pursuing fair recruitment, and building work environments with respect for diversity based on its vision: Ongoing Support for Development “Pride, Passion and Sincerity.” Based on this basic concept, we have also made various efforts at overseas group companies, of the Next Generation such as encouraging the acquisition of certifications on human OKI was granted the “Act on Advancement of Measures to rights and labor, and expanded and enhanced training and Support Raising Next-Generation Children” certification (nicknamed systems, meeting the needs of each country or region. “Kurumin”) by the Tokyo Labor Bureau in 2009 and 2012. The main reason for its acquisition of the certification was in recognition for its activities in response to the Act Good Labor-Management Relationship on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising through Dialogue Next-Generation Children. OKI respects the freedom of association and collective In fiscal 2012, based on the Fourth Action Plan bargaining based on the laws in each country and region, and puts focusing on “establishing work-family balance through various great importance on building trust between labor and management. support programs that help employees take specific actions,” in In Japan, OKI holds general labor-management meetings between order to encourage use of our telework system and various other OKI’s top executives and union leaders, and divisional laborsystems, we did questionnaire surveys and interviews of users. management meetings, to sincerely exchange opinions and information on the business environment and labor issues. OKI Precision (Thailand) is OKI’s company for producing printer Promotion of Work-Life Balance parts in Thailand. It received the Good Labor Relations and Labor In order to help its employees balance work and family life, Welfare Award for all 5 years up to fiscal 2012. This is for companies OKI established the Work-Life Balance Promotion Committee, with excellent labor relations aspects and welfare aspects. with members from both management and the labor union. We developed a flextime system and a HOP (discretionary labor) system, childcare work system, and nursing work system. We Promoting the Employment of also strive to be considerate about work hours, enhancing various Challenged People systems such as “Special Leave for a Particular Purpose” which The OKI Group has worked to recruit challenged people, can be used for participation in social action programs, injuries especially in OKI WorkWel, a special purpose subsidiary of the and sickness treatment, nursing, school events, etc. In fiscal group which promotes telework for the severely disabled. As of 2012, we introduced tools for managers to more accurately grasp April 2013, it provides work at home via telework to 61 people with work hours and use this in their management, to solidly disabilities, including 40 teleworkers utilizing IT. The percentage of implement effective work hours management. challenged employees at the group in fiscal 2012 was 1.99%, higher than the previous year. We will continue to promote the Labor Safety and Health, and Health employment of challenged people in the future, especially in our special purpose subsidiary. Improvement Initiatives Employment rates of challenged people OKI established “Safety and Health Committees” in each % Employment rate of challenged people region, with members from management and the labor union. 2.0 These strengthen the safety and health system, create a labor 1.9 1.98% 1.95% 1.83% 1.99% injuries and accidents prevention plan, patrol workplaces, provide 1.94% safety and health training, etc. The Central Safety and Health 1.8 Mandatory employment rate Committee shares information on situations and initiatives in 1.7 each region. OKI’s fiscal 2012 frequency of industrial accidents* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) was 0.23. The Central Safety and Health Committee also established Internships the Mental Health Working Group as a specialized committee. Its Aiming to teach students about relationships between mental and physical health work include promoting utilization of products and society, and to let them experience the interesting Kokoro Wellness Navi, a tool to support self-care. aspects of working at an IT equipment manufacturer, OKI sites * Frequency of industrial accidents: Number of casualties due to industrial provide internships based on the Japan Business Federation’s accidents, per million man-hours worked. OKI Group’s 22 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Social Contribution In accordance with the Basic Philosophy and Basic contest held by a publisher with an NGO in 2011 in Laos. Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Social Contribution / Regional Cooperation Policy for Social Contribution Activities, OKI Group has Many of the submitting authors and winners were users of the promoted various social action projects. More specifically, school library supported by Action with Lao Children. This is the group has made donations, participated in regional one fruit of the reading promotion activities done until now by contribution activities, and supported social action this organization. programs by employees. In order to be involved in a wide range of social contribution activities, we have interacted Remote Workplace Apprenticeships and collaborated with various nonprofit organizations, and enhanced such activities in Japan and overseas. for Students with Severe Disabilities OKI WorkWel, a special purpose subsidiary of the OKI Response to the Great East Japan Group, utilizes its experience in Earthquake telework employment of the The OKI Group is engaged disabled, and has been providing in ongoing support activities to remote apprenticeships for help rebuild areas damaged by students with severe disabilities the Great East Japan continually since 2004. In Remote workplace apprenticeship Earthquake. September 2012, it provided Among them, volunteer remote apprenticeships to high school juniors at Kagoshima activities for reconstruction Prefectural Kagoshima Special Education School. Over the 9 support were organized in years until now, 29 students at 13 schools have received Farmland improvement work collaboration with Sompo remote apprenticeships from OKI WorkWel. Japan Insurance Inc., Marubeni Corporation and Mizuho Remote workplace apprenticeships use phone calls or Financial Group, Inc. Shichigahama, a town in Miyagi emails to teach PC operation methods, various tool usage Prefecture damaged by tsunamis, was visited six times by methods, website creating, poster designs, etc., matching the volunteers from among the group's employees. students’ desires and levels. If the student has an environment Support activities in fiscal 2012 which connects to the internet, the student can receive training while at school or home, reducing the burden on student and Volunteer activities of employees for reconstruction support parents of going to the apprentice workplace. Also, challenged A fair of made-in-Tohoku products at the OKI Warabi Culture Festival people doing telework for the company serve as teachers, so Participation in bamboo-copter making at Life Learning we received comments that this motivates the students Festival in Shichigahama Town, Miyagi Prefecture towards employment. Donation of a refrigerated blood transport vehicle to the Japan Red Cross Fukushima Blood Center (as a matching gift from the 100 Yen Fund of Love) Water Weir Barrier Installation for Environmental Protection in the Kingdom of Thailand OKI Data Manufacturing Donation-based Program ( Thailand) is our printer OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love production company in Thailand. The OKI Group has made In October 2012, it installed assistance efforts for various water weir barriers in Namtok social action groups through the Chet Sao Noi National Park in OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love, a Saraburi Province in Central donation-based social action Thailand. It endorsed King Employees installing water weir program. The participants in this Bhumibol’s proposal for water barrier program include executives and management of the park, and Short story collection “San Shin Sai employees of the member and iPhone” published by donations was done to prevent landslides in the rainy season, store water companies of the OKI Group for the dry season, and protect the natural environment. In (22 companies as of April 2012) who endorse the program. choosing the implementation place, they discussed with the They are asked to donate 100 yen a month. Among the forestry bureau of the local government agency, and decided groups assisted by the program is the nonprofit organization on this park, where large volumes of water from the mountain “Action with Lao Children,” which used donations to publish in the rainy season each year cause landslides. 280 employees the short stories collection “San Shin Sai and iPhone” in the participated as volunteers, the officer in charge of the park Lao language in March 2013. This is a collection of 17 stories, explained how to install weirs, and they divided into groups to from among 47 stories which won awards in a short story install water weir barriers in 10 places. OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 23 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Consideration for the Environment OKI Group achieves a better global environment for the Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Environmental Conservation OKI Group Environmental Policy next generation, and inherits the environment. To do that, in order to reach the targets in the OKI Group Environmental The OKI Group achieves a better global environment by Vision 2020 (See Page 12), we providing products and services that contribute to the coordinate and implement across development of the information society for the next the entire group the environmental generation, and inherits this within the group. management systems that 1 Aim to maximize measures' effects by implementing underpin our environmental Logo for OKI Group's the OKI Group environmental management. management commitment. environmental activities (1) Take actions to provide environment-friendly products and services in all business processes OKI Group Environmental Business through product planning, manufacturing and maintenance operation. Promotion Organization (2) In the business activities, strive to save energy/ OKI Group creates an environmental action plan for each resources and take actions to reduce and of the 4 themes in the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020, recycle wastes. which are important business issues. We practice (3) Work on the biodiversity conservation and management of these, and actively work on activities to sustainable use. continually reduce environmental impacts through our products and business activities. 2 Comply with applicable environmental legal requirements and regulations, and with customer OKI Group Top Executives requirements and other requirements to which the OKI Management OKI Group results periodic reports Group subscribes, and prevent pollution. instructions Environmental Activity Plan proposals Manager Responsible for 3 Adequately implement PDmCA (Plan-Do-multiple Environmental Management Check-Act) in the environmental management system, OKI Group Environmental Policy Operating results periodic reports and take actions to progress environmental OKI Group Environmental Activity Plan Business Unit / Group Company performances and to continue improvements of its operation system. Environmental impact reduction activities through products Lower power consumption, manage chemicals in products 4 Disclose environmental information, and make wide Environmental impact reduction activities through business contribution to the society by supporting environmental activities Save energy, save resources, reduce waste matter activities. OKI Group Environmental Activity Plan (Fiscal 2012): Targets and Achievements Environmental Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Activities Targets for Fiscal 2015 Targets for Fiscal 2012 Vision Theme Results Evaluation See Page Revised and began Legal revisions and industry implementing the Develop chemical substancinformation are reflected in our chemical substance Operate and improve chemical es management procedures, chemical substances management management procedures substance management in response to regulatory procedures document, and deployed document • Regulations to control chemical roadmaps in Japan and and implemented in the Group Deployed to major Prevention of substances in Japan and overseas Supply CMS* assessment procedures suppliers, and revise 14 Products pollution overseas part of the procedures • Response to revised standards are deployed to major suppliers document of the industry Completed addition of Build databases in response Deploy across entire company the survey functions to regulatory roadmaps in functions to increase survey efficiency Began deploying to Japan and overseas for chemical substances entire company Realization of Conform with laws and regulations Achieve mid-term targets for Register five or more new OKI Eco Registered nine new Eco low carbon about power saving as well as the larger amount of contribution Products in accordance with the new Website Products society industry's initiatives to CO2 emissions reduction certification standards Reduce CO2 emitted from Business Activities Realization of Basic unit to be reduced by Basic unit to be reduced by 1% or business activities (by introducing Reduced basic unit by 13,25, low carbon 3% or more (compared to more (compared to the average of the highly efficient equipment, and 4.9% 26,27 society fiscal 2012) past five years) revising operational systems) Achieve mid-term targets for Resource Reduce newly input resources at the reduction of newly input Maintained and Maintain and continue zero-emission 15,25,27 circulation production sites resources and higher continued zero-emission recycling efficiency Create and deploy a Created policy Biodiversity Build and operate a biodiversity Clarify policy Environmental procedure to evaluate Built system and began 15 conservation management system Build a management system biodiversity activities Implement the consolidated Completed consolidation Management Achieve mid-term target for Streamline OKI Group Environcertification plan certification as planned Shared themes each theme in our environWebsite mental Management System Study the addition of locations Completed advance mental vision subject to plan preparation for additions * CMS: Chemical Management System OKI Group’s 24 Social and Environmental Report 2013 horizontally on the factory roof reduces the transmission of Environmental Contribution heat to the roof surface, and heat held between the net and through Products roof is released, preventing temperature rise in the factory. As a company responsible for IT, OKI Group is After it was installed, room temperatures in the factory were researching and developing products which contribute to about 3°C lower than before it was installed. realizing a low carbon society by IT. Also, shading films were pasted onto windows of the factory, etc., and total electricity consumption in July 2012 was Eco Driving: Higher Gas Mileage by Automatic Driving reduced by 40,000kWh, equivalent to OKI developed “high 8.7% of the total in the previous year. reliability vehicle-toOn the other hand, as an energy vehicle communication saving initiative, in 2012, Nagano OKI technology,” and began recycling lead-free solder. By participated in the Energy using lead-free solder recycling ITS project by the New equipment, after use, oxidized Energy and Industrial portions of lead-free solder are Technology Development removed, and unoxidized portions are Automatic driving and queue driving with 4 Organization (NEDO). reused. The fiscal 2012 recycling ratio meter gaps between vehicles Lead-free solder recycling This experimented with was 39%. equipment automatic driving and queue driving with 4 meter gaps between 4 large trucks. Based on vehicle-to-vehicle communication technology Boosting Environmental Skills developed until now which supports safe driving, we set the OKI Group aims to raise the level of environmental target value for communications quality at about 100 times awareness and activities, so it provides environmental training higher. To make it even more reliable, we used a subsystem in the entire group each year. And environmental training is with optical vehicle-to-vehicle communication using light as the provided at each location, corresponding to its operations. communications media, combined with vehicle-to-vehicle Environmental Training in the Entire OKI Group communication by radio. General training Specialized training (e-learning Internal auditor training This technology enables energy saving driving, with (e-learning) or classroom training) (classroom training) automatic driving which reduces fuel wasted due to • Aim to introduce ISO • Management of chemicals in • A  uditor development 14001 products training unnecessary deceleration and traffic jams, and queue • OKI Group • Disposal of industrial waste • A uditor leader driving with less distance between vehicles to reduce air environmental policy, & used products development training activity plans, etc. • Eco inspection seminar • Auditor refresher training resistance. NEDO announced this experiment’s results on February 25, 2013. Responses to Environmental Pollution, etc. Contributions to Environment Pollution of Groundwater and Soil Conservation in Business Activities The OKI Group installed observation wells at business Each of OKI Group’s sites works on various energy saving locations, and is monitoring groundwater. A survey was done and resource saving activities, and works on activities which for a land transaction in fiscal 2012, which found environmental lead to realizing a low carbon society and resource recycling. pollution in the soil and groundwater of OKI System Center in Warabi City, Saitama Prefecture. This was reported to the Nagano OKI’s Initiatives to Save Energy and Recycle government, and appropriate action was taken in accordance Resources with environmental regulations. Nagano OKI is in Komoro City, Nagano Prefecture. In July 2012, as an energy saving policy, they installed shading Environmental Accidents, Claims, etc. insulation material on the factory’s roof, and worked to boost There were no environment-related accidents nor large air conditioning efficiency, so the amount of electricity claims made against the OKI Group in fiscal 2012. Whenever consumed in July was 14% less than in the year before. In the such an event occurs, we take action to alleviate the effects, factory, due to heat from various production equipment and and in accordance with rules for corrective and preventative from sunlight hitting the roof, cooling by air conditioning is actions, we find the causes and take action to prevent necessary in summer. reoccurrence. We also do appropriate disclosure in This installed accordance with rules on external communication. shading insulation material is a net made from tightly woven polyester flame retardant threading which screens sunlight. Installing it Factory with shading insulation material installed OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 25 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmental Impact of Business Activities (Material Balance) The OKI Group uses energy, water and chemical substances as “inputs” to conduct business activities focusing on development and production, while discharging substances with environmental impact into the atmosphere and waters, and emitting wastes as “outputs.” In the fiscal 2012 second half, newly established production sites were added to the scope subject to Material Balance calculations, which increased some energy consumption categories. Energy Consumption Emissions into the Atmosphere Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal ● Greenhouse gases 2011 2012 2011 2012 Electricity (Million kWh) 125 134 CO2* (1,000 tons CO2) 62 81 Heavy oil (ｋℓ) 751 572 PFC (1,000 GWP-tons) 40 75 ● Acidifying gases Gasoline (ｋℓ) 1,654 1,145 NOX (tons) 15.1 14.2 Kerosene (ｋℓ) 80 74 SOX (tons) 2.7 2.1 Light oil (ｋℓ) 75 63 Input Output ● Chemical substances City gas (kｍ3) 1,330 1,697 Substances subject to PRTR (tons) 9.2 17.2 Liquefied petroleum gas (t) 145 140 Liquefied natural gas (t) 0 0 Crude oil equivalent total (ｋℓ) 33,819 37,745 OKI Group Water Use Input Output Emissions into Waters Development & Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Production Activities ● Chemical substances 2011 2012 2011 2012 Tap water (1,000 tons) 366 478 Substances (tons) 0.4 0.5 subject to PRTR Industrial water (1,000 tons) 305 265 Groundwater / well water (1,000 tons) 615 448 Total (1,000 tons) 1,286 1,191 Input Output Use of Chemical Waste Emissions Substances Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal ● Chemical substances 2011 2012 2011 2012 Substances Substances subject to (tons) 93 101 subject to PRTR (tons) 11.3 15.1 PRTR ● Waste emissions Quantity of waste emitted (tons) 6,532 6,590 *Breakdown of CO2 Emissions Final waste disposal (tons) 444 451 Category Emission (1,000 tonsCO2) Sites Warabi district, Shibaura district, Takasaki district, Honjo disOKI Group’s major trict, Tomioka district, Numazu district, OKI Data, Nagano OKI, 54 sites in Japan OKI Printed Circuits, OKI Metaltech, OKI Digital Imaging, OKI TANAKA Circuits Other sites 27 Sites other than the above Total 81 All sites in the scope OKI Group’s 26 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Reducing Environmental Impact of Business Activities and Products The OKI Group has been active in reducing environmental impact of its business activities and products, in order to contribute to environmental conservation. Reducing Environmental Impact of Physical Distribution CO2 Emissions from Transport Activities As a shipper, OKI has enhanced its efforts to reduce t-CO2 5,000 4,677 environmental impacts of physical distribution, in partnership 4,213 4,479 with OKI Proserve (OPS). As a pioneer in reducing CO2 4,000 3,259 emissions by adopting modal shift, OPS has organized transit 3,000 2,682 information into a database to meet the requirements of the 2,000 Energy Saving Act. In fiscal 2012, CO2 emissions reduced by 1,000 modal shift amounted to 540 tons (9% less than the previous fiscal year). The total volume of CO2 emitted from our transport 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 activities in fiscal 2012 amounted to 4,479 tons, 4% less than (Fiscal year) the previous fiscal year, partly due to grouping shipments together and better loading efficiency. Promotion of Material Recycling (Zero Emission) Material Recycling Rates of Main Production Sites The OKI Group appropriately recycles its wastes generated % 100 at production sites etc., and has been active in improving its material recycling rate.*1 In 2002, we achieved “zero 99.8 99.7 99.1 99.6 99.1 emission”*2 at our main production sites. In fiscal 2012, the 99 material recycling rate was 99.1%. Zero emission (over 99% recycled) *1 Material recycling rate: (quantity of material-recycled resources) / (quantity of materialrecycled resources + quantity of wastes subject to final disposal) x 100 98 *2 Zero emission: defined by the OKI Group as a material recycling rate of 99% or 0 more 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal Emitted The amount of the general and industrial wastes emitted from Main Production Sites t from the OKI Group's main production sites and subject to 80 final disposal was 18 tons in fiscal 2012. 64 60 40 30 28 20 19 18 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Recycling of Used Products Recycling of Used Products The volume of used products collected in fiscal 2012 was % % 4 100 3,816 tons (19% less than in fiscal 2011), mainly information 96.2 98.5 95.2 2.9 94.6 equipment such as ATMs. The material recycling rate was 3 95 3.3 2.6 2.4 2.3 98.5%. 93.3 92.7 92.9 2 90 90.5 88.9 88.4 1 85 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Reuse rate*1 (left axis) Material recycling rate*2 (right axis) Recycling rate*3 (right axis) *1 Reuse rate: the ratio of reused parts and materials, to collected used products (in mass). *2 Material recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling and reuse, to collected used products (in mass). *3 Recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling, thermal recycling and reuse, to collected used products (in mass). OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 27 Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmentally Conscious Products The OKI Group has developed various environmentally conscious products utilizing its innovative technologies, and offered them to customers. Achieving World’s Lowest Standby Power Consumption: ATM-BankIT Pro OKI launched ATM-BankIT Pro, its latest model ATM for financial institutions, in October 2012. When it is not operated for a certain amount of time, its power saving mode cuts the unit’s power, reducing standby power consumption to 75% less than conventional models, achieving the industry’s lowest level. Even in its normal operating mode, standby power consumption is reduced by 45%. Also, its banknote transport route is shortened, and the transport route is simplified, which reduces transport related power consumption and greatly reduces banknote jams. Moreover, instead of the previous hard disk storage device, it uses SSD* with no moving parts and excellent reliability, for a downtime ratio which is 50% lower than conventional models, making it better for long term use and diverse installation locations. * SSD (Solid State Drive): Memory device using flash memory for data memory media. Compared to hard disk drives, SSD has the advantages of less power consumption and higher durability. ATM-BankIT Pro World’s Thinnest A4 Color LED Printer: C301dn OKI Data launched its C301dn A4 color LED printer, achieving the world’s thinnest main unit size at 24.2cm, in April 2012. It is designed so it can be used on the side of a desk. It uses LED printing to deliver high performance and high durability, with a printing life of 300,000 pages. This product has an intelligent quick print function, which controls the fuser’s temperature to suit the number of pages printed. The fuser must be heated to fuse the toner to the printing paper. When there are few pages to print, print speed is adjusted to enable printing at lower temperature. This reduces by up to 20% the power used to heat the fuser, and shortens the time until printing starts. World’s thinnest A4 color LED printer: C301dn SIP-PBX Using 50% Less Power: DISCOVERY neo for Large Offices OKI launched its DISCOVERY neo SIP-PBX*1 for large offices, achieving excellent unified communication,*2 in September 2012. This product greatly improves efficiency of the unit’s package, for up to 50% less power consumption per installation space compared to conventional models. And SSD is used for control, so by using the optional long life type for the backup battery, one greatly reduces the trouble and cost of periodic maintenance. Also, redundancy of various control and circuit unit packages creates a highly reliable, worry-free system. *1. SIP-PBX: Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) protocol is used for real time communication in both directions on the IP network. SIP is used in various communication terminals: IP phones, video conferencing, chat, etc. *2. Unified Communication (UC): Various means of communication (phone, email, mobile, video conference, etc.) are unified in the IP network. DISCOVERY neo OKI Group’s 28 Social and Environmental Report 2013 Environmental Accounting The OKI Group introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999. Since then, we have conducted environmental activities in a highly efficient way to optimize investment effects. Environmental Conservation Costs When OKI Group makes capital investments to renew or introduce infrastructure, it selects equipment with low environmental impact. Capital investment in fiscal 2012 amounted to 313 million yen (compared to 373 million yen in fiscal 2011) while the amount of costs was 1.237 billion yen (compared to 1.397 billion yen in fiscal 2011). Investment / Costs (Unit: million yen) Investment Costs Category Main Efforts 2011 2012 2011 2012 Pollution prevention cost Investment in pollution control facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 6 26 46 64 Global environment Cost in business Investment in energy-saving facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 164 145 133 50 conservation cost areas Resource recycling cost Investment in facilities for internal treatment of organic waste liquid, waste recycling costs 156 39 244 263 Total 326 210 423 377 Green procurement (chemical substances survey) costs, costs for remodeling systems to Upstream / downstream cost 28 77 280 183 collect data on chemical substances contained in products Costs for obtaining environment management certifications, and maintenance and Administration cost 16 25 219 243 operation costs R&D cost R&D costs for creating energy-saving products 1 1 471 430 Costs for planting trees in production sites, costs for activities contributing to local Social activity cost 2 1 3 3 communities Environmental damage cost Cost for reserves to respond to environmental damages, insurance cost and surcharge 0 0 1 1 Other costs — 0 0 0 0 Total 373 313 1,397 1,237 Benefits Related to Environmental Conservation Costs The economic effects decreased to 290 million yen (compared to 660 million yen in the previous fiscal year). This was partly due to higher electricity prices, despite our efforts to reduce energy use by various power-saving efforts at each business location. Accounting Conditions When environmental conservation costs and other costs are used for a single activity, only the environment costs are calculated for environmental accounting. The depreciation cost of investment is calculated using the fixed installment method for a period of three years. The economic benefits achieved due to these investments is calculated for three years, in line with the depreciation period. Personnel costs are calculated by prorating the personnel costs for the total time spent on environmental conservation activities. The real income effect represents the value for the current fiscal year. Economic Effects (Unit: million yen) Environmental Conservation Effects Effects Impact Difference Category Main Efforts Environmental compared 2011 2012 Impact Indices 2011 2012 to previous Effect of saving Reduction of electricity, petroleum, gas, packaging materials, etc. fiscal year Cost 256 −18 energy and resources used in business activities eduction CO2 emissions (tons-CO2) 61,667 81,261 19,594 effect Effect of reducing Reduction of wastes generated from business activities through 22 20 Waste Final waste treatment cost recycling 444 451 7 Sale of valuable wastes generated from business activities 376 286 emissions disposal (tons) Real income effect Sale of used valuable products 10 3 Total 664 291 Major Environmental Conservation Efforts The following tables show main efforts with respect to “investment,” “costs” and “economic effects” calculated in our environmental accounting. Main Efforts by OKI Group in Japan (Unit: 1,000 yen) Main Efforts by OKI Group in Overseas (Unit: 1,000 yen) Category Main Efforts Amount Site Category Main Efforts Amount Site Introduced energy-saving equipment in board Equipment purchase costs and 72,831 Honjo district manufacturing line equipment improvement costs, to raise 7,469 Oki Micro Engineering (DG) Investment production efficiency Investment Renewal of lighting fixtures 29,087 Tomioka district Renewal to energy-saving air conditioning systems 24,000 Honjo district Installation of automatic treatment 1,829 Oki Micro Engineering (DG) Renewal of lighting fixtures 13,000 Takasaki district equipment Renewal to energy-saving air conditioning systems 13,000 Nagano OKI Installation of lighting inverter control 1,687 OKI (UK) Environmental equipment operation monitoring costs 73,692 Takasaki district devices Waste matter company contract costs 59,818 OKI Printed Circuits Waste management costs 1,582 OKI (UK) Development costs for making existing products Costs 49,870 OKI Data Waste management costs 876 OKI Precision (Thailand) Costs more energy-efficient Development costs for environmentally conscious OKI Electric Industry 10,260 OKI Digital Imaging Costs for more greenery 529 products (Shenzhen) Development costs for environmentally conscious * Exchange rates : 131.15 yen / , 2.71 yen / Baht 8,429 Numazu district products Energy saving effects through various power-saving 152,238 Tomioka district Economic Effects efforts Sale of valuable waste 132,704 OKI Sensor Device Sale of valuable waste 70,254 OKI Printed Circuits Energy saving benefits of various power-saving 21,479 OKI Digital Imaging efforts Saving power by Cool Tight paint on factory roofs 9,914 OKI Micro Engineering OKI Group’s Social and Environmental Report 2013 29 CSR Division 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan oki-csr@oki.com http://www.oki.com/ Published in June 2013
