About the Report 01 ABOUT THE REPORT This is Sinochem Group’s third Sustainable Development Report. The two previous reports were issued in June 2010 and June 2012. Sinochem Group also published a Corporate Social Responsibility Report in April 2007, June 2008, June 2009, and June 2010. REPORT PERIOD This report covers Sinochem’s activities between 1 January and 31 December 2012. In some instances content may reflect activities and data from previous years. REPORT PUBLICATION CYCLE This is an annual report. REPORT SCOPE This report includes Sinochem Group and its subsidiaries. REPORT REFERENCE The report follows the guidance of the Guidelines for Key State-owned Enterprises to Fulfill Corporate Social Responsibility, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1), the ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility issued by the International Organization for Standardization, and the CSR Reporting Guidelines for Chinese Companies (CASS-CSR 2.0) issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS). IMPROVEMENTS We have made improvements to this year’s report. We have: put forward Sinochem’s CSR philosophy; optimized the structure of the report, and highlighted Sinochem’s leading position in the chemical industry; incorporated more diagrams into the report to increase its readability. DATA SOURCES The data used in this report are from official documents and statistical reports of Sinochem. When applicable, the report offers corrections to past data. In case of any discrepancy, the information in this report shall prevail. REFERENCES TO SINOCHEM GROUP All references to “we”, “our”, “the company” and “Sinochem” refer to “Sinochem Group” unless otherwise stated. LANGUAGUE OF THE REPORT The report is published in both English and Chinese. If any inconsistency or ambiguity exists between the two versions, the Chinese report shall prevail. OBTAINING COPIES OF THE REPORT To read or download the report, please visit www.sinochem.com 02 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Contents 03 Contents 04 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 69 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 06 ABOUT US 70 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (G3.1) 08 CORPORATE STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 74 FEEDBACK FORM 13 CSR MANAGEMENT 18 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S 60 FEATURE REPORT: GLOBAL OPERATIONS GLOBAL LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY RESPONSIBILITY 19 Safeguarding National Energy Security 66 FUTURE OUTLOOK 22 Protecting National Agricultural Security 67 EXPERT’S COMMENTS 26 Facilitating the Progress of the Chemical Industry 27 Serving to Improve People’s Livelihoods and Happiness 30 Creating the Highest Value for Shareholders 34 PROVIDING VALUE-ADDED SERVICES TO DEVELOP WITH CLIENTS 54 PARTICIPATING IN SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL 35 Improving the Service to Oil End Market ACTIVITIES TO FACILITATE SOCIAL PROGRESS 36 Improving the Service System for “Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers” 55 Poverty Alleviation 38 Providing Comprehensive Chemical Service on Chemical Products 57 Donations to Health Care and Education 39 Providing High-quality Real Estate Projects and Property Services 58 Win-win Cooperation 40 Providing Reliable and Efficient Financial and Tendering Services 59 Community Charity Service 42 PRACTICING HSE MANAGEMENT TO ACHIEVE SAFE, GREEN AND HARMONIOUS DEVELOPMENT 43 Enhancing HSE Leadership 48 VALUING TALENTS AND DEVELOPING 44 Enhancing HSE Management WITH THE EMPLOYEES 45 Occupational Health 49 Protecting Employees’ Rights 45 Safe Production 51 Realizing Employees’ Values 46 Emergency Management 52 Enhancing Employees’ Sense of Belonging 46 Evironmental Protection 04 Sustainable Development Report 2012 President’s Message 05 President’s Message Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is more than a global trend, it is a widely recognized business norm and seen by business leaders as an extremely effective way to enhance corporate competitiveness. Any company that intends to achieve sustainable development must deliver on its CSR objectives and gain support from its stakeholders. At Sinochem, we are committed to “Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence”, and integrating CSR into our business operations to create the maximum value for the economy, society, and the environment. 2012 was a demanding year for Sinochem Group as it was full of complicated global developments and intense challenges. However, we remained committed to the requirements set by SASAC, executed the Management Improvement Project, and took positive step to reduce costs and increase profitability. This approach allowed us to maintain our steady business growth. We also pressed ahead with our major strategy, solidified the foundation our main business segments, and contributed to protecting the national energy security and agricultural security, while facilitating upgrades to the chemical industry. We continue to build a multifaceted service system by innovating our service model and extending our service outreach, and by providing comprehensive professional services to our clients to ensure that we grow together. We are implementing our green development strategy and executing a systematic, professional, and lean HSE management to ensure that Sinochem Group is producing safely, protecting the environment, conserving energy, and harmoniously coexisting with nature. We protect the rights of our employees and are building a platform that ensures that they will develop in partnership with the company. We believe this is the best way to create a harmonious corporate culture and positive working atmosphere. We are implementing social welfare projects, providing poverty alleviation assistance to impoverished areas, pursuing win-win cooperation with our partners, and constructing harmonious community in area where we operate or conduct projects. We do this to meaningfully transfer our approach to sustainable development to social progress. The forthcoming year is critical to Sinochem as we will continue our strategic transformation, and lay solid foundation that allows us to make greater progress in attaining “the Third Long March” goals. We will continue to emphasize steady progress to ensure the quality of our products and services and to increase our profitability, and will embed lean management processes to better reform the healthy and innovative development of the company. In addition, we will continue to integrate CSR into our daily operations and management, try to create mutual benefit for our stakeholders, and contribute to “a Beautiful China”. We sincerely hope that this Report will become a window and bridge for friends from all walks of life to get to know Sinochem Group. We also hope it objectively, effectively and transparently responds to the expectations and demands of our stakeholders, and motivates you to join hands with us to create an even brighter future. President & CEO Sinochem Group 06 Sustainable Development Report 2012 集团公司开展领导力培训、关键岗位审计培训 集团公司开展工程项目管理专项培训 About Us 07 集团公司对12家经营单位开展风险管理培训和宣讲 中化化肥开展金种子训练营等新员工入职培训 集团及各单位开展以“科学发展，安全发展”为主题的HSE专题培训 中种集团西北基地举办新品种技术规程培训 中化财务举行精益管理培训 沈阳院举办色谱技术系列培训、SciFinder培训 ABOUT US Sinochem Group was founded in 1950. Its predecessor was China National Chemicals Import and Export Corporation, which was China’s largest trading firm. Industrial Position Business Overview Sinochem Group is a key state-owned enterprise under the supervision of StateSinochem Group is the fourth largest national petroleum Our energy business consists of oil and gas exploration and production, trade, owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council company in China with more than 60 years of oil business refining, storage and logistics, and retailing. Each of the business segments is operations. We are a large energy company with strong involved in oil and gas exploration and production, international trade and (SASAC). Sinochem’s headquarter is located in Beijing. international operations, a complete industrial chain, and transportation, development and refining project operations, construction and outstanding marketing services capacity. We play an warehouse operations and logistics facilities, as well as domestic distribution Our core businesses span energy, agriculture, chemicals, real estate and financial Energy increasingly important role in the global energy market. and retailing of oil. service. We are one of China’s four largest state oil companies, China’s biggest agroinputs (fertilizers, seeds and pesticides) company, and the country’s leading chemical We are the only SOE that operates in all three of the Sinofert is developing resources, production, technology, marketing, and services company. We also exert strong influence in real estate and non-banking major agro-inputs (fertilizer, seed and pesticides). services from a global perspective. Its operational philosophy is to integrate Sinofert Holdings Limited (Sinofert for short) is the largest resources with production, and production with distribution and products with financial services sector. As a global conglomerate, Sinochem’s quality products fertilizer supplier and distributor in China, and is service in order to protect agricultural production and national grain security. and services play a vital role in many aspects of the mass economy and in the lives committed to becoming the global service provider leader CNSGC is intensifying its core competitiveness in the industrial chain by in agro-inputs and agricultural services. implementing a development strategy that integrates R&D, production, and and well being of billions of people. We have a strong brand reputation and are China National Seeds Group Corporation (CNSGC for sales. As a result, CNSGC has integrated R&D, production, refining, sales and acknowledged around the world. short) is owned by Sinochem and is a national class seed technology services to become a large seed group with holistic industrial chain company. It is the leading company in China and a activities and corps operations. Its business covers breeding production and the top-ranking company globally and is devoted to refining of seeds of major corps including corn, rice, and vegetables. Sinochem currently owns more than 300 subsidiaries with domestic and international integrating seed breeding, production and popularization, The crop protection business covers R&D, active ingredient production, and promoting upgrades to the industrial seed market in pesticide formulation and repackaging, product registration, and brand operations. We control several listed companies including Sinochem International Agriculture China. marketing; we lead the country in proprietary pesticide development. We own (SH, 600500), Sinofert (HK, 00297), Franshion Properties (HK, 00817) and Far Our pesticide business integrates R&D and production two national crop protection R&D platforms, namely the Shenyang Research and sales to enhance our competitiveness and ranking Institute of the Chemical Industry (Shenyang Institute for short) and Zhejiang Eastern Horizon (HK, 03360). In June 2009, Sinochem Group established Sinochem against competitors in China. In recent years, our Research Institute of Chemical Industry (Zhejiang Institute for short). Corporation as the vehicle for potential group IPO. traditional strength in trade has allowed us to enhance Crop-protection product lines include pesticides, fungicides, herbicides, and key links to the pesticide industrial chain and to provide plant growth regulators, and cover more than 40 active ingredients. We have times Sinochem Group was China’s first entrant on the Fortune Global 500 and has been on efficient and green pesticide product and professional services, making us an important force for driving China’s many products registered overseas, and enjoy market strength in South America, North America, the Asia-Pacific region, and the EU. the list 22 times, ranking 113th in 2012. Our strategic transformation and management pesticide industrial upgrading. Sinochem has appeared on the overhaul over the years, has helped us maintain our sustainable, healthy and rapid Fortune Global 500 list. development. Sinochem received the Top A Corporate Performance rating from In the fluorine chemical business, we have established a complete industrial chain that comprises resource exploitation (fluorine spa and AHF), R&D, SASAC for eight straight years. production, sales and marketing. Our complete product line in this field includes ODS substitutes, fluorine polymers and fluorine fine products. We also enjoy a Our vision is to become a reputable company with global influence, and to deliver leading market share for more than 10 products including HFC-134a. We have 60 years of history engaging in natural rubber, plantation, processing, financial and social benefits to our stakeholders and society. Our 40,000 employees distribution and other value-added services in a globally. Among our global adhere to the doctrine of Create value, Pursue excellence , and relish the operations, the rubber product 6PPD accounts for our largest market share. Our chemical business is based on the international trade We continue to maintain our position as China’s leading petrochemical logistic In 2012, Sinochem on the Fortune opportunity to shoulder social responsibility as a corporate citizen. Together we will and circulation services for chemical products, and is service provider. Our business covers such areas as shipping, tank container Global 500 was ranked. adopt a scientific development approach to help us realize the potency of sustainable competitive in fluorine chemical, natural rubber, chemical multimodal transport, freight forwarding and warehousing, as well as terminal logistics, petrochemical feedstock and pharmaceutical and depot service. We own the largest hazardous chemical fleet and ISO tank business practices, and bring benefit to all of our stakeholders. businesses. We have become a leading service provider lorries in China and adhere to the strictest safety standards, providing multiform, for chemical products in China, and are playing a highly efficient and low-cost aggregate logistics services to our clients. In Chemicals constructive role in promoting technological upgrades addition, our environment, health and safety (EHS) standard, has established and the safe, green, harmonious development of us as one of the world’s leading companies in EHS management. chemical industry. We are specialized in plastic and bulk trade, and have taken the lead in the petrochemical feedstock industry as a comprehensive service provider with international operations, professional marketing, and lean management. We provide professional services to upstream and downstream clients in all sectors in which we operate. We have maintained our leading position in China as an exporter of pharmaceuSinochem Basics tical intermediate and API, and we continue to strengthen our capacity in R&D, production and circulation. Company Name Sinochem Group Registered Capital 10.17 billion Chinese Yuan (RMB) As a SOE we were ratified by SASAC to pursue the Our Hong Kong-listed subsidiary Franshion Properties is delivering upscale development of hotels and real estate as a main products , and focuses its business strategy on first-tier cities, central secondTime of Establishment March, 1950 business, and are now the leading developer and tier cities and well-known tourist resorts. Its core business includes the operator of high-end commercial real estates in China. development and operation of urban complexes, first-rate office space, and Asset Scale RMB 286.62 billion upscale hotels. Its upscale office buildings and hotels are recognized for their Real Estate operational efficiency and always rank among the top players in China. Headquarters Central Tower, Chemsunny World Trade Center, 28 Fuxingmennei Street, Beijing We are a leading non-bank financial services provider in Our financial services business spans financial leasing, trust, securities China. investment funds, life insurance, corporate finance, and futures. We have established our business operations in all financial business licenses except banking. We enjoy a good reputation with highly recognized brands such as Far Eastern Horizon, FOTIC, Lion Fund, and Manulife-Sinochem, and are Finance consistently improving our profitability and risk management. 08 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Corporate Strategy and Governance 09 Corporate Strategy and Governance Corporate Governance Structure Sinochem strives to improve its operations and company rules in order to enhance its corporate governance and guarantee the company’s healthy and steady development. Our Vision To become a great respectable company with global presence We adhere to the principles of collective decision-making and democratic centralism in order to optimize our rational and democratic decision-making mechanism.Our group-level top executives are responsible for different segments of our business operations, and we have complete systems for the Party Committee Meeting as well as the Presidents Meeting. The Party Committee Meeting is responsible for major political, business and key personnel issues, while the Presidents Meeting determines and managesthe To be a role model in the industry with technology leadership，resource conservation corporate strategy and operations. We also have specialized committees that review specific projects and make project proposals. and environmental protection To be a mainstay for the nation’s energy security，agricultural safety and chemical Our Mission technology advancement To be a great company fulﬁlling its social responsibility and a highly respected company Sinochem Group with global inﬂuence Sinochem Communist Party of China (CPC) Committee President’s Meeting General Office HR Dept. Strategic Planning Dept. Treasury Dept. Accounting Dept. Analysis and Evaluation Dept. Finance Dept. Project Management Dept. HSE Dept. Risk Management Dept. Science & Technology Dept. Audit Dept. Legal Dept. Information Technology Dept. Administrative Services Dept. Sinochem Management School CPC Work Dept. Discipline Inspection Dept. Retired Cadre Dept. Corporate Philosophy Create value, Pursue excellence Our Industrial Service Strategy We refer to our Industrial Service Strategy as the “One-Two-Three-Four-Five Strategy”. This is an extended and deeper version of our previous “One-Two-Three Strategy”. Sinochem Corporation Board of Directors Supervisory Panel HR Committee Strategic Planning Committee Board of Directors Meeting Management Budget Planning and Evaluation Committee one ability Investment Committee sustainable development ability Auditing and Examination Committee Risk Management Committee two foundations HSE Committee internal management/external expansion Science and Technology Committee three links Sinofert Holdings Ltd. Sinochem Agro Co., Ltd. Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry Sinochem International Corporation Sinochem Qingdao Co., Ltd. Sinochem Guangdong Co., Ltd. Sinochem Hebei Co., Ltd. Sinochem Jiangsu Co., Ltd. Sinochem Plastics Co., Ltd. Franshion Properties (China) Ltd. Sinochem Petroleum Exploration and Production Co., Ltd. Sinochem Oil Co., Ltd. Sinochem Industries Co., Ltd. Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical Co., Ltd. China National Seed Group Co., Ltd. Beijing Eastern Garden International Conference Center China Foreign Economic and Trade Trust Co., Ltd. Sinochem Finance Co., Ltd. Sinochem International Tendering Co., Ltd. Sinochem Hong Kong (Group) Co., Ltd. Sinochem Lantian Co., Ltd. Sinochem Liaoning Co. Sinochem intemational information Co. Far East Horizon Ltd. Sinochem Ningbo Ltd. resource/technology/market four paths innovation, consolidation, acquisition, and cooperation five business segments enery/agriculture/chemicals/real estate/ finance listed Companies 10 an 1 on R isi n is k rv atio id pe tig en Risk culture Su s ic 4 inve tif d at i on IT system Facing severe market competition, strict supervision requirements, and pressures associated with our strategic transformation, we Company Enhancing the Internal Control System”. g employees Five factors tin es ina ess r i m n fo s El k ing sse 3 wea ok ne Lo k Sustainable Development Report 2012 Key indicators 2 wea System and processes attach great importance to risk management and have set up a comprehensive risk management and internal control system that Control and manage our weaknesses by identifying risks Goods and quality emphasizes “Five Factors and Three Mechanisms”. By doing this, we have created synergy between risk management and our Promoting Comprehensive Risk Management Logistics risk risk management management Monitoring and warning Information management Inventory and market mechanism management (diagram left and right). This measure has contributed to intensifying our overall risk management. risk management Three Risk identification 0 that control risks at the beginning of all processes, which helps us detect, control, and manage our exposure to risks. Schematic diagram of the risk identification score of 20 internal controls. We also conduct assessment on the risk management systems of our subsidiaries. All these efforts have further mechanisms mechanism 40 Organizational structure Examination and 60 evaluation 80 100 mechanism trade subsidiaries under Sinochem Procurement risk Information risk management management Risk management system strengthend Sinochem’s risk resistance ability. capacity of our subsidiaries. The assessment results will help us to adjust the authorization we grant to those subsidiaries and implement weakness We have set up a risk management certification system including “two dimensions, 68 indicators. 165 grade points” to assess the risk management Department, and Auditing Department. We have improved ourwork rules for the Risk Management and Internal Control Committee, and “The Plan for internal controls. We have also established an Internal Control Working Team, which consists of our Risk Management Department, Accounting We have transformed our “Risk Management Committee” into the “Risk Management and Internal Control Committee” to strengthen ourwork on Business process process management, monitoring, review and evaluation”. This helps us survey and discover risks in advance, and has put in place effective measures We have established and continue to improve our closed-loop, whole-process risk management model that is composed of “resource allocation, Grade Ⅲ Risks Grade Ⅱ Risks Grade Ⅰ Risks Grade Ⅰ Risks Grade Ⅱ Risks Grade Ⅲ Risks Management system risks Target selection risks Macroeconomic risks Product quality risks Quality standard risks Valuation and pricing risks Quality control risks Investment decision risks Asset management risks Due diligence risks Hazardous products qualification risks Management and consolidation risks M&A risks Warehouse management risks Logistics risks Government relation risks Policy risks Goods transportation risks Media relation risks Engineering design risks Industrial risks Emergency communication risks Engineering pricing risks Strategic risks Public sentiment risks Strategic management risks Engineering budgeting risks Engineering management risks Sinochem Risk Tree Professional ethic risks Project tendering risks Internal consolidation risks Project contracting risks Internal control risks Public relations risks Business model risk Project scheduling risks Basic risks Corporate culture risks Project quality risks Operational risk Project safety risks Procurement risks OTC risk Social responsibility risks Project completion acceptance risks Interest rate and exchange Backbone manager management risks rate fluctuation risks Financial derivatives risks Recruitment and retention risks Brand strategy risks Interest rate and exchange rate risks Market risks Personnel allocation risks Brand promotion and HR risks maintenance risks Brand and reputation risks Performance assessment risks Reputational risks Compensation and benefit risks Inventory price risks Price risks Labor relation management risks Client credit risks Client risks Anti-corruption risks M&A team integration risks Operational risks Training and development risks Operational risks Internal control compliance risk Trust payment risks Auditing planning risks Credit rating risks Auditing execution risks Credit rating risks Auditing and examination risks Tax risks Auditing report risks Taxation risks Production/operation/ Tax risks Accounting risks construction HSE risks HSE risks Energy conservation and Tax design Financial risks emission reduction risks Capital management risk System planning risks Sinochem Risk Tree Capital utilization/capital security risks IT system risks System structure risks Budget management risks Budget planning risks System security risks Liquidity risks Asset management risks Budget execution risks Technology risks Budget execution assessment risks Financial report risks Process management risks Technology/R&D risks Brain drain risks Finance risk/debt risks Research achievement failure risks Capital shortage risks Legal dispute risks Legal risks Personnel risks Report consolidation risks IPR risks Confidentiality risks System risks Contract management risks Case utilization risks Operational compliance risks Technology risks Futures compliance risks Compliance risks Facility risks Engineering project compliance risks Legal risks for major decision Policy execution risks Corporate Strategy and Governance Significant risks Major risks Common risks Stability risks Petition risks Birth control risks 11 12 Sustainable Development Report 2012 CSR Management 13 Enhance Anti-Corruption Education and Tighten Anti-Corruption Measures CSR Management Sinochem upholds the guideline of “wherever the strategy may go, anti-curroption measures will follow”. By controlling the source of corruption and stressing the effectiveness of anti-corruption measures, Sinochem combines its anti-corruption work with its strategic transformation, management improvement structure, and cadre training. By doing so, we have created a strong support and Sustainable Development Model guarantee for the company to grow better, stronger, and more rationally. We have built up an accountability system that is able to break and cadre teams. We utilizeonsite inspections, have optimized the down, evaluate, and trace back responsibility. This is a close-loop inspection team, revised the inspection rules and system, set up administration system that embraces the management of targets, standards for inspection process, and carried out joint inspections to To become a great respectable company with global presence processes, and results. The system ensures the anti-curroption work is fully leverage resource for internal controls. We have also enhanced followed through by different levels of entities. our monitoring systems in an effort to crack down on all forms of We regularly check our anti-corruption system, and enhance the corruption before it materializes. prevention and punishment mechanism. We have a “Five Clear” In 2012, we launched a campaign to enhance management across ND PEOPLE’S CONOMY A LIVEL standard, namely “clear responsibility, clear authorization, clear risk the Group. It provided us with a great opportunity to analyze, amend NAL E IHO ATIO OD HEN FO G T RM point, clear risk level, and clear prevention measure”. Our focuses are and improve our anti-corruption system. By doing so, we have VIN UT ER UA S LP on key areas, crucial links, and sensitive posts. Our aim is to make constructed a network that oversees and restrains power and people in RO SP responsive measures to regulate and check the execution of power. powerful position. We believe this will regulate the exercise of power, SS y G ov ER RE n i t e IT Y u rnm mm and embed standards and regulations on our anti-corruption work. G We strengthen the advocation and education on anti-corruption to en Co PR t lic/ O P create a righteous atmosphere. We have cooperation with procuratorial We enhance the capacity building of our discipline inspection team, SO b Pu NG CI AL DI VI organs to conduct various activities, including case study and family so as to provide strong support to our anti-corruption work. We focus RO G IN SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL A pariticpation, to enhance the anti-corruption awareness of our on their awareness on responsibility, crisis, overall situation and Energy ED DD PATIN The power to employees. service, and enhance their ability to organize, to study, to operate, and E-A LU CTIV drive the TICI We are strengthening our internal controls and supervision via onsite to innovate. The integrity of the discipline inspection team is critical to future VA ITIE PAR our anti-corruption work. LOP WITH CLI S TO DEVE inspections. To this end, we have enhanced our administration of all nt onme Shar ST major projects, all branches and subsidiaries, overseas investment, Finance ENTS Agriculture VICE e h o ld OF Envir To grow wealth The hope to SER Create value, AC seed for the by wisdom ers green Sinochem’s Major Anti-Corruption Measures in 2012 Pursue ILI excellence TA Developed efficacy supervision programs 93 activities TE Group-level executives signed 2012 CPC Anti-Corruption Letter of Responsibilities 11 signatures General managers of Sinochem subsidiaries signed 2012 Anti-Corruption Letter of Responsibilities 44 signatures Real Estate Chemicals DE Key managers signed 2012 CPC Anti-Corruption and Self-Discipline Commitment Letter 235 copies Creating harmony VE Em between architecture Making LO and people life better PM EN pl s Discipline Inspection Department of Sinochem gave opinions on the appointment and removal of key managers G T nt 141 times IN oy LU ie VA ee Cl s HA Conducted workplace anti-corruption training for employees RM 10,941 employees trained NT S ON LE IO TA US Conducted anti-corruption and self-discipline education across the group 155 times AND DE AN D VE N LO Partners/Suppliers/Industry EE PI NG , GR WI FE TH SA T VE HE HIE EM PLO AC YEE T TO N S EME ANAG PRACTICING HSE M 14 Sustainable Development Report 2012 CSR Management 15 CSR Governance CSR Communication We believe that CSR is in our genes. We understand it is system at our headquarters and subsidiaries, and are Sinochem underlines the importance of its communication with all stakeholders. We have set up a communication platform that is important to integrate CSR into our strategy management, formulating CSR guidelines and administration measures. based on our Sustainable Development Report. The platform has helped to facilitate even greater interaction between the company and have a top-down CSR working system. According to and its stakeholders. the Group’s overall plan, different levels of our subsidiaries We restructured our CSR Committee to include key personnel and branches join hands together to work out a CSR matrix from our supporting departments and subsidiaries to enhance to make the best of our resources and help our managers the connection between our CSR activities and our daily establish a solid CSR philosophy. This is how we embed our operations. Supporting departments are responsible for their CSR philosophy into the company mission, culture and value. own CSR activities such as developing a CSR plan and What we are trying to do is make CSR acritical part of our assessing CSR performance. The departments report their management on different business fronts, demonstrate our CSR progress to the General Office of the Headquarters. CSR views while communicating with all stakeholders torealize Subsidiaries also set up CSR leadership teams. The head an organic integration between CSR and our business of the team is in charge of the subsidiary’s CSR work. Under operations. the leadership team, offices with CSR contact persons are established and designated with daily CSR work. We value CSR and have established a CSR management Sinochem CSR Management Structure Group Management Team Subsidiary Management Team Other specialized Group CSR Committee CSR working teams Other specialized We hold a press conference when we launch our Sustainable We added a CSR column on our company website to circulate our committees in the Group at subsidiaries committees at subsidiaries Development Report to share our CSR progress with the government CSR philosophy and showcase our CSR practices. We have use Supporting departments CSR leadership team Supporting departments and media. We also encourage our subsidiaries to issue their own feature reports on CSR to demonstrate Sinochem’s CSR focus and Group CSR Ofﬁce of the Group at subsidiaries of subsidiaries sustainable development reports. Sinochem International, Sinofert, and characteristics, and strengthen employees’ understanding toward CSR Manulife-Sinochem have, for several years running, issued their own while encouraging them to join in and contribute to our CSR activities. Contact person at CSR lead of the CSR lead of Contact person 上下级关系 each department General Ofﬁce each subsidiary at each department reports. And Sinochem Ningbo, Franshion Properties, and FOTIC have We were selected as one of the 20 central government-owned 业务指导关系 recently issued their first report, respectively. enterprises to participate in the first CSR and Charity Show, coWe conduct field surveys and hold specialized symposia on CSR, and organized by Department of Civil Affairs, SASAC, and Guangdong we have selected outstanding best practice CSR cases for to enhance Provincial Government. our CSR practices through the exchange of information. CSR Capacity Building CSR Honors Following the release of management improvement requirements by SASAC, we conducted an assessment on our CSR work, analyzed the perceived challenges to our CSR management system, and intensified our approach to improving our CSR management capacity. We held symposiums to discuss new approaches to CSR formulate a sustainable development report. Our aim is to enhance management that would better fit China’s special context. We also our employees’ CSR awareness and overall capacity, and to provide participated in the specialized CSR management training sessions our subsidiaries guidance on how to improve their CSR practices and (left)Sinochem’s case on overseas community development won the 2012 UNGC Best Practice for Facilitating Social Development award. for SOEs, and learned from benchmark central SOEs. We invited management based on their specific business conditions. external experts from the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) as We are building a CSR performance assessment system and a (right)Sinochem’s 2011 Sustainable Development Report was granted the well as China WTO Tribune to offer suggestions on how to improveour “Golden Bee 2011 Excellent CSR Report—Leading Enterprise” award. matrix-style CSR key indicators system with more than 60 indicators management of CSR. coveringthe economy, our clients and the environment, and will include We conducted CSR training programs, and provided our employees more than 40 departments in our headquarters and at different levels of with lectures on our CSR philosophy, our CSR approach, and how we our subsidiaries. 16 Sustainable Development Report 2012 集团公司开展工程项目管理专项培训 CSR Management 17 中化化肥开展金种子训练营等新员工入职培训 中种集团西北基地举办新品种技术规程培训 沈阳院举办色谱技术系列培训、SciFinder培训 Stakeholders and Key Topics Sinochem’s CSR Matrix Based on the reality of our business operations and our five major business segments, Sinochem continues to innovate the way we communicate with our stakeholders, and is taking the initiative to identify key topics under our CSR theme. We try our best to understand and respond to our stakeholders’ expectation and needs, and are forging ahead with our CSR work to achieve a Serve the national Provide Satisfactory Participate in socially economy and Conduct HSE Valuing employees’ beneficial activities to common development with all stakeholders. services to develop management to reach talent to develop people’s livelihoods facilitate Field social with clients harmony with nature together for mutual prosperity progress Protect national energy Improve client service Enhance HSE leadership Respect and protect Innovate povertyand agricultural security, system Utilize comprehensive employees’ rights alleviation model promote chemical Enhance service capacity lifecycle HSE Improve compensation Enhance management industry technology management scheme on contractors and upgrading, commit to Conduct specialized Use corporate democratic suppliers Pa improving people’s reviews of occupational management Improve work on social y ta xa Group livelihood health Enhance corporate culture welfare projects c ith par cord Carry out quality Carry out “Three Againsts” Develop overseas tici ing nw ons pat atio nizati t e in o the management and lean activity community u nic g a pol la management projects Enhance emergency m or icy w, re om ial in c soc stu g die ularly Implement “Go Global” response system a inta t and sa M en nd repor strategy rnm pla t nni work g ove ng , re Ab ide elfa ties al w ni the by la Enhance oil and gas Innovate gas station Safe production Improve employees’ skill Enhance suppliers’ s oci mmu and natio ws an resource acquisition development model Protection of nature and Enhance communication sense of responsibility n p a te i rve co peo nal e d ser i se c v Improve oil storage Improve service quality environment among employees and ability to deliver on rtic ple ’s l onom e Pa s and Comm ive facility allocation their commitments jec t liho y o unica r ods report p Build oil retailing Facilitate educational te wit Energy autho network development use re , etings rities h env sourc ility, ironm prese rs me and N and re es, sa rofitab port nce p ce, ental ve en holde duce GOs, nual re ernan Secure fertilizer supply Expand scope of services Promote balanced Enhance employees’ Organize donations for develo ergy Enha Go emiss te gov c/ prote bli ver share learn welfare projects ue an Protect national seed Increase depth of services fertilization career development impro y p a lo Pu unit ions, nm rpora ction en w-carb ve co on, from m Hold industry security Develop and promote Balance employees’ life rly, iss ve pro t ti m forma Co impro on ec impro best p Improve pesticide R&D green environmental and work e in ductio Share nt and nt regula ve HS s o nomy disclo onme system friendly pesticide ractic E ma creme n pro assets , work the in Energy conservation and nagem es, Agriculture holde wned cesse ensure Envir emissions reduction ent tate-o nally s n of s rs rvatio Ratio Em Service every aspect of enhance R&D Safe production Organize professional Expand volunteer team pl s nt oy ie ee Partners/ Cl people’s lives provide tailored service Energy conservation and training Continue to donate to s Suppliers/ Ab Enhance competitiveand solutions emissions reduction Improve compensation medical care causes id le s, pr e b ab efit , t Industry pr ove y c ness in refined chemical Provide professional Proper waste treatment and benefit scheme Promote industrial on en ing men ov o and new material services throughout the development as b n id the mm Ho re nd trai iron m es q e sectors industrial chain ld ide n a al nv ee up ual rcia C td ity ov atio tion g e an p ive orti co olle of eth l Chemicals Facilitate fluorine co ll Pr s a in s, rs ng m se c ics pe n c vo wor k es e pli t cli r chemical industry gr de serv vice , ec m ht n an e co hlig ood co m an ices s, ts, nts’ development g s e co o hig e a tiv e s, vic Fair competition, promote im ds , nd pini t ta ning s’ ad uc on ita en i industrial technology upgrades, s cil es e tra oye e ts at , se fa pr enhance the quality of industrial isf re oye mpl t ac tle c Develop high-quality Expand services channel Build world-class green Care for employees’ Improve supplier e l ye mp to e management, expand the industrial chain, tio n ient l property Consolidate property low-carbon pilot town psychological health management plo t e nd improve industrial services su s mechanism em duc spo rv ’ management business Advocate environmental Improve employees’ skill n ey co d re s protection Support regional n development for social ta Real welfare causes Enhance R&D capacity, enhance supply Estate chain management and cooperation, attend industrial development fora Consolidate financial Provide comprehensive Support new energy Hold corporate culture Promote shipping and services for people’s high-quality financial development for urban bus building activity financial industry livelihood services system development Promote multiple Help cities upgrade water Carry out social welfare Finance business development treatment systems activities for communities Model of Stakeholders’ Participation and Communication 18 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 19 Safeguarding National Energy Security As a national oil company, Sinochem is committed to safeguarding the country’s energy security. By tapping into our advantages in resources, channels and operations, we can supply oil and gas resources that are needed for economic and social development. We participate in the construction of the national strategic petroleum reserve system and conduct research for the national energy development plan. We are also contributing to the construction of a diverse and safe oil supply system for China. Exploration&Production Oil Trading Oil Refining Storage & Logistics Distribution & Retails Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Energy Business Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Crude oil trading volume (million MT) 37.46 48.02 52.53 55.61 55.00 Equity oil and gas production (million barrels of oil equivalent) 9.77 13.74 17.74 22.01 23.34 Light oil sales (million MT) 3.08 4.61 4.12 4.28 2.89 Oil storage capacity (million cubic meters) 2.50 2.91 4.34 6.35 10.03 Oil refining capacity (million MT) 5.00 8.34 8.40 20 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 21 In the area of oil exploration and production, we are adapting ourselves to complex external investment environment and production In terms of oil trading, we continue to optimize our trade structure. Our crude operations volume sits at 50 million MT, and is made conditions. We are extending our oil business into the upstream area, intensifying our project management, and currently producing up of a 1.1:1 ration of import and entrepot trade. Our refined oil operations volume reached 2.72 million MT, and consists of 1.63 equity oil production of 3.42 million MT (oil equivalent). Our recoverable resource volume grew by 35.44 million barrels. million MT of entrepot trade, 200,000 MT of import, 770,000 MT of export, and tolling processing of 120,000 MT. In the area of oil refining, we are intensifying our competitiveness in the sector. Our 12 million MT refining project in Quanzhou was We have achieved breakthroughs in the oil exploration area. In two equity in the oilfield as well as the crude oil pipelines running from the officially included in China’s Twelfth Five-Year Plan for Oil Refining, and was approved by the National Development and Reform blocks of Colombia, where we work as the operator, we obtained highsouth oil field to the upper north seaports in Colombia. We acquired Commission. Construction work is progressing on schedule. The project is expected to come into production in 2013. yield oil flow and discovered a new oil-bearing system. In our Brazil 10% of Brazil Perenco offshore oil block to participate in the offshore oil In terms of oil storage and logistics, we have successfully answered the country’s call for an energy security strategy, and are project, we discovered two high quality sandstone reservoirs, which and gas exploration. By acquiring 40% of Pioneer Natural Resources utilizing our storage network and management advantages. The total storage space that we are currently operating, constructing and demonstrate a good show of oil and gas. Company’s Wolfcamp play, we obtained approximately 82,800 net managing is around 25 million cubic meters. We took the initiative to participate in the construction and management of a national We have notably enhanced our productivity and efficiency. In parts acres of leasehold with development rights for the shale bed and oil reserve base as well as GC crude and refined oil reserves. We also kicked off the groundwork for site selection and feasibility of the 10 blocks of our Ecuador and Yemen projects, we drilled infill deeper layers of oil and gas resources of Wolfcamp. studies for the national commercial oil reserve projects to meaningfully contribute to the protection of China’s energy security. wells, which resulted in a record high in daily output and maintained the When economically viable and permitted by the tax regime of the host steady production of the oilfields. country, we plan to import our equity oil to China for sale, so as to make In China’s coastal and riverside areas, we have built several petrochemical storage and transit bases, which form a strategic storage network Our new projects have been progressing well. We have completed contribution to protecting the safety of China’s oil supply. covering Bohai Bay area, Yangtze River Delta, and Pearl River Delta. We own approximately 10 million MT cubic meters of commercial storage the delivery of the Tepma project in Colombia, which helps us obtain space, with several supporting petrochemical jetties ranging from 3,000 MT class to 300,000 MT class. Sinochem Nantong Phase 2, Sinochem Oriental Phase 4, and Sinochem Zhuhai Phase 3 are all progressing smoothly. In addition, the Sinochem Maoming, Sinochem Zhongshan, and Sinochem Caofeidian projects have officially launched with working teams stationed locally for preparation work. As a result, Sinochem’s strategic oil storage landscape has been greatly expanded. In the area of oil distribution and retails, we have sped up the construction of our distribution and retailing networks for refined oil. We have signed contracts for new oil depots and gas station projects, further completing our layout in the domestic market. We completed all renovation and operation permit applications for our projects in Hongshan of Liaoning, and Risheng of Shandong. We also China Ecuador wrapped up a 100% equity acquisition for Heilongjiang Longde Oil Sales Co., Ltd., and finalized changes to the refined wholesale operation permit. We conducted a market survey in Guangdong, Jiangsu and Hunan to select suitable sites for our new oil depots. We also accelerated the UAE execution of our oil distribution depots in Liu’an of Anhui, Yuesheng of Jiujiang, and Xiamen Port. We are planning a pipeline project to transport refined oil across the Central and South China regions. The project starts in Fujian Province, and end in Hubei province, running through 33 counties of 4 provinces. Syria Colombia Yemen Brazil Indonesia Tunisia Peru 22 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 23 Protecting National Agricultural Security Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Fertilizer Business As China’s only central SOE that operates three major agro-inputs including fertilizer, seed and pesticide, Sinochem is dedicated Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 to contributing to the grain safety and agricultural development of China and the world at large with our advanced technologies, premium products and professional services. Total capacity (million MT) 10.16 10.34 10.34 10.34 10.00 Total sales volume (million MT) 16.22 15.23 15.51 16.46 17.14 Stabilizing Fertilizer Supply Total distribution outlets 20.10 20.36 21.06 21.10 21.10 As “the grain for grains”, fertilizer has great significance for agriculture. Sinochem’s fertilizer business covers the industrial chain Note: According to research data, fertilizer’s contribution ratio to grain output growth is 1:7.5 (every kilogram of pure fertilizer nutrient can help to increase 7.5 from resource, R&D to production, distribution and agronomic services. We embrace a global vision and focus on the Chinese kilograms of grain). Calculated by our 17 million MT of fertilizer sales (based on pure nutrient) in 2012, we have helped China to boost its grain production by over 60 billion kilograms. agriculture industry. We follow the National Twelfth Five-Year Plan for the agriculture and chemical sectors, and are innovating our technology, products, services and management to deepen our strategic transformation. We have implemented an integrated Case: Sinofert Cooperates with Research Institutes to Develop Specialized Fertilizers strategy with fertilizer at our core so as to consolidate our leading position in the industry and become a role model in the development of technology, saving energy, and protecting the environment. Our aim is to become a reliable force for China to Sinofert actively cooperates with universities and research institutes. It serves as an innovation platform to commercialize the technological safeguard its agricultural security. achievement of research institutes, and to keep enhancing its ability to provide quality products and services. In 2012, Sinofert cooperated with the Institute of Applied Ecology, the China Academy of Sciences, and the Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning at CAAS on regional field trials that examined the soil condition of Northeast and North China to improve product formula and Fertilizer Industrial Chain Specific Steps application techniques, develop specialized fertilizer, and to help farmers use fertilizer in a more effective way for increased grain production. Developed 10 new fertilizers (three different types), and introduced DAP sulphur-enhanced technology Case: Maintaining a Low Price for China’s Imported Potash Established Chongqing Fuling Compound Fertilizer Engineering Technology Research Center, Jilin The supply of potash directly impacts the agricultural security of China. In order to maintain the stability of the domestic potash supply and Changshan Nitrogen Fertilizer Engineering Technology Research Center, and Shandong Yantai Crop product price, Sinofert leverages its position in the potash import negotiation mechanism that is led by the government, advised by industrial Nutrition and Plant Protection Research Center; conducted two government-endorsed technology R&D association, and participated by companies to help reduce the cost of fertilizer imports to China against a backdrop of a soaring international development projects, one MOA agricultural project, and applied for 22 patents in 2012 potash price. This contribution protects the interest of Chinese farmers. Actively cooperated with advanced enterprises and research institutes, conducted exchanges with eight In 2012, China’s potash import price was USD 450 per ton, while Brazil was USD 530 per ton, India was USD 530 per ton, and Southeast Asia agricultural research and educational institutes such as CAS, CAAS, and China Agriculture University was USD 520 per ton. to develop new products First company to sign the Agriculture Companies Strategic Cooperation Agreement to Promote Formulation Fertilization with the National Agricultural Technology Promotion Center 1000 1000 1000 1000 Implemented “Advanced Manufacturing” industrial development strategy, and promoted technological progress and innovation Production 800 Acquired Xundian Longmang Phosphate Chemical Limited to obtain 300 million MT of phosphorite, and built an industrial platform in Southwest China where phosphorite resources are abundant Produced the most complete range of fertilizer needed in China , with capacity in excess of 10 million 600 560 600 MT 500 510 530 530 520 450 450 380 400 350 350 325 Improved strategic procurement system, renewed long-term contract for potash import, strengthened 243 275 Southeast Asia Southeast Asia Southeast Asia Southeast Asia strategic cooperation with the key domestic suppliers of nitrogen and phosphate compound fertilizer, China(H1) 200 India(H2) enhanced high-quality supply Distribution Established 17 branches and more than 2,100 distribution outlets for marketing by the end of 2012 China India Brazil China India Brazil China India Brazil China India Brazil Organized agronomists team and leveraged services to boost operations 价格 Developed client relation management system （美元\吨） 2007 2008 2010 2011 2012 年度 Potash CIF Price of Partial Countries or Regions Note: Sinochem didn’t reach agreement on price with suppliers in 2009, and thus didn’t sign the import contract. 24 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 25 Safeguarding the Security for China’s Seed Industry Developing and Popularizing Environmentally-Friendly Pesticides While a country sees agriculture as the foundation of its growth, agriculture needs seeds to grow. China is a large agricultural Pesticides play an important role in boosting agricultural productivity, facilitating grain production, and increasing farmers’ income. country and an enormous seed consumer. The crop seed industry is a strategically important and fundamental industry in China, They are indispensable to production and disaster-relief. Sinochem’s pesticide business integrates R&D, manufacturing and and is the foundation of China’s long-term agricultural stability, and grain security. As a national seed company and the only central distribution. Based on our strength in trade, we are enhancing all links in the industrial chain to provide efficient and environmentally SOE to integrate the breeding, manufacturing and distribution of crop seeds as its core business, Sinochem is intensifying its core friendly pesticide products as well as professional services to the market, and ultimately we aim at promoting the industrial upgrading competitiveness across all areas of the industrial chain by independent innovation, external cooperation, and expanding business. of China’s pesticide sector. With our aim to upgrade China’s seed industry, we become a major force in protecting the national seed security and grain safety. Pesticide Industrial Chain Specific Steps Seed Industrial Chain Specific Steps Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry and Zhejiang Research Institute of Chemical Industry 193 participated in national and provincial trials, 19 passed registration (13 for rice, three for corn, and R&D applied for 76 pesticide patents in 2012, with 28 being granted and one receiving a provincial level award three for sunflower); applied five PVP Cooperated with the Pesticide Testing Institute of MOA on research for a new pesticide development Successfully developed the world’s first rice genome breeding chip R&D mechanism to promote domestic pesticide development Participated in creating the Crop Seed Industry Technological Innovation Strategic Alliance, to build The production technique of the methylene-method facility for producing amides herbicides of Nantong an open innovation system that utilizes the competitive advantages of companies, universities and Jiangshan Chemical Company reached world-class standard research institutes Signed MOU with Mitsui Chemical on product development, technology introduction, and R&D cooperation Manufactured rice seeds in 125,000 Mu of land, corn and wheat for 91,000 Mu and 162,000 Mu Production Corn processing projects of Sino-Seed Linze and CNDK came into operation Formed four large-scale and sustainable industrial bases in Shenyang, Nantong, Lianyungang, and Yangzhou; the bases produce more than 40 types of AI, and have a production capacity of around 180,000 Built a distribution network and customer service system of approximately one hundred regional Production MT; all are highly efficient, safe, non-toxic and environmentally friendly products Distribution distributors and 2,000 grassroots distributors Achieved flow-line production for glyphosate, mesotrione, amides herbicide, cyclohexenone herbicide, imidazolinone herbicide, pyrethroid pesticide, nicotinic insecticide and indigenously developed products Case: The First Rice Whole-Genome Breeding Chip Case: Modern Seed Industry Development Fund Our distribution channels cover most areas of China, and we have 600 Sino Agro Star Outlets Distribution Established branches or subsidiaries in Brazil, Mexico, and Australia for local operations / registration Sinochem joined hands with Department of Finance and China National Seed Group Corporation partnered with Huazhong Agricultural Development Bank of China to set up the Modern Agriculture University and Peking University to develop the first Seed Industry Development Fund with RMB 1.5 billion. The Fund rice whole-genome breeding chip in the world. This chip can help is expected to finance the M&A of seed companies and resource exclude over 95% of single plants with very few single plants Case: New Topping Agent for Cotton Successfully Developed consolidation, and to encourage industrial champions to grow growing in the field, which reduces the workload in the field. This bigger and stronger to protect the national seed security. shortens the breeding cycle from 3-5 years to 8-10 years, and Zhejiang Hetian Chemicals Co., Ltd (Hetian Chemicals for short), a subsidiary of Sinochem Lantian, has been testing flumatralin (a plant growth increases breeding efficiency. It also injects the power of high-tech regulator) on cotton in Xinjiang since 2009. After four years of effort, it developed a flumetralin formulation and technology that can be used to approaches into China’s rice breeding activity. replace manual topping for cotton. The formulation reduces both workload and time, and increases cotton production by 6% to 9% per Mu. The product will facilitate the transformation of the development pattern of China’s cotton industry, and enhance its overall competitiveness. In 2012, Hetian Chemicals extensively marketed and applied flumetralin to 80,000 Mu of cotton fields in Xinjiang to increase the yield by 2,000 tons, increasing the income of cotton farmers in the region by RMB 16 million. 26 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 27 Facilitating the Progress of the Chemical Industry Serving to Improve People’s Livelihoods and Happiness As China’s leading comprehensive service provider for chemical products, Sinochem is intensifying its competitiveness in resources, Drawing on our business characteristics, Sinochem is providing premium products and services to people to increase people’s technology and market, consolidating its leading position in the industry, and advancing a harmonious development between the happiness in all aspects of life. technological upgrading of the chemical industry and the protection of the environment. Clothing Food Diversifying the Fluorine Chemical Products Chemical: we manufacture textile and dyestuff for Agriculture: we breed new seed varieties for grains Sinochem is the leading manufacturer for fluorine chemicals and the leading supplier of the most complete range of fluorocarbon garments, offering a diverse choice of clothing to and vegetables, providing a more diverse diet to chemicals. Our fluorine chemical business covers the whole industrial chain from resource development (fluorite and hydrofluoric people. people; we develop green pesticides and fertilizers acid), R&D, manufacturing, and distribution. Our products include fluorocarbons, fluorine polymers, and specialty chemicals. A to increase crop production and yield. dozen of those products, including HFC-134a, capture the largest market share in China or abroad. Chemical: we develop and manufacture food additives to improve food quality. In terms of resource development, we have tapped into our resource Several of our new material projects are listed in the National 863 Plan. bases in Xingguo, Jiangxi province, Chenzhou, Hunan province, and Regarding our manufacturing areas, we have bases in Taicang, Jianyang, Fujian province. Currently, we have more than 30 million MT Hangzhou, Xi’an, and Shangyu. We continue to improve our technique, influorite reserves. Our resource development ensures our sustainable and are rolling out a series of fluorocarbon chemicals with cuttingdevelopment in the industry, and is promoting the overall development edge technique. Our production capacity for fluorocarbon chemicals Housing Transportation of China’s strategic reserve of fluorite. has reached 120,000 MT, while capacity for fluorine polymers and In terms of R&D, we facilitate technological introductions from specialty chemicals amount to 17,000 MT. In addition, we have set Chemical: we produce polyurethanes and HFC-245a Chemical: we operate rubber, rubber products and and cooperate with research institutes, universities, and leading up a joint venture with Solvay, Belgium, on high-purity wet chemicals, foaming agent to enhance the energy-saving function plastics, which serve as the raw materials for tires international enterprises to develop energy-saving and environmentincluding the production of high-end fluorine chemical products such of our construction materials; we produce plastics such and other accessories in automobiles to meet the protecting materials. We also provide the market with environmentally as electronic-grade hydrofluoric acid to meet China’s rapidly increasing as PP and PVC, which are widely applied in pipelines, demands of the auto industry. friendly and highly efficient green products, and are enhancing our demand from the electronic and photovoltaic industry. doors, and windows. green competitiveness and strength through technological innovation. Energy: we are expanding our gas station layout. Real estate: we built high-end buildings and provide Currently, we own nearly 500 gas stations, thoughtful property services. providing a stable diesel and gasoline supply to meet people’s transportation demands. Completing the Industrial Chain for Rubber Business Sinochem is China’s largest and strongest distributor as well a core service provider for rubber. We are also a leading natural rubber enterprise with a foothold in the international market. Our strategy of securing upstream resources, expanding planting acreage, and improving capacity deployment in different areas is increasing our competitiveness. By the end of 2012, our natural rubber Medical Care Education processing capacity was 630,000 MT at home and abroad, and we had distributed around 800,000 MT of natural rubber. Our market Chemical: as a professional operator of a Finance: we provide schools with multishare ranks first in China and second worldwide. pharmaceutical supply chain in China, we vigorously faceted financial services, including financing cooperate with globally recognized biotech for equipment procurement and for school In terms of obtaining resources, we acquired EUROMA RUBBER high-end product, like the TSR9710 and TSR5, to enter the pharmaceutical companies to enhance our overall infrastructure construction to improve their in Malaysia, Singapore-listed GMG, and TBH in Thailand. We have procurement list of the top ten international tire makers. We acquired strength. teaching conditions. By the end of 2012, we had also secured new planting and manufacturing resources in Africa and 60.976% interest of Jiangsu Sinorgchem Technology Co, Ltd., the provided services to more than 120 universities, Southeast Asia by adding 100,000 hectares of a new land bank for world’s largest supplier of rubber antiager 4020(6PPD), 4010NA(IPPD), Finance: we provide a comprehensive solution nearly 200 occupational training schools, more rubber plantation. We are also making the most of premium resources and the intermediate 4-ADPA, which has enhanced our industrial package for medical establishments in China, than 160 high schools, and around 50 local in Indonesia, and have become the largest Indonesian rubber supplier foundation and R&D capacity. including financing, medical engineering, investment bureaus of education. for the Chinese market. By the end of 2012, our total land bank In the area of marketing and distribution, we have built up an and development, management consulting, amounted to 240,000 hectares, and our total plantation area (including overseas marketing platform and supporting logistics hub in Singapore, equipment and facility services, to help the medical SIAT oil palm) was 73,000 hectares. We are now a leading player in the ramping up our service capacity for downstream clients. We have care services develop in China. By the end of 2012, global natural rubber industry. also strategically partnered with international tire manufacturers, and we provided services to more than1500 hospitals. As regards R&D, we have strengthened our new product signed long-term sales contracts with many of the top ten global tire development. Our independently developed TSR10CV has been producers. awarded its certification from the Michelin Group, making it another 28 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 29 Sinochem Is All Around You Provide financial leasing services for educational equipment Provide financial leasing Build high-quality real Supply diesel services for medical estate projects and gasoline care equipment Provide AI for antiinfective drugs Provide raw materials such as rubber and plastics for the automobile Provide food additives Provide textile raw materials and dyestuffs Breed new varieties for grain and vegetable; Provide agro-inputs, including fertilizers, seeds, and pesticides 30 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 31 Creating the Highest Value for Shareholders Case: Far Eastern Horizon Carried out “the Mirror-Reflection Action” As a keybackbone SOE in China, Sinochem has a responsibility to preserve and increase the value of state-owned assets. As such, Far Eastern Horizon conducted the Mirror-Reflection Action work and reflect how they can improve their work efficiency and we are pressing forward with the strategic transformation and management reforms, conducting management improvement projects, to improve its approach to management and review existing quality. deepening lean management to ensure our sustained, healthy and rapid corporate development. At the end of 2012, we were again problems and weaknesses to its current operation. What followed The “Mirror-Reflection Action”self-diagnosis allows all senior named a Grade-A Enterprise in SASAC’s performance assessment for the eighth year in a row. was a systematic overhaul to its management and a set of longmanagers to take stock of challenges and propose solutions that term management improvement mechanisms that integrate a will enhance their management. The company’s namesake internal new working structure and systems to enhance problem probing, publication publishes the management improvement reports from responsibility distribution, problem solving, publicity, supervision, 22 subsidiaries, all signed by the respective company leader. and review and assessments. Implemented the “Close to the Forefront”program to examine Major Operational Indicators of Sinochem Group (Unit: billion of RMB) It established a Management Improvement Leadership Team with problems associated with frontline work operations. The program the general manager as the team leader. Under the team, different organized 35 discussion sessions, conducted surveys on 600 grassYear 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 working groups are in charge of different aspects of Action, and all root employees, and highlighted 1,280 problems. Operating revenue employees, including grass-root employees, examine their daily 308.98 241.79 335.33 458.95 453.16 Net profit 6.45 5.39 7.35 10.70 7.55 Implement the Lean Management Total assets 135.50 171.20 211.46 258.19 286.62 Far Eastern Horizon used the lean management philosophy to guide its management improvement program, and created a lean Shareholders’ equity 47.86 66.96 76.38 87.33 97.42 management project to solve problems discovered in the management improvement program. Resolving the problems on a projectby-project basis was an efficient way to successfully overhaul the program. In 2012, the company adopted measures to strengthen the control on its budget management, its performance evaluation, and its daily monitoring. It completed 2,821 lean management activities, and reduced costs and expenditure by RMB 351 million. Conducting a Management Improvement Project Case: Sinochem Changshan Carried Out Lean Production Program Sinochem answers SASAC’s call for management improvement by conducting amanagement improvement project. The project analyzed how we can improve our management to better meet the demand for our strategic transformation, and focused on our Sinochem Changshan built a lean production system, which won the “2012 China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Quality Benchmark Award” main operations and major projects. granted by China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association. Organizational guarantee: Set up promotion team and clear division of labor and close cooperation Case: Building a Quality Management System at Headquarters Organizational and lean management Leadership participation: Create a lean atmosphere leadership Employees participation: 1,258 proposals made by 94% of our employees Sinochem leverages its Quality Management System building making the institutional system more standard in form. We also to improve its overall management system. Our goals for the defined a series of work requirements and standards of the transCapacity utilization rate gradually increased: Synthesis ammonia and urea had a year-on-year increase Quality Management System in the Headquarters are to clarify department issues, which filled the management loopholes in our by 1,468 MT and 1,553 MT, respectively, when compared with 2011 levels; growth rate reached 1.99% Keep reducing responsibilities, streamline work, standardize operations, and work. and 0.62% production cost quantify performance so as to enhance the quality and efficiency We made the quality management system highly operational Reduced energy consumption: Energy consumption per RMB 10,000 reached 6.17 MT of standard coal, down 5% of the Headquarters’ operation. We revised and enlarged 228 with specific goals and requirements. By making the management regulations, and added another 328 operaitonal rules. guideline, goals, and specific targets for each department, we made We have initially realized our goal to clearify responsibility. We the system in great details and highly operational, which laid a solid Ensuring safety Maintained 100% pass rate and quality Zero production accidents for two years running renew and publish the function and responsibility of different foundation for the future practice of the system. departments to clearify their work boundary and division of labor, The quality management philosophy is highly recognized which resolved the problems of overlapping work and unclear among our employees, because everyone has participated in the Timely production Closely followed clients and delivered product in a timely fashion responsible entity in the past, and made management more formulation of the documents. The parcipation made them fully for all clients Accelerated inventory turnover rate responsive. understand and accept the procedure management, standard We improved the whole institution sytem of the company. By operaiotn, and responsibility traceback system. This created a formulating the documents for quality management system, we foundation for the future to improve our work quality and efficacy by Onsite 6S inspections clearify the relation between regulations and operational rules, complying with the system. Basic management Standardized production and operation TPM 32 Sustainable Development Report 2012 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 33 Optimizing Financial Management Facilitating Technology Innovation We improved financial management by factoring in different risks, improved our asset management system, expanded our financing We have intensified our innovation capacity and our brand value, and own a series channels, enhanced our capital efficiency and risk controls procedures, and ensured the progress of its Going-Global strategy. of patents with proprietary intellectual property rights. We did this by enhancing our technology innovation strategy and increasing our technology investment, which has We expanded our financing channels. We issued medium-term and implemented comprehensive monitoring of the ownership transfer helped us speed up our industrial transformation and strengthen our competitiveness. notes and short-term financing bills worth RMB 6 billion at a relatively of our branches at home and abroad. researchers low price; registered for RMB 20 billion super-short-term financing As one of the first cross-border pilot companies conducting We have set up a technological innovation team covering our major business segments, owned bills, which subsequently helped to provide adequate funding for our centralized management of foreign exchange capital, we completed 11 national-level research institutes, 33 provinicial-level research institutes. By 2012, the number business growth. the first transfer of overseas capital into China, opened up a channel of our researchers reached 2212, among which 1358 are working for R&D. We strengthened the foundation for our property ownership connecting domestic and international capital, and achieved a We have increased our input in terms of capital and personnel. Our technology innovation management, and completed the ownership registration of its 487 breakthrough in centralizing and integrating the management of global reached RMB 1.18 billion, growing 25% annually on average over the past five years. domestic and international branches. We built a company wide uniform capital. By the end of 2012, 100% of our international settlements were We developed 156 new product (including new technique) projects, and achieved RMB 2.19 billion RMB of technology regulation system, an information platform, and an operation standard, processed through our centralized management system. billion in sales for the new products. innovation investments We took 57 national projects, received 20 provincial-level-or-above technological awards, created eight national standards and three industrial standards, applied for 210 patents with 117 Case: Centralized Capital Management from a Global Perspective granted, eight of which received overseas patents. Altogether, we have accumulatively received 517 patents. At 5:12AM, December 1, 2012, Sinochem successfully completed the first inbound capital flow business, using the capital to fund domestic SASAC has included us as one of the 15 key enterprises that enjoy the priority of carrying out trade and make external payments in a foreign currency. The operation helps us tap into two markets and two resources domestically and projects related to the Technology Innovation Strategy Implementation Guideline for Central SOE internationally, and obtain low-cost capital. It is also allows us to build a two-way channel between the domestic and overseas capital pools for national projects in the Twelfth Five-Year Plan Period. integrated capital allocation, which will help us enhance our capital efficiency and risk controls, providing a strong guarantee to our “Go Global” We are building the “Central Research Institute of Sinochem Group”. Our company is one of the strategy. enterprises approved to build the third-batch of national innovation bases for introducing highcaliber overseas talents. We are planning to build “Central Research Institute of Sinochem Group” in Beijing Future Technology Park. We have strengthened the contruction of the quality control and technology assessment Enhancing Our IT System institutes. In 2012, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology approved totally 119 labs We keep enhancing our IT system by focusing both on our strategic information system and core business information system. We for industrial products quality control and technology assessment. Four of our labs for pesticide, have set up a series of application systems that support our business and management, from the trade and distribution, e-commerce, dyestuff, fluorine chemicals, and pesticide safety assessement were in the approval list. investment and management perspectives. We also expanded the coverage of our ERP system, and the application scope of the We have strengthened our international cooperation on technology. We signed the Sinchemcommon information system, such as our knowhow management system and our file system. Leeds University R&D Cooperation Agreement with the Leeds University from the U.K. and set up a joint laboratory with our partner. Our trade and distribution IT system has been built into the wholeCase: Sinofert Adopted a Client Relation Management process of trade and distribution, transaction risk controls, and System inventory risk controls to meet the diverse demands of different business segments, expand the coverage of our control over important Sinofert has 17 branches and 1229 distribution centers using operational points, and to make the operations system more user the Client Relation Management System, involving nearly a friendly. thousand of employees. This System enables the clients to order We gathered ERP information, and formed an information resource through cellphone, approve through internet, have text message that is able to support our business, optimize our management, notification on important processes, and check the inventory and help our decision-making process. We now have more than conveniently. It helps to improve the company’s marketing 440 subsidiaries using the ERP system, which covers 90% of our workflow and enhance the work efficiency. subsidiaries. We have built specialized application systems based on the specific features of our major five business segments. 34 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PROVIDING VALUE-ADDED SERVICES TO DEVELOP WITH CLIENTS 35 Improving the Service to Oil End Market Sinochem is developing a direct distribution channel and an end-customer market, expanding the services we provide to the oil sector, improve our service quality, and rendering professional and premium reserve and sales services. Complete Our End-User Market Service Network By leveraging the strength of our Quanzhou Refinery, we are extending our business to the coastal developed areas around North China, East China, and South China. We have established long-term strategic partnership with Sinopec, CNPC, and China Aviation Oil, and we have regular cooperation with industrial associations, petroleum commerce chambers, and retail joint ventures, and distributors in order to enhance our overall service capacity. Strengthening Our Service Quality Based on customers’ need, we are enriching our services portfolio to provide all-round quality service to our clients, including tire inflation, glasses cleaning, umbrella lending, self-service shoes polishing, and cellphone battery recharging. Case: “E-Payment” Bringing More Convenient Means of Payment to Customers Sinochem cooperates with China Telecom in the rolling out of an “e-Payment” program in our 20 gas stations in Beijing. The program effectively allows smartphones to replace bankcards as a means of payment, making consumption more convenient and user-friendly. In addition, the approach let customers save RMB 0.54 per liter. Case: Introducing “Sinochem High-Efficacy Gasoline” Sinochem Fujian Oil cooperates with BASF, the global chemical giant from Germany, to develop high-performance oil, which is enhancing the quality and performance of refined oil. In 2012, Sinochem Fujian Oil started to put BASF fuel oil additives into its retail oil products, and released the “Sinochem high-performance gasoline” to the market. The new product possesses excellent properties in reducing oil consumption, reducing waste gas emissions, enhancing the power of engines, protecting engines, and reducing maintenance cost. While keeping the retail price unchanged, “Sinochem highperformance gasoline” demonstrates more outstanding and environmentally friendly performance, and thus is widely applauded among customers. 36 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PROVIDING VALUE-ADDED SERVICES TO DEVELOP WITH CLIENTS 37 Improving the Service System for “Agriculture, Countryside, and Farmers” Providing Satisfactory Services for Farmers Purchasing Seeds The China National Seeds Group Corporation (hereinafter referred to as CNSGC), a subsidiary under the Sinochem Group, regularly Sinochem deems the service for “agriculture, countryside, and farmers” an important social responsibility. We leverage our strength enhances its approach to management, and explores new and effective service models to improve its services to farmers. in fertilizer, seed, and pesticide to facilitate the progress of agriculture and countryside. CNSGC adjusted its service model and upgraded its products. It You 365 Days a Year”service philosophy. Before sales, the company developed breeding goals based on the planting needs of farmers, and runs surveys and conducts a planting demonstration for farmers; Constituting a Scientific Fertilization Service System leveraged its high-end breeding platform, first-class breeding team and during sales, it makes sure of the supply; and post sales, it provides technology, and global germplasm. It intensified its breeding resources, training programs. It uses every possible tool, including telephone calls, Sinofert is implementing an agrichemical service system that is made up of agrochemical knowledge dissemination, onsite service industrialized its breeding process, scaled up its breeding amount, and text messages, and leaflets, to inform farmers of pest and disease and instruction, and balanced feritization service”, which promotes the rational usage of agrichemical inputs and helps farmer commercialized its research results. It helped China to upgrade its crop prevention methods and raise awareness on field management. By increase their income. variety, and provides premium varieties for Chinese farmers. doing so, it has contributed to greater crop yields and income for CNSGC improved its services and helped farmers increase their farmers. income. The company uses a quality control standard that is higher In 2012, CNSGC completed a task entrusted by the State to reserve Agrochemical Knowledge Onsite Service and Balanced Fertilization and stricter than the national standard to guarantee the quality of seed two million kilograms of seeds for disaster relief, which contributed Dissemination System Instruction System Service System testing and shipment and to ensure that it provides the best seeds for to enhancing the country’s resistance to natural disasters in the We invited professors from China We cooperated with the Science, We set up a demonstration station for farmers. In addition, the company is promoting the“CNSGC around agricultural sector. Agriculture University to provide Technology and Education Division of high-standard, modern and Case: Helping Farmers to Choose Right Seeds hotline services to farmers all the MOA as well as the Agricultural large-scale fertilization technology. We year round. By the end of 2012, Committees of various provinces to cooperated with MOA to set up a soil Sinochem helps farmers choose the right seeds. Our service marketing units provide farmers in more than 20 provinces with services and sales we had received and answered bring technology to the countryside, testing formulation fertilization station networks that cover major agricultural counties in major grain and oil production areas. We have organized activities such as “Show Farmers 230,000 calls. to set up technology demonstration in Wen County in Henan, Baoding in How to Plant” to help farmers with major crops, and have held more than a thousand demonstration field visits, conducted good planting counties and villages, to build ﬁeld Hebei, and Dashiqiao Region in approach training sessions, and run harvest demonstrations for farmers so that they can better understand good varieties’ nature and properties schools for farmers, and to have Liaoning, which helped to create an and choose the right seeds at the right time and with the right method in order to increase yield. In 2012, we promoted approaches that sow onsite instruction and services. operational model that provides seeds and fertilizers together, and ran a mechanical harvest for corn in the Huanghuaihai Region to help farmers reduce costs and increase technology services to farmers. efficiency. For vegetables, we set up a technology services network in 52 key villages to provide professional services. Expanding Pesticide Service Network Case: Sinofert Provided Remote Video Diagnosis Sinochem is expanding its distribution channels and improving its service capacity to consolidate its customer base. We vigorously In order to meet farmers’ demand, the Northwest Branch of Sinofert provided remote video diagnosis of farmers’ planting problems. Through explore new ways to cooperate with peer companies, and try to innovate our business model to provide comprehensive agronomic the remote video, agronomists had online face-to-face communication with farmers and studied the pathology of crops. After the diagnosis, services for farmers. the agronomists wrote a “prescription”, which included a package of solutions that enabled the farmers to solve their miscellaneous planting We make use of our channels and brand advantages in the domestic of individuals with a master degree or higher in pesticide or plant problems and provided technological support to farmers. high-end pesticide market, consolidate our upstream and downstream protection. We also invited well-known experts from pesticide research resources, and use our cooperation models of exclusive distribution institutes to provide technological support and product consulting and regional representation.We have set up a multi-layer distribution services to end-users across China. Based on the realities of farming in network and finalized our customer services network. In order to better China, we offer tailored and systematic prevention services. Case: Production and Income Boost Program for Northeast China Farming Region serve farmers, we established a technology services team made up Sinofert cooperated with the Science and Education Department We printed 50,000 copies of the Corn High-Yield Technology Case: Providing Professional Agrochemical Services to Prevent and Treat Armyworm Problem of the Ministry of Agriculture to roll out the “Production and Income Manual, and the 100,000 Corn High-Yield Technology Wall Chart In August 2012, armyworm plagued more than 50 million Mus of the Plant Protection Station, and local research institutes and Boost Program” to the Northeast China Farming Region. The aim of for farmers. land in Northeast and North China, accounting for 9.72% of all universities to carry out technology demonstration services for pest the Program is to increase the production of corn by 100 kilograms We organized more than 200 rounds of training programs plantable land. Amidst the outbreak of this disaster, 6.5 million control. We also set up professional a pest control team equipped per Mu, and generate income growth of RMB 200 per Mu by the end for corn farmers in order to educate them on corn planting, Mus of fields were damaged severly and threatened China’s grain with a self-propelled high-stalk-crop pesticide spraying machine to of the Twelfth Five-year Plan period for 100 million Mus of land in fertilization, and plant protection. security. To tackle the problem, we launched a contingency plan to serve local farmers. Northeast China Region. We organized “Sinochem Corn Yield Contest” to encourage protect farmers’ interest. We ran an expert service hotline to answer farmers’ questions We set up working groups to draw on our capacity advantages farmers to use more technology in crop planting. In pursuing the We provided onsite instruction for pest and disease prevention regarding pest control and disease prevention. and soil-testing formulation network to develop specialized fertilizer goals of the“Production and Income Boost Program” for 35 million in Heilongjiang province, and established a Disaster Response We asked our manufacturing plants to work on extra hours to for the Program, and to provide formulated fertilizers and fertigation Mus, most areas in the three northeastern provinces realized 1,000 Mechanism with the local Agricultural Department, the Agricultural supply pesticides when emergency broke out, and required local solutions. kilograms of corn yield per Mu. Reclamation Bureau, and the Plant Protection Station. sales companies to arrange timely shipments to ensure market We worked with the Agricultural Department of Liaoning province, supply. 38 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PROVIDING VALUE-ADDED SERVICES TO DEVELOP WITH CLIENTS 39 Providing Comprehensive Chemical Business Services Providing High-quality Real Estate Projects and Property Services As China’s leading comprehensive services renderer, Sinochem provides specialized services to customers that focus on such subFranshion Properties has adopted a long-term vision and mindset for its innovative planning and design. It provides outstanding sectors such as chemical logistics and plastics. products and services, and world-class rational property planning philosophy to Chinese cities. The company creates high standard products and consolidates premium resources across the globe to improving its service capacity in real estate development and property management. The Highest Safety Standards for the Liquid Chemical Logistics Sinochem International owns the largest liquid chemical tanker fleet and ISO tank fleet in China. We also have the highest domestic safety standards. We are the leading liquid chemical logistics service provider in the domestic market, and our business includes Case: Constructing Ecological Buildings, and Invigorating the Life of City shipping, the multimodal transportation of ISO tanks, freight forwarding and storage, and terminal tank storage. We provide our clients with the highest standard of highly efficient logistics services and multi-layer cost-effective logistics solutions. We have The Changsha Branch of Franshion Properties has been running passed the CDI-MPC Tank Container assessment conducted by the European Association of Chemical Distributors, and were the the Changsha Meixi Lake New International Town Project for first chemical logistics company to obtain the qualification. nearly two years. The Project started with “Jin Mao Meixi Lake” residential buildings, and brought in world-class resources. While Our company has one of the largest professional liquid chemical “safety management system” to international standards. pursuing a first-class quality product, it also focused on the fleets in China. At the end of 2012, we controlled 60 ships with a Our Shanghai Sierbo Chemical Logistics Company is the largest protection of surrounding ecology and incorporating great Chinese shipping capacity exceeding 600,000 tons. This enables us to render professional ISO tank owner in China. At the end of 2012, we owned traditions. Cultivating a high-end, international living environment in shipping service for domestic coastal routes, international long-haul 6,196 ISO tanks, 24% of which are specialized tanks. Our operations Changsha, the Project was crowned as one of “the National Green routes, and near-sea shipping routes. network covers critical areas in China, and important regions in Asia, Pilot Ecological Projects” in China. 3000 Mus of perfect lake views, We entered a joint venture with Stolt-Nielsen to set up Aoxing America, Europe, and the Middle East. beautiful supporting infrastructure, and the Yuelu District Elementary Shipping Management Company, which will establish a comprehensive School (the first green elementary School in Hunan Province) will all contribute to the living environment. Yuelu District Elementary School Tailored Plastics Services for Our Customers Sinochem Plastics Company is a subsidiary of the Sinochem Group and is highly customer-oriented. The company has set up a distribution network that covers major regions in China, and at the same time is innovating its service models to provide tailored services and solutions that meet customers’ demands in all areas of the industrial chain. Case: Providing “Five-Star” Property Management Services Jin Mao Property Management Company has accumulated 15 years circulates materials and information on sorting rubbish so as to build We signed supply agreements for a package of raw material with large domestic automobile manufacturers; of five-star hotel management experience. Its goal is to provide a green ecological community in partnership with the residents. “standard, considerate, intelligent, and energetic” five-star hotel The command from our building residents: “Jin Mao Property Supply chain we supply supporting plastic raw material for designated automobile accessory producers based on the management vehicle type and planned output; we provide a package of services, including material selection, production services that meet the diverse demands of its customers. Management Company’s services are impressive. Their professional certification, material testing, production planning, and raw material delivery. In terms of customer services, Jin Mao Property Management is butlers provide us with timely services no matter whether a big or rendering considerate “Butler-Style Service” to its property owners. small issue, or emergency. They live up to the name of Five-Star It installs two qualified professional butlers in every building to solve Property Management Company”. Door-to-door We provide door-to-door logistic services that cover the entire industrial chain, including HSE management all kinds of problems and provide value-added services to property delivery services for diversified customers based on their needs. owners. In addition, it also regularly holds special activities called “Bring Convenience and Luck to the Homes”, which have been well We draw on our advantages in stable upstream resources supply, outstanding technology, and great customer received by residents. Tailored services base to innovate our operational model and develop new modified raw materials with upstream plastic plants In terms of security management, Jin Mao Property Management to supply end customers with cost effective substitute products and help them reduce cost. also holds regular checks on fire-fighting devices and related training for the residents. Patrollers wear soft shoes with plastics cover while patrolling to avoid unnecessary interruptions to the Consulting We provide integrated service packages, including market information consulting, product processing advice, residents, which contributes to a safe and comfortable living services and technology upgrading support. environment for all. In terms of cleaning, the company has installed rotary rubbish One-stop We have built a multi-channel procurement platform and provide a comprehensive package of procurement compression storage machines and kitchen rubbish processing procurement solutions for downstream customers so as to meet their delivery and post-sale service demands. machines in the community to compress and reduce rubbish, and ultimately sort and recycle the rubbish. It also publishes and 40 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PROVIDING VALUE-ADDED SERVICES TO DEVELOP WITH CLIENTS 41 Providing Reliable and Efficient Financial and Tendering Services Trust Services that Take Trustee’s Needs as Paramount China Foreign Economic and Trade Trust Co.,Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as FOTIC) under Sinochem Group always takes its Sinochem’s financial business covers financial leasing, trust, security investment funds, life insurance, finance, and financial trustees’ demands as paramount, and is committed to providing comprehensive financial services. The company is building a securities. We have built a complete non-banking financial development framework, and own a series of influential brands, including customer relations management system that is exemplary among its peers. It uses advanced information technology to provide “Far Eastern Horizon”, “FOTIC”, “Lion Fund”, and “Manulife-Sinochem Life Insurance”. Through our business development and risk complete pre-sales, sales, and post-sales services for trusted products. controls, we are continuing to enhance our service capacity. The Financial Leasing Service Promoting the Industrial Advance Far Eastern Horizon, controlled by Sinochem Group, runs a business model that combines financial services with industrial development. It provides financing, trade, consulting, and investment services in the areas of medical care, printing, shipping, construction, industrial equipment, education, textile, and electronic information. Far Eastern Horizon continues to innovate its service model, and is Fuzhou, Putian, Changde, and Nantong to upgrade their vehicles enhancing its service capacity in order to meet the diversified demand to use new energy such as LNG, LPG, CNG, and hybrid power. of clients, and to deepen its service involvement for industrial growth. This contribution helped the bus companies meet higher emission It has consolidated its specialized resources inside and outside standards. China, helping basic industries such as medical care and printing to It provided nearly RMB 200 million to ten cities, including Wuxi and realize their industrial upgrading. Suzhou, to contribute to upgrades to their water treatment system. It provided funds for city bus companies in Guangzhou, Zhongshan, Pool global Serve China’s medical care Promote modern FOTIC abides by the requirements of the regulatory authority, and post-sales services and as installed a professional wealth manager resources and promote development printing and inherit the discloses all risk and earning features, and risk principles. Using its to conduct one-to-one follow-up services. The company has a China’s industrial and care for great civilization website, text messages, and telephone disclosures, FOTIC ensures comprehensive management system for the safekeeping and protection development the health of the nation of China that its clients have timely and full access to important information such of clients’ files and confidential information. as trust estate changes, value variation, and related yields. FOTIC has combined the traditional Five Chinese Elements Case: FOTIC Issuing the First High-End Membership Card in the Industry Philosophy with its wealth management to provide trust products that have different maturity, investment, and risk-to-yield ratios. FOTIC is also Develop the national Promote China’s FOTIC held the “2013 New Policy, New Investment Forum” in Serve China’s offering value added services to its clients in terms of health care, children industry and construction Shenzhen. At the event it issued the first specialized membership education and care education, investment in antiques collection, and high-end sports. propel Chinese and enjoy card to its high-end clients, offering an exclusive gift exchange for future growth FOTIC has set up a well-managed, post-sale service system. It has manufacturing harmonious development and services to the card holders. a specialized online system that offers a convenient expressway for Full-Course Quality Tendering Service Sinochem International Tendering Limited (hereinafter referred respecting its customer base and implementing major projects Support China’s Partner with the Welcome information to as Sinochem Tendering) is a subsidiary of Sinochem to encourage growth. It is involved in the railway transportation, shipping industry textile industry development and Group and provides high quality whole-process procurement and aeronautic sectors as well as the aerospace, non-ferrous and share to create thrive in China’s consulting services that comply with all relevant standards and metallurgy and petrochemicals industries. Getting new industrial growth a beautiful future technology boom regulations. The company has been recognized as one of the customers and developing new business areas will drive the “Top Ten Brands among Tendering Agencies”, one of the “Top company’s market share. Meeting the needs of its customers Ten Most Competitive Tendering Agencies”, one of the “AAAAA and extending its services in the value chain, has strengthened Reliable Tendering Agencies”. its consulting management capacity, and is helping it become “a premium solution provider for procurement management”. Sinochem Tendering always follows the philosophy of 42 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PRACTICING HSE MANAGEMENT TO ACHIEVE SAFE, GREEN AND HARMONIOUS DEVELOPMENT 43 Enhancing HSE Leadership Sinochem deems it very important to have a strong HSE leadership. We identify 13 key management factors centering on HSE leadership. Assessment Risk identification, and continuous assessment improvement and control Compliance The completeness management of facility and equipment We include all executive team members into the HSE Committee, ensuring the deployment and execution of all Emergency response Personnel training major HSE decisions. management and management All executive team members practice HSE through HSE leadership scheduled visits and check our grassroots units and projects. Hidden hazards Operational and We are implementing our “Ironhanded Safety Policy”. We and accident maintenance safety management have published “Two Institutions”, “Four Requirements”, and “Ten Prohibitions” regarding HSE management. We have set clear requirements on HSE leadership, for our HSE team and Environmental Contractors’ HSE protection management personnel, HSE funding, and for our accident accountability management Occupational Security system. health protection management management We continue to optimize our HSE and energy consumption assessment system. By increasing the weight of our assessment, quantifying our assessment indicators, and developing our assessment instruments, we intend to keep improving our assessment mechanism. We have also 13 Key HSE Management Factors for HSE Leadership established a Group-level HSE and energy-conservation benchmark to enhance our “reward and punishment” mechanism. In addition, our annual role model and best practice selection will include rewards for those units and “Ten Prohibitions” Regarding Sinochem’s HSE Management: individuals who do outstanding jobs in HSE management and 1.Prohibit any command or operation that violates related laws, energy saving. regulations, and labor disciplines. 2.Prohibit any production activity that is unsafe, has hazards that have not been eliminated, or does not use proper protection measures. 3.Prohibit any M&A activities without adequate HSE due diligence, or that do not meet HSE requirements. 4.Prohibit employing contractors or sub-contractors without required national qualifications or capacity for safe production. 5.Prohibit any production that exceeds capacity limitations, intensity or headcounts. 6.Prohibit any compressing of the construction duration, or changing techniques and process without authorization. 7.Prohibit the use of any specialized equipment that is forbidden by laws, is below standard, or is without proper protection measures. 8.Prohibit any unqualified personnel from operating specialized work. 9.Prohibit any personnel without safety training or related certification to conduct work. 10.Prohibit production that is without legitimate permits or licenses. 44 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PRACTICING HSE MANAGEMENT TO ACHIEVE SAFE, GREEN AND HARMONIOUS DEVELOPMENT 45 Enhancing HSE Management Occupational Health We have set up a uniform HSE management system and an effective HSE assessment mechanism. We are executing a topSinochem has enhanced its management on the occupational health. We are protecting employees’ occupational health through down HSE commitment delivery system, enhancing our HSE management work, and establishing a rapid and effective emergency such groundwork as legal education, occupational hazardous factors identification, protection device distribution, and occupational response system. Last year, our HSE work maintained stable. We had two production accidents reaching the grade that requires health training. report to the Group, and had zero HSE accident that requires report to the State Administration of Work Safety, Ministry of Environment Protection, and SASAC. We collate relevant national laws, regulations, documents, and on occupational health is followed through at the grassroots level. standards in a timely manner, and organize specialized training on We conduct a systematic analysis and initial classification of our Practicing Whole Life Cycle HSE Management occupational health management to systematically raise awareness current occupational health management. We have carried out checks We practice whole life cycle HSE management from project acquisition, through construction to exit. Using measures such as due and knowledge. and investigations on 14 third-tier subsidiaries and three second-tier diligence, HSE auditing, and onsite checks, we ensure the safe operation of every single project we conduct and make sure that our We protect the occupational health of grassroots workers by subsidiaries to analyze the realities of their approach to management to HSE management covers the whole value chain, from sales to service and procurement. By doing so, we include contractors into improving the environment in which they work and enhance their ability ensure all hidden risks are eliminated or controlled. our management system, which is uniform in its structure, standards, and requirements. to identify occupational illness. This ensures that our protection policy Expansion project Case: Organizing Specialized Checks and Reviews on Occupational Health Case: HSE Management on Suppliers to Quanzhou Renovation M&A project Petrochemical HSE project management Sinochem has conducted checks and reviews on occupational health in our key subsidiaries involved in fertilizer manufacturing, specialty in the Newly decision-making Quanzhou Petrochemical incorporate HSE management chemical manufacturing, and mining industry. It was the first time we took stock of our current work on occupational health management. We constructed process Exit company project requirements in its tendering documents and contracts to have since intensified the supervision on our subsidiaries to guarantee the health and protection of our employees. Installment review contractors’ HSE management proposal, and ensure Sales Procurement Design HSE Operations the HSE management follow a uniform standard throughout HSE management management in the the project construction. It has special funding for HSE throughout production Waste the value chain treatment process examiniation, and allocates it on a monthly basis. It has a Checks and maintenance clear requirement on contractors’ HSE management personnel Safe Production Services Alternations amount and qualification, and has an individual talk mechanism HSE and dismission mechamism for those having bad compliance. management It also has a HSE training system covers all contractors. Sinochem prohibits any commands or operation that are against laws, through the entire lifecycle Since the project kicked off, Quanzhou Petrochemical has regulations, and labor disciplines (hereinafter referred to as “Three Against”), accumulatively trained 28080 people, and 1781 people have which aimed to solidify our line of defense on safe production. In the “2012 Safe taken part inspecialized trainings. Development Summit”, organized by the Propaganda Department of the Central Committee of the CPC and the National Security Supervision Bureau, Sinochem won the title of “Responsible Enterprise on Safe Production”. Strengthening HSE Team Building Targeting different corporate posts, we asked employees to identify the “Three Against” behaviors around us, identify hazards, evaluate risks, and control risks. We also improved Sinochem has implemented a lean management project to build up our HSE team. We carry out evaluations and make our operational procedures and standardized all processes. improvements to our HSE structure and our HSE team, offer middle-rank certifications for safety engineers, and use HSE experts. We enhanced our management and review of the field operations to ensure the safety of We have set up a comprehensive HSE system for our personnel selection, training and incentives to better enhance their HSE onsite operations. awareness and capacity. Responding to the root causes of the “Three Against”, we made multi-tier training plans for all of our staff in order to strengthen their awareness of compliance and safety skills. We established the Sinochem Corporate Administration Rules on analysis on the HSE personnel of 119 subsidiaries and branches. The Middle-Rank Safety Engineer Certification to encourage HSE personnel project successfully concluded with a proposal on improving HSE to enhance their professional capacity. In 2012, seven people were structure, team, performance assessment, and control model. Case: Sinochem International’s “Family Safety Day” granted the Certificate. We built an HSE experts development pipeline by organizing an We launched a project to evaluate and improve our HSE HSE experts selection session, which provided a career development Sinochem International invited the family of their field operation workers to participate in our “Family Safety Day” event. It was a chance for the organizational structure and team building. All together we studied 23 channel for the non-management HSE personnel. family to understand safety production with the workers. The family can now serve the role as the “side-supervisor” and urge their family workers units, interviewed 172 people, collected 349 surveys, and conducted to abide by related regulations and operate safely. We believe this is an effective way to enhance workers’ sense of safety and responsibility, and to clamp down “the Three Against” operation. 46 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PRACTICING HSE MANAGEMENT TO ACHIEVE SAFE, GREEN AND HARMONIOUS DEVELOPMENT 47 Emergency Management Properly Disposing the Waste We strongly believe that “waste air, water and solid (Three Waste) are misplaced resources”, and are actively promoting the Sinochem is strengthening its emergency response system by intensifying employees’ sense of safety, and conducting emergency recycling of the “Three Waste”. We comply with all environmental laws and regulations at the national and local level, use new response training sessions and drills to enhance its crisis management system. environmentally friendly technology, and are trying to reduce our waste discharge. We amended the Sinochem Corporation HSE Accidents Emergency Response Plan, added emergency response specialized procedures, improved Sinochem Changshan invested RMB 11.28 million in running a deep Yingchuang Company is implementing a “Bottle to Bottle” project. The the working team action checklist and workflow chart to increase the operability of the Plan. treatment project for its ammonia and nitrogen containing waste water. project is a PET chip-recycling project and uses waste PET bottles as We are popularizing the Emergency Scene Handling Card, and following up on the rules amendment for the employment of the Card for key device, Sinochem Yunlong invested RMB 9.4 million in a split flow for polluted feedstock and processes the PET chips in new PET bottle production. facility, and post. rain and recycled production and waste water. By collecting and This approach reduces petroleum consumption. By producing 1 MT of We have enhanced our grassroots emergency response ability targeting at such highly risky industry as oil storage, refining, fertilizer, and fluorine recycling the waste water, the company saves 1.33 to 1.80 million MT recycled PET chip, the company will reduce 6 MT of crude oil, and 3.2 chemicals, as well as such highly-populous places as hotels, office space or residential buildings. We trained our internal trainers to conduct drills, and of water annually, and RMB 1.86 million. MT of CO2. Calculated according to the production capacity of Beijing’s set up standard and uniform drill methods for different levels of units. Sinochem Hongrun has implemented a deep treatment process for recycling PET chip, Yingchuang will dispose 2 billion waste PET its waste water and reuses it in its production process. The recycling bottles, and reduce 16,000 MT of CO2 emissions, equivalent to the CO2 Case: “Safe Sinochem” Emergency Response Drill volume reaches 4,800 cubic meters per MT, and saves 1.68 million emissions of 80,000 automobiles. cubic meters of fresh water every year. On November 7th, 2012, Sinochem Group held “Safe Sinochem” production accident and emergency response drill. Mr. Han Gensheng and Mr. Du Keping, Vice Presidents of Sinochem Group, as well as the Emergency Response Command Team members took part in the drill. The drill systematically tested our emergency response plan and management mechanism, and enhanced the crisis management and emergency Protecting the Ecological Environment Advocating a Low-Carbon Life Style response ability at the Group level. We advocate the protection of the ecological environment, Sinochem adopts a series of green office measures to and pursue an optimized balance between profitability, advocate and encourage employees to follow a low-carbon Environmental Protection resource efficiency, and environmental efficiency. We enhance green lifestyle. ecological protection as well as water and soil conservation We save office materials, and distribute office supplies according to We will continue to implement our green development path. We organize checks and work at all our project sites in order to promote the common employee needs, and standardize the allocation of our office supplies. reviews on environmental protection, promote clean production, and facilitate the development of the economy and the surrounding ecology. 71,400 MT We enhance the management and use of electronic appliances, and commercialization of green technologies in order to achieve a harmonious coexistence use energy-saving lamps. with the Nature. We promote water-saving facilities and conduct regular checks on saved standard coal Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction water supply pipes and replace obsolete ones. Sinochem adheres to a low consumption and high profitability growth pattern. By Quanzhou Petrochemical Enhancing Ecological Protection Shenyang Kechuang Company Having an Energy Saving and implementing energy conservation measures, we will continue to increase our output 70.8 MT Management Emission Reduction Week value. In 2012, we saved 71,400 MT of standard coal, and recycled 70.8 MT of industrial solid waste in the process. Our energy consumption per RMB 10,000 was reduced to Quanzhou Petrochemical enhances ecological protection Shenyang Kechuang Chemical Company is a subsidiary of the 0.75 MT of standard coal, much lower than SASAC’s requirement. management during its project construction period. It applies Sinochem Group and has conducted a “Saving Energy, Green recycled industrial solid waste We have increased our energy efficiency. Sinochem Fuling was recognized as a “Benchmark for above-water and below-water operation permits. When it is Growth” week. During the week-long event it held lectures on Company in the Petroleum and Chemical Industry”. Its energy consumption for producing 10,000 constructing jetties and having shipping channels dredged, it the ABCs of energy saving and emissions reduction. It also used MT of P2O5, a component for DAP, as well as the energy consumption for producing 10,000 MT of avoids the reproduction period for aquatic life so as to reduce blackboards, slogan posters, picture posters, and pamphlets to sulfuric acid are leading the industry. its impact on the ecology of the water to the maximum extent advocate the theme and encouraged employees to give proposals 0.75 MT We have overhauled our projects for energy saving purposes. Sinochem Changshan invested possible. Quanzhou Petrochemical entrusts the Environment and suggestions on energy saving, and to formulate the Pact on RMB 11.20 million in improvements to its production processes and to conserve energy for its highMonitoring Station of Meizhou Bay, Fujian province, to conduct Economic Practices, advocating low-carbon green life style and pressure synthesis system, its medium-pressure dissolution and absorption system, its low-pressure sea monitoring in the project area, and have the monitoring consumption habits. It also organized the “Resource Conservation standard coal of energy consumption dissolution and absorption system and its evaporation system of its urea facility. The renovations will results sent to the Municipal government and the County Oceanic Activity” for Youth League Members, asking them to “save every per RMB 10,000 save 77,400 MT of vapour, 1.34 million KWH of energy, 1,500 MT of liquid nitrogen, and recycled and Fishing Bureau. The company also launched an ecological drop of water, every kilowatt of electricity, every piece of paper, and cooling water by 72,000 MT, which also reduced the waste water discharge. rehabilitation project in the areas surrounding the jetties by every grain of rice”, and guiding them to recognize the importance We have circular economy project. Sinochem Lantian’s Hongyuan Chemicals invested RMB 1 billion purchasing fingerings and releasing them into the sea for and urgency of energy conservation and emissions reduction. in building an aluminum fluoride project with 80,000 MT of capacity, and a production line producing reproduction. 200,000 MT of sulfuric acid per year and using the waste heat for cogeneration. Cogeneration not only meets the company’s demand for energy, but it also supplies electricity to the local area. We are constructing a national-level, low-carbon green pilot town. Franshion Properties is pressing ahead with its Changsha Meixi Lake International New Town Project. The Project combines the ecology system with city planning, and takes carbon discharge per capita as an assessment indicator. It has eight general plans for the ecological environmental planning, and 47 detailed indicators for assessment. The project is aiming at building a low-carbon green model town. 48 Sustainable Development Report 2012 VALUING TALENTS AND DEVELOPING WITH THE EMPLOYEES 49 Protecting Employees’ Rights We abide by all laws and regulations, and believe in equality in the workplace. We provide diversified development channels for our employees and are building a democratic management system within the company. We are also implementing an equal consultation regime and will continue to improve our remuneration management system to attract more talented people. “I have been working for Sinochem for 30 years. I deeply feel the company’s care for every employee, and have experienced and witnessed many touching moments in the company. I also personally participate in much work that delivers love and care for our employees. We are living in a big warm family. Everyone has a strong sense of belonging, and profounding feeling towards our company.” ——Li Ying, an employee from the Department of Administrative Service Rights Protection We strictly comply with international norms and practices By the end of 2012, we had 48,414 employees. The average and the laws and regulations of the host countries where age is 33. Female staff account for 31.7%, and foreign staff we carry out our business operation. We will continue to make up 20.3%, up by 2.6% year on year. keep improving our labor management regime, clarify our employment approach, and sign labor contracts with 100% of Employees Education our employees in accordance with local laws. We offer a level playing field during recruitment, and treat every employee equally and justly. In 2012, we recruited 2,099 university Doctor Degree 0.5% graduates and 68 handicapped people. We are firmly against Master Degree 7.9% hiring child labor and forced labor, and insist on gender Bachelor Degree equality and providing equal promotion opportunities and (including Double Bachelor’s Degree) 21.0% remuneration schemes for female employees. Occupational Training 17.7% Below Occupational Training 52.9% Employee Gender Nationality Structure Female 31.7% Foreign Employees 20.3% Male 68.3% Chinese Employees 79.7% Employees by Age Posts Structure (only Chinese employees) 56 and above 2.5% 46-55 12.5% Manufacturing 48.4% 36-45 25.6% Technology 30.1% 25-35 44.6% Management 21.5% 24 and below 14.8% 50 Sustainable Development Report 2012 VALUING TALENTS AND DEVELOPING WITH THE EMPLOYEES 51 Democratic Management Realizing Employees’ Value Sinochem is keen to build a harmonious company, and is implementing an equal consultation scheme. We encourage all employees We have been creative in the design of our HR mechanism. We see employee training and capacity improvement being vital to to take part in our democratic management process to create stable and harmonious labor relations. By 2012, 100% of our the success of our company and provide broad opportunities for training and development. We are expanding our employees’ subsidiaries and branches had set up a Labor Union, with 100% of their employees joining it. development channels, improving our assessment system, and rolling out a career design program that covers all employees so as to help them realize their true value. We are improving our Employees’ Representative Congress publicity into our management and operations. Through Backbone institution, and supporting the Congress at our headquarters as well Managers Meeting, Employees Representative Meeting, the Sinochem as in our subsidiaries. The Congress plays an important role in our Today Newspaper, Sinochem LAN, Publicity Display Window, and our Diverse Training decision-making, democratic management process, and democratic ERP system, we publish all major decisions by the company and all We pay significant attention to employee training. Our principle backbone manager-training program was 100%. supervision. In 2012, the Headquarters’ Congress convened five information that is closely related to our employees’ interest. is “Train for Need, Learn for Use”. We conduct diverse trainings conferences, and collected 21 proposals, among which 11 were We pay close attention to our communications with employees, and The company diversifies its training programs. In addition sessions for staff at different levels of the company, targeting adopted. try to understand employees’ demand and suggestions in a timely to the face-to-face trainings, we hold e-learning, on-post different posts, with different purposes. This helps us form a We publish operational information on a daily basis, and publicize it manner by holding employees group discussion. trainings, post rotations to overseas branches, academic multi-layer, open-end training system. For example, we regularly through various informationized channels. We integrate the information exchanges, seminars, lectures on specific topics, and doctors’ hold trainings on our corporate culture, professional knowledge, post skills, and general quality. In 2012, the coverage of our forums. Compensation and Benefit We are highly market-oriented in terms of our compensation and benefit scheme. Our compensation and benefit management Training on Management Skills Training on Speciality Skills system is based on the value of a particular position and individual performance, which helps us establish a positive correlation The Group conducted leadership and auditing management training. The Group organized engineering project management training. between company performance and the employee remuneration package. We are optimizing our remuneration structure and innovating the incentive mechanism and we have set up a remuneration communication mechanism. We will also improve our The Group held risk management training and lectures in 12 business units. Sinofert held training sessions for new employees. performance assessment system to enhance the rationality of our distribution system. The Group and individual business units held HSE-themed training sessions The Northwest Base of the China National Seed Group Corporation entitled “Scientific Development and Safe Growth”. held training sessions on new variety technology regulations. Sinochem regularly improves its benefit system. We provide insurance for additional medical care, property, and personal accidents. Sinochem Finance Company held lean management training sessions. Shenyang Research Institute of the Chemical Industry organized a employees with a pension, health care, industrial injury compensation, We also offer an average five days per year of paid leave. series of trainings on chromatographic techniques and SciFinder. maternity, and unemployment insurance packages, as well as a We have improved our compensation and benefit policy for housing provident fund. Our society insurance coverage is 100%. expatriates by offering a benefit package that covers expat costs, We also offer commercial insurance to our employees, have set up residential costs, and family visit. Improving the Development Pipeline an insurance package for major sicknesses, and provide additional Sinochem is improving its “Dual Pipeline” employee development scheme, providing a range of development paths for management and technical posts. Employees can develop their career through management and administration posts, engineering technology Case: Establishing a Uniform Post Rank and Incentive System Case: Standardize the Incentive and Distribution Mechanism positions, or trade and marketing jobs. By doing so, we have established an “Everyone Can Be Talented” platform. Sinochem International has developed a rational market-oriented Sinochem Ningbo is standardizing its incentive and distribution We launched the “Young Talents Project” to broaden career We regularly hold skills competitions and team building activities, remuneration system, and a uniform post rank system and mechanism. It has formulated regulations and rules, including the opportunities for young employees. enhance our skill evaluations, perfect our performance assessment incentive system. The post rank system is optimized by increasing Bonus Distribution Rules for Business System, and the Guidance We give more promotion opportunities to capable employees or system, and ensure the equality and rationality of employees’ promotion the ranks from 7 to 14, and the post rank adjustments and on Bonus Secondary Distribution. By doing so, it has created employees with great potential, and have enhanced the competition channels. remuneration system are design to be more suitable for Sinochem a remuneration system that connects post value with individual mechanism for mid-rank posts. We have a project called the “Overseas High-Caliber Talents International Headquarters, Sinochem Singapore, Sinochem India, contributions, and has standardized the bonus distribution We regularly improve our training and selection mechanisms, expand Incubator”. The project has established a leadership team, a working Sinochem Philippines, and Sinochem Thailand so as to meet principles and procedures. our HR reserves, and strengthen employees’ capability for their own team, and a specialized office to improve our career development employees’ specific demand for career development. career planning. mechanism for overseas talents. 52 Sustainable Development Report 2012 集团公司开展领导力培训、关键岗位审计培训 集团公司开展工程项目管理专项培训 VALUING TALENTS AND DEVELOPING WITH THE EMPLOYEES 53 集团公司对12家经营单位开展风险管理培训和宣讲 中化化肥开展金种子训练营等新员工入职培训 集团及各单位开展以“科学发展，安全发展”为主题的HSE专题培训 中种集团西北基地举办新品种技术规程培训 中化财务举行精益管理培训 沈阳院举办色谱技术系列培训、SciFinder培训 Enhancing Employees’ Sense of Belonging Department/Business Unit Employees Aid Activities Sinochem is paying greater attention to enhancing its corporate culture, delivering care to its employees, and improving its employees’ work and living conditions. We organize a ranger of activities to enrich employees’ life, and help those in need and those Implemented the “Congratulations Project” and the “Get Well Project”, and executed the EAP Employees Aid Sinochem Group Program to understand employees’ demands and provide them with comfort and assistance. who have retired to enhance our employees’ overall sense of belonging. 集团公司开展领导力培训、关键岗位审计培训 集团公司开展工程项目管理专项培训 Implemented six projects: the project to enhance professional skills, the project to collect employees’ demand, Building Corporate Culture Sinochem International the project to inspire employees to pursue excellence, the project to deliver assistance to employees in need, 集团公司对12家经营单位开展风险管理培训和宣讲 中化化肥开展金种子训练营等新员工入职培训 the project to diversify employees’ recreation and culture life, the project specially to train young employees. The Sinochem corporate culture is based on the philosophy that “The Way of Being a Person: Honest, Cooperative, Open to Learn; 集团及各单位开展以“科学发展，安全发展”为主题的HSE专题培训 中种集团西北基地举办新品种技术规程培训 The Way of Doing Things: Diligent, Innovative, Pursuing Excellence”. We are working to create a harmonious, healthy, positive, Sinofert Formulated the “Loving Fund” Implementation Regulations and Sinofert Loving Fund Charter. and inclusive corporate culture. Through colorful activities such as forums, 中化财务举行精益管理培训 tea receptions, and competitions, we are enhancing our 沈阳院举办色谱技术系列培训、SciFinder培训 Shenyang Research Institute employees’ recognition and understanding on the company value. Rolled out an education program to provide financial assistance to the children of employees in difficulty. of Chemical Industry Far East Horizon Set up the “Loving Fund”, and implemented the “Aid Program” and “Milk Bottle Assistance Program”. Department/Business Unit Cultural Activities We organized the first “Touched Sinochem” personnel selection activity to help employees to Sinochem Group Caring for the Retired Employees feel and understand our corporate culture from the perspective of daily life. Sinochem keeps improving its service quality and efficiency for the retired employees providing them with all-round care We held the “Colorful Seeds” series program to build an innovation platform that would show and a comfortable retirement. China National Seed young employees’ entrepreneurship and enhance their communication. By doing so, we Group Corporation inspired their desire to pursue perfection and enhance corporate cohesion. We have set up a long-term mechanism to visit retired employees. We organize spring and autumn outings, health rehabilitation We carried out the “Knock Hundred Doors and Solve Hundred programs, table tennis contests, reunion parties, and visit to production Sinochem Lantian We opened the Lanting Library to cultivate an atmosphere of learning and self-improvement. Difficulties” activity to show our care for the old cadres and maintain fields to enrich retired life. a harmonious atmosphere around the company. We continue our We organize exchange activity and onsite instruction so that retired communication with retired employees to gain a deep understanding employees can share their precious experiences in life and work. We organized the “Responsibility in My Heart, Safety I’m in Charge” activity to enhance employSinochem Liaoning on their needs. ees’ sense of responsibility, and encourage them to perform at their best in their posts. Based on our corporate philosophy “Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence”, we created a culture Sinochem Zhuhai system that covers five elements, namely “safe, lean, green, innovative, outstanding”; the system helped us win the title of “2012 National Advanced Unit for Corporate Culture Building”. We held a “Youth@Innovation” innovation contest among young employees so that they could FOTIC demonstrate their talents and enthusiasm for work. Caring Employees’ Life We provide comprehensive care for our employees by improving our employee aid system, enriching employees’ lives, and creating a harmonious working environment. Every year, we regularly arrange health checks for employees, and protect life balance, and help them better understand all aspects of their female employees’ rights. We guarantee female employees’ legitimate health. In particular, we organize “Women’s Day” activities, and rights during the pregnancy and lactation period and ensure that they enjoy select “Model Woman Employees” to motivate all female staff. maternity insurance and maternity leave according the labor laws. We care for and assist those employees in need, and make related We organize recreational activities for employees on a regular policy measures to help them. We pay special attention to employees basis. Every year, we hold such sport events as basketball games, with severe illnesses, those in poverty, single employees, and female regularly organize spring and autumn outings as well as parentemployees, and provide necessary assistance to ease their burden. child activities, and organize speech contests to light up employees’ In 2012, the company provided RMB 390,000 to help 11 employees in passion. We also hold health lectures to improve employees’ workextreme difficulties. 54 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PARTICIPATING IN SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL ACTIVITIES TO FACILITATE SOCIAL PROGRESS 55 Poverty Alleviation Sinochem has answered the call from the CPC Central Committee and the State Council to uphold the principle of “brining development, and bringing donations as a supplementary method” to our poverty alleviation work. Following the work guidance of “combining intellectual investment with physical project investment”, we sent 16 cadres to poverty-stricken areas, and have invested more than RMB 100 million over the past ten years. We are helping peasants in Tibet, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai to improve local infrastructure, as well as providing them with vocational training to facilitate the development of local production, medical conditions, and education. Our poverty alleviation achievements over the past ten years have been recognized by the State Council. We were granted the “2001-2012 Central SOE Poverty Alleviation Work Model” title. In Tibet, Sinochem adheres to its Tibet assistance guidance by “combining physical project investment with intellectual investment, and promoting both local economic development and changes to people’s mindsets”. We have accumulatively injected RMB 65 million in Tibet, and executed more than 80 projects related to infrastructure, education, and personnel training. In 2012, we partnered with provinces and other enterprises providing assistance to Tibet and building a platform for university graduates from Tibet and who want to find jobs outside Tibet. In total, we created 3,400 jobs related jobs. Intellectual assistance. We executed 26 training programs covering 11 areas including planting, carpentering, catering, maintenance, and medical care, which helped to enhance local people’s ability to work and raised thier education and civility. This was a boon to the local employment market. Housing project. We helped locals improve their infrastructure for production, livelihood, culture, education, science and medical care, among which the housing project we implemented increased local farmers’ residential area per capital from 12 square meters to 25 square meters. Ecological protection. We campaigned for and carried out wetland protection and reforestation. Disaster relief. Whenever disaster hits, we respond by making a donation to support the disaster relief and post-disaster rehabilitation. 56 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PARTICIPATING IN SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL ACTIVITIES TO FACILITATE SOCIAL PROGRESS 57 In Inner Mongolia, Sinochem invests RMB 1.5 million annually to Helingeer County and Qingshuihe County to enhance local medical care and education facilities, and to develop agricultural projects that have growth potential and generate more income for Donations to Health Care and Education peasants. Sinochem is leveraging the internal and external resources to enrich its donations and making its donation more transparent and Developing agriculture. We build up platforms, expand agricultural channels, and improve the skills of local workers. We help peasants cultivate standardized. We are also expanding our volunteer groups to further contribute to the development of health care and education. projects for cattle and sheep raising, to build a rain collection cellar, and to construct water-saving irrigation field, which paves the way for locals to eliminate poverty and change their lives. Village migration project. We help the peasants in mountainous areas build full-facility houses and migrate to a better and happier life in a new area. Education and medical care improvement. We help build and renovate school buildings, hospitals, and clinics, and deliver new advanced education Case: Free Clinic Services Case: Establishing Special Funds for Scholarship and hospital facilities to improve their education and medical care. Infrastructure improvement. We help build village roads and drinking water wells, and improve dock facilities and the surrounding village environment Sinochem International cooperated with the Red Cross to build Sinochem Xingzhong signed a charity and assistance agreement to develop tourist and scenery spots. Sinochem International Charity Clinics in the remote mountainous with Zhoushan Municipal Charity Council to provide RMB 510,000 areas in nine provinces across China, including Hubei province, in a special fund to support 22 local university students with three Guizhou province, and Fujian province. They sent doctors and years of economic assistance. It also established the Xingzhong Case: 11 Years of Poverty Relief in Qingshuihe County nurses to the villages to provide free clinic services for the leftScholarship in Zhoushan Deaf-Mute School as well as Qianhe behind elderly, women, and children of migrant workers’ families. School to inspire outstanding but poor students. Sinochem has selected cadres to be stationed in the Qingshuihe This helped to improve the health care services in poor villages. County, injects capital and physical material and has helped locals in the region over the past 11 years. We have accumulatively injected RMB 16.50 million into building four pilot new villages, developed 30 Case: Developing theVolunteer Platform “Shiyi Volunteers Family” agricultural technology demonstration projects, and added more than 1000 Mus of water-saving dry-farming fields. We have also built seven elementary and middle schools, and maintained or rebuilt three county Intmedic Group under Sinochem partnered with Shiyi Hospital of hospitals and clinics to solve education and medical care problems. Hangzhou Municipality as well as the Qianjiang Evening News to set up the “Shiyi Volunteers Family”, which was designed to attract volunteers from all walks of life, and helped to create a harmonious social environment that echoed the program’s The farming project Sinochem assisted to build for Qingshuihe County slogan “From the People, For the People”. The first batch of more than 100 volunteers made up of healthcare personnel for Shiyi Hospital, students from Nanjing Medical University, and In Qinghai, Sinochem has developed five projects for housing, education, medical care, social security, and vulnerable groups. employees from Intmedic Group, stepped onto the posts to serve From 2010 to 2012, we invested approximately RMB 10 million in supporting the construction of people’s livelihood in Dachaidan an extensive coverage of patients. Case: Caring for Orphans and Disabled Children area. We invested in building kindergartens and helped with the purchasing of medical facilities. We also contributed to earthquakestricken regions by offering community development planning and building a service center. All together we have meaningfully changed the local reality by contributing kindergartens and hospitals. Franshion Property, a subsidiary of Sinochem, organized a donation program called “Offering a Loving Heart to Warm up a Living Dream”. Through the program, they have donated cotton Case: Built the Dachaidan Kindergarten clothes, sweaters, long johns, and stationary to children in the Beijing Zhenhua Elementary School, a school specially built for Sinochem attaches great importance to the investment in Dachaidan’s the children of migrant workers. The Changsha subsidiary of social welfare projects. We have accumulatively injected over RMB 10 Franshion Property donated desks and chairs, computers, and million to build local kindergarten, purchase medical care facility, build projectors to Luoheping Elementary School at Yuanling County in earthquake-response projects, and community service center. The Hunan province. And Lijiang subsidiary worked with the Publicity Daichaidan Kindergarten is the first social welfare project we had in Qinghai Department of Lijiang Municipal Government to send materials province. The kindergarten takes up a floor area of 16,500 square meters, to more than 300 orphans at the Minzu Orphan School in Lijiang and the building area is 3548.64 square meters. It can admit 360 children. Municipality, and encouraged children to participate in recreational The kindergarten will provide first-class learning environment in the and sport activities. province for kids, and solve the long-existing problems of the local people. It will also balance the education development among different regions. Dachaidan Kindergarten 58 Sustainable Development Report 2012 PARTICIPATING IN SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL ACTIVITIES TO FACILITATE SOCIAL PROGRESS 59 Win-Win Cooperation Case: Drafting National Standards Case: Promoting the Development of Shipping Finance We will continue to honor our promise to our partners to cooperate for win-win results, strengthen the management of our suppliers, and Intmedic Group is a subsidiary of Sinochem Group and was the Far Eastern Horizon cooperated with the Transportation facilitate academic exchanges and cooperation with peer companies and research institutes to boost the development of the industry. principal drafting unit for the Pharmaceuticals Cold Chain Logistics Management Institute of Dalian Maritime University to set up a Operation Specification (GB/T28842-2012), a set of national shipping finance discipline, which aims at building an education Enhancing Suppliers’ CSR Delivery standards published on 5 November 2012 and coming into effect system to cultivate high-caliber talents in shipping finance. By doing on 1 December 2012. The document will enhance the quality so, we are showing our initiative to serve the shipping sector and We will keep enhancing our management of suppliers, diversifying our management approach, and strengthening suppliers’ CSR control and administration in pharmaceuticals circulation, and promote the growth of shipping finance industry. understanding and practice. regulate and standardize the logistics and distribution services of pharmaceuticals. Unit Specific Steps Set up an effective three-tier management system including contractor access, assessment, and elimination process; initiated a contractor data room to maintain a list of qualified and unqualified contractors; organized second-tier subsidiaries to evaluate their projects and service contractors; and by issuing the Project Construction Community Charity Service Sinochem Group Contractor Management Measures as well as the Contractors Assessment Indicators, we have laid a foundation for future contractor management. Sinochem keeps improving its engagement with community charity work. We have set up donations standards, show continuous care to vulnerable groups, participate in community charity activities, and encourage young people to volunteer to community Currently building an equal, just and open procurement tendering platform construction and environmental protection. Have standardized our qualification review templates to select the most qualified and outstanding suppliers Franshion Properties Implemented a new management system and reward and punishment measures at suppliers, and have established an efficient and professional strategic cooperation model Case: Far Eastern Horizon Charity Fund Case: Guo Mingyi Love Outreach—Saturday Volunteer Day Have improved our procurement control strategy, including our tendering methods Far Eastern Horizon established the Far Eastern Horizon “The Guo Mingyi Love Outreach Team” of Sinochem Liaoning Have enhanced our contract management, and set up an interview mechanism for key managers of contractors. We have strengthened how we assess the qualification of workers applying for posts with specialty requirements, Charity Fund to promote charity undertaking in China. Through cooperated with the Dalian Municipal Government on the Quanzhou Petrochemical and now conduct continuous reviews among suppliers to motivate them to be more professional such projects as the “Far Eastern Horizon Scholarship”, the “Saturday Volunteer Day” activity, which donated books to the We now require contractors to improve their quality assurance system, checking and urging them to enhance the “Far Eastern Horizon Student Grant”, and the “Donation on community library on Renmin Road. The books can be borrowed quality of their products and services in the process Catastrophic Disaster Relief”, it has provided access to education and read by the cleaning workers. Under the instruction of the for vulnerable groups and improved living condition. cleaning workers, Youth League members also volunteered to Established a catalogue on suppliers’ information; implementing the “6∑” suppliers’ management plant to ensure Sinochem Plastics The Fund will continue to supply nutritious food to children in do cleaning for the community, such as cleaning white trash and we select the best proposal from bidding suppliers; use follow-up tracking on their service and renew their poverty-stricken regions. For example, it is currently providing adlets on the street, and the stairway of community buildings. information on our catalogue eggs and milk to 1,074 students in Jiqu District in Nangqian County of Yushu Autonomous Region in Qinghai province to Facilitating Industrial Progress enhance the balance of nutrition in their food, and thus invigorate their health. We abide by all industrial standards, actively participate in the formulation of standards, hold and participate in related forums, conferences and technology exchanges that help communicate our development experience and boost the healthy and sustained development of the industry. Case: Organizing “Care Commitment to the Society” Event Case: Sinochem International Received the “Contribution Case: Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry Award for Promoting the Security Management on Storage Passed the GLP Certification and Transportation” Manulife-Sinochem Life Insurance has organized the “Care Commitment to the Society” event for 10 years. It cooperated The Safety Evaluation Center and the Pesticides Testing Laboratory Sinochem International undertook the “2012 Forum for China with the Healthy Grow-Up Fund under the China Next Generation of Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry has passed Responsible Care in Storage and Transportation Security Education Foundation and organized an activity called “Go, Kid, the GLP certification of Netherlands, an OECD member country, Management”, which contributed to popularizing “Responsible Care Go” across 50 cities in China. The program encourages children in becoming the first institute of its kind in China to receive the Codes” and strengthening our security management work in the storage the cities to raise funds by selling “loving photo frames” and using certification. This enhanced our overall strength and industrial and transportation sector. As the drafting entity for the Responsible Care the proceeds to buy sports shoes for children in backward areas position in pesticides, pharmaceuticals, and new chemicals. It also Codes for Storage and Transportation Security Management, we have in Yunyang County of Chongqing City as well as the Liangshan helped to confirm that China no longer needs to rely on overseas carried out pioneering work in delivering our responsible care to the Autonomous Region of Sichuan province. testing for the safety of the chemicals it exports to developed society, and received a “Contribution Award for Promoting the Security countries in Europe and the US. Management on Storage and Transportation”. 60 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Feature Report 61 Feature Report—Global Operations As a member of the UNGC, we see our corporate social “Multinational companies are operating with global footprint responsibility (CSR) as an organic part of our corporate and strong market influence; therefore their CSR action can not Global Responsibility genes. We are trying to integrate CSR into our business only mobilize and enhance other companies’ CSR awareness operation throughout the whole process of internationalization. and capability worldwide, but can intensify their own CSR We have established a great image of “responsible Sinochem competitiveness, which helps them to grow farther and stronger Sinochem Group was once the largest trade company in China. Since 1998, we have pressed ahead with our strategic and responsible Chinese enterprise” overseas. Our case for in the international arena.” transformation, coping with external changes to leverage “the two resources and two markets” inside and outside China to organize building overseas community was granted the “2012 China resources from a global perspective. We have blazed a path for market-orientated operations; we utilize resources and technology Best Practice Award of UNGC” ——Liu Deshu, as well as lean management processes and have transformed from a traditional trade company into a multinational corporation with President &CEO of Sinochem Group strong market presence and influence. Global Operations: Developing with the Local Economy Syria Sinochem has positioned itself as a “global resource and market organizer” during its strategic transformation. We make the best use of our strength in international operation, and are speeding up our pace to be more international. At present, our overseas projects Bengal are mainly located in Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East, covering business sectors such as energy, rubber, and pesticides. Vietnam From 1998 to 2012, we accumulatively invested RMB 95 billion. By the end of 2012, our overseas assets, overseas revenue, and London India overseas profit accounted for 49%, 67%, and 37% of our total. We have more than 60 overseas subsidiaries and branches, and our Belgium Taiwan foreign employees make up 20% of our total employees. Pakistan Tunisia Philippines UAE Bahamas Thailand Yemen Thailand Energy Singapore Cote D’Ivoire Cameroon Singapore Colombia With the global strength to organize resources and render We established oil production bases in Colombia, cultivated Ghana Malaysia Indonesia professional services, we have become an important crude a team of operators, and initially formed a strategic plan that Ecuador Nigeria Brazil Indonesia Peru oil supplier to the Asia-Pacific region, providing crude oil for blankets South America and the Middle East. Gabon refineries in China, Southeast Asia, Europe and America. Our Argentina import and entropot trade volume exceeds 50 million MT. In May 2012, we acquired 40% equity of the Peregrino Democratic Republic of the Congo Project from Statoil. This offshore project is located at Block In 1999, we made a strategic decision to “extend to the upstream BMC-7 and Block BMC-47 in Campo Basin, 85 kilometers oil sector”. For more than a decade, we have expanded globally away from the Brazilian coast. This acquisition was the largest Oil and Gas Resource Oil Trade Pesticide Rubber and acquired 33 blocks in 10 countries in the Middle East of its kind in Sinochem’s history. It has greatly expanded our …… and South America. Thirteen blocks among them are under E&P portfolio, and increased our reserve by a large margin. Overseas Business and Assets Distribution production, four are under development appraisal, and the remaining 13 are under exploration. We work as operator in 13 blocks, and have formed a strategic development network with the UAE, Colombia and Brazil, each serving as a core region FORTUNE and covering the surrounding countries. In 2012, our equity 2013 World’s Most Admired Companies Sinochem has appeared on the Fortune Global 500 twentyproduction reached 3.42 million MT (oil equivalent). Email two times, ranking 113th in 2012. In the “World’s Most in Share 469 Print Admired Companies” list released by Fortune Magazine in In January, 2002, we signed an agreement with PGS to Most Admired State Industry More Data February 2013 Sinochem ranked 1st on the trade company purchase Atlantis Holdings Norway AS, making our first stride category, and boasts the best record of all Chinese into the petroleum E&P area. All Companies All Trading Industry Rank companies on the list. That ranking reflects the general Rank Company Name Location Industry Rank view of industrial executives, board directors and analysts In February, 2007, we acquired 100% equity of New XCL Sinochem Group China 1 on the growth and reputation of Sinochem. China LLC to obtain 24.5% of non-operator interest in Zhaodong Block located in Bohai Bay region, marking our COFCO 2 China entrance to the domestic oil E&P sector. Mitsubishi Japan 3 In October 2009, we acquired 100% interest in UKlisted Emerald Company and now own around 50%-100% Samsung C&T South korea 4 operator equity in 11 blocks in Syria, Colombia, and Peru. 62 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Feature Report 63 Pesticide Global Responsibility: Being an Outstanding Corporate Citizen In 2008, Sinochem acquired Monsanto pesticide’s distribution rights in India, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Taiwan, and set up sales channels and a network abroad. We own 45 brands in Southeast Asia, and are consistently increasing our market presence. For example, our glyphosate takes up 40% of the Philippines market. We are delivering our CSR commitments by developing local economies, society, and employment markets, and protecting the local environment in our global operation processes. We are trying to be an international CSR role model, and hope to command the We keep enhancing our presence in other important markets worldwide, too. In 2011, we established a subsidiary in Argentina. In respect and trust of the international community. 2012, we opened our branches in Brazil, Mexico, and Australia. In March 2013, the company acquired the exclusive distribution rights to Monsanto’s Roundup herbicide in Australia and New Harmonious Coexistence with the Environment Zealand, becoming an important supplier of Monsanto agrichemical products. We value our harmonious coexistence with the environment, and make it a benchmark for every project we conduct to achieve a Our pesticide import and export volume always tops lists in China, with our products covering South America, North America, balance between human activity and the natural ecology. We are actively protecting the local environment. Brazil, the EU, Northwest Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. Our overseas E&P projects have an HSE (health, safety, and environment protection) management system that covers the lifecycle of our projects, reduces safety hazards and our environmental impact. Our HSE management in the UAQ offshore gas field in UAE was selected as a case of good practice in Emerging Best Practices of Chinese Globalizers: the Corporate Global Rubber Citizenship Challenge, a report co-published by the World Economic Forum and the Boston Consulting Group. Our management Through years of development of our natural rubber business, we currently own 73,000 hectares of plantations, 240,000 hectares system involves all stakeholders including clients, suppliers, and contractors. It covers all project operation links, including design, of land bank, 22 production plants in eight rubber-producing countries, and have a total capacity of 680,000 MT. In 2012, our global purchasing, construction, transportation, and production, and runs standardized risk controls in new projects M&A as well as asset sales reached 800,000 MT, taking third place in the world, and penetrating 8% of the European and American market. divesture. Using this management system has contributed to our safe operations for more than 1,700 days on the UAQ project. In September 2008, Sinochem Singapore acquired the Singapore-listed GMG Global Ltd., which provided a platform for us to In Africa, we have established a green circular economy for our natural rubber business. We signed an agreement with WWF, reach out to the ASEAN countries. GMG Global Ltd is a company that integrates rubber planting, processing and distribution. Its and Hevecam Campo Ma’an National Park to protect land for primeval forests and to balance the ecology in our plantations. In planting and processing business covers ASEAN countries like Indonesia and Thailand, and African countries like Cameroon and addition, we have developed a biological circular mechanism that is suitable for the plantations and is based on local conditions. Cote D’Ivoire. In Indonesia and Thailand, we own several natural rubber companies and plants with a total capacity of 10,000 MT, We use waste from oil palm processing as feed for livestock or burn raw materials to generate heat, we collect waste timber and with all products going to Europe, America, and Asia. This acquisition enhanced our competitiveness and influence in the natural use as organic fertilizer, and we have introduced advanced water treatment technology to our rubber processing plants. The local rubber industry. government and local people have speak highly about these measures because they have developed local resources, protect the local environment, and have established a local circular economy. In November 2010, we acquired TBH, a natural rubber tycoon in Thailand. At presence, TBH has a production capacity of 200,000 MT, with its five plants located in the major rubber-producing region in the south of Thailand, which has the highest rubber plant DSM-Sinochem Pharmaceuticals employs the new generation of green enzymatic technology for production. Compared with the density in the world. TBH’s processing capacity and brand advantages in the natural rubber production area have enhanced our traditional way, we save energy by 50% for each kilogram of products, reduce oganic solvent by 90%, and VOC discharge by 90%, overall strength in the industry. which effectively promote the sustainable development of the pharmaceutical industry. In July 2012, we invested RMB 1.6 billion in acquiring 35% of SIAT NV, Belgium. SIAT’s major business involves the planting, processing, production, and sales of natural rubber and oil palm. Its major assets are distributed in West Africa, including Cote D’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria, and Gabon. At present, it has 51,500 hectares of plantation for natural rubber and oil palm. The deal has increased our resources and land bank in Africa, and helped to create synergy with our existing business, and significantly supports the global rubber resource consolidation and distribution strategy of Sinochem. Pharmaceuticals On 31 August 2011, Sinochem and DSM set up a global anti-infective joint venture, DSM-Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP). DSP’s major production facilities are located in Europe, America, and Asia. On 9 December 2011, DSP kicked off the construction for the new generation of the green enzymatic solution facility, which adopts DSM’s proprietary green enzymatic biotechnology to manufacture new semisynthetic cephalosporins. On 21 June 2012, DSM-Sinochem Biochemical Intermediates (Changchun) Co., Ltd., which is DSP’s intermediate manufacturing base in Yushu of Changchun, Jilin province, was officially opened. It will produce the key intermediates for semi-sythestic penicillin. 64 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Feature Report 65 When Sinochem closed its US Agri-Chemicals Company in 2005, a phosphate fertilizer production subsidiary of Sinochem, it In Colombia, we signed a contract with Healing the Children shouldered the follow-up environment protection work. In fact, we promised to conduct 50 years of environment monitoring and to provide health care treatment for children. To date, the maintainance after the closure, committing significant funding to the project. We believe this commitment fully reflects our CSR project has cured difficult illnesses for more than 160 children, commitment to local residents and the local environment. In the eight years following the closure, we have utilized internationally and provided medical services to more than 500 children advanced environment treatment processes. In 2013, we completed the backfill of phosphorite. To date, our efforts have reached all suffering linguistically, helping them regain their health. We international environmental protection monitoring standards and indicators for special projects. Our approach has won praise from have cooperated with the Social Security Department of people from all walks of life in Fort Meade City, Florida State, the project location. Colombia to provide funding for the purchasing of ambulances for hospitals, which has greatly benefited the residents in 22 communities around our GIGANTE oilfield. In terms of infrastructure construction, Sinochem cooperates with many institutions on the renovation and expansion of school dormitories, canteens, classrooms, medical care centers, and The manager of Colombia Emerald project is having kindergartens. This has benefited more than 5,000 people. conversation with the head of the local community Growing with the Local Talents We understand the importance of training local employees. We recruit local and international staff. Based on the local community’s requirements, we recruit 100% of our non-technical workers locally, and for technical positions we give priority to the local Prior to the treatment Post treatment employment market. We also provide sufficient training to employees at all levels of the company to help them develop and grow in their career with us. We build new residential accommodation for our employees’ families and use clubs to create a safe and stable working environment and living conditions. Every year, in our Excellent Employees Selection, we have special awards for “Foreign Model Workers”. We invite the award “The closure of US Agri-Chemicals is progressing very well. We are very satisfied with the winner to China and to the Sinochem Headquarters for an awards ceremony and the spring festival gala to let them see and better closure work.” understand our Sinochem family. ——Comment from an officer from the local Environment Protection Department The “recruiting locally” policy has played an important role in improving local salaries and people’s livelihoods. For instance, our rubber business has created more than 18,000 jobs in Africa. As we continue our fast growth internationally, we will create more job opportunities in the future. Common Development with the Local Community We always upholds the principle of “being friendly with and being partner of the neighbors” while developing our overseas community. Our overseas projects are primarily located in Africa, South America, and the Middle East, and involve many diverse cultures. In the long process of “Going Global”, we have successfully implemented a win-win cooperation model with local communities that help us coordinate our approach with the local economy, society and environment. To effectively communicate with local communities we set up specialized Community Liaison Department at overseas projects. We dispatch a Community Coordinator to hold project presentations and inviting project personnel and community representatives attend. This helps us understand the concerns of local residents and win their support and participation during the construction of our projects. One way that we contribute to the economy of local communities is by procuring and sourcing work locally, and hiring local agencies to provide services. This approach also creates employment opportunities, and promotes equality and harmony in the local community. In Cameroon, we invest USD 2.2 million annually in building hospitals and schools. To date, we have built 17 kindergartens, 26 elementary schools, 2 middle schools, and 1 vocational training school. We also built public hospitals and an obstetrical and gynecological hospital. We invite excellent employees and their family to visit Sinochem Group Headquarters 66 Sustainable Development Report 2012 67 Future Outlook EXPERT’S COMMENTS In 2013 Sinchem Group will follow through the guidance offered by the 18th CPC National Congress. It is a crucial year This Report has many highlights, and what I am most impressive is the two words “sustainable development”. I always believe for us and we will lay a solid foundation for our strategic transformation and the realization of our goals for “the Third that corporate social responsibility is not only about public relation, neither just building a nice corporate image, but actually about Long March”. We will focus on the quality of our products and services and increase our profitability. We will use a lean sustainable development. Publishing a report like this gives the company a great opportunity to communicate with all stakeholders management approach to speed up our strategic transformation, press ahead with “the Third Long March”, and facilitate through CSR topic, to review and solve its problems in corporate sustainability. It evokes the company’s thinking on both current the sustainable development of the company and society. development and the future, on realizing both annual operation target and the company’s future competitiveness. To put in a We will deepen our reform and innovation, and improve our management approach. nutshell, it helps a company to grow into a century old brand. We will be guided by our lean philosophy as we work to improve our management and complete our internal control This year’s Sinochem Report fully shows the core of corporate social responsibility, that is, “sustainable development”. The Report system. We will make our management more professional and rational, optimize our corporate governance structure, our systematically disclosed the company’s sustainable development philosophy, practice, and achievement in each of its major system reforms, and our resource allocation. By doing so, we seek to achieve steady, healthy, and sustainable growth. business segments. In the chapter of “Serving the National Economy and People’s Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity”, it focuses on energy, agriculture, chemical, real estate, and financial sectors, and highlights Sinochem’s involvement and contribution to the We are pressing ahead with our corporate strategies, and intensifying our approach to serving the national social production and people’s daily life. In the chapter of “Providing Satisfactory Services to Develop with Clients”, the Report economy and the Chinese people. demonstrates the company’s innovation on service model to provide value-added service for clients. In the chapter of “Practicing HSE Management to Achieve Safe, Green and Harmonious Development”, it discloses the company’s efforts on realizing a healthy, We will continue to consolidate our internal resources and industrial focus in order to ensure more intensive and harmonious and sustainable development through a safer and more environmentally friendly and efficient business model. In professional operations. We will enhance the supporting role of technological innovation towards our core business the Chapter of “Valuing Employees’ Talent to Develop Together”, it shows the company’s care for its employees and commitment and solidify our position in the national economy and related sectorsto laid a solid foundation for improving people’s to create a diversified company environment. In the chapter of “Participating in Socially Beneficial Activities to Facilitate Social livelihoods. Progress”, it demonstrates the company’s efforts in leveraging all kinds of resources and cooperating with partners to develop We will innovate our business model, and strengthen our capacity to create more value to the clients. harmoniously with communities. In the CSR Feature Report, it presents the company’s self-positioning as a “global resource and market organizer” and its “Go Global” steps to enhance the international operation. We will continue optimizing our products and operational structure, improving our products and services, and creating more value to our clients. After reading such a report, SASAC as one of the stakeholders feels very delighted, as Sinochem’s report integrates sustainable development concept into corporate strategy, human resource, technology innovation, information communication, CSR funding, and We will honor our HSE commitments, and construct an environmentally friendly company. supply chain management. It really catches the core of “sustainable development”, which makes this Report especially praiseworthy. We will improve our Occupational Health Management System to better protect occupational health. We will strictly carry Wish Sinochem to have an even brighter future. out the implementation of our Safe Production Accountability System, enhance our review and investigation of hidden perils, and strengthen our emergency response ability. We will also work hard on energy conservation and emissions reduction by reducing energy consumption and pollutant discharges, so as to realize a harmonious development between man and nature. We are providing a better working environment to bring more value to employees. We will improve our recruitment, promotion, compensation and benefit mechanism, and further optimize our headcount Research Bureau and personnel structure. We will help employees enhance their work capacity, and cultivate a better environment for State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission them to grow, demonstrate their talent, and achieve success. We are devoted to creating more value in life for every one of our employees. We will continue to actively participate in social welfare projects in order to construct a harmonious environment for society. We will provide poverty-alleviation assistance to Tibet, Inner Mongolia, and Qinghai. Drawing upon our own expertise and know-how, we will continue to engage in social welfare projects to contribute more to harmonious social progress. 68 Sustainable Development Report 2012 69 EXPERT’S COMMENTS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Sinochem Group 2012 Report on Sustainable Development has a systematic summary on Sinochem’s CSR philosophy, practice and performance in 2012. The Report is well-formed, very informative and high credible. It has a high-quality sustainable development As a member of the UN Global Compact, Sinochem Group has reported the implementation of the Global Compact annually since report with great readability and full illustration by texts and graphics. The Report has the following features: 2010. In 2012, Sinochem actively carried out and made positive progress. Firstly, the informativity of the Report has been enhanced. It has an across-the-board disclosure on CSR related topics, including protecting national energy and agricultural security, promoting chemical industry upgrading, serving agriculture, countryside and farmers, whole life cycle HSE management, energy conservation and emission reduction, realizing employees’ value, poverty Issues Principles Performance in 2012 alleviation, and strengthening management on suppliers’ CSR practice, which present response to stakeholders’ expectation and demand. In addition, the Report adds a feature report on the company’s international operation, highlighting Sinochem’s position as Hire graduated students and handicapped people; a market-oriented multinational as well as its efforts as a global corporate citizen to win the respect and trust from the international Protect women’s rights and hold a series of activities on Women’s and local community. Respect and support the protection of internationally Day; Human rights proclaimed human rights; Secondly, the structure of the Report has been optimized. It removes the fluorine chemical business from “Participating in Socially Increase young employees’ promotion opportunities; No complicity in human rights abuses. Beneficial Activities to Facilitating Social Progress” chapter to “Serving the National Economy and People’s Livelihoods for Mutual Enhance the compensation and benefit scheme for expatriate Prosperities” chapter to stress the company’s leading position in chemical industry. It also adds the report on management employees. improvement project and financial management enhancement to enrich content on value creation for shareholders and highlight the company’s key achievement on management overhaul. In the chapter of “Participating in HSE Management to Achieve Safe, Green Never have relationship with human rights violators; and Harmonious Development”, the Report changes “Improving Our HSE Management Mechanism” into “Enhancing Our HSE Uphold freedom of association and the effective; Strictly abide by international code of conducts and the laws of host Management Capacity”, adopts the two subtitles of “Practicing Whole Life Cycle HSE Management” and “Strengthening HSE Team recognition of the right to collective bargaining; countries where we have business; regulate our labor relation Building”, and adds contents related to proper waste treatment to underline that the company uses its professional strength to solve Labor standards Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; management; environmental problems. Effectively abolish all forms of child labor; Hold communication meeting when we have posts adjustment; Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and Thirdly, the Report is highly readable. It pays much attention on the communication effectiveness. By employing a lot of graphics and Publish our business development on daily basis, and encourage our occupation. diagrams, it clearly demonstrates the logic between CSR practice and company performance. For example, the risk management employees to participate in the democratic corporate governance; graphics have showcased the company’s risk management measures; the data tables are highlighted to show some important Implement paid leave system. statistics of the company performance, which helps the stakeholders to locate the needed information and data. Promote clean production projects, energy conservation projects, and circular economy projects; Take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Have a real-time monitoring system on waste water discharge; Undertake initiatives that promote greater environmental Environment Build national level green low-carbon city; responsibility; Develop green circular economy in Africa to enhance the local Encourage the development and promotion of environmenecological protection; Director of Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center tally friendly technologies. Have Energy Conservation Week in 2012 to advocate Chinese Academy of Social Sciences low-carbon life. Combine anti-corruption with strategic transformation, management improvement and cadre team building; Enhance our decision making mechanism on major issues, major personnel appointment, major project investment, and large amount Anti-corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. of capital usage; Improve our internal control system and internal supervision system that emphasizes onsite investigation and efficacy administration; Leverage the management improvement project to institutionize and standardize our anti-corruption system. 70 Sustainable Development Report 2012 71 GLOBAL REPORTING NO. GRI Content Index Extent of Disclosur Where Reported (Catalog of Report) Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX 4.1 P9 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer.( (and, if so, their function 4.2 within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance 4.4 P9 body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives Note: Fully disclosed, Partly disclosed, Not disclosed, N Not applicable 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided P11 NO. GRI Content Index Extent of Disclosur Where Reported (Catalog of Report) Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 P9 body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 1.1 Strategy and Analysis P5 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4.8 P8 1.2 P5 environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of Organizational Profile 4.9 economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 2.1 Name of the organization P6 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services P6-7 4.10 environmental and social performance Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 2.3 P9 4.11 P10-P11 and joint ventures Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters P6 4.12 P69 organization subscribes or endorses Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major P20, Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in 2.5 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report P60-65 4.13 which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides P69 substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P6 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization P16 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,and types of ustomers/beneficiaries) P7 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization P6 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group P16 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership P20 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 P16 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period P15 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Parameters ECONOMIC 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided P1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 P30 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) P1 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) P1 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations P50 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents P1,inside back cover EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government P33 3.5 Process for defining report content P17 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 P50 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, operation 3.6 P1 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation P58 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report P1 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant EC7 P65 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other locations of operation 3.8 P1 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through EC8 P57 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 3.9 P1 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts P10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the Environmental 3.10 reasons for such re-statement (e.g. mergers/acquisition, change of base years/periods, nature of P1 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume P46 business, measurement methods) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials P46 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source P46 applied in the report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source P46 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosure in the report P69-P72 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements P46 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in 3.13 the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any P70-P73 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the EN6 P47 requirements as a result of these initiatives assurance provider(s). 72 Sustainable Development Report 2012 73 NO. GRI Content Index Extent of Where Reported NO. GRI Content Index Extent of Where Reported Disclosur (Catalog of Report) Disclosur (Catalog of Report) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved P46 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and LA11 P51 assist them in managing career endings EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P46 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews，by gender. P51 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 P49 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused P47 Ratio of basic salary and remunerations of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of LA14 P49 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity operation. EN11 N value outside protected areas LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas HUMAN RIGHTS EN12 P47 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 N human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. EN13 Habitats protected or restored P47 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity P47 HR2 screening, and actions taken. N Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant EN15 HR3 to operations, including the percentage of employees trained N operations, by level of extinction risk HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken P49 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight P47 Operations and signifi cant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 N EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight P47 bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved P47 HR6 P49 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight P47 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, HR7 P49 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight P47 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human HR8 rights that are relevant to operations N P52 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination P46 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken N P52 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P46 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills HR10 assessments N P52 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance EN24 HR11 N P52 mechanisms. Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Society Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN25 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff SO1 P60 programs. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation P47 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption P12 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category P46 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures P12 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption P12 EN28 environmental laws and regulations SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying N Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organizaSO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country N EN29 P47 tion's operations, and transporting members of the workforce SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type P47 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and SO8 regulations Labor Practices andDecent Work Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities SO9 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. P49 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts SO10 P46 on local communities LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region P49 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and LA3 P50 PR1 P38 locations of operation. percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P49 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements P50 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services PR3 P36 subject to such information requirements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that LA6 P45 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by LA7 P45 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P24 region Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including PR6 P25 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their advertising, promotion, and sponsorship LA8 P45 families, or community members regarding serious diseases Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communiPR7 cations, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions P50 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category LA10 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of PR9 products and services. 74 Sustainable Development Report 2012 FEEDBACK FORM In order to improve Sinochem Group’s CRS work, we look forward to your feedback, which will be an important basis for our improvement. We hope to receive your valuable advice on our Report and our work. Your Information: Name: Company: Telephone: E-mail: Your Comments: In your opinion, the Report is: □ Very Good □ Good □ Medium □ Bad □ Very Bad In your opinion, the disclosure in the Report’s is: □ Very Informative □ Informative □ Medium □ Somewhat Informative □ Not Informative In your opinion, the quality of the information disclosure in the Report is: □ Very High □ High □ Medium □ Low □ Very Low In your opinion, the structure of the Report is: □ Very Good □ Good □ Medium □ Bad □ Very Bad In your opinion,the layout design of the Report is: □ Very Good □ Good □ Medium □ Bad □ Very Bad Your thoughts and suggestions on Sinochem Group’s CSR work as well as on the compilation and publication of its sustainable development report: Contact: General Administrative Office Sinochem Group Address: Central Tower F11, Chemsunny World Trade Center, Fuxingmennei Street 28, Beijing, China Post Code: 100031 Telephone: +86 10 59568926 Fax: +86 10 59568890 E-mail: songyang02@sinochem.com
