Our journey continues Sustainability This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 1 Sustainability Metso strongly believes in the value stemming from sustainable business operations. The way we see it, a company that is able to include solutions to global social and environmental challenges in its offering will succeed in the long term and will create value and well-being for all the company's stakeholders, including society. Metso supports the UN Global Compact principles and we see it as a valuable common reference and guidance describing the set of universal issues we respect and wish to promote. Metso's President and CEO Matti Kähkönen Metso and WWF Finland have had a successful cooperation for over 10 years. Read more about the cooperation. Our strategic approach to sustainability Sustainability targets and achievements Summary of sustainability key figures Independent assurance report GRI index This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/ This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 2 Sustainability at Metso Metso's sustainability focus areas Metso People We prioritize the wellbeing, health and safety of the individuals in all our operations. We actively promote equal opportunities and diversity, and we train our leaders to promote sustainability thinking and to link individual objectives to sustainability. Metso Environment We constantly strive for improvements in our energy and materials efficiency and in reducing water consumption, emissions to water, soil and air, and the amount of waste in our operation. We have also identified environmental risks related to our operations and practice precautionary procedures to avoid any environmental accidents. Society We strive to act as a responsible corporate citizen and to support sustainable development in the communities we operate in by forming partnerships with customers and other stakeholders. By sponsoring and donating to local projects in science, research and education, environmental protection and nature conservation, and youth activities, we contribute towards a more sustainable world. Marketplace We help our customers to improve the sustainability of their operations by using our technology and solutions, and we develop a transparent and responsible supply chain management to support our own sustainability efforts. Our four pillar approach to sustainability: This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 2/2 Annual report 2012 3 Value from sustainable business operations Metso strongly believes in the value stemming from sustainable business operations. The way we see it, a company aiming to solve global social and environmental challenges will succeed in the long term and will create value and well-being for all the company's stakeholders, including society. Finding ways to address sustainability challenges can most certainly give rise to new business opportunities. Metso believes that one of the best ways to promote sustainable development is to innovate in technologies and to change current ways of operating to align with principles of sustainability. This is how we want to take part in creating a more sustainable future. Global solutions with a local presence Metso operates on all continents and aims to strengthen its local presence close to its customers by creating a world-class sustainable business structure globally. Consequently, we will continue to sharpen our focus on growth countries worldwide by adapting innovative service models to meet the complex and varying sustainability needs of our customers. Our operations, particularly in emerging markets, support the development of local communities through the creation of local employment. Metso also supports youth education and vocational training, as well as overall well-being of local communities through a range of social responsibility projects around the world. Sustainable technologies and services In line with our mission, we contribute to sustainable development by offering products and services that reduce the environmental load and improve the quality of our customers' operations. Our technological solutions enable our customers to improve their sustainability performance by increasing the energy and materials efficiency of their industrial processes and reducing emissions and water consumption. Metso has a solid track record in these areas. We focus our research and product development activities on sustainable technology solutions. We believe that technology plays a significant role in curbing and adapting to climate change. Our services business helps extend the life cycle of our customers' processes. Providing safe working conditions In line with Metso's health, safety and environment (HSE) policy, we prioritize the well-being, health and safety of all individuals. We believe that all workplace accidents can be prevented. Advancing workplace well-being through a variety of local development projects is defined on the basis of the feedback and needs of the Metso people. We emphasize our high HSE standards of conduct when dealing with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. We aspire to minimize our environmental footprint throughout the entire value chain, and we strive for more sustainable supply chain management. We want to have the best people in the business We want to foster a good sustainability performance and a working environment that attracts talented people to work with us, helps our employees to develop, allows them to perform at their highest capabilities and thus strongly contribute to the success of the company. Our People must-win has a strong focus on the development of Metso's employees. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 4 Metso sustainability statement At Metso, we recognise that today's concerns and future goals of our customers, owners and society must be reflected in the way we run our business profitably and responsibly. Our mission is to contribute to a more sustainable world by helping our customers to process natural resources and recycle materials into valuable products. We have already seen the benefit of placing sustainability throughout the value chain of our business. For example, by operating in a more eco-efficient way we have reduced our costs and emissions. By constantly seeking new technical solutions as we work side by side with our customers, we are already helping them to meeting their environmental challenges, as well as increasing their productivity. We must manage risks to our reputation and avoid business interruptions, but also seize the opportunities sustainability presents. Through innovating, we can create new eco-efficient products and solutions for our customers while simultaneously reducing our own direct environmental impacts. By being a good corporate citizen, we enjoy a strong reputation, which makes us an attractive and trustworthy partner and employer. By operating globally in a way that respects local cultures and knowledge while drawing on the diversity of our people, we can build a profitable and enduring company. We will work together to truly embed sustainability in our daily operations, and by 2020 we want to be considered a thought leader in sustainability within our industry. Achieving that goal will mean we are delivering on our mission and ensuring our business is well-positioned to develop and thrive in the years ahead. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 5 Climate change issues integrated into our business strategy Metso's long-term strategic goal is sustainable and profitable growth that is based on our comprehensive, energyefficient product offering and on the role of our solutions and services. Sustainability is strongly present in our strategy and must-wins. Sustainability intergrated into our strategy Our strategy towards 2015 is the result of a thorough and intensive strategy process, and is based on a longterm strategic framework of our mission, vision, values and leadership principles. Megatrends are important elements in all strategic considerations, since they are likely to be the largest drivers for change in the next decades. Metso has identified global megatrends relevant to our company, one of which is sustainability and climate change. This is also stated clearly in Metso's mission, as the purpose of our operations emphasizes sustainable solutions: We contribute to a more sustainable world by helping our customers to process natural resources and recycle materials into valuable products. In accordance with our mission, we are committed to working together with our customers and being an active participant in building a more sustainable world. Our main path to this target is through continued development of technology that is relevant to our growth markets and is responsive to the increasing importance of environmental acceptance and energy efficiency. Global megatrends affect our operations Although the sustainability and climate change megatrend is global, it impacts Metso's individual businesses in different ways, depending on their respective location. For all of its units, Metso strives to continuously improve the energy efficiency of its own production. We target to reduce our own energy consumption and CO2 emissions from base year 2005-2009 by 15% by 2015 and by 20% by 2020. Another aspect of the sustainability and climate change megatrend that has influenced Metso's strategy is the limited supply of raw materials, energy and clean water, shifting the development towards new technologies. Development of solutions that improve energy efficiency is expected to continue, and demand for power plants utilizing biofuels or other renewable sources is expected to grow. In developed markets, tightening environmental legislation, customer awareness and higher prices for carbon emission allowances are calling for the reduction of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Climate change issues have already affected Metso's short-term strategy for many years already. The risks and opportunities for Metso are heavily influenced by climate change issues and are taken into serious consideration when operating in emerging markets as well as in developed markets. Metso is a global supplier of technology and services in process industries. Metso's high-end products represent the latest clean technology. The tighter local and global regulations and legislation become, the higher Metso's expectations to increase its market share based on clean technology products. Results through energy efficiency program One substantial business decision made during the reporting year, influenced by the climate change aspects, was the continuing increase of investments in Metso's energy efficiency program, which is targeting a reduction of energy and CO2 emissions in our own units. Metso has also continuously increased its RTD investments, which totaled EUR 139 million in 2012, an increase of EUR 5 million from the previous year. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 6 Sustainability is part of Metso's strategy Our strategic approach to sustainability Metso has made significant progress in incorporating sustainability to its global operations by launching a Metsowide sustainability strategy this past year. The sustainability strategy was approved by the Metso Executive Team in November 2012 and is a natural continuation of the goals set in our mission and of the company strategy launched in 2011. Metso's target is to be considered a thought leader in sustainability by 2020. In practice, this means that we have sustainability integrated into our strategy and that there is effective sustainability governance and measurement in place. It also means that we engage our stakeholders in an active dialogue about sustainability in all the communities we work in, and we use the feedback in developing our products and operations. The sustainability strategy integrates Metso's sustainability goals with our strategic must-wins (Services, Growth countries, Technology, Operating model and People). The growing concern over the availability of earth's resources is already having a strong impact on our customer industries. We believe that eco-efficient technologies play an important part in adapting to this challenge. In line with our mission, we contribute to sustainable development by offering products and services that reduce the environmental load and improve the quality of our customers' operations. Our solutions are particularly related to the energy and raw materials efficiency of our customers' production processes, the use of renewable energy sources, recycling, the efficient use of water, the reduction of emissions, and process optimization. We want to develop innovative service models that meet the complex and varying sustainability needs of our customers. Customers in emerging markets are increasingly looking for partners with sustainability credentials. By continuing to strengthen our presence in growth countries, we are able to operate close to our customers and to be a local partner for them. In our own operations, we prioritize the well-being, health and safety of all individuals. We are committed to offering a safe working environment and preventing all work-related injuries and accidents. We also strive for sustainable operations throughout the supply chain. In 2013, we will continue to implement our sustainability strategy by, for example, developing a responsible supply chain and integrating life-cycle assessments into our product development processes. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 7 Sustainability targets and achievements Global health, safety and environment targets In 2012, Metso made major progress in integrating sustainability into its daily business operations with the approval of a new sustainability strategy, including comprehensive action plans in each of the core focus areas for short-term targets by 2015 and long-term targets by 2020. We have set ambitious targets for workplace safety, energy and water consumption, and the amount of waste in our own operations. The targets for safety and energy consumption were set in 2009. In 2012, we took a step forward and set targets also for two of the main materials used and arising from our operations, water and waste. Global health and safety targets Metso's Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy supports the development of a safe, healthy and wellmanaged work environment. Our long-term target is zero work-related accidents. We believe that every accident can be prevented. Our short-term occupational safety target is to achieve a lost-time incident factor (LTIF) of less than 5 by 2015. In 2012, our LTIF was 7.1. LTIF reflects the number of accidents resulting in an absence of at least one workday per million hours worked. In 2012, 64% of Metso's units reached the group LTIF target level of less than 5. During 2013 we will continue HSE training for our management and the work we started in 2012, e.g. internal auditing of our own production sites and creating a development plan for low-performing units. We are also continuing to introduce Metso's minimum safety standards to all our employees. The minimum safety standards will be implemented at all Metso production sites during 2013. Environmental targets for our own production In 2009, we set global, Group-wide energy-saving and carbon dioxide emissions targets for our own production. The majority of our reported CO2 emissions arise from the use of energy; therefore decreasing energy consumption will also reduce emissions while also bringing financial benefits. Mapping the opportunities to save energy and decrease carbon dioxide emissions at Metso level was started in the most energy-intensive production units, the biggest of which are the steel and iron foundries. The mapping continued in 2012 and the studies were completed in our energy-intensive production units. Currently, about 75 percent of Metso's energy consumption has been mapped. The biggest energy-savings opportunities are related to the use of fuel and heat. Potential savings outside our production processes were also found, e.g. in cooling and compressed air systems. We have defined energyefficiency indices for our production units, and the units report their energy consumption in accordance with the indices on a quarterly basis, which promotes energy-efficiency and monitoring at the Metso level. In 2013, we will continue to map energy-savings opportunities also in our smaller consuming sites as well as start energysavings measures in all of Metso's production units globally. In 2012 we also set a target to reduce the water usage and amount of waste in our own operations 15% by 2020. During 2013, we plan to improve the relevant metrics and data collection frequency related to our water and waste data. Targets for product sustainability Sustainable products provide environmental, social and economic benefits over their entire life cycle, from the extraction of raw materials to decommissioning. What this means for Metso in practical terms is that our products This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 8 Page 2/2 are safe to operate, economically feasible and efficient, and help our customers gain maximum environmental benefits. During 2013, based on the successful development work of recent years, we plan to continue training our network and building competence internally about Life Cycle Assessments (LCA). We will also enhance internal communication to raise awareness of the theme, as well as use LCA in external marketing. We will also strive to evaluate LCA information in different processes and in different product lines during 2013. In 2013, we plan to establish a product safety-related discussion and exchange forum that includes all Metso segments. We also plan to develop Metso-wide guidelines and instructions for product safety and a benchmark of best practices. We are also aiming to create a network that includes product safety, risk management, HSE and legal communities of Metso. Targets for our social responsibility projects During 2013, we plan to identify and prioritize the risks and opportunities of our social responsibility projects together with our key external parties. We aim to create a systematic approach to partnerships at the Metso Group level and develop guidance to share learning across operations. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/4 Annual report 2012 9 Sustainability risks and opportunities Sustainability risk management at Metso Managing climate change risks and opportunities is integrated into a multi-disciplinary, company-wide risk management processes at Metso. We have a systematic method for regularly assessing the probability and impact of climate change and environment-related risks at Group-level and also within each reporting segments. The assessed risks are based on the risk map document in which the company risks are listed on the headline level. The potential risks and opportunities related to sustainability arise from the availability of sufficient competence resources, the health and safety of our personnel, our ability to develop our product and technology portfolio according to the changing needs of customers, and the adequacy and pricing of financing both for us and for our customers. Metso's risk process promotes opportunities. Furthermore, it aspires to minimize the adverse impacts of strategic, financial and operational risks and to remove or mitigate hazard risks. The line management of Metso's businesses is operatively accountable for managing risks as part of its daily activities. Climate change and environmental risks are assessed once a year at the Group-level by Metso's Risk Management Team, based upon individual business unit's risk management reports, consolidated at the company level. The results are annually reported to the Metso Group Risk Management team, Metso Board of Directors and Metso Audit Committee, and to the Metso Executive Team. Reporting segments'responsibilities Each Metso's reporting segment annually assesses the probability and impact of climate change and environmental risks and defines the need for and priority of the actions to remove, mitigate, minimize, retain or utilize the risks by using Metso's risk map. The climate change and environment risk assessment process includes the actions needed, accountabilities, time frame and decisions to treat the residual risk. Metso uses the Flexible Risk Management Evaluation (FRiME) concept when evaluating the level and implementation of risk management and risk management practices in its units. Annually, 10 FRiME evaluations are carried out in Metso's key locations/units, covering about 80% of Metso's net sales within a 5-year evaluation cycle. The evaluation of risk management is always based on a location's /unit's risk assessment and business interruption assessment (BIA) and is conducted by Metso's insurance broker. Metso brand and risk management Metso's strong brand and good reputation are imperative to us. Any action or event negatively influencing our brand and reputation, including also the potential lack of social acceptance, is a risk to our industry benchmark position and hence to our capability for growth. The continuous, positive development of the Metso brand and reputation is a major opportunity for Metso's sustainable growth and for the positive perception among our stakeholders. Energy and environmental risk management The use of renewable energy is increasing around the world in the aspiration to achieve climate targets, and thus our know-how in biomassand waste-based energy solutions is a significant competitive advantage for us. The supply of clean water is also a global challenge. We have developed solutions to significantly reduce water consumption in pulp and paper manufacturing processes and to reuse the process waters more effectively. With our solutions for the mining and construction industry, crushing can take place on site at the bottom of a quarry or close to a construction site, which decreases emissions and dust, lowers energy consumption and improves work safety. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 10 Page 2/4 Stricter regulations and increased environmental awareness might also limit our growth opportunities. If paper companies slow down investments or production due to CO2 emissions regulations, it could adversely affect our Pulp, Paper and Power segment's business. The price and availability of energy are critical to our customers. Any regulatory changes affecting energy price or availability could therefore affect us as well. A sudden and substantial change in CO2 emissions regulations can potentially turn into a technology threat for us if we are not able to provide these new types of solutions. On the other hand, an energy shortage could open new business opportunities for Metso. Health and safety We continuously focus on identifying and preventing health and safety risks. We thoroughly investigate all accidents and near-miss incidents and initiate the necessary actions to prevent them in the future. Travel safety and security guidelines, our common travel insurance program and travel information system improve the safety of our employees traveling around the world. Financial markets Metso's economic responsibility is to benefit all our stakeholders through profitable business operations. Securing the continuity of our operations requires that we have sufficient funding available under all circumstances. Various economic uncertainties globally could potentially have a negative impact on funding from capital markets. During 2013, Metso aims to further develop its sustainability risk management by including all relevant aspects of sustainability management and adding the recognized issues into the Risk Assessment and Risk Management Evaluation process. Metso employees and competencies Ensuring the capabilities of Metso employees is crucial for securing the development of our business and competitiveness. Resource and competence planning, as well as successor planning for the key positions in the businesses, is important. Our ability to attract and retain talent is essential in achieving our growth and global presence targets. Emerging markets The ability to maintain and develop a global presence in emerging markets is seen as an opportunity for Metso. Our business development is strongly linked to our ability to expand our operations in new, rapidly emerging markets. There are also threats related to operating in these markets. Such threats may be associated with, among other things, business limitations due to our reputation as a responsible ethical corporate citizen. Our operations are very limited in countries where trade is restricted by international agreements and in countries that have a high risk level due to terrorism or corruption. Our travel restrictions and bans have an indirect effect on where we conduct business. Environment The biggest threats and opportunities related to climate change and environmental aspects are transferred to Metso from our customers and are thus linked to our products, technology and RTD (Research and Technology Development). We assist our customers in reducing their CO2 emissions through energy savings in their existing operations or through new, energy-efficient technologies for new plants. By systematically monitoring the development of environmental issues, we strive to find new business opportunities, which, if overlooked, would pose a strategic threat. Stricter environmental legislation is the trend in developed markets and in emerging markets. This creates opportunities This PDF has been exported to Metso’s for usfrom offer Online solutions new Annual that| improve Report 2012 our customers' energy efficiency, reduce emissions, www.metso.com/2012 promote recycling and meet more stringent environmental standards. Based on our risk assessment results, we are biggest threats Thecapable of managing and opportunities related to climate regulatory development change challenges and environmental to maintain aspects are a global competitive transferred to position. Metso from our customers and are thus linked to our products, technology and RTD (Research and Technology Development). risks Environmental We assistand natural events are our customers not seen their in reducing as significant CO2 emissions threatsthrough to Metso's energyownsavings operations. Instead, in their existing these operationscouldortrigger through a change new, in environmental energy-efficient Annual report 2012 legislation, technologies which for new in turn plants. could By become systematically a catalyst for monitoring further the 11 3/4 Page business. development Weof see Metso's role issues, environmental we strivetechnology to find newdeveloper as a significant business for our customers' opportunities, which, processes, satisfying if overlooked, would an increased are demand a strategic posecapable of managing regulatorytechnology for sustainable threat. development solutions. challenges to maintain a global competitive position. A Stricter environmental Environmental risks and legislation is the trend natural events are not developed in seen marketsthreats as significant to Metso'smarkets. and in emerging This creates own operations. Instead, opportunities these for usatochange could trigger offer new solutions that improve in environmental legislation, in turnenergy customers' ourwhich efficiency, could become reduce for a catalyst emissions, furtherPage 3/4 promote business. Image recycling We see not readable and Metso's or empty meetrolemore as a stringent significantenvironmental standards.for technology developer Based on our risk processes, our customers' results, we assessmentsatisfying an http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/misc/viiva.jpg are capable increased of managing demand regulatorytechnology for sustainable development challenges to maintain a global competitive position. solutions. Environmental A risks and natural events are not seen as significant threats to Metso's own operations. Instead, these could trigger a change in environmental legislation, which in turn could become a catalyst for further business. We see Image not readable Metso's role as a significant technology developer for our customers' processes, satisfying an or empty increased demand for sustainable technology solutions. http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/misc/viiva.jpg Case: reputational risk management A Metso is investing heavily in its brand reputation and employee image globally through successful customer relationships, Image not readable a orbalanced empty portfolio of products, projects and services, and marketing communications. Metso is http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/misc/viiva.jpg working with its stakeholders to increase stakeholder engagement and to learn more about the issues Case: concerning reputational our stakeholders risk andmanagement our customer markets. Reputational Metso risks heavily related to is investing eco-efficient in its products brand reputation andcan affect Metso's employee globallybrand imageoverall throughimage globally customer and can also successful have an effectaon relationships, the positive balanced development portfolio of products, of net sales and projects the orderand and services, backlog. Metso's marketing high-end products communications. Metsoareis energy efficient and that is seen as a great strength of our product working with its stakeholders to increase stakeholder engagement and to learn more about the issues portfolio. If global markets and customer Case: industries concerning reputational do our demand notstakeholders risk more management and energy-efficient our customer markets.products, there would be a decrease in Metso's competitive advantage and in Metso's overall net sales and order backlog. Metso is investing Reputational risks heavily related to in its brand reputation eco-efficient products andcanemployee affect Metso's through globallybrand imageoverall image successful globally customer and can also Monitoring have an effectaon relationships, and understanding balanced the positive market portfolio development development of products, projects sales and of net is the key to survival the orderand and services, in today's marketing backlog. unstable Metso's economy. communications. high-end productsMetso Metsoareisis closely following working energy andthat with its stakeholders efficient and monitoring is seen as amarkets, the to increase great customer stakeholder strength needs ofengagement our productand anddemands, If as to learn portfolio. well markets more global as the the about current andissuesand customer emerging trends concerning industries do of customer notstakeholders our demand more industries. and Metso has our customer energy-efficient business markets. products, there would be units intelligence a decrease all three in placeininMetso's of its business competitive segments that advantage andhave operations in Metso's overall oversales in net and orderand 50 countries over 100 production sites, in order to stay aware of all backlog. possible risksrisks Reputational related to itstooperations. related eco-efficient Our target iscan products affect Metso's to create shareholder overall brand value through globally imagegrowth andand can also profitability. have an effect Monitoring andon the positive development understanding market development of net sales is theandkeythe to order survivalbacklog. in today'sMetso's unstablehigh-end economy.productsMetsoareis Metso Group energy closely efficient following is managing andthat and is reputational seen the monitoring risk by as amarkets, great striving strength customer ofto ourboost needsproductand demands,Ifand its reputation portfolio. as brand global well asimage markets through and the current andinternal customer and external industries emerging do communications not of trends demand customer more and marketing energy-efficient industries. Metso communications products, has business there actions would globally. intelligence be units Brand a decrease in placein and reputation inMetso's all three building competitive of its businessis also the advantage segments that responsibility andhave in Metso's of all Metso's overall operations business oversales in net segments: and orderand 50 countries Mining backlog. and Construction, Automation, over 100 production sites, in order to stay aware of all and Pulp, Paper and Power. possible risksMetso related is increasing its goodOur to its operations. target iswith reputation a strong to create product portfolio shareholder and successful value through growth and customer profitability. Monitoring relationships andand understanding by investing in market emergingdevelopment markets and is thethekey to survival services in today's business unstable throughout theeconomy. segments. Metso Metso is is closely Metso following Group also working is managing with and monitoring various the reputational NGOs in the risk byitcustomer markets, areas striving operates boost and toneeds in. demands,and its reputation as well brand the current asimage through andinternal emerging and external trends of customer industries. communications and marketing Metso has business intelligence communications units in actions globally. placeand Brand in all three of its reputation business building is A the responsibility segments also that have operations in over of all Metso's 50 countries business segments: and over Mining 100 andproduction Construction, in order to stay sites,Automation, andaware of all Pulp, Paper possible and Power. risks related Metso is increasing its goodOur to its operations. target iswith reputation to create a strong shareholder value through product portfolio growth and and successful profitability. customer relationships and by investing in emerging markets and the services business throughout the segments. Metso is Image not readable or empty Metso Group with also working is managing http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/misc/viiva.jpg various NGOs reputational risk byitstriving in the areas operates boost its reputation and brand image through internal to in. and external communications and marketing communications actions globally. Brand and reputation building is also A the responsibility of all Metso's business segments: Mining and Construction, Automation, and Pulp, Paper and Power. Metso is increasing its good reputation with a strong product portfolio and successful customer relationships Image not readable and by investing or empty Case: Carbonmarkets in emerging taxes posing a regulatory and the services businessrisk to Metso throughout the segments. Metso is also working with various NGOs in the areas it operates in. http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/misc/viiva.jpg Carbon taxation and emissions trading schemes increase the risk for high energy prices. Metso has production A sites and offices in over 50 countries, so carbon taxation would have an effect on Metso's production. Uncertainty in different countries increases the risk of different carbon taxation systems being developed. This risk isnot Image readabletoormanage difficult empty Case: since it isCarbon taxesthe hard to predict posing a regulatory development risk to Metso of local environmental legislation in all the http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/misc/viiva.jpg countries in which Metso is operating. Carbon taxation and emissions trading schemes increase the risk for high energy prices. Metso has production Metsoand sites manages offices this in overrisk50bycountries, striving forso long-term purchasing carbon taxation would agreements have an effectwith its on partners and by reducing the Metso's production. use of fossil fuels, as much as possible in its own operations. Metso Uncertainty in different countries increases the risk of different carbon taxation systems being developed.also monitors the current status and This development of energy Case: prices and Carbon alternative taxes renewables posing a regulatory suited for Metso's risk to Metso production. Most of Metso's CO risk is difficult to manage since it is hard to predict the development of local environmental legislation in all the Page2 4/4 emissionsinstem countries which fromMetsoprimary energy use. Metso is striving to reduce energy and CO2 consumption in its own is operating. Carbon production taxation through anda emissions company-wide trading schemes increase energy-efficiency the risk program. for high Metso hasenergy reduced its COMetso prices. has production 2 emissions by 9% in sites Metsoand 2012. The offices manages in over this 9% reduction risk50 in countries, byCOstriving 2 so for emissions carbon long-term in 2012 taxation purchasing is the would equivalent have agreements an of a effect with reductionon its Metso's partners of 10 000production. and CO by2 reducing tons. the Uncertainty use of fossil in different fuels, as muchcountries increases as possible in itsthe own of differentMetso riskoperations. carbonalso taxation monitorssystems status and This being developed. the current risk is difficult of development manageprices to energy sinceandit isalternative hard to predict the development suited for of renewables local environmental Metso's production. Most legislation of Metso's in all CO the 2 countries in which Metso is operating. emissions stem from primary energy use. Metso is striving to reduce energy and CO2 consumption in its own This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 12 Sustainability highlights 2012 New sustainability strategy launched Metso has made significant progress in incorporating sustainability to its global operations by launching a Metsowide sustainability strategy this past year. The sustainability strategy was approved by the Metso Executive Team in November 2012 and is a natural continuation of the goals set in our mission and of the company strategy launched in 2011. Significant progress made in energy efficiency program Since the creation of Metso's energy-efficiency program in 2009, it has implemented 223 projects that have led to a carbon dioxide savings of 13,960 tons. Since starting the program, 52,000 MWh of energy, worth EUR 3,3 million, has been saved with investments of EUR 5,7 million; these investments have a payback time ranging from one to three years. We extended the life cycle assessment framework In 2012, we expanded the scope of life cycle assessments to novel technologies by assessing the waste gasification plant we built for Lahti Energy Ltd. Another example is the inclusion of occupational safety in the assessments. This is one of the steps of looking into possibilities of assessing social impacts in addition to environmental impacts. Overall, the scale of the assessed products has ranged from smaller automation systems to entire plants. Metso the best industrial company in the CDP climate index In 2012, Metso received its all-time highest scores in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), with 97 points out of 100; it was also included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the first time. Metso's disclosure score of 97 was the highest from a Nordic company in the Industrials sector. Metso has reported to the CDP since 2007. Social data Number of employees 30,212 (30,324) Female employees 19% (19%) Females in management 13% (15%) Number of sick days 2011 2012 number % of Average number % of Average of days total days of days total days per per person person Due to illness 139.839* 94.1 4.6* 196.250 94.0 6.5 Due to injuries at work 8.743* 5.9 0.3* 12.441 6.0 0.4 All total 148.582 100.0 4.9* 208.691 100.0 6.9 *) 2011 figures changed due to data correction This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 13 Page 2/3 ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE SHEET 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 MATERIALS Ferrous metals, 1,000t 243.611 151.834 230.771 259.363 217.335 Non-ferrous metals, 1,000t 7.272 4.166 4.259 7.347 7.116 Paints, 1,000t 1.228 1.023 0.722 1.06 1,08 Solvents, 1,000t 0.848 0.60 0.61 0.5 0.43 Recycled materials, 1,000t 94.737 66.586 101.613 94.478 78.511 Cardboard, 1,000t 0.135 0.135 0.619 0.695 0.624 Wood, 1,000t 4.048 4,784 6,095 7,723 8,982 Paper, 1,000t 0.013 0.018 0.022 0.036 0.081 Plastics, 1,000t 0.078 0.054 0.252 0.271 0.195 ENERGY AND WATER ENERGY Electricity, TJ 1831.56 1.489.67 1.733.94 1.786.97 1.644.07 District heat, TJ 574.37 546.05 747.09 560.00 549.69 Steam, TJ 43.78 63.21 98.3 95.54 74.89 Natural gas, TJ 786.55 716.02 825.39 870.64 840.06 Coal, TJ 404.24 300.71 198.83 120.32 66.26 Heavy fuel oil (HFO), TJ 194.91 177.04 32.21 13.59 11.25 Light fuel oil (LFO), TJ 79.53 56.68 64.46 50.53 29.28 Diesel, TJ 38.42 28.75 35.85 47.18 38.89 Gasoline, TJ 3.6 6.07 5.98 2.92 3.92 Liquified petroleum gas (LPG), 51.8 54.74 73.30 73.96 81.73 TJ WATER Water consumption, 1,000 m3 1.814.4 1.485.0 1.844.4 1.584.5 1.286.8 AIR EMISSIONS CO2, 1,000t 314.943 265.154 290.579 274.691 250.569 VOC, 1,000t 0.547 0.406 0.394 0.419 0.437 WASTE Hazardous, 1,000t 8.07 4.81 6.75 7.68 7.24 Non-hazardous, 1,000t 116.244 80.289 93.408 108.871 94.093 Certificates / Certified operations ISO ISO OHSAS This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 9001 14001 18001 Hazardous, 1,000t 8.07 4.81 6.75 7.68 7.24 Non-hazardous, 1,000t 116.244 80.289 93.408 108.871 94.093 Annual report 2012 14 Certificates / Certified operations ISO ISO OHSAS 9001 14001 18001 Page 3/3 2011 79% 51% 33% 2012 82% 57% 42% Increase % 3% 6% 9% This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 15 Stakeholder dialogue Metso actively engages its stakeholders in sustainability-related topics, among them the development and implementation of energy and climate policy, legislation and regulation, and RTD activities in environmental technology. Metso takes a supportive approach towards climate change policies and initiatives. Metso also supports new nationaland international-level regulations that mitigate climate change and endorses actions and operations that prevent and lessen the adaptation to climate change. We promote energy efficient technology and support our partners, e.g. universities, in researching sustainable production technologies and finding new solutions. We also share the knowledge within the stakeholder dialogue groups for further discussions. Our stakeholder dialogue actions also include sharing our expertise and raising awareness of eco-efficient products. Existing and potential customers Our customer relationships are built on extensive know-how and long-term commitment. Our pursuit of improving the productivity and competitiveness of our customers' industrial processes throughout their entire life cycle is built on three cornerstones: in-depth knowledge of our customers' core processes, automation expertise and a large base of installed machinery and equipment. Our customers operate in several industries and many parts of the world. Metso's global network, including units in over 50 countries, enables us to serve our customers in all continents. Metso conducted customer interviews in 2012 in order to explore expectations customers have regarding Metso's sustainability management. The interviews provided an overview of how Metso's customers see certain This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 16 Page 2/3 sustainability themes in the current business environment and also identified areas of improvement in Metso's sustainability work. Among the topics raised were sustainable supply chain management, product safety, development of a sustainability strategy with relevant targets and KPI's, human right issues, community involvement, and health and safety management. Interviewees were selected by Metso to reflect the various business segments and the geographical regions that are most significant to Metso's operations. We maintain an active dialogue with our customers through regular meetings and other direct customer contacts, joint development projects, fairs, seminars, extranets, customer satisfaction surveys, supplier certifications, and specific industry organizations. In the dialogue with our customers, we strive for high reaction speed, quality, operational reliability, return on investments, eco-friendliness, local offering of desired services, long-term collaboration, and supplementing our own expertise. Existing and potential employees Our people and their know-how is one of our competitive advantages and therefore Metso people is also defined as one of the Group's five must-wins. Metso people management is based on strong leadership having a solid foundation in our annual development and performance reviews. Metso has global people management processes and practices in use, e.g. remuneration and performance management, training and development offering. We emphasize open and active communications. We prioritize the wellbeing, health and safety of the individuals in all our operations and promote equal opportunities and diversity. We regularly conduct engagement surveys as a means to measure employee engagement and performance excellence and to identify development needs in our working environment. Suppliers and subcontractors With operations in over 50 countries and customers in over 140 countries, Metso has a vast supply chain. Our cooperation is based on operational profitability, long-term collaboration and the development opportunities it offers, as well as on growth, operational reliability and networking. We have regular meetings and direct contacts with our suppliers as well as joint development projects, training and development events, supplier audits, electronic procurement systems and an extranet channel for communicating with our suppliers. During 2012, Metso conducted an internal survey concerning its external stakeholders and ways to improve our stakeholder dialogue. Through the survey, we learned more comprehensively about our dialogue with our suppliers globally and the priority of sustainability issues discussed with our suppliers. We also actively communicate our expectations towards our suppliers; in 2012, e.g., we published the Sustainability Handbook for Suppliers, a guidebook to introduce sustainability to our partners. The handbook presents the most relevant sustainability issues from Metso's point of view and encourages our partners to introduce similar processes in their business operations. Shareholders and investors Metso promotes sustainability in its dialogue with investors and analysts. Metso annually participates in several significant sustainability surveys and indices conducted by research institutes, analysts and investors. The continuous dialogue with investors and other relevant groups strengthens and develops Metso's internal reporting process and its external reporting. Our active dialogue with shareholders, investors and analysts is based on return on investment, credit worthiness, and governance principles that are consistent with good practices, transparency and predictability, compliance with sustainability principles, and reliable, sufficient and up-to-date information about the company's operations. The dialogue with shareholders and investors includes the Annual General Meeting, investor and analyst meetings, investor events (e.g. annual Capital Markets Day), financial and non-financial reporting, stock exchange and press releases, news conferences, webcasts and phone conferences, online investor pages, and continuous monitoring of investor feedback. During 2012, sustainability themes integrated deeper into Metso's agenda, as more and more investors and analysts requested information concerning our sustainability performance. We have also developed our processes to better answer our shareholders, investors and analysts needs in questions related to our sustainable business operations. Media In our communications, we comply with Finnish and EU legislation, the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd's regulations, the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority's guidelines, and the company's corporate governance principles. Our This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 communications are based on facts and on the key principles of being systematic, open, honest, equal and active. We communicate the same extent about positive and negative issues simultaneously to all stakeholders with the objective to meetings, investor events (e.g. annual Capital Markets Day), financial and non-financial reporting, stock exchange and press releases, news conferences, webcasts and phone conferences, online investor pages, and continuous monitoring of investor feedback. During 2012, sustainability themes integrated deeper into Metso's agenda, as more and more investors and analysts requestedAnnual report information 2012concerning our sustainability performance. We have also developed 17 our processes to better answer our shareholders, investors and analysts needs in questions related to our sustainable business operations. Media In our communications, we comply with Finnish and EU legislation, the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd's regulations, the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority's guidelines, and the company's corporate governance principles. Our communications are based on facts and on the key principles of being systematic, open, honest, equal and active. We3/3 Page communicate the same extent about positive and negative issues simultaneously to all stakeholders with the objective to give a fair and correct view of our operations without undue delay. Our dialogue with the media includes press events and interviews, press seminars and trips, press conferences, a media service section on the Internet, press releases, financial and non-financial reporting, and corporate image surveys. During 2012, we increased our media relations activities in China in order to enhance the knowledge and awareness of Metso and of our operations locally. During the year, we also invited international media representatives to visit Finland and our local production sites. Non-governmental organizations, authorities and local communities We strive to act as a responsible corporate citizen and tax payer, and to work with the non-governmental organizations (NGOs), local communities and people around our operations. We aim to develop the regional and local well-being and employment opportunities with long-term operations that are compliant with local laws and regulations. We support community development projects in the countries where we operate. Our constant dialogue with NGOs and local communities includes meetings and joint events, participation in legislative work, a dialogue with trade and civic organizations, as well as the Internet as a channel for communicating with our stakeholders. We maintain a continuous dialogue with policy makers in the majority of the countries where we operate. Through the dialogue with key policy makers, Metso can share its views, knowledge and expertise regarding our latest energy-efficient technology. The dialogue includes sharing Metso's expertise in sustainable technology, learning and networking in the Group and also raising awareness of what the latest technology can do in terms of global megatrends, e.g. climate change. Through the engagement, Metso also receives current information about the status of environmental regulations and legislation. Metso also is involved with different industry and trade organizations, e.g. the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). On a national level in Finland, Metso is part of the Federation of Finnish Technology Industries and the Confederation of Finnish Industries EK working group. Metso is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact initiative and respects the OECD Guidelines for, e.g., environment recommendations. Metso participates in the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) as an individual company. The ICC has regional and national organs in which also Metso operates. Metso's President and CEO, Matti Kähkönen, is Council Member of ICC Finland. Metso's Vice President for Stakeholder Relations and Trade Policy, Jukka Seppälä, is Chair for the National Expert Group on Anti-Corruption & Corporate Responsibility. He also served as Vice Chair of the ICC Commission on Trade and Investment Policy, from 2009 to 2012. Research institutes, universities and vocational schools In our research and development activities we engage in research partnerships with designated research institutes and universities around the world, networking and creating employment opportunities for students in research and development projects and research collaboration. We also provide jobs and trainee positions, student visits and lectures. Currently, we foster continuous cooperation with over 30 universities and research institutes globally. We also cooperate with local vocational schools as part of our community involvement initiatives. We strive to share our knowledge and expertise in order to give the young generation in emerging markets better employment opportunities. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 18 Memberships in organizations We actively engage with customers and with various trade, non-profit and expert organizations in our line of business. To be a responsible corporate citizen and to contribute to regional and local well-being and employment opportunities, Metso is committed to the UN Global Compact initiative. Metso's memberships in industrial organizations, associations and lobby organizations include, for example: American Forest & Paper Association AMIRA International Ltd Cleantech Scandinavia Corporate Executive Board European Association of Communication Excellence Finland The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries Finnish Association for Corporate Patent Agents Global Compact Network Nordic Counsel IMD International Institute for Management Development International Chamber of Commerce, Finland IPR University Center MIT Industrial Liaison Program Nordic Capital Markets Forum Procurement Intelligence Unit Ltd Society for Human Resource Management WorldatWork World Energy Council Agenda 2020 Finnish Forest Cluster NAEM World Business Council for Sustainable Development Finnish Business & Society The Conference Board Europe This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 19 Case: International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) ICC, the voice of business worldwide a win-win partnership with Metso In a rapidly changing world, companies must adapt to new and often difficult circumstances. Challenges like protectionism, corruption and counterfeiting affect companies' ability to trade and invest across borders. Therefore, a level playing field and a global framework for business are needed. Furthermore, companies can build better sustainable growth by delivering and deploying innovations, products and services. The role of business in a market economy is to create wealth for shareholders, employees, customers and society at large and that underlines the International Chamber of Commerce as the voice of business worldwide. Metso's business strategy very much aligns with the ICC mission. Metso is a longstanding member and partner of the ICC. Knowing the broad variety of challenges a global company like Metso is facing, I think this partnership has brought good value for both of parties, says Timo Vuori, Chief Executive of ICC Finland. Metso has been an active ICC member since 1999 when the company was created. Through the years, Metso leaders and experts have actively participated in the ICC's work. Today, President and CEO Matti Kähkönen is a Member of the Council of ICC Finland. I believe the ICC has been able to offer Metso not only useful contacts all over the world, but also guidance and insight on best practices based on the experiences and knowledge of other multinational corporations. On the other hand, an organization like the ICC needs constant and concrete input from companies like Metso to be able to promote the interests of business and to address issues of relevance, continues Vuori. Jukka Seppälä, Metso's Vice President, Stakeholder Relations and Trade Policy, served as the Vice Chair of the ICC International Commission for Trade and Investment from 2009 to 2012. In this context he has had many great opportunities to promote Metso business cases at various international forums, particularly in emerging economies. Furthermore, he participated in the process to update the new ICC Guidelines for International Investment, which were launched in front of key political decision makers at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Doha, Qatar, in April 2012. These guidelines established a clear and modern model for governments and private investors on their rights and obligations. Founded in 1919, the global ICC organization groups hundreds of thousands companies and other business actors from 140 countries covering all business sectors; it has its own offices, like ICC Finland, in 93 countries. ICC corporate experts from all over the world are shaping policy statements for lobbying purposes in areas such as trade policy, competition, taxation, environment and energy. Furthermore, ICC corporate experts also develop practical services and guidelines for the concrete needs of companies in areas like trade practices and finance as well as anti-corruption. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 20 Case: Solidium, investor perspective on sustainability From an investor perspective, sustainability is a key theme for Solidium, Metso's biggest shareholder. Sustainability issues are essential competitive factors for companies. Well managed, they are one of the prerequisites for achieving successful business operations and long-term financial value, says Dr. Annareetta Lumme-Timonen, Investment Director, Solidium. Sustainability issues have traditionally been considered part of a company's risk management. Solidium sees that for many companies, such as Metso, responsibility issues are also increasingly a source of new business opportunities. By building new businesses that take the needs of sustainability into consideration, companies can increase their shareholder value. We form our own opinions of the state of sustainability issues within companies. We examine the materiality of sustainability issues from the point of view of risks and business opportunities. The governance and level of performance of sustainability management in our investment targets is also assessed. The state of sustainability issues is compared across peer companies, and the special themes of the business sector in question are taken into account. This method extends both to companies that are already in Solidium's investment portfolio and to possible new investments, Lumme-Timonen continues. The sustainability perspective is integrated in Solidium's investment activities. The materiality analysis is carried out by the same investment director-analyst team that is responsible for other analyses and for forming a view on the company in question. In this way, issues are seen as a whole, and the links between sustainability and the company's business operations are highlighted. Metso's strategy is centered around sustainable development trends. From Solidium's point of view, Metso's material sustainability themes revolve around developing and offering environmentally sustainable products and services. Growing demand for raw materials has increased the need for crushing and processing. Tightening environmental requirements are strengthening demand for Metso's products and services. Innovation plays a key role in enhancing the energy, material and environmental efficiency of the company's products and services. The sustainability impacts of Metso's operations mostly arise either in the company's subcontractor chain or when Metso's customers use the company's technology. Metso is actively developing the sustainability in its global supply chain. The management of Metso's sustainability issues is integrated in the company's business and organization. The level of the company's sustainability management and reporting is good, Lumme-Timonen concludes. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 21 Sustainability management We strive to consider all aspects of the financial, social and environmental implications of our operations, to tap into opportunities created by sustainability and to manage risks. Sustainability is an integral part of Metso's business strategy, and our sustainable operations bring us a competitive advantage in our global business activities. Our mission, vision, values and our Code of Conduct guide all our operations and stakeholder interaction. Our mission is to contribute to a more sustainable world by helping our customers to process natural resources and recycle materials into valuable products. In our work to fulfill this mission, we uphold our commitment to our Code of Conduct and to selected, globally acknowledged guidelines and principles. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 22 Management model We strive for consistent and transparent management practices so that all our stakeholders can reliably assess the company's sustainable operations and development. The Corporate Governance principles approved by the Board of Directors form the basis for the management and governance of our company. Our mission, vision, values and our Code of Conduct guide all our operations and stakeholder interaction. We develop sustainable products and solutions that are safe and impact the environment as little as possible. We commit to good corporate governance principles by complying with national and international laws and regulations. Additionally, we apply best practices, such as the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for listed companies, in our management and governance. Corporate Governance principles form the foundation for the management of the company. Local management ensures compliance with guidelines and local legislation affecting employees. Our values and Code of Conduct ensure that our operations are consistent and uniform, regardless of the country and reporting segment. Sustainability and its management are the responsibility of Metso's President and CEO and the Metso Executive Team (MET). It is the responsibility of our business management and supervisors to ensure that our employees are familiar with and comply with the legislation, regulations and internal operating guidelines of their respective areas of responsibility. Additionally, we strive to make good use of the best practices and synergy benefits of our businesses and to continuously improve our personnel's awareness of sustainable business operations. Our key principles related to good governance and corporate ethics form a separate section on our intranet, which is accessible to all of our employees. Initiatives related to sustainability are managed by the Sustainability Team and are reviewed when needed by the Metso Executive Team. The MET decides on all sustainability-related policies, the sustainability strategy and the sustainability targets as well as the relevant metrics that the Sustainability Team is responsible for This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 23 Page 2/2 developing and monitoring. Sustainability performance is reviewed annually by the MET. Metso's Board of Directors annually reviews sustainability guidelines. The Sustainability Team is responsible for coordinating and developing sustainability at the Group level. The team is responsible for, among other things, collecting and reporting the sustainability data according to GRI reporting guidelines, proposing and managing corporate-wide sustainability initiatives and strategies, managing Metso's Energy Efficiency Program and sustainable technology development, stakeholder engagement and communicating sustainability issues to internal and external stakeholders. Functional teams such as HSE, Technology and HR work closely with our business lines, which are responsible for implementing the sustainability strategy and initiatives and for sharing best practices within the company. Our business lines are also responsible for making sure that all the corporate-wide initiatives and the sustainability targets are implemented. Metso's business lines report sustainability data to our corporate office and are responsible for the accuracy of the data. The Sustainability Team is responsible for managing the Group's sustainability networks, e.g. the global health and safety team and the environmental team, which met four and five times, respectively, during 2012. A new global network for Metso's Research and Technology Development (RTD) was created in 2012 to increase the dialogue and cooperation between Metso's segments beyond national borders. The new network is scheduled to meet twice a year. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 24 General operating principles Sustainability at Metso is founded on Metso's strategy, Code of Conduct and on selected, globally acknowledged guidelines and principles. These form our general operating principles that serve our mission. Metso's Code of Conduct, originally launched in 2004 and since reviewed twice, encompasses issues, responsibilities and practices supporting Metso's sustainability and success, and provides us and our stakeholders with commonly accepted guidelines and perspectives for future decisions. Our Code of Conduct creates a uniform foundation for all our ethical business transactions and work assignments. Metso's Code of Conduct also describes our company culture, commonly accepted practices, and our commitment to compliance with laws and regulations. As Metso is a global employer and supplier, we provide our Code of Conduct in 11 different languages for our stakeholders. The Metso Code of Conduct is implemented through different training sessions for our employees and suppliers. In addition, the Metso-wide internal training program for new Metso employees includes the Code of Conduct, and employees are tested on their knowledge regarding its meaning and content. The Code of Conduct is also part of our general purchase conditions. We have introduced a handbook for our suppliers, and it includes our Code of Conduct with encouragement to improve their own sustainable business operations. Metso's Anti-Bribery Policy Metso has consistently had a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. This has been set out in Metso's Code of Conduct and in its guidelines for the prevention of misconduct. In addition, Metso always follows related national legislation. In 2012, we introduced a new and more comprehensive Metso Anti-Bribery Policy to meet the standards set out in the UK Bribery Act, the new anti-corruption legislation effective July 1, 2011 with worldwide implications. Metso's Anti-Bribery Policy was approved by the President and CEO, Matti Kähkönen, to take effect from January 1, 2012. This policy contains guidelines, standards and procedures intended to ensure that Metso Corporation and those acting on its behalf understand and comply with applicable anti-corruption laws in all interactions with Metso's customers, prospective customers and others. As part of the introduction of the new Anti-Bribery Policy, Metso has introduced a comprehensive training program for its employees, including management, procurement and sales. The purpose of Metso's anti-bribery and export control training is to improve the understanding of Metso's anti-corruption policy and export control guidelines among Metso employees by providing further education about issues involving conflicts of interests and situations where gifts, entertainment and hospitality may not be suitable. The training program is available in various language versions. The training program includes an anti-bribery compliance section with an introduction to Metso's basic principles and themes related to agents and consultants, an overview on giving and receiving gifts, entertainment and hospitality, facilitation payments, and what to do in case of conflicts of interests. The program also includes an export controls and sanctions section with EU and US sanctions regimes and dual-use export control. Metso's commitment to global initiatives Metso's workforce, customers and partners represent a broad scope of different cultural backgrounds. Therefore, we have found the UN Global Compact to be a valuable common reference and guidance describing the set of universal issues we respect and wish to promote. Metso also supports and works according to principles described in the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the International Labor Organization's (ILO) Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, as well as the International Chamber of Commerce Business Charter for Sustainable Development. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 25 Page 2/2 Metso's promise to Green Growth In 2012, Metso made a promise to the Green Growth program, the joint initiative of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy (TEM) in Finland and the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation Tekes to promote a sustainable economy in Finland. Metso's promise to Green Growth strengthens its commitment to sustainability and reflects the awareness of the need for more sustainable business operations in the world. The goal of Metso's promise to Green Growth is long-term sustainable growth and sector leadership in sustainable technology and service provision in all its businesses through the development of new technologies, processes and service solutions. Metso promises to strive to maintain its technology leadership with environmentally sustainable products and process solutions. The company aims to develop its product offering by aligning its research and technology development (RTD) efforts and resources globally. Clean technology is a key enabler for Metso in terms of realizing its promise to strive to be the leading technology provider in all its businesses. Metso is committed to developing technology that is responsive to the increasing importance of environmental responsibility. The Green Growth initiative combines public and private actions to create a common roadmap to a sustainable economy with a goal to draw on each actor's individual core skills and possibilities to promote Finland's sustainable businesses globally. Cleantech Finland, a network of top cleantech experts, is running the project under a Finnish Government Program with a priority of enhancing a sustainable economy. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 26 Sustainability auditing and assurance Metso controls and monitors sustainability issues through various internal and external processes aimed at ensuring the validity and reliability of our sustainability management practices and reporting. Regular controlling and monitoring gives us valuable information on the results of our sustainability work and is therefore an important element in our continuous efforts to develop our reporting and in building a more sustainable world. Internal audit Metso Compliance is an internal program to ensure the credibility of the company's financial reporting and compliance with the governance principles in all its units. All Metso units are required to achieve a standard level of internal controls set for them. Internal audit, assisted by dozens of trained Metso testers in different parts of our organization, is responsible for the testing of the units. Metso's internal audit assesses the efficiency and appropriateness of our operations. Its goal is to ensure the reliability of financial and operational reporting, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and proper management of the company's assets and the level of common practices and processes in our units. Internal audit also supervises the functioning of internal controls in all our units and operations and proactively encourages the development of risk management. Metso's internal auditing program includes extensively health, safety and environmental themes. Indicators for health and safety include the implementation of our global Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy, a safety plan in case of emergencies, and monitoring of possible incidents and near-miss situations. The environmental indicators cover areas such as environmental management systems, environmental impacts and risks, and possible environmental incidents. The compliance areas are part of the standard auditing activities and are used in all internal audits at Metso. The general level of compliance and knowledge regarding these matters is good. The sustainability requirements included in the internal auditing program are based on Metso's HSE Policy. The internal audit process also includes our Code of Conduct. Every Metso unit belonging to the Metso Compliance program is tested on Code of Conduct issues. Metso's employees are interviewed on the Code of Conduct themes and the results are annually presented to the internal audit team. The awareness of Metso's Whistleblower process is tested among our personnel. Metso employees and partners can report suspicions of financial misconduct confidentially via the Whistleblower channel, which is maintained by an independent party. The Metso Compliance program covers all Metso locations, functions and systems. Every three years each location is tested against Metso-defined control standards and, if successful, certified. The Metso Compliance program is audited by a third party. Internal audit reports to Metso management, the auditors and the Board's Audit Committee. The head of internal audit reports administratively to the Executive Vice President and CFO, but also has direct access to the CEO and to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Employees are encouraged to report financial misconduct The purpose of our internal control and monitoring systems is to prevent financial misconduct. However, should such misconduct occur, specific guidelines have been defined on how to report, investigate and further proceed with the issue. Metso employees are responsible for reporting suspected misconduct to their own supervisors, to other management or, if necessary, directly to internal audit. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 27 Page 2/2 Compliance with Metso's Code of Conduct is part of good corporate governance and the primary responsibility for this lies with our line organization and the related support functions. As a listed company, we are expected to be vigilant in matters affecting the company's finances and profitability. Financial misconduct is defined as negligent activity that either directly or indirectly causes financial harm to the company. Additionally, Metso employees and partners can report suspicions of financial misconduct confidentially via the Whistleblower channel, which is maintained by an independent party. The report can be made via the Internet, by phone or by email in 21 different languages and anonymously, if necessary. Suspected misconduct is investigated immediately and confidentially. All cases proven to be misconduct are reported to the Audit Committee. Non-financial issues also reviewed annually Issues fundamental for Metso's management and strategy are scheduled for review in the strategy and annual plans of the Board of Directors, its committees, the businesses, and Group management. This procedure ensures that issues of strategic importance are reviewed regularly and that the achievement of targets and compliance with operating principles are monitored. Our senior management thoroughly reviews our strategy and business environment, investments, acquisitions, quality, human resources, market shares and customer satisfaction, services business, product development and risk management at least once a year and more frequently, as needed. Certificates In our sustainability management, we comply with several international standards, such as ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001, and many of our business units have gained certification to these standards. 57% (51%) of our relevant operations (excluding offices) are covered by the ISO 14001 certification, 42% (33%) by the OHSAS 18001 certification and 82% (79%) by the ISO 9001 certification. In addition to these, 100% (70%) of our Valmet Automotive operations are covered by the ISO/TS 16949 certification. The coverage is calculated by number of employees working in certified facilities. The changes from the 2011 numbers are explained by the development of our reporting systems and by certificate scope changes in some countries of operations. Assurance The quantitative sustainability performance data in our Annual Report 2012 has been externally assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. Metso's sustainability report follows GRI guidelines application level B. Metso's sustainability data has been assured since year 2010. Read more about the assurance process in our reporting principles and in the assurance report. The report content is not updated after assurance, and any amendments to the content will be reported in the following year. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 28 Sustainable supply chain In our operations we focus on our core competencies and outsource many work phases to our suppliers. Outsourcing decreases the environmental load of our own operations, but emphasizes our responsibility for the environmental efficiency of our subcontractors and suppliers. We have guidelines and criteria in place to integrate sustainability throughout the entire value chain. We require our subcontractors and suppliers to be familiar with our Health, Safety and Environment Policy, as well as with the international initiatives supported by Metso. We require our suppliers to comply with local legislation, offer a safe working environment, and to identify and assess their own environmental impacts. Our suppliers must also comply with our Code of Conduct or with their own operating principles that are of equivalent content. Suppliers must confirm that their business practices do not contradict the business principles stated in the United Nations Global Compact Initiative, which Metso supports as a signatory. The supplier should also support and respect the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the core rights stated in the ILO Convention. Suppliers, and their sub-suppliers, must refrain in all circumstances from the use of child or forced labor and the use of bribery, and they must undertake to follow sustainable business practices. All these requirements are included in Metso's General purchasing conditions document and are communicated to all major suppliers for inclusion in their purchasing contracts. With operations in over 50 countries and customers in over 140 countries, Metso has a vast supply chain. We are aware of the risks and also of the opportunities when it comes to taking sustainability issues into account in our supply chain management, and we continuously strive to develop better ways to train and assess our suppliers. Metso has sustainability criteria for its suppliers in place, guidelines that aim to support the sustainable development of our suppliers' operations. The sustainability criteria affect all of our supplier relationships around the world, and the criteria are used in connection with supplier assessments. The criteria play a role in the selection process for our new suppliers. The criteria are concrete, sustainable operating principles that concern not only environmental issues, but also quality and work safety, among other things. Sustainability Handbook for Suppliers During 2012 we created a Sustainability Handbook for Suppliers to ensure the sustainability of our value chain. The sustainability criteria are the starting point for entering into and maintaining all of our business partnerships. The handbook aims to describe our approach to sustainability and to explicate the expectations that we place on our suppliers regarding ethical principles and sustainable practices. In our operations, we focus on our core competencies and outsource various phases of work to our suppliers. To support our sustainability goals and our vision and to seize the opportunities sustainability presents, we need close interaction with our suppliers who share the same values. Together with a trusted network of suppliers, we can lead the way in eco-efficient products and solutions while simultaneously reducing environmental impacts. Metso encourages its suppliers to familiarize themselves both with the handbook and the supplier criteria and to apply the standards in their own operations. Metso also expects its suppliers to identify their own material sustainability issues and to have policies and processes in place that address these issues. Sustainable supply chain management targets During 2013, we will strive to improve our sustainable supply chain management by strengthening the collaboration with our key suppliers throughout the value chain and encouraging our suppliers to improve their sustainability performance. Metso's sustainability criteria have been added to Metso's business line-specific supplier assessments. Metso has created and launched a Sustainability Handbook for Suppliers, a guidebook to introduce sustainability to its partners and the business approach that is an integral part of Metso's strategy and business operations. The handbook presents the most relevant sustainability issues from Metso's point of view and encourages our partners to introduce similar processes This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 29 Page 2/2 in their business operations. During 2013, we also plan to define a Metso-wide supplier sustainability policy and to issue a self-assessment questionnaire to all our high-and medium-risk suppliers. We will also strive to further develop our supplier audit approach and start raising the awareness of a sustainable supply chain among our personnel by communicating more effectively in various channels within Metso. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 30 Sustainability indices We believe that sustainability creates long-term shareholder value and enables us to embrace opportunities and manage risks deriving from economic, environmental and social trends and challenges. Global sustainability indices track the performance of companies and rate how companies face and manage sustainability trends, such as resource scarcity, climate change or an aging population within a company's competitive environment. These global frameworks also provide companies the possibility to develop through transparent and enduring indicators. We believe that adapting to global challenges through innovation, quality and productivity enhances our ability to generate long-term shareholder value. In 2012, Metso received its all-time highest scores in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), with 97 points out of 100; it was also included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the first time. Metso's disclosure score of 97 was the highest from a Nordic company in the Industrials sector. Metso has reported to the CDP since 2007. Metso was awarded with a Prime status C+ rating by the German oekom Research AG. The Prime status acknowledges that Metso ranks among the leaders in its industry and fulfills the sector-specific minimum requirements of sustainability. Metso was also added into the Storebrand Trippel Smart/SPP Global Top 100 fund, a global equity fund that invests in the 100 most sustainable companies in the world, according to our analysis methodology. The companies in the fund are selected from the MSCI All Countries Index. In addition, Metso is included in the FTSE4GOOD index, Ethibel Sustainability Index, OMX GES Ethical Finland Index, OMX GES Sustainability Finland Index, Kempen SNS SRI Universe Index and ECPI Ethical EMU Equity Index as well as in Vigeo rating. Our target is to constantly improve our ratings in the significant sustainability indices. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 31 Case: Carbon Disclosure Project Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a non-profit organization working to transform the way the world does business to prevent adverse climate change and to protect our natural resources. CDP holds the largest collection globally of self reported climate change data and provides companies and investors with information to be better able to mitigate risk, capitalize on opportunities and make investment decisions that drive action towards a more sustainable world. CDP has evolved its operations to work with over 50 major purchasing companies, including Walmart and L'Oreal, and over 2,400 suppliers to achieve more sustainable supply chains. Since pioneering a system for natural capital disclosure ten years ago, the number of investors requesting corporate climate change information through CDP has grown more than 18 fold to over 655 signatory investors representing USD 78 trillion in assets half the world's invested capital. It started in 2002 with 35 signatories representing USD 4.5 trillion. The increase in companies using the CDP system for disclosure has nearly matched this rate. In 2012, over 4,000 companies from all over the world used CDP to report climate change data to their stakeholders; this includes 81% of the Global 500. At present, 6.8 gigatons of scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions are reported through CDP; this is equivalent to roughly 20% of global carbon emissions. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 32 Metso people Metso's success starts with over 30,000 employees around the world. By supporting their opportunities for development, Metso enables its business success. This thinking is reflected in our company strategy, where our personnel have a central role. People is one of our five Group-level must-wins. It enables the realization of the other must-wins we can reach our goals only with engaged and competent employees. Within the People must-win, we focus on developing four areas: leadership, performance, capabilities and resourcing. The People must-win means that we aim to develop a working environment that attracts the right people, helps them to develop, and to reach their full potential and enables our business success. Metso's vision, mission and values form the foundation for this development. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 33 HR development focus areas Goals related to our four themes 2012 Achievements 2015 Target Leadership Introducing the new Leadership Essentials Strong leadership in managing a global and Workshop to support our leaders in multicultural organization understanding their role Increased internal mobility as a leader Good global leadership development programs in place Performance Performance review process well-established Performance review process more consistently Aligning compensation and rewarding practices used across Metso globally Individual performance and targets closely linked to business goals Strong performance-driven culture Capabilities Development review process in place Development review process more consistently implemented throughout Metso Clear link between required people capabilities and business strategy Resourcing Recruitment process further strengthened Effective and efficient recruitment practices Continued implementation of global Metso Job Comprehensive understanding of long-term Leveling system business resource needs This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 34 TellUs Engagement survey renewed in 2012 We conducted our global engagement survey TellUs again in 2012. TellUs is a means to measure engagement and performance excellence elements and to identify development needs. The survey focuses on many dimensions, such as leadership, safety, teamwork and involvement. The areas that were rated the highest among our employees in the 2012 survey included teamwork, safety and leadership in terms of leaders treating employees fairly. Employees also trust their managers. On the other hand, an improvement in areas such as knowledge sharing and cooperation over organizational boundaries was indicated. In 2012, we renewed the survey and took new indexes for engagement, performance and wellbeing into use. With the more distinct use of indexes, we wanted to clarify reporting and find clear insight into strengths and development targets. The data acquired by the indexes helps our managers to make development plans in their own units, which means the survey has a close link to the daily work of managers. The results are used to further develop our employees' engagement and to support their performance both at the individual team level as well as at the company level. The teams have been actively making action plans based on their own results. At the company level, recognition and feedback were selected as key areas to develop based on the survey. Past results indicate that the survey helps us to direct actions to achieve positive change. For example, safety and leadership were identified as key development areas in our previous survey; now these areas were rated highly. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 35 Strong leadership to inspire and lead the way Leadership has a key role in creating a working environment where people can reach their full potential. Good leaders help employees to understand their role at Metso and to connect individual targets to our company strategy, which is important in order for employees to feel that their work is meaningful. Therefore, leadership is essential to our business success. Shared view of the role of a manager To support our managers in their role, we offer them tools to develop their leadership skills. We have been systematically developing leadership for a long time; over the years, we have, for example, built 360-degree leadership feedback to enhance self-awareness. 360-degree feedback has since been integrated into our international training programs to help the participants identify their own leadership development areas. In total, 27.8 percent of our current leaders had gone through 360-degree feedback by the end of 2012. We have defined the leadership principles that represent our shared view of what leadership means at Metso. These principles form a common foundation for developing leadership in a global and multicultural organization. In 2012, we launched a global Leadership Essentials Workshop to ensure our supervisors understand their role as managers and know what is expected from them. The program also ensures that our leadership principles are adopted globally. Page 1/2 The first Leadership Essentials Workshops, covering roughly 400 line managers, were held in the autumn of 2012. The workshops will reach the rest of our line managers, around 3,000 people, in 2013. Leadership Essentials will gradually become the on-boarding training for new managers. Case: Leaderships Essentials This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 Better business and people leaders I act as a Leadership Essentials ambassador in the new training workshop, says Kerry Flick Director of Technology at Metso Pulp, Paper and Power North America. My role as an ambassador is to share personal experiences with, and support our managers in, understanding and further developing their own leadership skills. I hope I can help others become better leaders, both from a business and a personal perspective. Developing managers to effectively lead in business and the workplace is critical. It is essential to the company's success that its managers can lead in both areas. As managers, we must ensure that our activities are focused on achieving business goals, but we must also create a workplace where everyone feels motivated and appreciated. I believe the significance of the Leadership Essentials Workshop is to grow our current and future leaders to become better strategic thinkers and business leaders, and also to enable each manager to improve personally so that they can better manage even difficult situations. Never-ending learning process The Leadership Essentials Workshop helps participants to understand what is required of a Metso manager and introduces Metso's Leadership principles that all managers must adhere to. With the results of their own 360degree leadership feedback, managers are able to better understand their strengths and weaknesses. The linkage of this feedback to the company's business goals provides them with a greater perspective of the role of a manager. Managers will have a better understanding of how to combine their leadership style with the successful implementation of our strategy. The role playing activities provide them with an increased sense of how to deal with people in various situations. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Having experienced senior managers involved in the workshop provides greater insight and clarity to the Never-ending learning process The Leadership Essentials Workshop helps participants to understand what is required of a Metso manager and Annual report 2012 36 introduces Metso's Leadership principles that all managers must adhere to. With the results of their own 360degree leadership feedback, managers are able to better understand their strengths and weaknesses. The linkage of this feedback to the company's business goals provides them with a greater perspective of the role of a manager. Managers will have a better understanding of how to combine their leadership style with the successful implementation of our strategy. The role playing activities provide them with an increased sense of how to deal with people in various situations. Having experienced senior managers involved in the workshop provides greater insight and clarity to the application of various leadership techniques in everyday life. I hope that our interactions and collaborations during these workshops will give everyone myself included valuable insight into what it means to be a better leader. To me, this is a never-ending learning process. Image not readable or empty http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/misc/viiva.jpg Strengthening day-to-day leadership I participated in a Leadership Essentials Workshop in October 2012, tells Mike Gay, Vice President of Pulp, Paper and Power in Appleton the United States. As an ambassador for the program, my role was a bit different compared to that of the other participants. My experience was very positive; I found that not only did I share my viewpoint, I learned things as well. The workshop explores issues around our day-to-day business activities and interactions, for example how managers relate to others. Through various small group exercises where we solved issues and engaged in some role playing, participants got to practice their conduct in different situations related to leadership and managerial work. The majority of the role playing exercises involved interactive situations with employees, with the goal of strengthening the manager's ability to understand an employee's point of view. It is important, for example, in our annual review process that managers are able to make sure the discussions with employees are open and effective. In the training, I worked closely with the teams during these exercises and was impressed by the way everyone threw themselves into the process. And from what I have heard, the feedback from participants has Page 2/2 been very positive. A chance to network The matters discussed in the workshop were not new to me, since I work with similar issues on a daily basis. But I think this is also an advantage. By reflecting daily issues in the training, we can reinforce our day-to-day ways of working. For me, it was also very useful to meet some of my Metso colleagues from outside my own business and to observe the lively discussions and differing perspectives. Additionally, the workshop provides us with an opportunity to work on those areas of leadership that were identified in TellUs, our employee engagement survey, as being in need of improvement. In my opinion, one of the main benefits of Leadership Essentials for Metso as a company is the strengthening of our managers' abilities to interact with people in different situations. Whenever we can create open interaction between people and minimize boundaries between employees, we are building a better organization and improving our ways of working together. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 37 Creating a performance-driven culture We help our employees to reach their highest potential. In practice, this means that we have a performance review process in which employees discuss their performance with their supervisor and get feedback. Continuous development of the performance review process as well as compensation and rewarding practices is important for a performance-driven culture. Well-established performance review process In the performance review, the manager and employee focus on setting and achieving personal targets. To ensure that certain important aspects are covered in the discussion, there is a uniform performance review structure and tool used throughout Metso. Metso's performance review process is well-established, and the coverage has increased annually. We aim to continue increasing the coverage and to support managers in developing the quality of the discussions. In 2012, 60% (2011: 51%) of all our personnel participated in the performance review process. The number of performance reviews completed in 2012 was 11,790 (2011: 9,996). The target is that performance reviews cover all our white-collar employees. Aligning compensation practices to support a global organization Compensation and rewarding practices are important in engaging and motivating our employees. In recent years we have continued to focus on aligning our practices to better support our global business. It is important for Metso's managers to be able to make justified decisions related to compensation in a global team environment. We started this work with the implementation of the global Metso Job Leveling system. The implementation started in January 2011 and was completed in the majority of our countries of operation during 2012. The system makes our job structure more systematic and improves transparency. By offering globally uniform information on different job requirements, the job leveling system improves visibility ofour global resources and gives a good basis for many of our global people processes. We have also created Metso performance and rewards principles, which were approved by the Metso Board in March 2012. These principles formulate the main goals in building a performance-driven culture at Metso. We aim to use this foundation the global job leveling system, the performance review process as well as compensation and rewards principles as a basis in reviewing our current practices and people processes to ensure that they support our business requirements also in the future. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 38 Case: Performance Review Opportunity for rethinking personal goals In my team, I have 25 people with whom I and my group leader go through the annual review process, says Hans Rehner, Service Manager of Automation in Central Europe. The performance review is a good way to take the time to discuss individual performance with each of the team members. Since performance reviews are held in the beginning of the year, it is a natural moment for both to look back at the previous year and ahead to the future. One important aspect of the reviews is Metso's strategy and adapting the global targets to our daily work. The performance reviews are a good opportunities for checking and discussing how employees understand the company's targets. In the service business, our work is closely tied to customer wishes and short-term actions, but it is good to start the year by discussing the bigger picture and our focus areas for the whole year. It is important to note that the performance review is not a one-way street. We should reach a mutual understanding of past results and clearly describe new, measurable targets together. That way, both parties are committed to the targets. This is essential, because the development of the whole company is based on the development of its individual employees. Documentation ensures continuity The fact that we have a globally uniform structure for performance reviews and a database where the discussions are documented has many advantages. First, with a fixed structure, you don't have to think it over every year or accidentally omit some important subject. Second, the documentation of the agreed targets is important in order to follow up on them during the year. The documentation also forms the basis for the next year's performance review, when we assess how successfully the targets were met. Documentation is essential for me, personally, because it helps me remember what was agreed on with all of my team members individually. From an employee's point of view, the performance review process ensures continuity even if his or her manager changes. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 39 Encouraging continuous learning We encourage our employees to pursue continuous learning opportunities and support their professional development. We provide opportunities for knowledge sharing as well as internal networking and mobility. Development reviews and our training offering are both important in achieving these goals. We also identify competencies, knowledge and skills that we will need in the future in our businesses. We use this information to develop our training programs and recruiting to match our future needs. Development review focuses on personal development During the development review, our employees and their managers discuss personal development needs and career plans. With the development reviews, we want to ensure that there is consistent and continuous learning aligned with business needs and changes. The development reviews have a uniform structure and tool used throughout Metso to ensure that they cover certain aspects. Our company values as well as the defined competencies for each job family (e.g. sales, service etc.) are embedded in the development review. By doing this, we want to ensure that every Metso employee's development review has a link to our vision, mission and strategic targets. In 2012, 64.0% (2011: 60.0%) of all our personnel participated in the development review process. The number of completed development reviews was 15,481 (2011: 14,223). The target is for all our white-collar employees to be part of the development review process. Services business closely integrated in the training portfolio Metso's Talent Development programs support and develop our leadership and people management at different levels; for example, the Metso Compass focuses on operational excellence, the Metso Navigator on strategic alignment and the Metso Catalyst on pursuing new business opportunities. Additionally, our global offering was supplemented with the new Services Management program in 2012. The services business has a central role in Metso's business strategy, and the training program was designed to build a shared view of the business across our company. The program was created in close collaboration with Metso's services businesses. In 2013, we will continue to develop our talent development portfolio by introducing another new training program, the Supply Chain Management program. The overall goal in Metso's global training programs is to enable people from different businesses and areas to network and to gain new perspectives and solutions for the challenges of everyday work. In 2012, a total of 327 (2011: 173) Metso employees participated in our global training programs, which added up to a total of 2,840 (1,469) training days. Our local training offering complements our international programs. In the local training programs, we continued to advance Metso-wide cooperation. Our training expenses in 2012, excluding the wages and salaries of the participants, totaled EUR 16.2 (12.4) million. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 40 Page 2/2 This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 41 Case: Catalyst program Training provides insight to leadership My experience with the Metso Catalyst course was excellent, says Greg Albert, Vice Presient of Business Development at Mining and Construction. Catalyst is one of Metso's international training programs for senior leaders, and it focuses on building new business opportunities as well as creating innovation and an entrepreneurial mindset. I participated in the Catalyst course in September 2012. The course content generated a number of new development opportunities that I found personally relevant. There was considerable time spent on leadership and on the leader's role as a change agent. The theme of the course was evolving Metso towards becoming an innovative company. For this to happen, we need different types of leaders who think like entrepreneurs and who can create future visions, goals and who are able to mobilize people around these ideas. As our global business landscape is changing rapidly, we need to develop our current ways of operating towards this new way of thinking. New knowledge on motivating people I work with various activities connected to business development in line with Metso's future growth strategies. The Catalyst training has already proved to be useful for me in practice. A couple of weeks after the course, I needed to hold a very important business strategy planning session with a potential business partner company in China. I utilized many of the elements of the innovative business planning methodology, called Deep Dive, but more importantly, I was able to use my newly acquired knowledge on motivating people to our strategy and the changes required to be successful. For me, the most important insight from the Catalyst course was that change starts from oneself. In the end, success as a leader is about how you energize people and get them energized towards your ideas. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 42 Wellbeing has an impact on our business In terms of business, the wellbeing of our employees not only enhances productivity and innovativeness, it is also beneficial at the individual level. Wellbeing reduces the costs arising from absences, medical treatment and voluntary turnover. Personal resources and the constantly changing demands of working life affect the wellbeing of individuals. Occupational wellbeing has two main dimensions: The first is the state of physical and mental health of the person. The second dimension consists of wellbeing matters related to professionalism and the work community, such as having the required skills to take on assignments and having a safe working environment. Safety is an essential part of all our operations, and the safety of employees is always our number-one priority. We believe that everyone not only has the right, but also the obligation to work in a safe working environment. Our everyday decisions and choices ensure both our own as well as others' safety. We are all responsible for creating wellbeing at work. However, good leadership and managerial work have an important role in wellbeing. Our new Leadership Essentials Workshop builds our leaders awareness and capabilities to address wellbeing. In 2012, we also added a new wellbeing index to our global engagement survey to further develop wellbeing at Metso. The wellbeing index consists of ten employee survey questions that are known to have the most impact on employee wellbeing. The index emphasizes the significance of leadership on wellbeing; it is a helpful and concrete tool supervisors can use to find out which factors have the most impact on employee wellbeing. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 43 Personnel structure At the end of 2012, we had a total of 30,212 (30,324) employees and the average length of service was 11 years (12 years). The countries with the most Metso employees were Finland, the United States, China, Sweden and Brazil. These five countries employed 65.7 percent of Metso's total workforce. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/4 Annual report 2012 44 Geographics Number of employees by 2011 2012 country Male Female Total % of Male Female Total % of total total Austria 89 26 115 0.4 92 27 119 0.4 Belgium 96 8 104 0.3 93 13 106 0.4 Czech Republic 317 60 377 1.2 278 49 327 1.1 Denmark 74 24 98 0.3 82 27 109 0.4 Estonia 4 1 5 0.0 4 1 5 0.0 Finland 7,177 2,045 9,222 30.4 6,637 1,827 8,464 28 France 613 119 732 2.4 648 138 786 2.6 Germany 1,083 188 1,271 4.2 1,114 211 1,325 4.4 Italy 123 32 155 0.5 117 29 146 0.5 Netherlands 64 10 74 0.2 68 10 78 0.3 Norway 68 11 79 0.3 73 11 84 0.3 Poland 298 174 472 1.6 277 166 443 1.5 Portugal 118 156 274 0.9 119 160 279 0.9 Russia 188 74 262 0.9 228 94 322 1.1 Spain 240 22 262 0.9 235 22 257 0.9 Sweden 2,266 492 2,758 9.1 2,244 497 2,741 9.1 Turkey 29 8 37 0.1 34 9 43 0.1 Ukraine 21 14 35 0.1 25 13 38 0.1 United Kingdom 223 36 259 0.9 232 40 272 0.9 EUROPEAN COUNTRIES 13,091 3,500 16,591 54.7 12,600 3,344 15,944 52.8 TOTAL Number of employees by 2011 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 2012 country United Kingdom 223 36 259 0.9 232 40 272 0.9 EUROPEAN COUNTRIES 13,091 3,500 16,591 54.7 12,600 3,344 15,944 52.8 TOTAL Annual report 2012 45 Number of employees by 2011 2012 Page 2/4 country Male Female Total % of Male Female Total % of total total Algeria 4 1 5 0.0 5 1 6 0.0 Ghana 41 4 45 0.1 42 6 48 0.2 Kazakhstan 18 8 26 0.1 16 10 26 0.1 South Africa 1,162 141 1,303 4.3 1,159 143 1,302 4.3 United Arab Emirates 20 4 24 0.1 18 3 21 0.1 Zambia 5 1 6 0.0 8 2 10 0.0 Zimbabwe 5 1 6 0.0 5 1 6 0.0 AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST 1,255 160 1,415 4.7 1,253 166 1,419 4.7 COUNTRIES TOTAL EMEA TOTAL 14,346 3,660 18,006 59.4 13,853 3,510 17,363 57.5 Canada 670 126 796 2.6 679 124 803 2.7 USA 2,510 539 3,049 10.1 2,610 561 3,171 10.5 NORTH AMERICA TOTAL 3,180 665 3,845 12.7 3,289 685 3,974 13.2 Argentina 3 0 3 0.0 3 0 3 0.0 Brazil 1,965 268 2,233 7.4 1,996 323 2,319 7.7 Chile 426 80 506 1.7 529 65 594 2.0 Mexico 212 18 230 0.8 231 21 252 0.8 Peru 171 21 192 0.6 211 27 238 0.8 SOUTH AND CENTRAL 2,777 387 3,164 10.4 2,970 436 3,406 11.3 AMERICA TOTAL Number of employees by 2011 2012 country Male Female Total % of Male Female Total % of total total 471 103 574 1.9 537 113 650 2.2 Australia China 2,453 746 3,199 10.5 2,400 756 3,156 10.4 India 1,014 46 1,060 3.5 1,086 54 1,140 3.8 Indonesia 33 22 55 0.2 48 9 57 0.2 Japan 94 16 110 0.4 99 17 116 0.4 Malaysia 2 0 2 0.0 0 0 0 0.0 New Zealand 59 14 73 0.2 32 5 37 0.1 Singapore 44 22 66 0.2 43 31 74 0.2 South Korea 27 9 36 0.1 62 21 83 0.3 Thailand 94 39 133 0.4 108 41 149 0.5 Vietnam 1 0 1 0.0 6 1 7 0.0 ASIA-PASIFIC COUNTRIES 4,292 1,017 5,309 17.5 4,421 1,048 5,469 18.1 TOTAL TOTAL 24,595 5,729 30,324 100 24,533 5,679 30,212 100 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 3/4 Annual report 2012 46 Personnel 20 largest countries in 2012 2011 2012 Finland 9,222 8,464 USA 3,049 3,171 China 3,199 3,156 Sweden 2,758 2,741 Brazil 2,233 2,319 Germany 1,271 1,325 South Africa 1,303 1,302 India 1,060 1,140 Canada 796 803 France 732 786 Australia 574 650 Chile 506 594 Poland 472 443 Czech Republic 377 327 Russia 262 322 Portugal 274 279 United Kingdom 259 272 Spain 262 257 Mexico 230 252 Peru 192 238 Employee total turnover rate by country / 2011 2012 Top 20 countries 2012 Finland 6.1% 6.2% USA 4% 10.4% China 10.5% 15.6% Sweden 7.5% 7.4% Brazil 8.4% 10.2% Germany 6.6% 4.5% South Africa 7% 12.4% India 7.1% 7.5% Canada 7.3% 9.1% France 7.1% 4.5% Australia 18.1% 18.2% Chile 9.7% 16.3% Poland 7.4% 13.1% Czech Republic 10.6% 22.9% Russia 9.2% 9.6% This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Spain 262 257 Mexico 230 252 Peru 192 238 Annual report 2012 47 Employee total turnover rate by country / 2011 2012 Top 20 countries 2012 Finland 6.1% 6.2% USA 4% 10.4% China 10.5% 15.6% Sweden 7.5% 7.4% Brazil 8.4% 10.2% Germany 6.6% 4.5% South Africa 7% 12.4% India 7.1% 7.5% Canada 7.3% 9.1% France 7.1% 4.5% Australia 18.1% 18.2% Chile 9.7% 16.3% Poland 7.4% 13.1% Czech Republic 10.6% 22.9% Page 4/4 Russia 9.2% 9.6% Employee total turnover rate by country / 2011 2012 Top 20 countries 2012 Portugal 1.8% 2.2% United Kingdom 8.1% 9.6% Spain 6.5% 3.5% Mexico 9.1% 7.9% Peru 14.6% 14.3% METSO ALL COUNTRIES TOTAL 7.2% 9.1% This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 48 Demographics Image not readable or empty personnel by education level http://metso:m7pV1.dyLZ@metso.dev.activeark.com/2012/assets/files/graphs/EN%2019.2.2013/People/ This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 49 Page 2/3 Page 2/3 Gender distribution of 2011 Gender distribution of 2011 2012 personnel personnel Male Female Male Male Female F Gender distribution of 2011 2012 Metso Board of Directors personnel 71%* Metso Board of Directors 29%* 71%* 71% 29% 29% * 2 Metso Executive team 86% Metso Executive team14% 86% 86% 14% 14% 1 Male Female Male Metso Employees 81% Metso Employees 19% 81% 81% 19% 19% 1 Metso Board of Directors 71%* 29%* 71% Blue Collars** 89% Blue Collars** 11% 89% 91% 11% 9% 9 Metso Executive team 86% 14% 86% White Collars** 74% White Collars** 26% 74% 76% 26% 24% 2 Metso Employees 81% 19% 81% Supervisors** 85% Supervisors** 15% 85% 87% 15% 13% 1 Blue Collars Permanent ** Full-Time 82% 89%Permanent Full-Time 18% 11% 82% 82% 91% 18% 18% 1 employees White ** Collars** 74%employees** 26% 76% Permanent Part-Time Supervisors ** 45% 85%Permanent Part-Time 55% 45% 15% 45% 55% 55% 87% 5 employees** employees** Permanent Full-Time 82% 18% 82% Temporary Full-Time 75% Temporary Full-Time 25% 75% 77% 25% 23% 2 employees** employees** employees** Permanent Part-Time Temporary Part-Time 68% 45% 55% 45% Temporary Part-Time 32% 68% 69% 32% 31% 3 employees employees ** ** employees** Temporary Full-Time Trainees 73% 75%Trainees 27% 25% 73% 75% 77% 25% 27% 2 employees** Temporary Part-Time 68% 32% 69% employees** Trainees 73% 27% 75% *) 2011 figures corrected, personnel representative*)was 2011 incorrectly figures corrected, as part of the reported personnel representative Board of Directors was incorrectly gender division. reported as part of the Board of Dire **) Data coverage 2011: 77% for 2012: 97% of all Metso **) Data (from SAP coverage 2011: Employees 77% HR) for 2012: 97% of all Metso Employees (from SAP HR) Personnel structure *) 2011 figures by personnel representative corrected, 2011 Personnel wasstructure 2012 incorrectly by reported as part2011of the Board of Directors 2012 gender division. employment type employment type **) Data coverage 2011: 77% for 2012: 97% of all% total Metso Employees of total total (from SAP% of HR) total total % of total total % of total 25,928 85.5% 26,768 88.6% 25,928 85.5% 26,768 88.6% Regular, Full-time Regular, Full-time Personnel structure by 2011 2012 Regular, Part-time type employment 603 Regular, 2.0%Part-time 533 1.8% 603 2.0% 533 1.8% Regular total 26,531 Regular total87.5%total % of27,301 total 90.4% 26,531 total % of total87.5% 27,301 90.4% Temporary, Full-time 3,510 Temporary,11.6%Full-time 2,687 8.9% 3,510 11.6% 2,687 8.9% 25,928 85.5% 26,768 88.6% Regular,Part-time Temporary, Full-time 283 Temporary, 0.9% Part-time 224 0.7% 283 0.9% 224 0.7% Temporary total 3 793Temporary 12.5%total 2 911 9.6% 3 793 12.5% 2 911 9.6% Regular, Part-time All total 30,324 603 All total 100% 2.0%30,212 533 100% 30,324 1.8% 100% 30,212 100% Regular total 26,531 87.5% 27,301 90.4% Temporary, Number of traineesFull-time in headcount 326 Number3,510 1.1% 11.6% of trainees 324 2,687 in headcount 1.1% 3268.9% 1.1% 324 1.1% Temporary, Part-time 283 0.9% 224 0.7% Temporary total 3 793 12.5% 2 911 9.6% All total 30,324 100% 30,212 100% Personnel by function Personnel 2011 by function 2012 2011 2012 Headcount % of Headcount % of Headcount % of Headcount % of Number of trainees in headcount 326 total 1.1% 324 total 1.1% total total Personnel by function 2011 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 2012 Headcount % of Headcount % of All total 30,324 100% 30,212 100% Number of trainees in headcount 326 1.1% 324 1.1% Annual report 2012 50 Personnel by function 2011 2012 Page 3/3 Headcount % of Headcount % of Personnel by function 2011 total 2012 total 4,667 15.4% 4617 15.3% Engineering Manufacturing 13,482 44.5% 12,817 42.4% 3,666 12.1% 3,684 12.2% Service Active personnel total, COGS 21,815 71.9% 21,117 69.9% Sales and marketing 4,473* 14.8% 4,844 16.0% R&D 852 2.8% 831 2.8% Administration 3,184* 10.5% 3,420 11.3% Active personnel total, S,G&A 8,509 28.1% 9,095 30.1% Active personnel by function, total 30,324 100% 30,212 100% *) In 2011 eporting these figures were reversed, mention needed This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Changes in personnel Annual report 2012 51 Changes in personnel Employee total turnover rate by country, Top 2011 2012 20 countries 2012 Finland 6.1% 6.2% Employee total turnover rate by country, Top 2011 2012 USA 20 countries 2012 4% 10.4% China Finland 10.5% 6.1% 15.6% 6.2% Sweden USA 7.5% 4% 7.4% 10.4% Brazil China 8.4% 10.5% 10.2% 15.6% Germany Sweden 6.6% 7.5% 4.5% 7.4% South Brazil Africa 7% 8.4% 12.4% 10.2% India Germany 7.1% 6.6% 7.5% 4.5% Canada South Africa 7.3% 7% 9.1% 12.4% France India 7.1% 7.1% 4.5% 7.5% Australia Canada 18.1% 7.3% 18.2% 9.1% Chile France 9.7% 7.1% 16.3% 4.5% Poland Australia 7.4% 18.1% 13.1% 18.2% Czech Chile Republic 10.6% 9.7% 22.9% 16.3% Russia Poland 9.2% 7.4% 9.6% 13.1% Portugal Czech Republic 1.8% 10.6% 2.2% 22.9% United Russia Kingdom 8.1% 9.2% 9.6% 9.6% Spain Portugal 6.5% 1.8% 3.5% 2.2% Mexico United Kingdom 9.1% 8.1% 7.9% 9.6% Page 2/2 Peru Spain 14.6% 6.5% 14.3% 3.5% Employee Mexico total turnover rate by country, Top 2011 9.1% 2012 7.9% 20 countries 2012 Peru 14.6% 14.3% METSO ALL COUNTRIES TOTAL 7.2% 9.1% This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 52 We are committed to compliance with laws and ethical principles in people matters In our personnel relations we comply with the labor rights stated by the International Labor Organization (ILO), and we support and respect the protection of human rights as expressed in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. We do not use child labor or engage subcontractors or suppliers that do so. We do not allow behavior that is physically coercive, threatening, abusive or exploitative. We are also committed to the UN Global Compact initiative with its ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2012, the total number of incidents of discrimination was 0 (2011: 0) and actions taken 0 (2011: 0). Human resources is responsible for people management policies at Metso The Metso HR management team drafts policies, principles and guidelines related to people management. The HR team is also responsible for the monitoring of them in accordance with the governance model. Local HR organizations are responsible for implementing them and supporting the compliance with them as part of our way of operating. Examples of Metso's global HR policies and guidelines: Health, Safety and Environment Policy Anti-drug Guidelines Metso Leadership Principles Metso Recruitment Policy Global Travel Policy International Assignment Guidelines Personnel Background Checking Guidelines Job Description Guidelines Annual Review Guidelines Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy Global Bonus Plan Guidelines Localization Guidelines for Expatriates Guidelines for Company Supported and Funded Studies This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 53 Job security and termination procedures We take a long-term approach in personnel planning and development so that our personnel structure corresponds to the demand in all business cycles. We act responsibly and in compliance with national legislation and good employer practices in structural changes and lay-off situations resulting from financial or production reasons. Wages, salaries and benefits The wages and salaries of Metso employees are determined on the basis of local collective and individual agreements, job skills assessments and employee job performance. Our globally applicable, performance-based incentive systems complement basic salaries and wages. Salary increases are based on principles determined annually by the management and on country-specific collective agreements. Our employee benefits are based on local legislation, practices and competitive compensation levels. Occupational health care, country-specific pension practices, statutory insurance, training, and various sabbaticals supporting parenthood and family life, studying and annual vacation time are determined on the basis of country-specific legislation and national policies. Independent trade unions and collective bargaining Our employees have the freedom to organize. Metso does not require or prevent the organization of employees. Our human resources management model is applicable for countries with either a high or low degree of organization and collective bargaining. We do not track the extent of our employees' engagement in trade union activities. In many countries, local legislation dictates the business changes that employee representatives or employees must be informed of or consulted with. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 54 Cooperation with personnel and management Cooperation acts and other laws and regulations create a country-specific framework for the collaboration between the management and personnel and for the mutual development of the company and its operations. Personnel representation in business unit management is separately agreed upon and compliant with countryspecific regulations. Additionally, our units engage in forms of cooperation that comply with country-specific practices and legislation. A personnel representative elected by our personnel groups participates in the meetings of Metso's Board of Directors as an invited expert. The representative does not have voting rights and is not legally responsible for Board decisions. Metso European Works Council renewed The Metso European Works Council is our European management and personnel cooperation body, which carries out the cooperation and communication defined in the EU's European Works Council directive. It offers our employees an opportunity to engage in an open dialogue about company issues. In 2012, representation of six new countries was added to cover all the main European countries where Metso is present. The new members of the Metso European Works Council are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, the Netherlands and Norway. The target is to focus on topical issues of working life common to all European countries, such as changes in global markets and the increasing competition of professionals due to the aging workforce. The role of the Working Committee operating under the Metso European Works Council was also clarified during 2012. The Working Committee has six employee members and two top management members who are nominated amongst the representatives of the Metso European Works Council. The Working Committee convenes between council meetings and reports to the council. These changes in the operating model will be effective in the Metso European Works Council meeting in 2013. Altogether 33 employee representatives and several of our top management representatives participated in the Metso European Works Council in 2012. The key topics of the discussions covered our strategic themes, such as services business, our global presence as well as occupational health and safety matters. The changes in the operating model of the Metso European Works Council were extensively discussed. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 55 Corporate citizenship Our corporate citizenship has its foundation in our mission statement: We contribute to a more sustainable world by helping our customers to process natural resources and recycle materials into valuable products. Our growth in emerging markets and the extension of our service business to remote locations close to local customers brings our role as a corporate citizen to a true global scale. At the same time as we expand into new markets, we also operate in advanced industrial countries, which, in many cases, are currently undergoing drastic changes in industrial structure and demographics. We are aware of the challenges and responsibilities related to these issues. In some locations we directly or indirectly create new jobs based on our technology, solutions and services, whereas in others we need to adjust our operations to a changing business environment with varying demands. Our aspiration of being a responsible corporate citizen is based on understanding mutual needs and expectations in our relationships with local communities. We are convinced that increased integration with the local community through the engagement of our local employees results in mutual benefits for Metso and the society. We recognize that the best examples of local-level corporate citizenship arise from local needs and are exercised by our local people. In this respect, the role of Metso's management is to set the framework and practices for resources used and to provide encouragement and support for local units and the employees involved. A number of excellent local programs in, e.g., vocational training, life skills teaching, social support and health counseling have been developed and run by our local units. Another important area is our relationship with universities and research institutes, reflecting our roles as a technology company, a partner in science and research, and a potential employer. Metso's sponsorship program comprises a number of joint activities with various external, often local partners with whom we share common interests and values. We have during the last year put much effort in developing our health, safety and environment policies and practices, all of which are strongly linked to our view of a responsible employer and being a role model for the local business community and all our employees worldwide. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 56 Sponsorship and donations Our principles of sponsorships and donations have their foundation in Metso's Code of Conduct, in which we define also other important ethical issues, e.g. our commitment to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Likewise, our sponsorship activities reflect the implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in our operations. We use sponsorships and donations to support the implementation of our strategy and to strengthen our corporate brand and recognition globally. Metso defines sponsorship through the principles and terms described in the Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice, published by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in August 2006. Accordingly, we endorse the definition stated in this document. Metso chooses its sponsorship targets based on its strategic objectives science, research and education, environmental protection, nature conservation and youth activities. To keep the focus in these target areas, we have also introduced other guiding principles to our sponsorship approach, since, as a business-to-business This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 57 Page 2/3 company, we do not allocate resources for sponsorships targeting the general public, unless deemed appropriate for a specific issue. As we operate globally and in various cultures, we sponsor only projects that are universally accepted and respected. The principle of equality also means that we do not sponsor projects or initiatives related to politics or religious worship. For the same reason, we do not sponsor ideological organizations that have values and activities that lack unanimous community support. Additionally, we do not sponsor professional sports on a national or international level. Our community involvement projects can, however, include support for local sports as youth activity or general recreation activity. We also do not sponsor activities that are commonly considered conflicting with the principles of sustainable development, such as motor sports. Metso's sponsorship responsibilities lie at various levels of our business organizations. The responsibility includes the managing and monitoring of sponsorship projects related to their business and customer industries. Metso's Group Communications and Stakeholder Relations functions are responsible for national and international sponsorship projects. Metso has a well-defined practical process for all its sponsorship projects. All of Metso's sponsorship projects must include a pre-agreement with the relevant partner, outlining the form, the focus and the desired outcome of the cooperation. Therefore, a written sponsorship cooperation agreement must always be drafted. Though we strive for long-term cooperation in sponsoring, we only make agreements that are a maximum of two years so that we can ensure agreements that are functional and flexible e.g. in terms of changes in the operating environment. Cooperation with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) As a global company, Metso is operating in many countries with local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs). In many instances, NGOs can provide the needed operations, services and experience to support the local communities, people and environment. Metso supported non-profit or non-governmental organizations and related activities during 2012 with EUR 1,377,718. Examples of goals related to our focus areas Total EUR 1,377,718 100% Youth activities EUR 333,379 24% Culture EUR 258,544 19% Science, research and education EUR 44,969 3% Environmental protection and nature conservation EUR 40,523 3% Sports EUR 185,060 14% Others EUR 515,243 37% The increase in total expenditure on sponsorships and donations in 2012 compared to 2011, about EUR 230,000, is mainly due to new social, well-being, health and cultural programs launched in Brazil and South Africa. In the new programs in Brazil, Metso has made use of the various incentives provided by the legislation encouraging companies to participate in local-level social and cultural programs. In South Africa, Metso's contributions are allocated to e.g. educational and health programs that fulfill also the criteria set by the national BBBEE (Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment) policy. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 58 Page 3/3 This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 59 Case: Metso's succesful cooperation with Petrozavodsk State University Metso and Petrozavodsk State University, PetrSU, have cooperated since 1993 in researching and developing automation systems to improve industrial companies' efficiency, occupational safety and environmental protection. Metso and Petrozavodsk State University have a long-term agreement on software design, and PetrSU employees and students are working side by side with Metso professionals. Petrozavodsk State University's strong tradition in mathematics and Metso's know-how and leadership in automation systems in global markets support each other in an excellent way. The cooperation between Metso and Petrozavodsk State University is extensive. Every other year since 1994, Metso and PetrSU have organized a joint international science conference on new information technology in pulp and paper and energy economics. In addition, since 2001, employees of Petrozavodsk State University have participated in a total of 32 Metso Automation implementation projects in Russian companies, such as Surgutneftegaz, Sibur and Alrosa. In 2002, Metso and Petrozavodsk State University founded a PetrSU-Metso Automation Systems Center (PMASC) a joint center for the university and Metso where students design software for Metso's automation systems. The center currently has around 30 people working with Metso Automation projects. Since 2004, PetrSU has hosted a Metso Automation training center, where experts from Russian companies educate corporate professionals. So far, the center has educated over 275 professionals from 26 companies. The facilities and the center's equipment are also available to students and employees from PetrSU. Petrozavodsk State University was founded in 1940 and currently has 19,000 students in 16 faculties. The university is educating IT professionals in eight specializing fields totaling 2,300 students. Within the faculty, a creative software youth club has been created that aims to educate young students in mathematics, algorithm Page 1/1 theory and software programming. Every year, the club forms teams and sends them to the software programming world championships. The Petrozavodsk youth club teams have reached the finals six times already and have won a bronze medal twice and a silver medal once. Case: Awarding perseverance in research This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 The Millennium Technology Prize awarded by the Technology Academy Finland was given this year to the open source software engineer Linus Torvalds and stem cell scientist Dr. Shinya Yamanaka. Metso has been a sponsor of the Millennium Technology Prize since its inception, and this was the fifth time the prize has been awarded. Technological innovations are generated in an environment with an influx of inspiring fresh ideas and sound competition. We believe that it is important to give recognition to significant innovations that are built on solid technological training, research, and on the ability to combine and question existing knowledge. Through the sponsorship, Metso also wants to improve the environment for innovations, as well as inspire the youth to study natural sciences and to discover and invent. It is also important to promote the fact that innovations are born through interaction with colleagues and other partners and are a result of years of work. The Millennium Technology Prize is a Finnish recognition awarded once every two years to technology innovators who significantly improve the quality of human life and well-being, today and in the future. Innovations encourage a new way of thinking and are a key asset in our business as well. Metso's own research and development focuses on energy, water and raw materials supply, and our network submitted around 200 patent applications in 2012. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 60 Community involvement Metso's presence in emerging markets is constantly growing and is reflected in new units being opened or existing ones expanded. Metso's local presence creates wealth and job opportunities, as well as business partnerships that are important and beneficial both to Metso and the local community. We encourage our units and employees to participate in a wide range of activities that bring wellbeing to the local community. Sponsorships and donations are examples of means we use to develop and maintain interaction with important stakeholder groups. The principles and practices covering this area are defined in our Code of Conduct and in Metso's Principles of Sponsorships and Donations. We focus our sponsorships and support primarily on youth activities, science, research, education, and environmental and nature conservation. Metso's efforts in hiring disabled persons At Metso we promote equal opportunities and non-discrimination and value diversity in all of our operations. Our Code of Conduct guides our way, and in our recruitment we select and appoint employees based on their personal qualifications and skills for the job. We do not engage in or support discrimination in hiring, promotion, compensation, training opportunities, termination of employment, or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. We appreciate diversity in our employees' background, talent, insight, education and experience, and believe this contributes to our success and sustainability by enhancing innovativeness, flexibility and the ability to communicate with our stakeholders. We promote equal opportunities and raise awareness among our employees, customers, suppliers and in the local community by developing respect for diversity in our operations. Metso Brazil, for example, has implemented an extensive program based on national legislation to promote equal opportunities and in 2012 alone hired 75 new employees with a disability. By recruiting disabled persons, Metso Brazil is also changing the organizational culture to be more open and less biased and is preparing teams to integrate these new professionals. Examples of our youth activities in 2012 Metso supports SOS Children's Villages in India and South Africa Metso has a long-term support commitment with the SOS Children's Villages in South Africa and India. Since the 1990s, Metso has dedicated Metso Houses in the Children's Villages in South Africa in Rustenberg, North West Province, and in Vereeniging, Gauteng Province. In India, Metso has had five Metso Houses in Faridabad, in the state of Haryana, since 2007. Metso and Plan Finland started cooperation to improve the quality of safe drinking water and sanitation in India In 2012, Metso partnered with Plan Finland (Plan International) in a joint program with the objective to improve water and sanitation facilities in schools in Delhi. This cooperation is part of a wider project targeting 50 Indian schools in the districts of Lucknow, Vranasi, Fiazabad, Andra Pradesh and Patna. The project promotes student awareness and involvement in managing the environment in and around the schools, as well as their engagement in water conservation activities. The improvement in health conditions is also expected to help school enrollments and attendance and lead to lower drop-outs rates. This program is planned to last until the end of 2014. Fishing Project, Brazil This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 water and sanitation facilities in schools in Delhi. This cooperation is part of a wider project targeting 50 Indian schools in the districts of Lucknow, Vranasi, Fiazabad, Andra Pradesh and Patna. The project promotes student awareness and involvement in managing the environment in and around the schools, as well as their engagement in water conservation Annual report activities. 2012 The improvement in health conditions is also expected to help61 school enrollments and attendance and lead to lower drop-outs rates. This program is planned to last until the end of 2014. Page 2/3 Fishing Project, Brazil Since 1990, Metso has been involved in the Fishing Project, Projeto Pescar, which complements the academic education of boys and girls from 16 to 18 years of age who come from the poor neighborhoods of Sorocaba. This vocational training in metal workshop skills is provided in classrooms that are attached to Metso's Sorocaba facilities. Metso also gives employment to some of the trained youngsters and assists others in obtaining employment at other companies. The name was inspired by the proverb give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. To date, over 420 students have take part in this training. The Transformation Enablement Trust Sponsoring community development in South Africa In South Africa, Metso is a sponsor of the Transformation Enablement Trust (TETMC). The majority of funding received from Metso goes towards local mining communities in the Northern Cape, and in the regions of Steelpoort and Rustenburg, where Metso's customers have operations. Metso is sponsoring a wide range of programs that are related to math, science, sports, AIDS counseling, housing, IT development, agriculture and small-scale farming, as well as commercial property investments through the organization. Examples of our science, research and education projects in 2012 Teletón initiative Since 2004, Metso has been supporting Teletón, an annual 24-plus-hour TV and radio broadcast that raises money for Teletón Children's Rehabilitation Centers for disabled children in Mexico. Teletón's mission to provide knowledge about physical disabilities sends a strong message about respect, equality and support to people in these conditions. UN Women Metso supports UN Women, an international organization promoting gender equality and empowerment of women around the world. In 2012, we chose the UN Women to be the recipient of our annual season's greeting sponsorship, thus continuing our practice of replacing the sending of printed greetings cards with support to promote values we share. MetsoCultural In 2005, Metso started the MetsoCultural project in Sorocaba, Brazil, with the goal to promote culture for the Sorocaba community sponsoring theater, classical music and Brazilian popular music. The project is materialized according to principles of Rouanet Law, which encourages cultural investments that can be used by firms and citizens to help finance cultural projects. Metso Kids Club In 2009, Metso's Sorocaba office expanded its social responsibility to the families of its own staff by starting the Metso Kids Club for the personnel's children. Metso Kids Club currently has 75 little friends under the age of 12 in the club. The main objective is to improve the relationship between parents and children, to promote good citizenship and to participate in building a sustainable society. Metso supports youth development through Enterprise Village (Yrityskylä) In Finland, Metso supports youth education and prevents social displacement through the Enterprise Village (Yrityskylä) program coordinated by the Economic Information Office in Finland. The program is targeted for sixth graders in elementary schools. This concept provides a unique way to learn about society, the role of companies and the importance of entrepreneurship. During the one-day Enterprise Village visit, the children play the role of an employee, receive a salary and function as part of society. The program aims to educate children about the working This PDF has world and from been exported basics theMetso’s of Annual Online economics and Report 2012 society as well as their role in it. The program received the | www.metso.com/2012 Global Best Award in Europe for the most innovative new educational program. Metso Kids Club In 2009, Metso's Sorocaba office expanded its social responsibility to the families of its own staff by starting the Metso Kids Club for the personnel's Annual reportchildren. 2012 Metso Kids Club currently has 75 little friends under the age 62 of 12 in the club. The main objective is to improve the relationship between parents and children, to promote good citizenship and to participate in building a sustainable society. Metso supports youth development through Enterprise Village (Yrityskylä) In Finland, Metso supports youth education and prevents social displacement through the Enterprise Village (Yrityskylä) program coordinated by the Economic Information Office in Finland. The program is targeted for sixth graders in elementary schools. This concept provides a unique way to learn about society, the role of companies and the importance of entrepreneurship. During the one-day Enterprise Village visit, the children play the role of an employee, receive a salary and function as part of society. The program aims to educate children about the working world and the basics of economics and society as well as their role in it. The program received the Page 3/3 Global Best Award in Europe for the most innovative new educational program. Examples of our environmental and nature conservation projects in 2012 Araucária, Brazil The Metso Paper production site in Araucária, Brazil, has developed an environmental conservation area with an extensive environmental protection strategy. The production site has its own nature preservation area, an advanced waste management and recycling strategy, the facilities have maximum natural light, and the ventilation system operates on special solar panels. The production unit was designed to produce the lowest possible environmental impact regarding its own material and manufacturing process. The site also collects and uses rainwater and has its own waste water treatment plant, where 100% of domestic and industrial waste water is treated. WWF Metso has had cooperation with WWF Finland for about ten years. Metso and WWF Finland have cooperated in various campaigns and events during the successful partnership. Metso also participates globally in the annual WWF Earth Hour campaign and is sending a powerful message for action on the abatement of climate change. Metso continues to apply the WWF Green Office practices to reduce energy consumption and waste at the Corporate Office. In 2012, the cooperation theme was bio energy; Metso and WWF Finland jointly arranged a seminar on the perspectives of sustainable bio energy development. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 63 Case: Contributing to the community through an advanced HIV/Aids program Metso in South Africa embarked on an extensive HIV/Aids education and testing program with Metso employees. After a good response to the program, the next step was to educate the spouses of Metso employees. We targeted especially those living in rural areas who have no access to information, education or treatment. By educating our employees' spouses, we enable them to support their husbands, who are the bread winners in the households, and help them understand the impact of HIV/Aids in the workplace. The program is beneficial also to Metso, as healthy employees are able to perform at their best within a safe environment. In 2012, the program was awarded as the most comprehensive program by Swedish Workplace HIV and Aids Program (SWHAP), which supports workplace programs on HIV in countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Breaking down cultural barriers Metso's HIV/Aids program was created by Lindy Losper and Christelle Scheun, who work for Metso in South Africa and who have been arranging Employee Spouse Days at our locations in South Africa. So far, these events have been run in Isithebe, Rustenburg and Vereeniging. Spouse Day is an event held for all the female spouses of Metso employees. During Spouse Day, the guests attend a presentation on HIV/Aids and then are invited to voluntary testing and counseling. In addition, the spouses receive pamphlets, condoms and sanitary items. The response has been all around very positive from the employees, their spouses and the local management. According to Losper and Scheun, it was important in the beginning to show the business and personnel benefits of the program. That helped in breaking down cultural barriers, as topics related to relationships and sexuality are considered taboo in some African cultures. The program will continue to evolve in the future. Currently, there is a process under way for identifying certain spouses who will be trained as Peer Educators, who can then provide HIV/aids support and training within their own community. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 64 Case: WWF Metso and WWF have been collaboration partners for about ten years. During this time Metso has supported WWF's Operation Mermaid, a campaign to save the Baltic Sea by reducing algae growth, preventing oil spills, protecting endangered species and abating overfishing. Metso has also rendered its support to the Naturewatch program, an environmental education program for schoolchildren. Our cooperation has also included joint seminars on biomass-based energy solutions and a series of roundtable discussions on forest and climate issues. The seminar Bioenergy solutions supporting common efforts, organized jointly by WWF Finland and Metso on May 15, 2012, brought together some 80 experts and decision makers from industry, government, parliament, universities and non-governmental organizations to discuss the opportunities offered by sustainable bioenergy. The seminar coincided with the publishing of the WWF Living Planet Report 2012 on the same day. Metso also acted as a main participant in a roundtable discussion on Climate and Forest, following the WWF activities of the Year of the Forest 2011. WWF Earth Hour Metso participated in the WWF Earth Hour for the sixth consecutive year, with over 40 Metso units in 15 countries taking part in the event. WWF Earth Hour is a global campaign striving to inspire people to take action to slow climate change and to send a message to the decision-makers by shutting off lights for one hour. Green Office In 2012, Metso continued to apply the WWF Green Office practices to reduce energy consumption and waste at the Corporate Office in Helsinki. The program was implemented in 2009. Promoting sustainability with WWF in China In 2012, Metso joined WWF China's initiative Business Alliance for Sustainability, a network of companies that support environmental work in China. One of the objectives of this activity is to provide a forum to introduce and promote solutions for environmental protection in China, e.g. technologies the industry can apply for energyefficiency and for the reduction of raw materials use, as well as how to cut harmful emissions. The network, comprising of companies, environmental authorities and the research community, can effectively help in exchanging information and experiences. WWF China's initiative is a network of companies that support WWF's mission and sponsor it financially. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 65 Case: SOS Children's village a long-time partner of Metso As a global company, Metso is operating in many countries where the well-being of children is severely endangered due to e.g. the loss of parents as a result of illnesses or abandonment. In many instances, nongovernmental organizations can provide the needed services and experience to support children who otherwise lack their basic rights. SOS Children's Villages is known as a credible non-governmental organization in the field of children's rights, and for this reason Metso has extended long-term support for the SOS Children's Villages in South Africa and India as part of its role as a good corporate citizen. Since the 1990s, Metso has dedicated Metso Houses in the Children's Villages in South Africa in Rustenberg, North West Province, and in Vereeniging, Gauteng Province. In India, Metso has had five Metso Houses in Faridabad, in the state of Haryana, since 2007. The Children's Village in Faridabad consists of twenty family houses, where eight to ten children live together with an SOS mother in each home. SOS mothers are trained in child care to take on the role of the parent and ensure the physical and emotional well-being of the children. Metso supports six family houses annually. The Children's Village in Faridabad is just one example of how we can support the local community and sustainable development in the communities where we operate. SOS Children's Villages was established in 1949 and is active in 133 countries. They are best known for the concept of providing for children in need of care, education and health care in an environment resembling the normal conditions of a family. This is often organized in the form of houses with 8 to 15 children living as a family and with a trained social worker acting as their mother. SOS India also runs programs for the local community, including education, health initiatives, vocational training and livelihood enhancement. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 66 Other initiatives Metso partners with Plan Finland to improve water and sanitation facilities in Indian schools Metso continues its long-term cooperation with the international child centered development organization Plan Finland (Plan International), which strives to improve the quality of life of children in developing countries in a lasting manner. The joint program supports children's rights to water, health and development in schools in Delhi and will start in 2013. Metso's support is part of Plan's multi-year water and sanitation program that aims to improve the quality of safe drinking water and sanitation overall in 50 schools in the districts of Lucknow, Varanasi, Faizabad, Delhi, Andra Pradesh and Patna. Within the wider program, around 10,000 girls, boys and teachers will benefit from the improved water and sanitation facilities. The project will have positive effects especially on the girls because they will be better empowered to maintain their personal hygiene and health. It is estimated that the indirect benefits of the project will reach 5,000 families and households in the communities around the 50 schools. Metso has identified India as one of its focus areas in the emerging markets. As it strengthens its position in all of the selected growth areas by adapting business practices and products to meet local needs, it also strives to bear its responsibility as a good corporate citizen through local community initiatives. This project is similar to the one Metso and Plan Finland conducted in 2008-2010 in China, in the Chinhua area of Shaanxi Province. 4th edition of the Way to Peace Metso Brazil joined the 4th edition of the Way to Peace (Caminho da Paz), an event created by the Brazilian branch of the NGO Abraham's Path. The activity includes jogging and running through the streets of São Paulo, starting from an athletic club called Monte Líbano (Mount Lebanon), through the Pinheiros region, and finally reaching another club called Hebraica. Each of those areas represents different people, especially the Arab and Jewish. The event aims to demonstrate that integration among people, races and different creeds is possible in a peaceful and harmonious way, as it happens in Brazil. Messages of peace, freedom and understanding are sent along the way. The race took place on September 23, 2012, and it is supported by the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations. Transformation Enablement Trust Sponsoring community development in South Africa Metso supports sustainable development in South Africa by sponsoring a joint trust of companies operating within the mining industry. The majority of our funding benefits local mining communities in areas where our customers operate. For example, in the Northern Cape we have supported a math school for disadvantaged children. In South Africa, Metso is a sponsor of the Transformation Enablement Trust (TETMC). It was established four years ago, when several global mining industry companies needed a dedicated vehicle to coordinate the administration of their enterprise and socio-economic development programs in South Africa. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 67 Page 2/3 The TETMC was created with the specific objective of identifying, developing and fostering the growth of the emerging and social sectors of the mining, construction, automotive and agricultural industries. It sponsors a wide range of programs that are related to math, science, sports, AIDS, housing, IT development, agriculture and small-scale farming, as well as commercial property investments. The majority of funding received from Metso goes towards local mining communities in the Northern Cape and in the regions of Steelpoort and Rustenburg, where Metso's customers have operations. Metso's support has, e.g., directed a black-owned enterprise that has set up a math school for disadvantaged children in the Northern Cape. Another example of a project that has been sponsored is the Hunger and Thirst Foundation. Established in 2006, the foundation was set up based on the realization that if a child can be reached at a young enough age, his or her destiny could be changed forever. The foundation offers underfed children food, a mentor, help with homework and coaching in sports. The TETMC is part of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) policy launched by the South African government. The trust's actions have been set up in complete compliance with legislation, and its programs have been verified by a government-appointed auditor for the B-BBEE scorecard. The communities that the TETMC sponsors are usually non-profit organizations or local black entrepreneurs. Altogether 85 percent of the contributions are granted to individuals or communities, the majority of which are black or owned by black entrepreneurs. The maximum administrative cost of the trust's actions is 15 percent of all contributions. Metso Paper South America living side by side with the surrounding environment The Metso Paper production site in Araucária, Brazil, has developed a nature conservation area with an extensive environmental protection strategy. The 60,000 m2 production site has a nature conservation area of 12,000 m², i.e. 20% of Metso Paper's property in Araucária. During the construction phase, the production unit developed an initiative to have the surrounding area well preserved, as it is a watershed area with river springs. This approach assures the sustainable integration of the local fauna and flora preservation area and the production sites. The production site also has an advanced waste management and recycling strategy. All metal scraps are stored and handled inside the workshop, and 88% of the waste generated at the facility is sent to local recycling companies. During construction of the production unit, sustainability was high on the agenda and low raw material consumption and low waste generation were key criteria. The production unit was also designed to produce the lowest possible environmental impact regarding its own material and manufacturing process. The production unit uses natural light to the maximum extent, and the ventilation system operates on special solar panels. The building is also energy efficient; the equipment and installations were selected for their enhanced comfort and low consumption. The site also collects and uses rainwater, and the landscaping is designed for low water consumption. The site has its own waste water treatment plant where 100% of domestic and industrial waste water is treated. On average, 50% of the treated water is returned to the water system to supply toilets and gardening needs. Fishing project, Brazil Since 1990, Metso Brazil has supported the Fishing Project, Projeto Pescar, which complements the academic education of boys and girls from 16 to 18 years of age who come from the poor neighborhoods of Sorocaba, Brazil. It also provides them with vocational training and employment opportunities. The name was inspired by the proverb give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. The project develops personal and professional growth of young students who are in social need, e.g. are at risk of criminal activity or drug use. So far, over 420 young people have gone through the program and have become qualified for the labor market. Many of them have been employed by Metso, and we have assisted others in finding a job in other companies. The target is not only to help youngsters get their first job, but to ultimately move This forward PDF has in life. been exported The from program Metso’s has Online Annual been Report 2012successful, 90 percent of the participants are now employed and | www.metso.com/2012 have stayed away from crime and drugs. Each course lasts one year and has about 18 participants. Today, Fishing project, Brazil Since 1990, Metso Brazil has supported the Fishing Project, Projeto Pescar, which complements the academic education of boys andAnnual girls from 16 to2012 report 18 years of age who come from the poor neighborhoods of Sorocaba, 68 Brazil. It also provides them with vocational training and employment opportunities. The name was inspired by the proverb give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. The project develops personal and professional growth of young students who are in social need, e.g. are at risk of criminal activity or drug use. So far, over 420 young people have gone through the program and have become qualified for the labor market. Many of them have been employed by Metso, and we have assisted others in finding a job in other companies. The target is not only to help youngsters get their first job, but to ultimately move forward in life. The program has been successful, 90 percent of the participants are now employed Page and 3/3 have stayed away from crime and drugs. Each course lasts one year and has about 18 participants. Today, about 30 percent of the participants are girls. Metso is supporting local hospitals in Brazil Promoting the well-being of local residents has been part of Metso's operations in Brazil for years. For example, we are supporting two hospitals in Curitiba. One of them is Santa Casa da Misericórdia Hospital, which is the oldest hospital in the Paraná State and thus plays a major role in the area's history. Built in the 1880s, the hospital building has been designated for historic preservation and is now being renovated. Outside support for the project is needed, since only about 60 percent of the total expenses are paid by the government. Local partners like Metso are funding the rest. Metso is also involved with Hospital Pequeno Príncipe. It is Brazil's largest exclusively pediatric hospital, with 300,000 outpatients and 26,000 hospital admittances of children, from babies to adolescents under the age of 18, annually. Pequeno Príncipe's challenge like that of most hospitals is coping with financial issues and rising costs while maintaining quality and volume of services. The significance of support from partners such as Metso is continually growing. Through fundraising by partners, the hospital has been able to purchase a long list of new equipment, including dialysis machines, intensive care monitoring units and respirators, to name just a few. Metso chose this particular hospital because it is a reference for treating children and adolescents. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 69 Health, safety and environment (HSE) Health, safety and environment (HSE) is an essential element in all our activities in Metso, since many of our people across our different businesses work in potentially hazardous environments. Prioritizing the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees, customers and partners is fundamental to everyone at Metso. At Metso, we all have a responsibility for safety, both as individuals and collectively, and we also have the right to expect a safe working environment. Therefore, safeguarding the health of the people who work for Metso is fundamental. World-class safety is also a sign of quality; safe businesses are productive businesses. Our customers and other stakeholders expect us to deliver quality products and services, but they also expect us to do it with no harm to individuals or to the environment. This means that all Metso employees must actively look out for things that threaten health, safety and wellbeing and help to eliminate or control them. We believe that world-class safety comes from a combination of having the right attitude, making the right decisions and taking the right actions. During 2012, we increased further our focus on developing health, safety and environmental issues by organizing various trainings for our personnel, and an especially strong focus was put on training for our management. Our HSE policy states that compliance with applicable laws and regulations is only a minimum and that we need to strive for performances above and beyond the rules and regulations in our operations. Metso has implemented a new way to support safety thinking by defining Metso's minimum safety standards. These standards include guidance for eight different and frequent tasks in our operations: lock out/tag out procedures, working at heights, lifting, working in confined spaces, operating tools and equipment, working with hazardous substances, personal protective equipment and maintaining good order. All Metso's operations are responsible for implementing the minimum safety standards in their local procedures and ensuring that local procedures are communicated to everyone working in their facilities and projects. The implementation of Metso's minimum standards will be completed in 2013. In addition to HSE trainings and minimum safety standards, in 2012 we had a broad range of global activities within Metso to raise awareness about health, safety and environmental issues and to train our personnel in order to prevent any accidents and near-misses in the future. In order to strengthen our local networks and cooperation, we organized HSE days in Sweden and North America for our local HSE professionals, with topics ranging from safe work wear to energy-efficiency investments. We also executed health and safety training modules for our business unit management and personnel to keep HSE issues high on the agenda on a grassroots level in our units globally. The implementation or our Metso Safe e-learning program continued in 2012 and has now reached most of our personnel around the world. We also improved our Group-wide monitoring by introducing HSE self-auditing and internal HSE assurance practices, which have been implemented in our operations from 2012 onwards. In addition, we developed our HSE Monitor reporting system, which currently covers 98% of our personnel globally. To raise awareness and enhance our uniform HSE practices and Metso's minimum safety standards, we introduced a global campaign, the Metso safety pledge. The campaign was implemented in all our production units around the world in 2012 with positive feedback received from our personnel. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 70 Page 2/2 Page 1/1 Health, Safety and Environmental policy This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 In 2012, Metso updated its health, safety and environment (HSE) policy and it was approved by Matti Kähkönen, Metso's President and CEO. It will be reviewed annually by the Metso Executive Team. Our HSE policy supports the development of a safe, healthy and well-managed work environment, and requires all of us to adopt good HSE behavior and to follow agreed rules and instructions in all our daily activities. Prioritizing the health, safety and occupational wellbeing of our employees, customers and partners is fundamental to everyone at Metso. The policy also states our commitment to design sustainable solutions, products, innovations and services to help our customers improve their safety and environmental performance. We aim for the efficient use of energy, natural resources and materials and sustainable operations throughout the Group; and we aspire to minimize our environmental footprint throughout our value chain. Metso's health, safety and environment (HSE) policy. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 71 HSE targets and results Metso's long-term objective is zero work-related incidents. Short term, by 2015, we target a lost-time incident factor (LTIF) of less than 5. LTIF reflects the number of incidents resulting in an absence of at least one workday per million hours worked. All business units support the Group-level target with relevant target setting and action plans. Our long -term vision of zero work-incidents is monitored by corporate-level Key Performance Indicators. We also target to provide all our employees with a minimum of eight hours of safety training annually. In 2012, the number of recordable work-related injuries was 778 (841). Recordable incidents are the sum of lost time, restricted work and medical treatment incidents. In 2012, unfortunately 1 (4) work-related fatality occurred. Metso's LTIF was 7.1 (9.1), while 64% of our units reached the Group-level LTIF target of less than 5. Metso is also monitoring its near-miss situations and the frequency. In 2012, the near-miss and risk observation factor at Metso was 256, an increase of 44% from 2011 due to safety campaigning. The number of absence days in 2012 totaled 6.9 (4.9) days per person on average, 6.5 (4.6) days due to illness and 0.4 (0.3) days due to injury at work. In the event of a fatality, Metso promptly launches a comprehensive investigation, and if required also involves the local authorities, and corrective actions are taken and implemented immediately. For every incident and fatality on Metso's premises, an HSE alert is distributed internally. Since 2008, Metso has been actively developing its health and safety reporting system to better analyze incidents and the reasons and trends leading up to them. Since 2008, we have succeeded in reducing the LTIF by 66% (50%), mainly by increasing employee awareness of work safety and by encouraging every employee to take responsibility for work safety issues. The LTIF levels reported by Metso's units and operating countries vary, and there is still a lot of room for improvement in health and safety work. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 72 HSE management Safety leads to good quality and enhances profitability. Our customers expect us to deliver productive and highquality products and services, but they also expect us to avoid risking the safety of our employees, our customers' employees and the environment. We take a pre-cautionary approach by applying the requirements defined by our high HSE standards early in the development phase of our products and process solutions. In our own HSE management practices, we comply with ISO 14000 and OHSAS 18001 standards. 57% of our relevant operations are covered by ISO 14001 certification and 42% by OHSAS 18001 certification. We also strive to anticipate the development of HSE legislation on a national and international level. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 2/2 Annual report 2012 73 Our health, safety and environmental (HSE) management is organized according to a semi-decentralized model where our strategy, HSE policy and targets are set at the Group level, and the business line managements set business-specific targets, action plans and global instructions based on the Group's targets. Metso's global HSE network supports the business lines in the monitoring, developing and communicating of safety practices. Each of our segments and business lines are represented in the global health and safety network that gathered four times and in our environmental network that gathered five times in 2012. The HSE networks define general health, safety and environmental guidelines and procedures for the Group level, e.g. the implementation of the HSE policy, and the practices and guidelines of our units' HSE activities. Defining focus areas for HSE activities, developing HSE management and sharing best practices are the responsibility of our HSE networks. In addition, Metso has local networks in place that are organized by the business representatives responsible for HSE matters within their respective organizations. These networks define common practices and ensure compliance with the local legislation and with Metso's minimum safety standards. The local representatives are responsible for keeping the site managers aware of the changing HSE legislation and for helping them to develop the procedures. HSE legislation Due to the increasing amount of legislation and regulation in the area of health, safety and environment, there is a growing need for monitoring and forecasting the legislative environment around Metso from a Group-level perspective. Traditionally, our different business lines and units have covered the monitoring task independently, but a more integrated approach is needed in today's global business environment. Therefore, we investigate the appropriate level of HSE legislation monitoring and forecasting at the Group level. We consider this kind of operating model to have a lot of potential -from both the business and risk management point of view. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 74 HSE development projects 2012 has marked a year of development and increased strength for Metso's HSE projects around the world. We are actively developing our HSE performance through a range of actions and development projects. We strive to manage our HSE actions comprehensively by supporting and strengthening our performance further according to our sustainability strategy. Examples of our HSE development projects in 2012 An award-winning idea to improve workplace safety Metso acknowledges the best HSE initiative to improve the health and safety of the work environment with an annual award. The award aims to encourage new ways of improving workplace safety as well as to show appreciation for the persistent and hard work towards a safe workplace. In 2012, two active Metso professionals saw a place for improvement in the way lifting is done at Metso's production sites and conceptualized a new hoisting device that could replace the use of lifting slings. The men were declared the winners of the HSE category at the Metso Award finals in 2012. Their innovativeness, initiative and commitment to improve work safety convinced the jury and their efforts to develop a new lifting device were rewarded. The new hoisting device has now been developed further for production. Unifying Metso's packages brought significant savings in emissions and costs Metso has optimized its transportation packaging with a unified brand look and feel. With Metso's wide range of products, also the packages varied immensely in size from a few grams to 200 tons. The products travel from Metso's production units to customers. The packages were designed to be as eco-efficient as possible using recyclable materials in the packaging and filling materials; this enables us to use the same packages several times again. Packaging eco-efficiency was also the focus in minimizing colored logos and optimizing the package size based on the demand. Optimizing all Metso's packages and increasing the eco-efficiency led to a 40% decrease in packaging costs and reduced the amount of material needed for the packages. Effective planning of transportation adds up Metso has developed a Transportation Gateway system that enables Metso to reduce its environmental impact by cutting CO2 emissions and save money and time. Metso Transport Gateway (MTG) is an effective tool for transportation planning, monitoring and analyzing. MTG is a digital work desk for transportation professionals. It harmonizes the transportation process and way of working within a wide network, including Metso business units, customers, transportation partners and suppliers. As part of the Metso Transportation Optimization (MTO) project, the MTG system plays a very important role in unifying and harmonizing processes. The system leads the user to automatically use the most efficient routing solution and also offers the option to manually select from among the designated carriers. All locations utilize the same Metso-wide contracts and instructions. Supporting the health and wellbeing of our employees in Brazil Metso has an on-going initiative in Brazil to promote the health and wellbeing of its employees. The Week of Quality Life program includes a vaccination campaign and health orientation with lectures related to a healthy lifestyle, sports and balanced nutrition. In addition, the program has its dedicated jogging team and massage services for relaxation. Currently, Metso has 70 runners who represent the company in various races in Brazil and abroad. Since 2005, the Metso Brazil jogging team has been participating in what has become a highly anticipated event, the largest Street Race of South America, São Silvestre. Another program in Brazil, the Employees Sports Association (ESA), promotes well-being by providing access to a fitness center with additional sports activities such as soccer, volleyball and basketball. Also the employees' children, from 6 to 16 years old, are invited to the fitness center once a week to play sports. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 75 Developing health and safety monitoring tools In 2012, we continued to develop our health, safety and environmental (HSE) global reporting processes and our monitoring tools. We continued the implementation of our HSE monitoring system, which now covers approximately 98% of Metso's personnel. Accidents, first-aid situations, environmental damage, near-miss situations and observed risks related to occupational health and safety are entered into the HSE Monitor reporting tool. We also use the HSE Monitor for safety discussions and HSE-related inspections within our organization, and it provides a platform for our HSE professionals as all incidents must be reported to the system. We investigate and analyze every near-miss situation and incident to prevent similar situations from happening. Similar incidents can be prevented in the future by developing our reporting systems and by investigating all near-misses and incidents. At the factory level, the system accelerates our procedures for reviewing incidents and near-miss situations. In 2012, new functionalities, such as safety discussions and work place risk assessments, were added to our monitoring system. Every employee at Metso is obligated to report all accidents, hazards and environmental damages to the HSE Monitor. All our employees are also obligated to fill out an accident notice in our reporting tool; the notice Page can be 1/1 also submitted anonymously, and all our employees have the possibility to browse other notifications. The system also allows us to follow the notification process and all the actions taken in response to the report. Comprehensive approach to health and safety This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 training Health and safety is a priority for our operations around the world, and we want to emphasize the importance of a safe working environment to all our employees and partners by raising the awareness of health and safety through education. We have set a company-wide target to provide eight hours of HSE training to all Metso's professionals every year. In 2012, we continued health and safety awareness training program for Metso's management. The training program aims to make sure that our management has a clear and profound understanding of the significance of work safety from the legal, financial and human points of view. All Metso managers must understand their role in developing occupational safety and their responsibility in safety matters. The management training program had reached the management teams of our segments and business lines by the end of 2012. In 2013, the scope of the program will be broadened to meet regional needs. We will also strive to introduce new compliance training for our management during 2013. Metso also has a comprehensive health and safety e-learning program in place that introduces our HSE standards, emphasizes the significance of work safety, and encourages and supports the attention to it for new Metso professionals and deepens the HSE knowledge of existing employees. Metso safety e-learning program can be studied either individually or together with a team. By 2012, nearly all Metso employees have gone through the e-learning program. In the future, Metso has also set a goal to provide HSE training for our relevant stakeholders, e.g. for suppliers and customers. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 76 New tools implemented for HSE auditing During 2012, Metso strongly developed its safety culture e.g. by increasing its focus in HSE auditing practices, by launching a self-auditing practice and by starting an internal HSE assurance process targeted to all Metso's units globally. The new mandatory HSE self-auditing tool includes a 12 elements model that enhances the development of good safety practices; and it will be implemented in 2013. The tool is targeted to our locations to enable them to make sure that they are following Metso's common safety standards and to identify and prioritize the development areas for their HSE work. The 12 elements model is a methodology for systematic development of safety matters created for Metso, including different aspects of safety. Each element will assess the maturity of safety systems at our production sites. The 12 elements include, e.g., HSE management, hazard and risk evaluation, training, ownership, leadership, and incident and accident management. The self-auditing results are a base for the internal HSE assurance process that was started in 2012. The program runs thorough audits in Metso's locations globally, with the purpose of improving local HSE management systems. Our internal HSE audit process helps Metso's sites to implement good HSE practices and to makes sure that global HSE initiatives are implemented everywhere in Metso. The audit practice is part of an initiative signed by Metso's President and CEO Matti Kähkönen to ensure a safe working environment for everyone at Metso. Metso's internal HSE audit program will cover one third of our production units and major sites annually. The audits will be conducted by two lead auditors with a certified pool of internal auditors from the HSE network. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 77 Other initiatives Global HSE days for Metso professionals During 2012, we focused on tightening our internal HSE network and enhanced competence sharing across Metso with the aim to bring all personnel working with health, safety and environmental issues into closer contact beyond segment boundaries. We started with the largest operations areas and launched HSE days for local professionals both in Sweden and in North America during 2012. HSE days offers an opportunity to network and share knowledge and information with colleagues across the area. During 2013, we aim to continue with the process and organize HSE days in other countries where we have operations. Metso safety pledge initiative to raise awareness of our minimum safety standards At Metso, a safe workplace is at the core of our company values and the forefront of our daily concerns. In 2012, we implemented our new global safety initiative, the Metso safety pledge. The initiative is about taking a personal safety pledge to ensure a safe workplace for everyone. The goal is to have every Metso colleague globally carefully review the checklist of Metso's minimum safety standards and commit to follow them. The minimum safety standards include guidelines for personal protective equipment (PPE), lifting, working at heights, operating tools and equipment, lock out/tag out procedures, confined spaces, working with hazardous substances and maintaining good order. Improved communications on HSE alert A wide variety of risks and hazards are encountered across all Metso's activities; all Metso professionals have a duty to protect themselves and their colleagues in the workplace. Metso has a global process in place to report all incidents and near-misses in order to analyze and investigate them to make preventive actions for the future. The HSE alerts are available to all Metso employees via our intranet to raise awareness of work-related accidents and incidents and to ensure that communication is given across the entire organization in order to learn and to prevent similar incidents from happening in other locations. Sharing these alerts and recommendations is an important way for us to prevent accidents from occurring or reoccurring. We report all incidents through a notification chain within two hours of the incident; the person at the incident scene is responsible for sending a brief description of the incident to local business management and HSE representatives. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 78 Metso's energy efficiency program Page 2/3 We strive to reduce the environmental footprint of our own production through a dedicated energyefficiency program that was introduced in 2009, while setting global, Group-wide targets for energy conservation and carbon dioxide emissions for our own production. Our global target is to reduce Metso's energy consumption and emissions by 15 percent by 2015 and by 20 percent by 2020 compared to our business volume. The majority of our reported CO2 emissions come from the use of energy; therefore, decreasing energy consumption will reduce emissions while also bringing financial benefits. In 2012 alone, Metso saved 2,4% of the energy of its own production, a total of 24 300 MWh. Since the beginning of the program, 5,2%, i.e. a total of 52 000 MWh of energy, has been saved through a wide range of actions around the world. Mapping the opportunities to save energy and decrease carbon dioxide emissions was started in the most energy-intensive production units, our foundries. The mapping continued in 2012 and the studies have now been completed This most from inexported PDF has been of our energy-intensive Metso’s production Online Annual Report 2012 units. Currently, about 75 percent of Metso's energy | www.metso.com/2012 consumption has been mapped. and carbon dioxide emissions for our own production. Our global target is to reduce Metso's energy consumption and emissions by 15 percent by 2015 and by 20 percent by 2020 compared to our business volume. The majority of our reported CO2 emissions come from the use of energy; therefore, decreasing energy consumption will reduce emissions Annual while also bringing report 2012financial benefits. In 2012 alone, Metso saved 2,4% of the energy 79 of its own production, a total of 24 300 MWh. Since the beginning of the program, 5,2%, i.e. a total of 52 000 MWh of energy, has been saved through a wide range of actions around the world. Mapping the opportunities to save energy and decrease carbon dioxide emissions was started in the most energy-intensive production units, our foundries. The mapping continued in 2012 and the studies have now been completed in most of our energy-intensive production units. Currently, about 75 percent of Metso's energy consumption has been mapped. Page 3/3 We have developed quarterly reporting metrics for each production site's energy-efficiency status and energysavings actions; these metrics help to promote energy-efficiency improvements and monitoring at the Group level. Identifying energy-efficiency improvements We are conducting energy audits at the sites that have the highest energy consumption and the greatest potential for energy savings. Metso's top 30 sites with the highest energy consumption account for nearly 80 percent of Metso's total energy consumption and hence 80 percent of Metso's CO2 emissions. By the end of 2012, external audits of energy consumption were completed in most of the largest energy consuming production units. In 2013, we will continue the research work and move on to the less energyintensive units and complete the mapping. The most significant savings targets found so far lie in the utilization of fuel, e.g. natural gas, and heat. Potential savings were also found outside the production process, e.g. in cooling, compressed air systems and building services. In addition to external audits, we continued our internal research work and the implementation of measures to improve energy use, including the compiling of a global database for actions to improve energy efficiency. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 80 2012 highlights of the energy program Concrete results In 2012, over 100 different energy-efficiency projects were either started or implemented in Metso's own production; these projects totaled savings of 6,650 tons of carbon dioxide in 2012. Additionally, a number of smaller initiatives and actions have taken place globally in our production units. Since the start of Metso's energy-efficiency program in 2009, it has implemented 223 projects that have led to carbon dioxide savings of 13,960 tons. Since starting the program, 52,000 MWh of energy, worth EUR 3.3 million, has been saved with investments of EUR 5.7 million; these investments have a payback time ranging from one to three years. To speed up the energy and CO2 savings within our production, we have a separate budget for energy and CO2 investments. In addition to energy saving action reporting, Metso is using both intensity and absolute targets in its energy and CO2 emissions reductions program. An absolute target is used for some of the sites, while the rest of Metso's production sites are using an intensity target; the reason for this is that an absolute target is not suited for all Metso's sites, due to their operational model. Both the intensity and absolute targets are actively monitored and reported. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 81 Case: Renewal of compressed air units We have renewed compressed air units and improved compressed air systems in many of Metso's production facilities as part of our global energy-efficiency program. Since the start of the program in 2010, improvements to the compressed air systems and equipment have resulted in an energy savings of nearly 3,600 MWh. This translates to an annual cost savings of over EUR 220,000, and the average payback period of the investments has been a little over 1.5 years. The savings achieved through the renewal of compressed air units and systems represents 10 percent of all savings achieved so far in Metso's energy-efficiency program. In the future, the cost savings will multiply, since they are accumulated on a yearly basis. The energy savings of compressed air units and systems have been achieved through various actions. By replacing older compressors with newer technology that has more efficient controls and therefore more flexibility, we have been able to optimize the running times for different units. Additionally, we have adjusted the settings of the compressed air units and improved leakage control in compressed air networks. We have also achieved excellent results by minimizing pressure level based on the need of the production equipment. We will continue to improve our compressed air units and systems in 2013, and our aim is to spread the good results to other units. Compressed air units are typically used both in large and smaller production facilities; therefore, even small actions can add up to significant savings and the results achieved in one unit are often adaptable elsewhere. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 82 Case: Water conservation through rain-water harvesting and recycling water We have established an efficient water treatment system to conserve water in our Metso Park production facilities in Alwar, India. Metso Park is Metso's single largest greenfield investment and an example of how we build our new production sites to be efficient in terms of material and water usage. Metso Park has a state-of-the-art water conservation system, which comprises its own bore wells, both a water treatment plant and a sewage treatment plant, and a rain-water harvesting system. The facilities were built to minimize the use of water. Production started at the site in 2010; now that the construction work is completed, the monthly water consumption is 3,000 m3. The raw water is taken from two bore wells and processed at the site's own water treatment plant. The plant has two separate lines for treating drinking water and process water. All the waste water is processed at the site's own sewage treatment plant, which has a daily capacity of 100 m3. The treated waste water is used as flushing water as well as for gardening and irrigation. By using recycled water, we reduce the consumption of ground water. The water harvesting system contains eight water harvesting wells that are used to collect rain water. The average charging capacity of each harvesting well varies from 22 m3 per hour to 25 m3 per hour. The harvested Page 1/1 water is recharged to the ground water to keep its level from declining due to the water use in our production. We also monitor the level of ground water regularly. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 Case: Water conservation through rain-water harvesting and recycling water We have established an efficient water treatment system to conserve water in our Metso Park production facilities in Alwar, India. Metso Park is Metso's single largest greenfield investment and an example of how we build our new production sites to be efficient in terms of material and water usage. Metso Park has a state-of-the-art water conservation system, which comprises its own bore wells, both a water treatment plant and a sewage treatment plant, and a rain-water harvesting system. The facilities were built to minimize the use of water. Production started at the site in 2010; now that the construction work is completed, the monthly water consumption is 3,000 m3. The raw water is taken from two bore wells and processed at the site's own water treatment plant. The plant has two separate lines for treating drinking water and process water. All the waste water is processed at the site's own sewage treatment plant, which has a daily capacity of 100 m3. The treated waste water is used as flushing water as well as for gardening and irrigation. By using recycled water, we reduce the consumption of ground water. The water harvesting system contains eight water harvesting wells that are used to collect rain water. The average charging capacity of each harvesting well varies from 22 m3 per hour to 25 m3 per hour. The harvested water is recharged to the ground water to keep its level from declining due to the water use in our production. We also monitor the level of ground water regularly. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 83 Case: Creating more energy-efficient lighting We have renewed production hall lighting and improved lighting controls in our production facilities globally. The improvements have been part of our global energy-efficiency program. In total, the Group-level lighting renewals have helped us achieve an annual energy savings of nearly 5,000 megawatt hours per year since the start of the program in 2010. The annual cost savings have exceeded EUR 400,000, and the payback period of the investment is two years. The cost savings represents 13 percent of the total savings from our energy-efficiency program so far. The cost savings will continue to increase on a yearly basis, since they are accumulating. In practice, we have replaced outdated lighting with new, more energy-efficient lighting, which enables us to preserve the existing light intensity with less energy. Modern energy-efficient lighting also produces less waste energy, such as heat. Additionally, we have automated the lighting controls and have optimized usage by installing, for example, timers, motion detectors and light level sensors. E.g. our production site in Columbus, United States, has made significant improvements in production lighting and saves annually 290 MWh totaling to EUR 75 000 with 1,3 years of payback time. We will continue to renew the lighting in our production facilities in 2013, and we will also be looking into using new technology, such as LED lighting. By documenting and verifying all the measures, we can share good practices and results from the lighting improvements with other units as well. Generally, there is more potential for improvements in smaller units, since most of our bigger units have already optimized their lighting. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 84 Product sustainability Sustainable products provide environmental, social and economic benefits over their entire life cycle, from the extraction of raw materials to decommissioning. For Metso, in practice this means that our products are safe to operate, economically feasible and efficient, and help our customers to minimize their environmental impacts. The sources of product sustainability are innovation and continuous improvement of existing products. As stated in Metso's HSE policy, we design our solutions, products, innovations and services to help our customers improve their safety and environmental performance. Our ambition is to maintain our technology leadership with cost-efficient and environmentally sustainable products and process solutions. Life-cycle thinking is a crucial aspect in providing safe, economically feasible and environmentally sustainable products. Our life cycle services help our customers to operate and maintain their equipment efficiently and safely, while our life cycle assessments provide us with the necessary information about the environmental profile of our products in order to help us and our customers make justified decisions. Examples of our product safety improvements in 2012 In 2012 Metso Automation developed a new generation noise attenuation technology for ball valves. The new Q2-trim reduces noise by as much as 30 dB in gas flow control applications, compared to a valve that uses no noise attenuation. Metso Automation is also developing its valves to minimize the hazardous gas emissions from the process as our RTD efforts ensure that the valves meet the requirements of the latest stringent international standards. Within the oil, gas and petrochemical industries the reliable operation of valves under extreme conditions, such as very high or very low temperatures. Valves for these industries and other demanding applications must pass type tests for example simulating fire. As requirements and testing norms evolve, Metso Automation is continuously carrying out type testing and development work on its valves. Metso Pulp, Paper and Power developed its product safety procedures for rolls and roll transports in 2012. The need for development stems from legislation (machinery directive), according to which the entire life cycle of the product must be taken into account in every aspect, including product safety. The challenge faced by the PPP segment was that the instructions on roll transports were not reaching the customers, as they were getting lost because they were attached only to the packaging. Some action improvements were made during the year. A booklet was produced for the customer, with a presentation of the rolls, roll groups and securing, all illustrated with clear drawings. In 2012 Metso Mining and Construction introduced two new track-mounted crushing plants, Lokotrack LT106 and Lokotrack LT120, for primary crushing stages, and a mobile screen, Lokotrack ST2.4. In developing these products, special attention was paid to safety and ease of maintenance. The service platforms are spacious, and they are accessed via easy-to-use ladders that fold for transport. The engine modules are also designed with a view to easy maintenance, and their easily removable cover panels are made of a composite. The drive belt covers are also made of a composite material that makes handling them substantially easier. The new, eco-efficient and easy-to-maintain engine modules were also introduced in our other track-mounted crushing and screening plants. Furthermore, service platforms and accessways were improved in several products. E.g. in Lokotrack LT106 the high pressure spraying system binds the dust with minimum water utilization and together with dust encapsulation improves working environment and enables crushing also in urban areas. And up to 30% lower fuel consumption trough new more eco-efficient and economical Tier4 / Tier3 engine module, improved hydraulic system and larger crusher flywheel mass. Safety really has come first when designing features for Lokotrack LT106. Risks have been minimized in This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 85 Page 2/2 operating, transporting and servicing the unit. E.g. Hydraulically operated sidewalls and wedges are safe and eliminate any requirement for dangerous climbing. Low voltage electrical components have been coded and marked. And Protection gate over the crusher and spacious maintenance platforms according to standards guarantee safe operation. Also numerous emergency buttons and pull cords stop the conveyors instantly if necessary. In Metso Mining and Construction, minimizing engine, dust and noise emissions are emphasized in product design and further improved with options such as high pressure water spraying system, feeder rubber bottom and encapsulated conveyors. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 86 Innovation Our research and technology development (RTD) activities focus on several important areas of sustainability, such as energy and raw materials efficiency, utilization of renewable and recycled raw materials and fuels, advanced process control technology and new solutions for the services business. In this way, our RTD strongly supports our growth strategy. Our RTD activities are based on cooperation with customers and on our network of research facilities and universities. Improvement of the environmental impacts of our customers' operations is an integral part of our product and service portfolio. Metso's solutions produce added value for our customers during all phases of the production process life cycle, improve customer competitiveness and reduce adverse environmental impacts, either directly or indirectly, throughout the value chain. The environmental business solutions we offer are related particularly to the generation of renewable energy, the reduction of energy consumption in our customers' production processes, improved utilization of raw materials, enhanced water conservation, and the reduction of dust, noise, waste and emissions. We also offer training, maintenance and services related to our products. We take care of the entire production process life cycle and help to ensure that the solutions are used correctly and in an environmentally sustainable manner. As Metso is focusing on reduction of environmental impact in its RTD processes, most of our RTD projects are evaluated according to their environmental performance, a process that starts with identification of environmental aspects. Qualitative objectives are set for the most significant environmental issues, and the progress is followed during the entire development project. Sustainability is an integral part of our product development and sustainability is implemented in our innovation process as well. The purpose of the innovation process is to ensure that the market and technology trends and the business strategy are combined into visions that are further refined into commercial products. The innovation process brings together experts from the different functions, right from the start of a development project. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 87 Case: Gasification technology replaces fossil fuels with renewable energy sources During 2011 and 2012, Metso successfully developed and commercialized a gasification technology, which can substitute oil, natural gas and coal in energy production. In Vaasa, Finland, Metso has integrated a biomass gasification plant with a coal-fired power plant, which enables safe and reliable utilization of biomass in the existing high-efficiency power boiler. The gasification plant was commissioned in December 2012, and it is the first time in the world that biomass gasification technology is being adopted on such a large scale. The customer, Vaskiluodon Voima Oy, was looking for an efficient and competitive solution to replace coal in the existing combined heat and power plant. The Metso gasifier is based on circulating fluidized bed technology. It generates gas from biomass, which is combusted along with coal in the existing power boiler. The concept combines the advantages of a separate biomass power plant, such as the ability to utilize a wide range of biomass, with the advantages of a fossil fuel plant, such as operation at high steam parameters and high cycle efficiency. This enables the customer to replace about 30-40 percent of coal with renewable fuels. Biogas to be used as fuel for vehicles In Gothenburg, Sweden, Metso is building a biomass gasification plant for Göteborg Energi. The aim of the customer's Gothenburg Biomass Gasification Project (GoBiGas) is to produce biogas through the thermal gasification of forest residues, such as branches and tree tops. A major advantage of biogas is that the existing natural gas grid can be used for distribution. The produced biogas will be fed into the city's gas network where the biogas is intended to be used as fuel for vehicles. The selected technology is indirect gasification, which produces more purified and energy-intense gas in comparison to direct gasification technology. The difference between the technologies is that the air used as the fluidization medium in direct gasification is substituted with steam in indirect gasification, resulting in nitrogenfree gas. This is the first delivery of this kind of gasification technology for Metso. The gasification process is based on licensed technology provided by the Austrian company Repotec. In the gasification plant, biomass is converted into combustible gas. This gas is purified and upgraded in a methanation process into biogas, which has a quality comparable to natural gas. The target is to convert 65 percent of the biomass to biogas and to raise overall energy efficiency to above 90 percent. The gasification plant is a demonstration plant, and it is scheduled to be in operation in late 2013. The annual production of the gasification plant will be equivalent to 160 gigawatt-hours, and it has the capacity to deliver biogas for about 15-20,000 cars. In 2020, Göteborg Energi expects to deliver biogas equivalent to 1 terawatthour. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 88 Case: Extracting lignin creates new possibilities for pulp mills LignoBoost is a technology for extracting lignin from pulp mill black liquor. It gives pulp mills new potential to increase production, reduce costs and create new sources of income. Metso commercialized LignoBoost by building the first large-scale plant together with the pulp and paper company Domtar. The plant is situated in Domtar's pulp mill in Plymouth, North Carolina, US, and it started production in January 2013. Lignin is a component of wood. LignoBoost makes it possible to extract lignin from the black liquor and to increase the liquor-burning capacity of chemical recovery boilers. For example, by removing 40 percent of the lignin in the black liquor, the pulp production can be increased by 20-25 percent. The technology was developed by Innventia (then STFI-Packforsk) and Chalmers University of Technology. Metso purchased the LignoBoost technology in its entirety in an agreement with Innventia. Renewable raw material for various applications Extracted lignin has numerous profitable uses as a fuel. It is a good biomaterial that can be used directly at the site mill as fuel in a power boiler with high heat value or to replace oil in a lime kiln. Green energy produced from lignin can be profitably exported as process steam or power, or simply sold as fuel in the form of pellets or powder. Furthermore, lignin has a high future potential as renewable raw material for various products in the chemical industry, such as for specialty chemicals as well as for carbon fibers. Exporting lignin as fuel or as feedstock for further refining not only provides pulp mills with new sources of income, but also provides future opportunities to utilize wood-based biomass as a substitute for fossil material. There are several ongoing development projects in different parts of the world aiming at finding high value use of lignin. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 89 Case: Gasification is an efficient use of waste Lahti Energy Ltd.'s new Kymijärvi II is the first plant in the world to use gasified solid recovered fuel at such a large scale. The innovative technology used in this combined heat and power (CHP) plant was introduced by Metso. The plant, inaugurated in May 2012, received the Climate Act of the Year 2011 Award in Finland. The award was granted by the Sustainable Development Forum of the Finnish Energy Industries. Solid recovered fuel, SRF, consists of various types of industrial, commercial and building site plastics, wastewood and paper-based material as well as household energy waste. In one hour, the plant gasifies 360 m3 (equivalent to two truckloads) of solid recovered fuel. In the gasifier, SRF is turned into combustible product gas, which is cleaned, cooled and combusted in a high-efficiency gas boiler to produce steam for the steam turbine. Major reduction of carbon dioxide emissions Gasification is an optimal solution for using SRF to generate electricity and heat. Thanks to the state-of-the-art energy efficiency and low emissions, Kymijärvi II offers environmental benefits that can be achieved only by using the most efficient BAT-level technologies. The plant produces 50 megawatts of electricity and 90 megawatts of district heat for the city of Lahti and its neighboring areas. The plant is expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by an estimated 410,000 tons a year compared to the same amount of electricity and heat generated using coal. Additionally, by replacing the use of hard coal, the gasification plant reduces other emissions as well. This was discovered in a lifecycle assessment of the plant, which measured the environmental performance of the plant over its entire life time. Vast use of Metso solutions Metso was the main supplier in the project delivering the circulating fluidized bed (CFB) gasification process, gas cleaning and cooling, steam boiler, environmental protection system and automation system for the entire plant. The production of electricity and heat is kept steady with the plant-wide Metso DNA automation system. Metso DNA controls all sub processes, including fuel reception, two gasifiers, gas cleaning lines, gas combustion, and a fresh water plant as well as district heat production. The groundbreaking plant came about as a result of collaboration between various Metso businesses. Power and Automation worked in cooperation beyond organizational borders, tapping into our extensive competence in various sectors. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 90 Case: Innovative technology to boost production efficiency in the paper industry Metso has developed a new metal belt calendering technology that creates better print surfaces with less fiber materials and higher production efficiency. The developer of the technology, Mika Viljanmaa, was awarded with the prestigious Marcus Wallenberg Prize for his work in October 2012. The Marcus Wallenberg Prize was instituted to encourage scientific achievements within the forestry and related sectors. The purpose of calendering is to improve the paper surface and thus the print quality. Compared to conventional calendering, metal belt calendering technology enables the manufacturing of paper and board with better surface smoothness at a desired level of stiffness and bulk, but using 3-10 percent less fiber raw material. To illustrate the results, for example, our customer was able to increase the production of milk cartons by over 700 million cartons annually by using metal belt calendering. The new technology also produces less topography variation in the end product than conventional calendering. Metal belt calendering is based on two factors: an extremely long dwell time and the most effective plasticization. Effectively plasticized surfaces provide low surface roughness values, good printing quality and a low postroughening tendency after calendering. Platform technology for a wide range of applications In addition to decreasing the use of fiber, metal belt calendering also has a major impact on production: it consumes less energy and yields higher production efficiency than other calendering concepts. In total, the technology enables a production increase of 20-40 percent. Metal belt technology can become a wider technology platform. By enhancing production efficiency, competitiveness and sustainability, it has the potential to radically change paperand board-making concepts. Thanks to its simple and compact design, the new concept is especially suitable for rebuilds to increase the capacity by removing existing production bottlenecks, such as Yankee dryers or wet stacks. It is partially suitable for low cost fibers, such as recycled fibers and thus enables the development of new cost-competitive paper and board products. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 91 Case: Innovative technology to boost production efficiency in the paper industry Metso has developed a new metal belt calendering technology that creates better print surfaces with less fiber materials and higher production efficiency. The developer of the technology, Mika Viljanmaa, was awarded with the prestigious Marcus Wallenberg Prize for his work in October 2012. The Marcus Wallenberg Prize was instituted to encourage scientific achievements within the forestry and related sectors. The purpose of calendering is to improve the paper surface and thus the print quality. Compared to conventional calendering, metal belt calendering technology enables the manufacturing of paper and board with better surface smoothness at a desired level of stiffness and bulk, but using 3-10 percent less fiber raw material. To illustrate the results, for example, our customer was able to increase the production of milk cartons by over 700 million cartons annually by using metal belt calendering. The new technology also produces less topography variation in the end product than conventional calendering. Metal belt calendering is based on two factors: an extremely long dwell time and the most effective plasticization. Effectively plasticized surfaces provide low surface roughness values, good printing quality and a low postroughening tendency after calendering. Platform technology for a wide range of applications In addition to decreasing the use of fiber, metal belt calendering also has a major impact on production: it consumes less energy and yields higher production efficiency than other calendering concepts. In total, the technology enables a production increase of 20-40 percent. Metal belt technology can become a wider technology platform. By enhancing production efficiency, competitiveness and sustainability, it has the potential to radically change paperand board-making concepts. Thanks to its simple and compact design, the new concept is especially suitable for rebuilds to increase the capacity by removing existing production bottlenecks, such as Yankee dryers or wet stacks. It is partially suitable for low cost fibers, such as recycled fibers and thus enables the development of new cost-competitive paper and board products. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 92 Product safety The safety of Metso products is one of the key drivers in product development. Metso's product safety procedures consider all aspects relevant to the safe installation, operation, service and maintenance of the products. Metso's products are designed to meet all the relevant standards, norms and directives in the respective delivery countries. Metso's products are delivered with the appropriate information and instructions to ensure safe operation service and maintenance. In addition, Metso offers a wide range of life cycle services to ensure that all the products in use will continue to meet existing and future requirements throughout their life cycle. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 93 Life cycle assessment The scope of life cycle assessments has expanded We are continuously developing our competence in the lifecycle assessments of our products. A life cycle assessment is a tool to define the potential environmental impacts related to a product or service over its entire life cycle. By developing life cycle assessments, we want to improve our customers' ability to monitor and reduce the environmental impacts of their processes. Our customers and other stakeholders are increasingly interested in the environmental assessments of our products and supply chain. This kind of knowledge is also needed by both Metso and our customers to be able to comply with future legislative requirements. Life cycle assessments also give us an opportunity to produce totally new knowledge. As a developer of new technologies, we are able to assess solutions that have not yet been subjected to research. Integrating the results to product development After a pilot project in 2010, we broadened the assessments to cover more products, and we developed the methodology and expanded the scope of the assessments. In 2012, for example, we expanded the scope of assessments to novel technologies by assessing the waste gasification plant we built for Lahti Energy Ltd. Another example is the inclusion of occupational safety in the assessments. This is one of the steps of looking into possibilities of assessing social impacts in addition to environmental impacts. Overall, the scale of the assessed products has ranged from smaller automation systems to entire plants. The main focus during 2012 has been on building life cycle assessment into our research and product development processes. The aim is to use the results of the assessments to identify the relevant areas for product development. By integrating life cycle thinking into our product development, we can further reduce the environmental impact of our products. In addition to product development, the results of the life cycle assessments can be used for communication and marketing purposes. By providing fact-based information on our products' environmental performance, we also support our customers in communicating with their stakeholders. In 2013, we will further expand the coverage of the life-cycle assessments to include more products. The main focus will continue to be on supporting our research and product development with information from the assessments. We will also further develop cooperation with our customers and other stakeholders in relation to life cycle assessments. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 94 Case: Environmental impacts of a paper machine assessed Since our Group-wide life cycle assessment (LCA) pilot project, we have completed the analysis of an entire paper machine. However, the first life cycle assessment regarding Metso's paper machines was conducted more than a decade ago. The product now assessed is a papermaking line delivered in 2009. The analysis also covered some new concepts that were still in the development phase at the time. By studying the whole paper machine, we were able to form a comprehensive picture of the emissions created throughout its life cycle. The assessment covered the entire life cycle of a paper machine, from manufacturing to decommissioning. The lifetime of the paper machine was set to 30 years, however, it can be much longer some equipment has been in use for over 50 years. Based on the results of the assessment, the energy use during operation has the most significant impact on the environment over the life cycle of a paper machine. Over 98 percent of the emissions are created during the use stage. The press and forming sections consume the most of electricity, whereas the cylinder dryer section is the biggest consumer of thermal energy. Therefore, the key issues in reducing environmental impact are energy efficiency and the fuel used in producing energy. Maximizing the efficiency of the heat recovery system can also achieve substantial environmental benefits. We will use the results of the assessment to consider various solutions for example, process solutions, machine construction and maintenance in order to further reduce the environmental impacts of paper machines and thereby our customers' operations. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 95 Environmental impacts of own production Our production facilities develop their environmental operations in accordance with our health, safety and environmental (HSE) policy. The policy states that we cooperate with our stakeholders to develop best practices and processes to improve the efficient and sustainable use of energy and materials as well as to prevent pollution. We comply with environmental legislation and are committed to the principles of sustainable development in accordance with the ICC (International Chamber of Commerce) Business Charter. We comply with the ISO 14001 standard in the development of products and operations and in risk management. We are continuously improving the environmental performance of our operations and the know-how of our personnel. 57% of our relevant operations are covered by ISO 14001 certification. Metso is aware of the global problem of increasing biodiversity loss. However, our activities at our units do not cause significant impacts on biodiversity. Environmental reporting system Our environmental reporting system is based on GRI core indicators and is used in all 96 (98) of our production facilities. Our ownership in the production facilities within the sphere of the system is at least 50 percent. Data collection is carried out with a web-based reporting tool that all the units have access to. Each unit has a designated environmental representative and the reported data is approved by the unit manager. The collection of environmental data as well as its analysis is coordinated at the Group level. Metso's energy efficiency targets require that the energy data is reported quarterly along with the unit-specific energy indices. All other environmental data, e.g. materials use, waste and water consumption, are reported annually. However, we aim to develop our reporting and to move to the quarterly reporting of our environmental data. The index for the following environmental indicators is proportioned to Metso's net sales. For comparison, the baseline given for 2008 is 100. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Page 1/2 Environmental Annual report figures2012 96 Environmental More environmental data is available figureson www.metso.com. Environmental figures More environmental data is available on www.metso.com. More environmental data is available on www.metso.com. ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE SHEET 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 MATERIALS ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE SHEET Ferrous metals, 1,000t ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE SHEET 243.611 151.834 230.771 259.363 217.335 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Non-ferrous metals, 1,000t 7.272 2008 4.166 2009 4.259 2010 7.347 2011 7.116 2012 MATERIALS Paints, MATERIALS 1,000t 1.228 1.023 0.722 1.06 1.08 Ferrous metals, 1,000t 243.611 151.834 230.771 259.363 217.335 Solvents, Ferrous metals,1,000t 1,000t 0.848 243.611 151.834 4.259 0.60 230.771 7.347 259.363 0.61 217.335 Non-ferrous metals, 1,000t 7.272 4.166 0.5 0.43 7.116 Non-ferrous Paints, 1,000t metals, 1,000t 7.272 1.228 4.166 1.023 4.259 0.722 7.347 1.06 7.116 1.08 Recycled Paints, 1,000t Solvents, materials, 1,000t 1,000t 94.737 1.228 0.848 66.586 1.023 101.613 0.722 94.478 1.06 0.60 78.511 1.08 0.61 Cardboard, 1,000t 0.135 0.5 0.135 0.43 0.619 0.695 0.624 Solvents, 1,000t 0.848 0.60 0.61 0.5 0.43 Wood, 1,000t 4.048 4.784 6.095 7.723 8.982 Recycled materials, 1,000t 94.737 66.586 101.613 94.478 78.511 Paper, Recycled 1,000t materials, 0.013 0.018 0.022 0.036 0.081 Cardboard, 1,000t 1,000t 94.737 0.135 66.586 0.619 0.135 101.613 0.695 94.478 78.511 0.624 Plastics, Cardboard, 1,000t 1,000t 0.078 0.135 0.054 0.135 0.252 0.619 0.271 0.695 0.195 0.624 Wood, 1,000t 4.048 4.784 6.095 7.723 8.982 Wood, 1,000t Paper, 4.048 0.013 4.784 0.018 6.095 0.022 7.723 0.036 8.982 0.081 ENERGY Paper, 1,000t AND WATER 0.013 0.018 0.022 0.036 0.081 Plastics, 1,000t 0.078 0.054 0.252 0.271 0.195 ENERGY Plastics, 1,000t 0.078 0.054 0.252 0.271 0.195 Electricity, TJ 1.831.56 1.489.67 1.733.94 1.786.97 1.644.07 ENERGY AND WATER District heat, TJ 574.37 546.05 747.09 560.00 549.69 ENERGY AND WATER Steam, ENERGY TJ 43.78 63.21 98.3 95.54 74.89 Electricity, TJ 1.831.56 1.489.67 1.733.94 1.786.97 1.644.07 Natural Electricity,gas,TJTJ 786.55 1.831.56 716.02 1.489.67 825.39 1.733.94 870.64 1.786.97 840.06 1.644.07 District heat, TJ 574.37 546.05 747.09 560.00 549.69 Coal, TJ District heat, 404.24 300.71 198.83 120.32 66.26 Steam, TJ TJ 574.37 43.78 546.05 63.21 747.09 98.3 560.00 95.54 549.69 74.89 Heavy Steam, TJ fuel oil (HFO), TJ 194.91 43.78 177.04 63.21 32.21 98.3 13.59 95.54 11.25 74.89 Natural gas, TJ 786.55 716.02 825.39 870.64 840.06 Light Natural fuel oil (LFO), TJ 79.53 56.68 64.46 50.53 29.28 Coal, TJgas, TJ 786.55 404.24 716.02 300.71 825.39 198.83 870.64 120.32 840.06 66.26 Diesel, Coal, TJ TJ 38.42 404.24 28.75 300.71 35.85 198.83 47.18 120.32 38.89 66.26 Heavy fuel oil (HFO), TJ 194.91 177.04 32.21 13.59 11.25 Gasoline, Heavyfuel TJ fueloil (HFO), oil(LFO), 3.6 6.07 5.98 2.92 3.92 Light TJTJ 194.91 79.53 177.04 56.68 32.21 64.46 13.59 50.53 11.25 29.28 Liquified Light fuel petroleum gas (LPG), 51.8 54.74 73.3 73.96 81.73 Diesel, TJoil (LFO), TJ 79.53 38.42 56.68 28.75 64.46 35.85 50.53 47.18 29.28 38.89 TJ Diesel, TJTJ Gasoline, 38.42 3.6 28.75 6.07 35.85 5.98 47.18 2.92 38.89 3.92 Gasoline,petroleum Liquified TJ gas (LPG), 3.6 51.8 6.07 54.74 5.98 73.3 2.92 73.96 3.92 81.73 WATER TJ Liquified petroleum gas (LPG), 51.8 54.74 73.3 73.96 81.73 Water TJ consumption, m3 1.814.4 1.485.0 1.844.4 1584.5 1286.8 WATER AIR WATER EMISSIONS Water consumption, m3 1.814.4 1.485.0 1.844.4 1584.5 1286.8 CO 2, 1,000t Water consumption, m3 314.943 1.814.4 1.485.0 290.579 265.154 1.844.4 274.691 1584.5 250.569 1286.8 Page 2/2 VOC, 1,000t 0.547 0.406 0.394 0.419 0.437 AIR EMISSIONS ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AIR2,EMISSIONS CO 1,000t 314.943 265.154 290.579 274.691 250.569 WASTE VOC, 2 , CO 1,000t1,000t 314.943 0.547 265.154 290.579 0.406 0.394 274.691 0.419 250.569 0.437 Hazardous, 1,000t 8.07 4.81 6.75 7.68 7.24 VOC, 1,000t 0.547 0.406 0.394 0.419 0.437 Non-hazardous, 1,000t 116.244 80.289 93.408 108.871 94.093 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 97 Emissions to air In 2012, our carbon dioxide emissions totaled 250,569 (274,691) tons. This includes CO2 emissions from our direct and indirect energy use (Scope 1 and 2). We reduced CO2 emissions rising from our own operations by 9%. About 74 percent of our CO2 emissions are created indirectly when purchased electricity, steam and district heat are produced elsewhere. In absolute terms, total CO2 emissions have decreased, mostly due to decreased energy consumption. Our production has also become more energy efficient, which can be seen in a decreasing CO2 emissions index. Emissions arising from business travel Metso operates in more than 50 countries and has customers in over 140 countries. Business travel is an essential part of our business. According to our travel policy, Metso is striving to reduce its need for business travel by providing video conference equipment, in addition to possibilities to hold a web or telephone conference. Metso's travel policy also states that Metso's travel decisions should support environmentally friendly options whenever it is also economically feasible. Metso currently monitors and reports Scope 3 emissions arising from business travel in Finland, Sweden and North America, which totals 38,2 thousand CO2 tons in 2012 and accounts for 50% of Metso's work force. In other countries where we operate, the business travel data is monitored, but not systematically. During 2013, we will continue to develop our reporting system and processes and will strive to start more comprehensive reporting of Scope 3 emissions data. Metso increased its net sales by 13% in 2012, while at the same time its business has grown and so has the need for travel. Most of our VOC emissions are created during the use of solvent-based chemicals in foundry and painting processes and in washing components. In 2012, our VOC emissions were 437 (419) tons. The VOC total and the VOC emissions index should only be used as a guideline, as the figure is not comprehensive for all Metso production units. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 98 Materials A large amount of the materials we use in our production are recyclable metals. In 2012, we used 224,451 (266,710) tons of metals, of which ferrous metals constituted approximately 97 percent. Other materials include chemicals and different packaging materials. Total materials use for Metso in 2012 was 295,852 (334,081) tons. We reduced 11 percent of our material use in 2012. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 99 Energy Some of Metso's production processes are energy intensive, e.g. iron and steel foundries. The majority of our energy consumption comes from indirect energy sources (electricity, district heat and steam), whereas natural gas is the major component of our direct energy consumption. The distribution of energy consumption among Metso's segments can be seen in the graph. Finland had the highest energy consumption, accounting for 40 percent of Metso's total energy consumption. In 2012, our energy consumption was 3,340 (3,621) TJ. The figure does not include the fuels used in transportation and vehicles, nor does it include employee travel and transportation. The figure representing oil in the energy consumption graph includes data for diesel, gasoline, heavy fuel oil, light fuel oil and liquefied petroleum gas consumption. Only two of our units use coal in production. Metso's total coal consumption decreased by 45 percent compared to 2011, due to the full deployment of actions made in 2010 and 2011. Metso's district heat consumption also decreased slightly, due to warm autumn weather. The total energy consumption at Metso decreased approximately 8% compared to 2011. In accordance with Metso's energy efficiency program, the development of the energy index shows that Metso's production was more energy efficient in 2012 compared to 2011. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/1 Annual report 2012 100 Waste In 2012, we set a target to reduce the amount of waste in our own operations by 15% by 2020. During 2013, we have plans to improve the relevant metrics and data collection frequency related to waste data. The waste at our operating sites includes metal, wood, cardboard, paper, municipal waste and foundry sand. The waste is reported as hazardous and non-hazardous waste and according to its treatment. Waste is recycled in compliance with local regulations and whenever possible. In 2012, our operations generated a total of 101,336 (116,551) tons of waste, of which 54 % (44%) was recycled. Hazardous waste is delivered to hazardous waste disposal facilities and includes substances such as oils, cutting fluids and paints. About 7,243 (7,680) tons of hazardous waste was generated. We decreased our annual waste by 13% in 2012. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 101 Water We use water for catering and sanitation purposes as well as for cooling purposes at our foundries. In 2012, our water consumption was 1,286,825 (1,584,491) m3, from which our municipal water use was 1,212,966 m3. In 2012, we further developed our water reporting and we are aiming to report also our water use without discharges, e.g. clean cooling water. Discharges to water are minor and not considered relevant to Metso's production operations. The modified water reporting indicators are still under development and hence not reported here, as the total figures are not yet comprehensive for all of Metso's production units. In 2012, we set a target to reduce the water usage in our own operations by 15% by 2020. During 2013, we have plans to improve the relevant metrics and data collection frequency related to water data. In 2012 we reduced our water use by 19%. Metso's production in water-stressed areas Metso operates in over 50 countries around the world, including in areas that are water stressed. In 2012, 43 Metso's production units, totaling 42% of Metso's production globally, were located in water-stressed areas. Metso's three largest water-consuming plants in water-stressed areas are located in China, India and South Africa, where Metso has initiated various actions to reduce the usage of water. For example, Metso's production unit in Xian, China, has decreased the external sale of steam, investigated leakages and repaired them. Metso's production site in India, Metso Park, is taking steps to reduce its water consumption. The site has its own sewage treatment plant, where it cleans its sewage water. The site also has a rain water collection reservoir and purification tank, where the production site cleans the rain water for use as drinking water. Metso's production site in Isithebe, South Africa, has investigated and searched all of its cooling systems for leakages and has added meters to monitor water usage more carefully. Waste water management Metso reports its water usage data at the Group level annually and more frequently at the local level. Metso has set a goal to reduce its water consumption by 15% by 2020; this will also reduce the amount of waste water generated. Our water management work will concentrate on the sites with high consumption, but all production sites will participate in our water conservation targets. Metso also monitors different waste water components, where necessary for environmental reasons. Based on each location's unique needs, several other local metrics may be monitored and reported at the local level. To reduce the waste water generated in our production, we started sharing best practices between Metso's production units back in 2010. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 102 Page 2/2 This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/3 Annual report 2012 103 Reporting principles Sustainable development is reflected in our daily work through overall management, including our business ethics and Code of Conduct, risk management, human resources, and health, safety and environmental work. Important subjects, such as compliance with laws and regulations, human rights, equal opportunities and nondiscrimination, safety, sponsorship and the protection of the environment, are explained in more detail in Metso's Code of Conduct and apply to all Metso employees. Metso's sustainability work is based on strategy, policies, targets and objectives, as well as performance indicators set at the Group level and implemented in our operating units globally. This year's Metso's Sustainability Report (i.e.Sustainability section in the Annual Report) consists of eight sections. The first section describes Metso's approach to sustainable business operations, our focus areas and our sustainability strategy, as well as highlights of our key themes and data for 2012. The second section focuses on Metso's sustainability management, including general operating principles. Metso people's key themes are presented in the third section of the report. Metso's corporate citizenship frameworks, including sponsorships and donations as well as community involvement projects are available in the fourth section. The fifth section focuses on Metso's health, safety and environment (HSE) issues, including policy and development projects, the energy efficiency program, product sustainability issues and Metso's HSE data, as well as highlights of 2012. The sixth section includes Metso's reporting principles; and the GRI and Global Compact index are presented in the seventh section of the report. The independent assurance report is available in section eight of the report. Metso has been reporting sustainability goals and principles since 2002. Metso publishes its sustainability data annually and the reporting period is the financial year, i.e. January 1 to December 31. Metso's sustainability data for 2012 can be found in the Sustainability section of our Annual Report 2012. The other sections of the Annual Report serve as supplementary sustainability information. Metso's sustainability reporting in 2012 is based on the core indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative's updated (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines. The Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world's most widely used sustainability reporting framework, which is under continuous improvement and is applied worldwide. We have selected the indicators from the G3.1 Guidelines that are most relevant to Metso in terms of our operations, products and stakeholders. We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B+ of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. The essential focus areas of sustainability for 2012 are illustrated in the materiality matrix in the Sustainability section of our Annual Report 2012. These focus areas have been carefully analyzed and selected by management representatives together with our sustainability team. The material themes have been identified also based on our encounters with different stakeholder groups. Metso develops its Group-wide reporting and the scope of its sustainability monitoring actively and in cooperation with its stakeholders. Sustainability indices and raters, e.g., are driving companies' reporting performance forward by developing the indices and the complexity of the questions for global companies. Also non-governmental organizations (NGOs) along with society in general are demanding more transparency from business actors globally. In addition, Metso's internal stakeholders' dialogue is increasing on a global scale. Through active cooperation with all of Metso's stakeholders, we strive to create a more transparent and interactive platform for further cooperation and reporting structures. The quantitative sustainability performance data in the Annual Report has been externally assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has also checked our reporting against GRI guidelines and has confirmed it to be Application Level B+ of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. A comparison of Annual Report's sustainability content against the G3.1 Guidelines and the UN Global Compact initiative is presented in the Sustainability Report's section containing the GRI and Global Compact Index. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 104 Page 2/3 Scope of our reporting The scope of our reporting is the Metso Group, unless otherwise stated. Reporting excludes associated companies, joint ventures or companies that are our suppliers. The sustainability data is commonly presented at the Group or segment level. Any other division of the data reported is noted separately. Metso's previous Annual Report with sustainability data was published in March 2012. Metso's sustainability performance in 2012 should be read together with other sections of the Annual Report 2012. Additional sustainability information can be found on our website, Sustainability in Metso. We present the comparable figures for 2011 in parentheses. Wherever the data for 2011 has been changed, it is indicated with a separate note. Financial reporting In our financial reporting, we follow the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Our financial reporting system data covers all Metso units. Each unit submits its financial report to the Group-wide reporting application, and the data is consolidated, validated and analyzed at both the reporting segment and corporate levels. Figures describing economic responsibility, excluding procurement data, are based on accounting and audited financial statements. Procurement data is unaudited. Purchases in the table describing the value added by stakeholder group have been derived from the reported numbers. To a certain extent, total purchases may include also other expense items. The purchases by country data has been collected separately from reporting units and the by country division is defined as the location of the supplier's domicile. Sponsorship and donation expenditure data are collected annually from the relevant Metso units. Health, safety and environmental reporting The environmental data is collected according to the GRI G3.1 indicators and according to what we see as material to our business. The environmental data is collected from all our production facilities, which includes 96 (97) of our units. Along with Metso's energy-efficiency targets, the energy data is reported quarterly and all other environmental data annually. Data collection is carried out using a web-based reporting tool and the reported data is approved by the unit manager. At the corporate level, the data is consolidated, validated and analyzed. The data is used e.g. as an environmental risk management tool, for planning operational improvements and as a base for the Metso energy-efficiency program. As a result of our constant development work in our environmental reporting, the revision of estimates and some errors found, we have made several changes to our historical data. Reporting of environmental expenses and responsibilities is based on the Finnish Accounting Act. Data related to our research and development activities is collected from our research and development units every six months. This is accomplished through a reporting chain that includes management at the unit, business line, segment and corporate level. Our reporting segments are responsible for the accuracy of the figures, after which the data is consolidated at the corporate level. Our CO2 emissions are calculated according to the principles of the GHG protocol. Metso's health and safety (HS) data is collected from all worldwide locations and covers 95 percent of Metso's operations. Data is managed and reported by each business line's HSE Manager. The Metso-level report is collected by the General Manager of HSE. In 2012, Metso continued implementation of a worldwide health and safety data reporting system, the HSE Monitor, which enables further improvement of HSE reporting. The ?Lost-time incident factor' has been calculated based on incidents resulting in one or more days of absence and the estimated hours worked. The factor is calculated per million hours worked. Reporting personnel data This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Metso HR management is responsible for collecting and reporting personnel data with the help of HR Services, Manager of HSE. In 2012, Metso continued implementation of a worldwide health and safety data reporting system, the HSE Monitor, which enables further improvement of HSE reporting. The ?Lost-time incident factor' has been Annual report 2012 105 calculated based on incidents resulting in one or more days of absence and the estimated hours worked. The factor is calculated per million hours worked. Reporting personnel data Page 3/3 Metso HR management is responsible for collecting and reporting personnel data with the help of HR Services, our internal support function established in 2010. The data covers the entire Metso Group. The personnel and wages data published in the financial statements is obtained in conjunction with financial reporting and managed by Metso's reporting specialists in a Group-wide database. In 2010, Metso began implementing a global HR information system. The implementation was completed in 2012 and the system now covers 97% of all Metso personnel. Our global HR system allows access to versatile and more comparable HR data globally. This data is uploaded to our reporting system for the annual reporting purposes. Together with harmonized global HR reporting principles that were introduced in 2011 we have reached excellent data quality for our personnel related reporting. The HR data reported in our Annual Report 2012 covers all of Metso, including the small units (3% of personnel) that are not covered by the global SAP HR system. This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/12 Annual report 2012 106 GRI and Global Compact Index Comparison with Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and Global Compact principles. Status Fully reported (F) Partly reported (P) Not reported (N) AR = Annual Report 2012 GC = Global Compact GRI G3.1 guidelines Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 Profile 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1. The CEO's statement F From the CEO 1.2. Key impacts, risks F Sustainability at Metso, www.metso.com/risks and opportunities climate change, Metso sustainability statement, Sustainability is part of Metso's strategy, Sustainability targets and achievements, Financial targets and achievements, Strategy in action 2. Organizational Profile 2.1. Name of the F This is Metso, Essential organization Metso 2.2. Primary brands, F This is Metso, Strategic products and services must wins, Customer industries, Metso's businesses 2.3. Operational structure F This is Metso, Metso's businesses, Corporate governance 2.4. Location of F This is Metso, organization's Contact information headquarters This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 2/12 Code ContentAnnual report 2012 Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 107 2012 2.5. Number of countries F This is Metso, Global and location of presence, Geographical operations key figures, Strategic must wins 2.6. Nature of ownership F Metso Financial Available in our Financial Statements, and legal form statements 2012. on the page 68-69 in the PDF-file. www.metso.com > Top shareholders 2.7. Markets served F This is Metso, Global presence, Strategic must wins, Geographical key figure 2.8. Scale of reporting F This is Metso, organization Reporting principles, Group key figures 2.9. Significant changes F Reporting principles 2.10. Awards received in F Sustainability indices the reporting period 3. Report Parameters 3.1. Reporting period F Reporting principles 3.2. Date of most recent F Reporting principles previous report 3.3. Reporting cycle F Reporting principles 3.4. Contact point for F Contact information questions Report Scope and Boundary 3.5. Process for defining F Sustainability report content management, Reporting principles, Prosperity for our stakeholders, Metso People,Corporate citizenship 3.6. Boundary of the report F Reporting principles 3.7. Limitations on the F Reporting principles report's scope or boundary 3.8. Basis for reporting F Reporting principles subsidiaries and joint ventures 3.9. Data measurement F Reporting principles techniques and bases of calculations 3.10. Explanations of reF Reporting principles statements 3.11. Significant changes F Reporting principles from previous reporting periods 3.12. GRI content index F GRI content index 3.13. Assurance policy and F Reporting principles, practice Independent assurance report This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 108 Page 3/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance 4.1. Governance structure F Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement www.metso.com/governance 4.2. Position of the F Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Chairman of the www.metso.com/governance Board 4.3. Independence of the F Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Board members www.metso.com/governance 4.4. Mechanisms for F Human resources shareholder and management, employee consultation Corporate Governance 4.5. Executive F Corporate Governance Management compensation are not compensation and directly linked to HSE indicators. linkage to Corporate Governance Statement organization's www.metso.com/governance performance 4.6. Processes for F General operating Follows corporate governance code, avoiding conflicts of principles, Corporate Corporate Governance Statement interest Governance www.metso.com/governance 4.7. Process for F Corporate Governance, Follows corporate governance code and determining expertise General operating Metso's equal opportunity and diversity principles policy, Corporate Governance www.metso.com/governance 4.8. Implementation of F Management model, www.metso.com Code of Conduct, mission and values General operating Values statements; code of principles, Metso conduct sustainability statement 4.9. Procedures of the F Management model, Corporate Governance Statement Board for overseeing Risk and risk www.metso.com/governance management of management, economic, Corporate Governance environmental, and social performance, risk management and compliance with internationally agreed standards and principles. 4.10. Processes for F Corporate Governance Follows corporate governance code, evaluating the Corporate Governance Statement Board's performance www.metso.com/governance Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11. Precautionary F HSE management, Corporate Governance Statement principle Risk and risk www.metso.com/governance, Risks and management, risk management www.metso.com/risks Corporate Governance 4.12. Voluntary charters F General operating and other initiatives principles 4.13. Memberships in F Stakeholder dialogue/ associations Memberships in organizations This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 109 Page 4/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14. List of stakeholder F Stakeholder dialogue groups 4.15. Identification and F Stakeholder dialogue, Metso has identified its key selection of Sustainability stakeholders trough sustainability stakeholders management, materiality process. Corporate citizenship 4.16. Approaches to F Stakeholder dialogue, Read also from our Sustainability report stakeholder Investor information, cases engagement Strategic must wins 4.17. Key topics raised F Sustainability through stakeholder management, engagement Stakeholder dialogue 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic F Management model, management Sustainability targets approach and achievements, Financial targets and achievements Environmental F Management model, management HSE management, approach HSE targets and results , Sustainability targets and achievements Social management F Management model, approach HSE management, Human resources management, Sponsorships and donations, Strategic must wins, Sustainability targets and achievements Human rights F Sustainability at Metso, approach Sustainability management, General operating principles Society approach F Sustainability at Metso, Sustainability management, Corporate citizenship Product responsibility F Sustainability at Metso, approach Sustainability management, Sponsorships and donations, Product sustainability Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Economic value F Prosperity for our generated and stakeholders distributed This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 110 Page 5/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 EC2 Financial implications F Sustainability risks and www.metso.com/risks and other risks and opportunities, Climate opportunities for the change, Strategic must organization's wins, Risk and risk activities due to management climate change. EC3 Coverage of the P Human resources organization's defined management, benefit plan Performance, obligations Corporate governance, Financial statement EC4 Significant financial P Financial statement assistance received from government EC5 Entry-level wage P Wages and salaries, compared to Personnel structure minimum wage EC6 Spending on local P Sustainable supply suppliers chain, Prosperity for our stakeholders EC7 Local hiring and N proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of signifi cant operation EC8 Infrastructure P Corporate citizenship, Community involvement cases investments provided Global presence for public benefit EC9 Significant indirect P Global presence, economic impacts Prosperity for our stakeholders Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by F Material use, weight or volume Environmental figures, Environmental impacts of our own production EN2 Recycled materials P Material use, Recycled materials use is part of our used Environmental figures, environmental reporting. However, the data obtained is not yet comprehensive for all Metso production units and hence not included in this report. EN3 Direct energy F Energy, Environmental consumption figures, Environmental impacts of our own production, Energy efficiency program EN4 Indirect energy P Energy, Environmental consumption figures, Environmental impacts of our own production, Energy efficiency program This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 111 Page 6/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 EN5 Energy saved due to F Energy efficiency conservation and program, Highlights of efficiency 2012 energy program improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide F Strategic must wins, energy-efficient or Innovation renewable energybased products and services EN7 Initiatives to reduce P Energy efficiency Energy efficiency is part of our indirect energy program environmental reporting. However, any consumption and absolute figure at the Group level reductions achieved showing reductions in indirect energy consumption cannot yet be obtained and hence is not included in this report. EN8 Total water withdrawal P Water Metso reports water consumption from all production facilities. EN9 Water sources N significantly affected EN10 Percentage and total N Total volume of water recycled is part of volume of water our environmental reporting. However, recycled and reused the data obtained is not yet comprehensive for all Metso production units and hence not included in this report. EN11 Location and size of N Metso is aware of the global problem of land holdings in increasing biodiversity loss. However, biodiversity-rich our activities at our units do not cause habitats significant impacts on biodiversity. EN12 Description of N Metso is aware of the global problem of significant impacts of increasing biodiversity loss. However, activities, products, our activities at our units do not cause and services on significant impacts on biodiversity. biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or N Metso is aware of the global problem of restored increasing biodiversity loss. However, our activities at our units do not cause significant impacts on biodiversity. EN14 Managing impacts on N Metso is aware of the global problem of biodiversity increasing biodiversity loss. However, our activities at our units do not cause significant impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Species with N Metso is aware of the global problem of extinction risk with increasing biodiversity loss. However, habitats in areas our activities at our units do not cause affected by operations significant impacts on biodiversity. EN16 Total direct and F Emissions to air, indirect greenhouse Environmental figures gas emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant F Environmental impacts indirect greenhouse of our own production, gas emissions This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 112 Page 7/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 EN18 Initiatives to reduce P Energy efficiency greenhouse gas program, Highlights of emissions and the energy program, reductions achieved Emissions to air EN19 Emissions of ozoneN Emissions of ozone-depleting depleting substances substances from Metso's operations are minor and not considered relevant to Metso's productions. EN20 SOx, NOx and other F Emissions to air, SOx and NOx emissions are included in significant air Environmental figures our environmental reporting. However, emissions these emissions resulting from Metso's operations are minor and not considered relevant to Metso's productions. VOC emissions are reported. EN21 Total water discharge N BOD, COD and TSS are included in our environmental reporting. However, these discharges resulting from Metso's operations are minor and not considered relevant to Metso's productions. EN22 Total amount of waste F Waste, Environmental figures EN23 Significant spills F No significant spliss were found in 2012 EN24 Transported, P Waste, Environmental The total amount of hazardous waste imported, exported or figures can be found in the Environmental treated hazardous impacts of own production section. waste EN25 Water bodies and N BOD, COD and TSS are included in our habitats affected by environmental reporting as well as any discharges of water negative effects these might have on the environment. However, these discharges resulting from Metso's operations are minor and not considered relevant to Metso's productions. EN26 Mitigating F Product sustainability, Product sustainability cases environmental Life cycle assessment, impacts of products Product safety, and services Strategic must wins, Segment key figures EN27 Percentage of P Many parts of Metso's products are products sold and made of recycled steel and many their packaging products are also recyclable at end of materials that are life. reclaimed by category EN28 Significant fines and F No significant non-compliance cases sanctions for nonwere reported in 2012 compliance with environmental regulations This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 113 Page 8/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 EN29 Environmental N At present, this information is not impacts on collected at the Group level. However, transportation this is planned to be done in the future. EN30 Total environmental P HSE management, HSE protection , Environmental impacts expenditures and of our own production investments GC 7 Support for F HSE management, Included in Metso's Code of Conduct precautionary General operating www.metso.com approach to principles environmental challenges GC 8 Initiatives to promote F Life cycle assessment, Included in Metso's Code of Conduct greater environmental Environmental impacts www.metso.com responsibility of a paper machine assessed, Innovation, HSE management, Sustainability management, Replacing fossil fuels, Extracting lignin, Gasification of waste, Product safety, General operating principles GC 9 Development and F Life cycle assessment, Included in Metso's Code of Conduct diffusion of Innovation, Strategic www.metso.com environmentally must wins, Segment friendly technologies key figures, Social Performance Indicators LA1 Breakdown of F Personnel structure workforce LA2 Breakdown of P Personnel structure, employee turnover Changes in personnel and new employee structure hires LA3 Employee benefits P Human resources management LA4 Coverage of P Human resources Metso does not track the degree of collective bargaining management, General employee organization on Group level. activities operating principles However, the recognition of the right to collective bargaining is included in the Metso Code of Conduct. LA5 Minimum notice F Metso complies with national legislation. period regarding operational changes LA6 Representation in P Human resources joint managementmanagement, worker health and HSE management safety committees This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 114 Page 9/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 LA7 Rates of injury, P HSE targets and results occupational , Sustainability diseases, lost days, highlights 2012, absenteeism and People summary fatalities LA8 Education and N This topic is not coordinated at the prevention programs Group level. regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety N This topic is not coordinated at the topics covered in Group level. formal agreements with trade unions LA10 Average hours of N training per year per employee by employee category LA11 Programs for skills F Learning and management development LA12 Employees receiving P Learning and regular performance development and career development reviews LA13 Composition of F Human resources governance bodies management, and breakdown of Personnel structure, employees Board of directors, Executive team LA14 Ratio of basic salary N We do not engage in or tolerate and renumeration of discrimination based on gender. This men to women data is not collected GC 3 Freedom of F Human resources Included in Metso's Code of Conduct association and the management www.metso.com effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining GC 4 Elimination of all F Human resources Included in Metso's Code of Conduct forms of forced and management www.metso.com compulsory labor GC 5 Effective abolition of F Human resources Included in Metso's Code of Conduct child labor management www.metso.com GC 6 Elimination of F Human resources Included in Metso's Code of Conduct discrimination in management www.metso.com respect of employment and occupation Human Rights HR1 Investment P General operating Included in Metso's Code of Conduct agreements and principles www.metso.com contracts that include human rights clauses This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 115 Page 10/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 HR2 Significant suppliers P Sustainable supply The most significant suppliers are and contractors that chain informed of Metso's Code of Conduct, have undergone which includes human rights issues, human rights through Metso's Sustainable Supplier screening Criteria. HR3 Employee training on P General operating Included in Metso's Code of Conduct policies and principles www.metso.com procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR4 Incidents of F No incidents of discrimination were discrimination and reported in 2012 actions taken HR5 Operations and P Included in Metso's Code of Conduct significant suppliers www.metso.com identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk HR6 Operations and P Sustainable supply Included in Metso's Code of Conduct significant suppliers chain www.metso.com supplier sustainability identified as having criteria. Based on conducted audits, no significant risk for risk of child labour have been found in incidents of child labor Metso's operations and significant suppliers. HR7 Operations and P Sustainable supply Included in Metso's Code of Conduct significant suppliers chain www.metso.com and supplier identified as having sustainability criteria. Based on significant risk for conducted audits, no risk of child incidents of forced or labour have been found in Metso's compulsory labor operations and significant suppliers. HR8 Human rights-related P Included in Metso's Code of Conduct training for security www.metso.com personnel HR9 Incidents of violations F No incidents were reported in 2012 involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken GC 1 Support for the F General operating Included in Metso's Code of Conduct protection of principles, Human www.metso.com internationally resources management proclaimed human rights GC 2 Certainty of not being F Included in Metso's Code of Conduct complicit in human www.metso.com rights abuses Society This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 GC 1 Support for the F General operating Included in Metso's Code of Conduct protection of principles, Human www.metso.com internationally resources management proclaimedAnnualhuman report 2012 116 rights Page 11/12 GC 2 Certainty of not being F Included in Metso's Code of Conduct complicit Page 11/12 Code Content in human Status Online Annual Report www.metso.com Comments/Remarks rights abuses 2012 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks Society SO1 Operations with P 2012 Community involvement SO1 implemented Operations with local P cases Community involvement community implemented local cases engagement, community impact assessments engagement, and impact development assessments and programs development SO2 programsof business Number F Corporate governance, Corporate Governance Statement SO2 units Number analyzed for of business F Risk and risk Corporate governance, www.metso.com/governance, Corporate Governance Statement Risks and risks related units analyzed forto management Risk and risk risk management www.metso.com/risks www.metso.com/governance, Risks and corruption risks related to management risk management www.metso.com/risks SO3 corruption trained in Employees P General operating SO3 organization's Employees trained antiin P principles General operating corruption policies organization's antiprinciples SO4 corruption Actions policies taken in F Corporate governance, Included in Metso's Code of Conduct SO4 response to Actions taken in incidents F Sustainability auditing Corporate governance, www.metso.com. Included in Metso's incidents NoCode of of Conduct of corruption response to incidents and assurance Sustainability auditing corruption were reported www.metso.com. No incidents ofin 2012 SO5 of corruption Public policy P and assurancein Memberships corruption were reported in 2012 SO5 positions Public policy and P organizations, Memberships in General participation positions andin public operating principles organizations, General policy development participation in public operating principles and lobbying policy development SO6 and lobbying to add. Contributions F General operating Metso does not make political SO6 political parties, add. Contributions to F principles, General operating contributions. Metso does not make political politicians and related political parties, Sponsorships principles, and contributions. institutions politicians and related donations Sponsorships and SO7 institutions add. Legal actions for antiF donations Included in Metso's Code of Conduct SO7 competitive add. Legal actions behavior, for antiF www.metso.com. Included in Metso's incidents NoCode of of Conduct anti-trust, and competitive behavior, corruption were reported www.metso.com. No incidents ofin 2012 monopoly anti-trust, andpractices corruption were reported in 2012 SO8 monopoly Fines and practices sanctions F Included in Metso's Code of Conduct SO8 for non-compliance Fines and sanctions F www.metso.com. Included in Metso's incidents NoCode of of Conduct with laws and for non-compliance corruption were reported www.metso.com. in 2012 No incidents of regulations with laws and corruption were reported in 2012 GC regulations Work against F General operating Included in Metso's Code of Conduct 10 GC corruption Work against in all its F principles, Sustainability www.metso.com General operating Included in Metso'sandCode Metso of Global Conduct Anti10 forms, corruptionincluding in all its auditing principles,and assurance Corruption Sustainability www.metso.com incidents AnyMetso Policy.and canAntiGlobal be extortion and forms, including bribery reported anonimously through auditing and assurance Corruption Policy. Any incidents can be Metso's extortion and bribery Whistleblower. reported anonimously through Metso's Product Responsibility Whistleblower. Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in P Product sustainability, PR1 which health Life cycle and in stages P Life assessment, cyclesustainability, Product safety impacts which health and of Product safety Life cycle assessment, products are safety impacts of Product safety assessed products are PR2 assessed Non-compliance with F Product sustainability, No cases of compliance regarding PR2 regulations Non-compliance with F Product Product safety, sustainability, product No cases orof services reported compliance in 2012, regarding regulations health concerning Financial statement Product safety, however Metso has old pending product or services reported in 2012, and concerning health of safety impacts Financial statement asbestos lawsuits andold claimshas however Metso pendingwithin the products and safety impacts of United States. asbestos claims and lawsuits within the products United States. This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Annual report 2012 117 Page 12/12 Code Content Status Online Annual Report Comments/Remarks 2012 PR3 Type of product and N service information required by procedures PR4 Non-compliance with F Product safety No cases of non-compliance were regulations reported in 2012 concerning product and service information and labeling PR5 Practices related to P Stakeholder dialogue Regular feedback through our customer satisfaction comprehensive sales and service network. PR6 Adherence to P Sponsorships and Corporate Governance Statement marketing donations, Investor www.metso.com/governance communications information laws, standards and voluntary codes PR7 Non-compliance with F No cases of non-compliance were regulations and reported in 2012 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications PR8 Complaints regarding F No complaints were reported in 2012 breaches of customer privacy PR9 Fines for nonF No cases were reported in 2012 compliance concerning the provision and use of products and services This PDF has been exported from Metso's Online Annual Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Page 1/2 Annual report 2012 118 Independent Assurance Report To the Management of Metso Corporation We have been engaged by the Management of Metso Corporation to perform a limited assurance engagement on the quantitative information on economic, social and environmental responsibility for the reporting period of January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012, disclosed in Metso Corporation's Annual Report 2012 on Metso Corporation's website (hereinafter Sustainability Reporting ). The scope of the Sustainability Reporting covers Metso Group. Management's responsibility The Management of Metso Corporation is responsible for preparing the Sustainability Reporting in accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in Metso Corporation's reporting instructions and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (version 3.1). Practitioner's responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Reporting based on our work performed. Our assurance report has been made in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Metso Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information . This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Sustainability Reporting has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the Sustainability Reporting. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner's judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Sustainability Reporting. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: Interviewing senior management of Metso Corporation. Visiting Metso Corporation's Head Office as well as six production units in Canada, Finland, Portugal and Sweden. Interviewing employees responsible for collection and reporting of the information presented in the Sustainability Reporting at Metso Group level and at the different production units where our visits took place. Assessing how Metso Group employees apply Metso Corporation's reporting instructions and procedures. Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and systems on a sample basis. Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Reporting has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. Our assurance report should be read in conjunction with the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness for sustainability information. This independent assurance report should not be used on its own as This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012 Sustainability Reporting at Metso Group level and at the different production units where our visits took place. Assessing how Metso Group employees apply Metso Corporation's reporting instructions and procedures. Testing the accuracy Annual and completeness report 2012 a of the information from original documents and systems on119 sample basis. Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Reporting has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. Our assurance report should be read in conjunction with the inherent limitations of accuracy and Page 2/2 completeness for sustainability information. This independent assurance report should not be used on its own as a basis for interpreting Metso Corporation's performance in relation to its principles of sustainability. Helsinki, 3 March 2013 Helsinki, 4 March 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Sirpa This Sirpa PDF Juutinen has been exported from Metso's Online Juutinen Maj-Lis Annual Maj-LisSteiner Report 2012 www.metso.com/reports/2012 Steiner Partner Partner Director, Director,Authorised AuthorisedPublic PublicAccountant Accountant Sustainability Sustainability & Climate & Climate Change Change Sustainability Sustainability ClimateChange & &Climate Change This PDF has been exported from Metso’s Online Annual Report 2012 | www.metso.com/2012
