Social Responsibility Lodam report on social responsibility, 2013 Lodam’s Table of contents values Statement 2 Table of contents 3 Lodam electronics 4 Lodam and social responsibility 6 UN Global Compact 8 Statement Professionalism Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility 10 a competent and reliable individualism with respect Lodam’s energy-efficient products 14 business partner which for diversity, driven by We are proud to present Lodam’s second report on been sent to all our main suppliers, whom we keeps its promises and delihumour and job happiness Case: Solar-powered cold storage 17 social responsibility. Since the last report, our focus kindly ask to acknowledge, accept and comply with vers quality. and preparedness for chanSupplier responsibility 20 has been on finding our feet in our work on social our Code of Conduct. ges. Supplier code of conduct 25 responsibility, i.e. on integrating and communicating CSR in our organisation during a period characIn order to focus our social responsibility efforts in People responsibility 28 Copyright © 2013 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. terised by growth. In that work, we have, however, the areas where we can make the greatest impact Anti-corruption 32 benefitted greatly from the fact that Lodam has a and create the most value, we have run the Global 2013 goals 34 long tradition for being a very responsible comCompact Self Assessment Tool (www.globalcomGood business Final words and facts 35 pany. pactselfassessment.org). The Global Compact Self acumen Assessment Tool is an online tool which allows sound business practices in Lodam joined the UN Global Compact initiative companies to test their performance on all 10 UN all daily decisions, both interjust a few months before the presentation of our Global Compact principles and how well these nally and externally. first report, and Lodam continues to support the issues are managed. The result confirmed what we UN Global Compact and its 10 principles on human already knew, i.e. that our energy-efficient prorights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. ducts is where we can make the greatest impact These principles reflect our commitment to running and create the most value. In the years to come, our business in a responsible and serious way. we will therefore continue to develop even more energy-efficient products to bring energy savings Our focus in the past year has been on making to our customers. social responsibility part of our daily routines. The 2012 Danish “Great Place to Work” competition, The results of our first year of working with social Ver. 3.0 21.05.2013 organised by the Great Place to Work® Institute, responsibility, which are presented in greater detail shows that we have succeeded in that area. Ninetyin this report, are first of all due to the high level nine per cent of all Lodam employees answered “I of commitment of our employees which has been feel good about the way we contribute to society”. and will be the driving force behind the initiatives Overall, Lodam was ranked as no. 8 in the category that we continuously launch in our efforts to be a of medium-sized companies in the Best Worksocially responsible company. With this second CSR places in Denmark list. In 2012, Lodam was also report we invite all our stakeholders to take a look nominated for the Work-Life Balance award, clearly at our work, efforts and results. reflecting our commitment to being a great workplace for our employees. Lodam Management Another focus area has been the introduction and implementation of CSR policies in our supply chain. We have introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct to Kristian Strand Henning Højberg Kristensen our suppliers. The Supplier Code of Conduct has CEO CTO 2 Kristian Strand, CEO Henning Højberg Kristensen, CTO3 Lodam in short: • A Danish company owned by the German company BITZER. • Lodam produces electronic control devices for OEM products within the HVAC&R* industry. • Products are developed in-house and produced by global partners. • Our export share is about 85%. * Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning & Refrigeration Lodam electronics Lodam possesses extensive knowledge and knowMission: how about developing, producing and implementEnergy efficiency through intelligent controls ing innovative and efficient electronic climate Our mission is to be a leading global developer of control solutions. Lodam’s most important asset is its energy-saving electronic controls for cooling, heatstaff in the form of approx. 90 dedicated employees ing and air handling. We strive to offer innovative who work either at our modern facilities at our headand cost-effective solutions, enabling our customquarters in Sønderborg, Denmark, at a branch office ers to consistently outperform their peers in energy in Aarhus or at one of our temporary site offices in efficiency. Asia or Europe. Vision: Lodam is a member of the BITZER Group, one of Our vision is to be the preferred company in the the largest groups in the global refrigeration and aireyes of our customers and employees conditioning compressor industry. • Lodam wants to improve customer satisfaction, as measured in our annual surveys, by having Employee satisfaction is important to preserving an a Net Promoter Score (NPS) of more than 25 in inspiring and creative environment and the commit2013. ment which is essential to securing the future devel• In 2013, Lodam wants to be a Top 5 supplier as opment of innovative and energy-efficient solutions. evaluated by our customers. • Lodam wants to be one of the Top 3 places to Lodam’s control solutions are important and reliable work in Denmark in 2013 – as measured by the integrated parts of our partners’ total systems – and Great Place to Work® Institute. help create a perfect climate for humans as well as optimised storage conditions for foods and other Values: commodities. • Professionalism a competent and reliable business partner which keeps its promises and Today, Lodam’s innovative climate control solutions delivers quality. are used around the world, for instance in the follow• Inclusiveness individualism with respect for ing areas: diversity, driven by humour and job happiness • System controllers for condensing, heat-pump and preparedness for changes. and air-handling units • Good business acumen sound business prac• Intelligent compressor electronics (ICE) tices in all daily decisions, both internally and • Frequency converters for air-conditioning and externally. refrigeration compressors • Transport refrigeration for sea and land transport. 4 5 Lodam and social responsibility Goals and actions Based on our core values, Lodam strives to act as a In June 2012, Lodam entered into a three-year partHuman rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption responsible company in all contexts. nership with SOS Children’s Villages Denmark. In this Results 2012 actions (May 2012 April 2013) way, Lodam wants to contribute to an international (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Professionalism includes a responsibility for producorganisation whose values match Lodam’s own ing innovative electronic energy-saving climate soluvalues, and which works long-term in communities Goal tions and for caring for the global environment. Awareness and implementation of Lodam’s CSR activities and policies by Lodam employees. where Lodam has considerable business activities. a. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®). Our support goes to educational activities in Asia. b. Information (via information meetings, intranet etc.). Inclusiveness includes our social responsibilities for Ref. www.childrensvillages.org. Results a. The results of the Danish “Great Place to Work” 2012 competition, organised by the Great Place to our employees as well as the local communities in Work® Institute, show that we have succeeded in this area. Ninety-nine per cent of all Lodam emwhich we are present. ployees answered “I feel good about the way we contribute to society” Via ‘The World’s Best News’, a Danish campaign b. There is a specific CSR site on the Lodam intranet. The first report was handed out to all employees in conceived by the UN, Danida and a number of Danhard copy. Information about CSR issues has been provided by Lodam at regular information meetings. Good business acumen includes our responsibilish NGOs, Lodam has contributed to spreading the Goal ity to act in an ethical and responsible manner in news that the Millennium Development Goals are a Look for a partnership project with an organisation that works with the UN Global Compact principles our dealings with our business partners and their in one or more areas where our main suppliers are situated. success: The developing countries are making real employees. progress. Ref. www.verdensbedstenyheder.dk. Results In June 2012, Lodam entered into a partnership with SOS Children’s Villages Denmark. Our support goes to educational activities in Asia. It is a three-year partnership. Lodam’s CSR partnerships and networks: • UN Global Compact, www.unglobalcompact.org • Lean Energy, www.leanenergy.dk • Project Zero, www.projectzero.dk • KVCA (The Danish Cooling Cluster) Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption • Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdproject.net • Member of Mechatronics Cluster Denmark, • Great Place to Work® Institute, www.greatplacewww.mechatronicscluster.com (in Danish) New goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) towork.dk • Member of Dansk Ventilation, www.danskventi• CO2 neutral websites, www.CO2neutralwebsite. lation.dk (in Danish) Goal com • Confederation of Danish Industry (Dansk IndusContinue to raise the awareness of Lodam’s CSR activities and policies among Lodam employees. a. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. • SOS Children’s Villages Denmark, www.soschildtri), www.di.dk rensvillages.org • Industrigruppen Sønderborg • Cultural and sports sponsorships: “Kultur i Syd”, • Member of SET (Sønderborg Erhvervsog TuristSønderborg Hus, Sønderjyske Elite Sport and center), www.set-sonderborg.dk Dybbølhallen • Work Live Stay and Best Brains, www.work-live• Cooperation agreements with University of stay.dk Southern Denmark and Aalborg University • Fachverband Gebäude-Klima, www.fgk.de (in • The panel of employer representatives at the German) University of Southern Denmark, www.sdu.dk • Sonderborg Airport • TEGnology, www.tegnology.dk 6 7 UN Global The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of Compact influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption: The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic The ten principles of the United Nations Global policy initiative for businesses that are committed Compact: to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human Human rights rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Overall, the Global Compact pursues two complerights; and mentary objectives: 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human 1. Mainstreaming the ten principles in business rights abuses. activities around the world 2. Catalysing actions in support of broader UN Labour goals, including the Millennium Development 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of assoGoals. ciation and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The UN Global Compact incorporates a transparen4. the elimination of all forms of forced and comcy and accountability policy known as the Communipulsory labour; cation on Progress (COP) policy. The annual posting 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and of a COP is an important demonstration of a partici6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of pant’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and employment and occupation. its principles. Participating companies are required to comply with this policy. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary apIn summary, the UN Global Compact exists to assist proach to environmental challenges; the private sector in managing increasingly complex 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater envirisks and opportunities in the environmental, social ronmental responsibility; and and governance realms, seeking to embed markets 9. encourage the development and diffusion of and societies with universal principles and values for environmentally friendly technologies. the benefit of all. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Source: www.unglobalcompact.org 8 9 Environmental responsibility Lodam takes an environmentally responsible apThe newly added building is heated with natural The table below shows our energy consumption for “Private” energy opportunities for employees proach to the running of its business. We have varigas. In 2013, we will register and monitor the level the past four years relative to floor area and number Lodam has a thermography camera, which employous impacts on and ways of impacting the environof energy consumption, and then decide if action of employees. ees can borrow outside office hours to check their ment, and we have initiated activities in all areas. should be taken to optimise this. homes and see where they can improve/lower their One area is our facilities where we develop and test New ventilation systems have been installed in the 2009 2010 2011 2012 energy consumption. our products, and another area is our products that production area and in the new building. This is a kWh per m , total 2 110 152 127 122 Furthermore, Lodam is planning an after-hours reduce energy consumption for end-users. Also, we very energy-friendly solution which also improves meeting for employees, where an energy expert will require that our suppliers take care of the environthe indoor climate. The system is switched off outkWh per m2, ordinary 93 give a talk on how to save energy at home. facilities and activiment; these requirements are described in our Supside office hours to save energy. ties plier Code of Conduct, ref. pages 25-27. Furthermore, we have built a porch at one of the Environmental inspection kWh per m2, product 29 Lodam has a list of ideas for environmental imexterior doors, which had insulation problems. testing The Danish local authorities inspect the local provements at our facilities. The list is continuously companies to ensure that they comply with environkWh per employee 5601 6801 5485 4649 updated, and at regular CSR meetings it is decided Energy consumption mental regulations governing the minimisation of which initiatives to look further into or implement. We have installed more lighting controls to autopollution. Due to the nature of Lodam’s business, Notes: In 2010, we extended our facilities with approx. 1,000 In 2013, a new building was taken over and added matically turn lights on and off as needed. square metres. During the period of construction, our ground inspections are only carried out every three years. to our headquarters. Built in 1990, the building has We have replaced all halogen lights with LED. The heat system was switched off. In 2012 we split the measuring of energy consumption. been refurbished and was inaugurated in March initial costs are higher, but we will save a lot of November 2008: 1 remark (paper sorting 2013. energy. Office lighting otherwise takes the form of handled incorrectly). In the past period, the following initiatives have fluorescent lamps. Below we show our CO2 emissions, also relative to March 2012: 0 remarks been implemented: We remind each other regularly to turn off computer floor area and number of employees. screens and other energy-consuming equipment if The next inspection is due to take place in 2015. Air and heating and when possible. 2009 2010 2011 2012 The existing building is heated by water-borne floor One of our goals for the past period was to reduce Tonnes of CO2 per 0.040 0.043 0.050 0.039 Printed matter heating. The heat comes from our own heat pumps the process flow as much as possible, e.g. by reusm2 All printed matter, including this report, is printed (ground-to-water), which we have developed and ing energy from product tests. We have invested in Tonnes of CO2 per 2.043 1.921 2.167 1.493 using environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified employee produced ourselves. We supplement this heating equipment to reuse the energy for testing, which has paper. We always print a limited number of copies. solution with natural gas when the temperature resulted in the reuse of about 80-85% of the energy. Notes: Some of our energy consumption relates to natural gas, Our current supplier of printed matter is located drops below freezing point. Another goal was to split the measuring of energy which is weighted more highly in the CO2 emission calculations. very close to Lodam, which saves energy for transThe above CO2 calculations are made via a tool on www.klimaFurthermore, we have installed seasonal control, consumption into energy used for product testing kompasset.dk. port. Ref. www.fsc.org. which includes an outdoor temperature sensor to and energy for our ordinary facilities and activiregulate the temperature of the hot water in the ties. This has been accomplished and gives us a floor heating. This ensures a more homogeneous clear idea of how energy is used. We will study the indoor temperature and saves energy. consumption figures for each area and decide if and where changes should be made to minimise our energy consumption. 10 11 Goals and actions Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Results 2012 actions (May 2012 April 2013) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Goal Energy consumption goals: a. Reduce the process flow as much as possible, e.g. by reusing energy from product tests. b. Split the measuring of energy consumption into energy used for product testing and energy for our ordinary facilities and activities. Results a. We have been able to reuse 80-85% of the energy from tests. b. We have split the measuring of energy consumption into energy used for product testing and energy for our ordinary facilities and activities. Goal Prepare plan for further initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the headquarters in Sønderborg. Results Lodam has a list of proposed initiatives. This list is evaluated at all regular environment meetings, and new initiatives are added while decisions are made as to which initiatives to look further into or implement. Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption New goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Goal Keep and maintain the list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Goal Further investigate initiatives for energy-efficient heating and CO2 optimisation at the Sønderborg headquarters. Goal Look into Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of our products to support investment decisions and decisions on approach. 12 13 Lodam’s energy-efficient products Heat pump controller Controlling domestic hot water and heating Lodam develops innovative control solutions for Condensing units Lodam’s heat pump controller makes it possible How does the Lodam heat pump controller save climate system applications. Today, the solutions are Lodam condensing control solutions are used for clito gain total control of domestic hot water and energy compared to other products? used all around the world, for instance in the followmate control in condensing units for supermarkets/ heating for domestic comfort. The optimised ing areas: convenient stores, domestic and cooling storage control ensures low energy consumption and is • The unit cuts energy consumption and costs facilities. combined with a user panel for easy operation. through intelligent capacity control via the freSystem controllers quency inverter. • Heat pumps Air handling units You can remotely control and monitor the heat • Condensing units Lodam air handling control solutions are key to crepump via the internet, and download a data log • It includes intelligent defrost scheduling, which • Air handling units ating perfect comfort and climate for people – e.g. for service and diagnostic purposes. saves energy and ensures low capacity waste. in homes, industrial buildings and schools. Intelligent compressor electronics (ICE) Furthermore, with the Lodam heat pump control• Pre-programmed outside temperature compen• Compressor protection and monitoring Frequency inverters ler you can make your heat pump Smart Gridsation curves adapt to the fastest control/better • Frequency inverters Lodam’s inverter solution electronically controls ready. comfort. compressor capacity to match actual cooling Transport demands by changing the compressor speed. The • The controller can be used for heat pumps with • Reefer containers result is better part-load performance, thus saving air or water/brine as source. Supplementary heat • Truck & Trailer units energy and cutting CO2 emissions. sourcing from solar panels or electric heaters is possible. Accessories Heat pumps Multiple accessories are available for all Lodam conLodam heat pump controllers ensure COP (coeffitrollers to add extra value to the solutions: innovacient of performance) optimisation of individual systive and user-friendly user panels with colour distems and add knowledge about additional aspects plays, remote communication devices, sensors and such as anti-legionella control of domestic hot water. data loggers, web modules and Windows-based The controllers can be used in both domestic and multi-tools for communicating with the controllers. industrial heat pumps. 14 15 Condensing unit controller Case: Refrigerated display cabinets in supermarkets using less energy Solar-powered cold storage With the Lodam condensing unit controller, our How does the Lodam condensing unit controller Lodam’s condensing unit controller part of The thermal energy storage technology allows the customers are in total control of their condensing save energy compared to other products? solar-powered cold store in warm and remote compressor package to do most of its ‘cooling units delivering cooling to one or more evaporalocations. work’ during the day, when solar power is available, tors – thereby optimising their systems to save both • The unit cuts energy consumption and costs thereby substantially reducing the battery storage energy and money. The condensing unit controller through intelligent capacity control using a One of the challenges in warm and remote parts capacity that would otherwise be required. can be tailored to any condensing unit. frequency inverter. It maintains the specified of the developing countries is the storage of temperature. This can be done very accurately. catches and crops. If fishermen and farmers have The BITZER Ecostar solution, which is a key part of The Lodam condensing unit controller solution is access to cold storage, they can substantially the refrigeration system, includes the condensing sold as a kit, containing the controller, a control dis• The Lodam controller controls the speed of the increase their income. However, some of the unit controller developed by Lodam. The condensplay and the necessary sensors. The Lodam controlfans that condense the refrigerant. This ensures biggest challenges in these areas are the lack of ing unit frequency inverter keeps energy consumpler is an important part of our customers’ condensthat the condensing pressure is exactly what it grid power, the frequent power outages and the tion low and costs down through intelligent capacity ing units, which are typically installed outdoors, e.g. should be, also taking the outside temperature costs and logistical issues associated with dieselcontrol. outside a supermarket, and control the temperature into consideration. operated refrigeration solutions. in the refrigerated display cabinets inside the superRef. www.containedenergy.com markets. • Also, it is possible to use the heat for room heatThe Indonesian company Contained Energy has ing. developed a system that combines solar power, thermal energy storage and ultra-efficient comOther benefits: As the condensing unit runs more pressors and is thus not reliant on an external stably with a Lodam controller, thus ensuring a more power supply. constant temperature, the quality of the products in the refrigerated display cabinet is much higher than The system has already been installed in two 20 without a stable temperature. Another benefit is less m3 units, on a remote island in Wakatobi and in food waste. And finally a special low-sound mode Pacitan, Indonesia. They are both designed to of fans ensures a low noise level at requested times, keep 500 kg of fish at -2º C, with capacity to add typically during the night and at weekends. and cool 200 kg of ‘un-iced’ fish per day. The total cooling load is 30 kWh per day. 16 17 Air handling controller Lodam Star Cool A perfect climate everywhere with minimum energy consumption controller With Lodam’s air handling controller, a perfect How does the Lodam air handling controller save Reefer container operators depend on reliable and Lodam’s cooling control solutions cater for a range climate can be created everywhere with minimum energy compared to other products? economical equipment. of applications: energy consumption due to demand-driven ventila• Reefer containers tion. The air handling controller operates in both • The air handling controller controls the supply Maersk Container Industry produces the Star Cool • Truck & Trailer units household and industrial units. and exhaust air with energy-saving EC fans or reefer container, which features a controller develAC fans with inverters. oped by Lodam. The Star Cool reefer container The supply of fresh, filtered air to maintain air quality controller meets the increasing demands for high is key to an optimised indoor climate and comfort. • The controller ensures demand-driven ventiquality and low operating costs, easy and userAs air handling costs energy, the goal is to ensure lation with CO2 and humidity sensors; if the friendly functionality and optimised serviceability. optimised comfort using as little energy as possible. humidity and CO2 values rise above a stipulated In fact, customers using Star Cool reefer containers Lodam’s air handling unit has a number of features level, the ventilation will increase, and as soon have cut operating costs and energy consumption that contribute to that goal. as the humidity and CO2 values are acceptable, by an average of 30%, but savings of up to 50% are the ventilation will be lowered again. In this way, possible compared to using conventional reefer only an absolute minimum of energy is concontainers. sumed to maintain a given level of comfort. The Star Cool controller features a unique humid• The air handling can be adjusted according ity control system, which minimises weight loss to outside temperature and day-and-night or and guarantees even higher product quality upon weekly requirements. delivery. Furthermore, the Star Cool controller sets new standards for user-friendliness and safety. 18 19 Supplier responsibility Lodam’s products are produced by skilled manufacFor our customers, we provide information about The overall goal is no deviations or substantial out which suppliers are ISO 14001-certified and turers in Europe, Asia and the USA. Our suppliers our supply chain activities in other sales and marketremarks, and compliance with our code of conduct. whether this has given rise to remarks. Furthermore, are manufacturers of electronic products and have ing material and presentations rather than in our So far, there have been no deviations or substantial we will observe how these things are handled in been carefully selected based on quality and conGeneral Terms of Sale and Delivery. Our customers remarks. general at the facilities. Once we have built more formity with specifications. are generally very pleased that Lodam is working comprehensive knowledge, we will decide how to strategically with CSR in the supply chain. This is Another goal set up in the last report was the proceed and which initiatives can be made. In the past period, Lodam has focused on implealso very much in line with our customers’ own CSR introduction of initiatives within the areas of use of menting our Supplier Code of Conduct in our supply strategies and goals. solvents, discharge of waste water and disposal of Furthermore, Lodam will investigate and establish a chain. Lodam strives to select suppliers that are waste in general at our suppliers’ production faciliplatform for deciding whether Lodam should be ISO committed to maintaining high ethical standards just At the formal level, all our suppliers commit themties. Before introducing specific initiatives, we will 14001-certified. like ourselves. We have only been met with underselves to our code of conduct. However, equally look further into the extent of the issue. We will find standing and acceptance from our suppliers when important is the dialogue we have with our suppliintroducing our code of conduct. ers, for instance as regards the conditions under which our suppliers’ workers work. Our goal is that We have worked with these activities at various work must be performed under reasonable and levels. First of all, we are incorporating CSR and the orderly working conditions, considering the country code of conduct into our contracts with all strategic where the supplier is located. We respect local and suppliers. CSR is only one element in these concultural traditions, but the working conditions must tracts, and many other issues are addressed in our be acceptable. dialogue and communication with these suppliers. This is a process that cannot be expedited, and as CSR is on the agenda in connection with quality new strategic suppliers may appear on the scene, it audits of our suppliers’ facilities. We inform our will also be an ongoing process. suppliers about CSR and why it is important. During audits, environmental conditions and occupational Furthermore, we have introduced the Supplier health and safety are on the checklist of areas being Code of Conduct to all other Lodam suppliers, askaudited. Lodam’s quality system does not include ing them to comply with it. Lodam is engaged in a unannounced visits. However, when other Lodam dialogue with the very few suppliers who have not employees in the supply chain area visit suppliers, yet complied with the code of conduct as the goal they are briefed about the supplier’s CSR and which is compliance by all suppliers. This will also be an issues to pay attention to. ongoing activity, as new suppliers come on board. We have also decided to include a reference to our Supplier Code of Conduct in our purchase orders. 20 21 Goals and actions Human rights Anti-corruption Labour Human rights Environment Labour Environment Anti-corruption Results 2012 actions (May 2012 April 2013) New goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Goal Goal Introducing and implementing Lodam’s CSR policies within our supply chain: Introducing and implementing Lodam’s CSR policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. a. Supplier contract with Code of Conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Include the Supplier Code of Conduct in our General Terms of Sale and Delivery. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers. Results Goal a. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the supplier contracts that we are working on with our strateContinue to work with CSR in relation to our supply chain via our quality assurance system: gic suppliers. Some contracts have been signed, while others are still in progress (May 2013). Focus a. Supplier audits include areas such as environmental conditions and occupational health and safety. will still be on this work, and thus this goal, in the next period. b. In connection with audits, check if the supplier is ISO 14001-certified, and if there are any remarks to b. We have decided to refer to CSR activities in our supply chain in other sales and marketing material the certification. and presentations. c. Use of solvents, discharge of waste water and disposal of waste in general at our suppliers’ production facilities: Look further into the extent of the issue. Once we have built more comprehensive knowGoal ledge, decide how to proceed and which initiatives can be made. Incorporating CSR in relation to our suppliers into our quality assurance system: a. Incorporate the checklist regarding areas to evaluate at our suppliers’ facilities, including both anGoal nounced and unannounced visits in the auditing plans. Investigate and provide a basis for deciding whether Lodam should be ISO 14001-certified. b. Specify targets/initiatives within all checklist areas. Results a. The quality assurance system includes a checklist. Lodam’s quality assurance division only performs announced audits. However, other visits to suppliers by other Lodam employees include unannounced check-ups on CSR status. b. The goal is no deviations or substantial remarks as well as compliance with our Code of Conduct. At this point, there have been no deviations or substantial remarks. Goal Initiatives within the areas of use of solvents, discharge of waste water and disposal of waste in general at our suppliers’ production facilities. Results Before introducing specific initiatives, we will look further into the extent of the issue. Once we have built more comprehensive knowledge, we will decide how to proceed and which initiatives can be made. 22 23 Supplier code of conduct Preface Lodam strives to select suppliers who are commitThis Code of Conduct applies to suppliers doing ted to maintaining high ethical standards. We are a business with Lodam. Suppliers must comply with signatory to the United Nations’ Global Compact, this Code of Conduct in all aspects of their operaand we expect our suppliers to share the fundamentions that relate to their business with Lodam. Suptal principles of the UN Global Compact initiative, plier companies must ensure that their employees whether signatories or not. comply with this Code of Conduct in all activities related to the suppliers’ business with Lodam. The Supplier Code of Conduct comprises the following specific areas: We expect our suppliers to ensure that their subsup• Remuneration and employment conditions pliers are aware of and comply with the principles • Working hours expressed in this Code of Conduct. • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining • Discrimination • Harassment and disciplinary measures • Child labour • Forced labour • Health and safety • Environment • Corruption and bribery Furthermore, our suppliers are required to comply with all relevant national legislation and regulations. The purpose of Lodam’s Supplier Code of Conduct is to outline in greater detail the standards we expect our suppliers to adhere to. Lodam views these requirements as an integral part of our business relationship with individual suppliers. We believe that ethical, social and environmental standards will provide competitive advantages for the benefit of Lodam and our suppliers. 24 25 Supplier code of conduct Specific requirements Discrimination If a child is found working, the supplier must act Environment We expect the supplier’s hiring and employment in the best interest of the child, and any measures We expect the supplier to meet all relevant local Remuneration and employment conditions practices (including promotion, training and rewards) taken must aim to improve and not worsen the and national environmental regulations and to strive We expect the supplier to comply with all legislation not to be discriminatory on the grounds of race, child’s situation. to minimise damaging effects to the environment. and regulations governing pay and working hours, colour, ancestry, religion, gender, gender identity or including those pertaining to minimum pay, overexpression, sexual orientation, age, physical or menForced labour Corruption and bribery time pay, sick leave, piece rates and other compental disability, health condition, pregnancy, political Forced, bonded or indentured labour or involuntary We expect the highest standards of integrity in all satory elements. opinion or affiliation, national, social or ethnic origin, prison labour is not to be used. business interactions. The supplier must not engage union membership, marital status, citizenship status in any form of corrupt practices, including extortion, Working hours or veteran status. Health and safety fraud or bribery, whether direct or indirect. We expect the supplier not to require employees to We expect the supplier to provide safe and healthy work more than 60 hours per week including overHarassment and disciplinary measures working conditions and take appropriate precautime, or more than the limits on regular and overWe expect the supplier not to use or permit the use tionary measures to protect employees from worktime hours permitted under local law, whichever is of corporal punishment or other forms of mental related hazards and anticipated dangers in the the lower. Workers must be entitled to at least one or physical coercion, disciplinary actions or sexual workplace. non-working day in every seven-day period. harassment. The supplier must comply with all applicable local Particular employees with unusual working condiChild labour legislation and regulations to prevent accidents and tions may be exempted from this general requireWe expect the supplier to ensure that no person is injury to health arising out of, linked with, or occurment when covered by specific national or internaemployed at an age younger than 15 (or 14 where ring in the course of work or as a result of the operational legislation; however, in the course of 12 weeks the law of the country permits) or younger than the tion of the employer’s facilities. no employee must be required to work more than age for completing compulsory education in the an average of 60 hours per week, including overcountry of manufacture where such age is higher We expect the supplier to continuously improve time. than 15. working conditions and reduce workplace-related risks and hazards by e.g. setting targets and conFreedom of association and right to collective The supplier must protect young workers of legal ducting appropriate training. bargaining working age, up to the age of 18, from any type We expect the supplier not to prevent employees of employment or work which, by its nature or the and other workers from associating freely with any circumstances in which it is carried out, is likely to lawful workers’ association or collective bargaining jeopardize their health, safety or moral. association of their choice. 26 27 People responsibility Lodam wants to be the preferred company in the A great place to work These are a few of those possibilities: Work-life balance will remain a focal point at Lodam eyes of our employees. So it says in our overall viLodam’s Pole Position programme, which is our in• Lunch arrangement as it is key to employee satisfaction. Lodam believes sion. ternal project with a clear vision of being one of the • Health insurance (includes children) that employees with a healthy work-life balance Top 3 places to work in Denmark in 2013, is closely • Massage and hairdresser (at Lodam) work better, are happier and contribute more to our In this report, we have chosen to present some of connected to our values, and defines the scope of • Company profile clothing values. the areas that we have focused on, in particular, the activities we initiate to attain our goal. • Family travel insurance (worldwide) since the last report in order to comply with our vi• LogBuy discount card (you can order your groManagement and leadership sion, as well as the areas we will concentrate on for In order to measure our progress and benchmark ceries online and have them delivered at Lodam) The ranking as no. 8 in 2012 in the category of the next year. All our activities within these areas reour results, Lodam has been working with the Great medium-sized companies in the Best Workplaces late to our values, which we live every day, and which Place to Work® Institute since 2006. In 2012, Lodam In addition to the above possibilities, Lodam’s apin Denmark list, compared to a ranking as no. 19 in influence everything we do and all our decisions. was ranked as no. 8 in the category of medium-sized proach is to allow individual solutions for individual 2011, represents significant progress and shows that companies in the Best Workplaces in Denmark list, employees, as different employees need different we have improved on all the Great Place to Work® as measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. solutions to strike a healthy work-life balance. parameters. Lodam’s values This is our best result so far, and a step further toOur values, which we have formulated and lived for wards fulfilling our goal of being in the Top 3. Besides making a number of tools available for The improvement is very much attributable to our many years, and which influence everything we do each employee, Lodam has also adjusted the way in managers’ ability to handle the growth we have and all the decisions we make, are: Work-life balance which we organise work at Lodam. We strive for havexperienced as a company, while at the same time • Professionalism a competent and reliable Apart from the ranking as no. 8, Lodam was nomiing fewer tasks, but for shorter periods, so that it is focusing on the areas we have chosen to work with. business partner which keeps its promises and nated for the Work-Life Balance award 2012 by possible to work with one thing at a time. This gives One of these areas is the employees’ experience of delivers quality. the Danish Great Place to Work® Institute. Thus, individual employees a better chance of planning team and family spirit. This is an area that is typically • Inclusiveness individualism with respect for Lodam’s employees are among the employees in their work. Many studies show that this is a good challenged when a company grows in terms of both diversity, driven by humour and job happiness Denmark with the best opportunities for life planway to prevent stress. This initiative should improve revenue and number of employees. Another area and preparedness for changes. ning. both our psychological working environment indicathat is also affected by this is the employees’ experi• Good business acumen sound business practors, and also the management’s ability to manage ence that their colleagues work just as hard as they tices in all daily decisions, both internally and Work-life balance – the balance between workand delegate the work. On both counts, we have do. externally. ing life, private life, family life, hobbies and other significantly improved the results from 2011 to 2012. activities – is one of the main focus areas in the Pole In order to be able to handle these challenges, our Position programme. Lodam has made a number of However, it is the total package of opportunities managers completed a comprehensive leadership tools available to help employees balance their lives. as well as Lodam’s continual communication about programme in 2012. Each manager has spent up to These include a personal planning course, which the opportunities and improvements to the working 10% of his management time doing this programme, also looks at work-life balance, flexible working conditions that have resulted in the nomination for including studying, accomplishment and implemenhours, as well as a number of approaches to making the Work-Life Balance award. tation. daily life easier. 28 29 The leadership programme looks at topics such as Lodam Academy People responsibility goals situational leadership, communication, balanced Lodam has an internal training programme known The indicators below relate to Lodam’s ability to maintain and improve employee well-being, motivation scorecards, delegating etc. The programme is closeas the Lodam Academy. Under this programme, all and job satisfaction. Furthermore, it shows Lodam’s ability to retain its employees, recruit new employees ly connected to our leadership guidelines, which employees have a personal development plan. This and create new workplaces. form the basis of the professional management of plan includes employee development and training. Description Target 2012 Actual 2012 Target 2013 Comments Lodam. The leadership guidelines are available to (1 January) everyone at Lodam and ensure the empowerment There is a saying in Lodam: “No one is entitled not No. of employees An increase An increase of An increase of Expected increase, as at 1 Jaof the professional management of Lodam, strategito make progress”. Based on that, we will focus of 25% 26% 10% nuary 2013. (65 employees at (82 employees at cally, tactically and operationally. on the accomplishment by all employees of their 01.01.2012) 01.01.2013) individual development plans in 2013. We will do Staff turnover Below 3% 2.66% Below 3% Measured as the number of retiAs part of the leadership programme, all managers this by emphasising the importance of accomplishred employees compared to the average number of employees. must accomplish a 360-degree evaluation every year, ing the agreed training activities and the manager’s which takes the form of feedback from members and employee’s joint responsibility for ensuring this. Sick leave Not to exceed 1.52% Not to exceed Including long-term sick leave. 1.8% 1.8% of the individual manager’s immediate work circle, Thus, we have set up new goals in a list of indicators No. of physical injuries 0 0 0 Lodam focuses on preventive including direct feedback from subordinates, peers regarding agreed and accomplished competence activities. and supervisors, as well as a self-evaluation. The development. The goal is for 70% of all agreed trainNo. of psychological 0 0 0 Lodam focuses on preventive injuries, e.g. stress activities. evaluation is a useful development tool and part of ing to be performed, and 20% of all agreed training Agreed and accom90% divided as The final 10% are courses that an ongoing process for all our managers. to be scheduled. plished competence follows: 70% accannot be accomplished for vadevelopment complished, and rious reasons (cancelled by the 20% scheduled. organiser, postponed etc.). The leadership programme continues in 2013 and Part of the Pole Position programme is about Lo(01.05.2014) further into the future as having a professional dam’s capability to run an innovative and successful Below are three goals which relate specifically to our management is decisive to attaining our goals – as business, and competence development is a deciThese indicators follow the calendar year, except for the competence development goal. regards both the Pole Position project and Losive means to achieving that. dam’s overall vision. In 2013, all managers follow an The goals set up below relate to our overall 2013 goal and vision of being one of the Top 3 places to work individual leadership programme focusing on their in Denmark in 2013 – as measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. Lodam wants to improve in all areas measpecific needs for further training. sured by the Great Place to Work® survey; however, the three goals set out below are specifically important to us. Description 2011 2012 2013 (November) Significantly improve the management’s ability to manage 66% 83% Above 90% and delegate the work. Significantly improve the employees’ experience of team 80% 81% Above 90% and family spirit. Significantly improve the employees’ experience that their 84% 92% Above 90% colleagues work just as hard as they do. These goals follow the GPW calendar. The survey is carried out in September, and the results are available in November. 30 31 Anti-corruption Goals and actions Lodam strives to maintain strong ethical standards Gifts from Lodam, including business partner care, Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption and to be a company of good standing and integare thus based on the reasonability principle. We do Results 2012 actions (May 2012 April 2013) rity. Lodam’s anti-corruption policy is based on the not give individual Christmas gifts, but we may give (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) UN’s Convention against Corruption as well as our gifts to show our appreciation of special efforts, also obligations under the tenth principle of the UN based on the reasonability principle. Moreover, we Goal Communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: Global Compact initiative: Businesses should work prefer to give gifts to a group of people instead of a. An annual general instruction to all employees. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion just one person. The gifts that Lodam or a Lodam b. Special annual instructions to employees with many external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). and bribery. employee may receive are accepted only if they c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. comply with the reasonability principle; if not, they Results a. An annual general instruction was held in March 2013. The instruction is now part of Lodam’s general Corruption is defined by Transparency International are returned. Furthermore, all the gifts received are internal training programme. as “the abuse of entrusted power for private gain.” donated to Lodam’s Christmas lottery, in which all b. Special annual instruction to employees with many external contacts was held in December 2012. Participation is registered in Lodam’s competence registration system. employees participate. c. No incident has been registered (as per 1 May 2013). Within our supply chain, we ensure that our partners work against corruption as well, by asking our supOur focus area has been and will continue to be pliers to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct on awareness and understanding of this issue. The (ref. pages 25-27), which includes a paragraph on instruction held for all employees include informaHuman rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption corruption and bribery. tion on grey areas between corruption and building New goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) relationships and what the reasonability principle (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Lodam has an internal policy regarding gifts. Gifts to means. and from external partners must respect a reasonGoal ability principle, whereby they do not act as a means Continue communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. of persuading someone to do something which is b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts. (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.), at least once a year. dishonest, illegal or represents a breach of confic. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. dence. 32 33 2013 goals Final words and facts Working in a company that focuses on social reFacts: Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Human rights Labour Labour Environment Anti-corruption sponsibility is very important to our employees. The Human rights Environment 2013 goals (and beyond) Anti-corruption 2012 result of the Danish “Great Place to Work” Date of issue of this communication on progress (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) competition, organised by the Great Place to Work® (COP): 21 May 2013 Institute, shows that Lodam is succeeding in that Our vision is to be the preferred company in the eyes of our customers and area. Ninety-nine per cent of all Lodam employees Company name and address: employees: answered “I feel good about the way we contribute Lodam electronics a/s to society”. Lodam employees have always felt that Kærvej 77 Lodam is a responsible company. The year before DK-6400 Sønderborg Lodam wants to improve customer satisfaction, as measured in our annual sur(2011), 94% answered that they feel good about the veys, by having a Net Promoter Score (NPS) of more than 25 in 2013. way we contribute to society. We believe that the VAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 increase in 2012 is due to our strategic approach to In 2013, Lodam wants to be a Top 5 supplier as evaluated by our customers. this area, including our joining the UN Global ComBank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: DK12626509 pact in 2012. No. of employees on date of issue: 87 Lodam wants to be one of the Top 3 places to work in Denmark in 2013 – as By continuing to implement and incorporate the 10 measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. principles of the UN Global Compact initiative into Management: our strategies and our daily work, we will strive for Kristian Strand, CEO Lodam to be perceived by all our stakeholders as a Henning H. Kristensen, CTO socially responsible company. Board of Directors: Peter Schaufler Michael Bauer Rainer Grosse-Kracht Jürgen Kleiner Christian Wahlers Christian Wehrle Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012. This report has been printed using environmentally friendly ink on FSC certified paper in a limited number of copies. Ref. www.fsc.org. 34 35 Lodam electronics – Efficient energy control for better living Copyright © 2013 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Ver. 3.0 21.05.2013 Lodam electronics a/s Tel. +45 73 42 37 37 lodam@lodam.com Kærvej 77 Fax +45 73 42 37 30 www.lodam.com 6400 Sønderborg Denmark
