U N I T E D N AT I O N S G LO B A L C O M PA CT C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n Pro g re s s 2 0 1 3 VIYELLATEX group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2013 Reporting Period: May 2012 April 2013 M ES S AG E F R O M T H E C EO At VIYELLATEX, we have always believed that in order to prosper we need the communities in which we operate to prosper as well; and that over the long term, can be mutually reinforced by harmonious coexistence of healthy populations, healthy economies and healthy business performance. Our position in society brings both opportunities and responsibilities to do business while respecting national laws, international standards, and in ways that help protect the environment for future generations. Sustainability is very much about people as well, and so we continue to invest in making VIYELLATEX a great place to work in and being progressively active in ensuring health and safety. Since becoming the signatory of the UN Global Compact in 2009, VIYELLATEX has made tremendous strides in the four core principles and has imbedded them into our standards, policies and cultures. Thus, we feel proud to be a part of such an initiative by successfully maintaining, and further improving on, the principles laid out by the UNGC. The management is determined to be forward thinking on big issues, even when the path ahead is difficult. Partnerships and dialogue with a wide range of parties, including our customers, government and regulators remain to the fore. I, as the Chairman and CEO, am committed towards the UNGC and we, the VIYELLATEX team are resolute in continuing our efforts through 2013 and beyond. David Hasanat Chairman & CEO C O N T E N TS 1 2 3 5 7 8 9 T H E T E N P R IN C IP L ES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 I N T R O D U CT I O N Welcome to the fourth Communication on Progress (COP) report of VIYELLATEX group. This year we have made noteworthy ...Progress in raising progress regarding the four principles – Human Rights, Labor general awareness on Standards, Environment and Anti-corruption. The attendance Fire Fighting, First Aid, rate and number of training sessions have increased over the etc. years, raising general awareness on aspects such as chemical handling, first aid, fire fighting, etc. The numbers of recipients No incidents of availing the medical services provided by VIYELLATEX group discrimination in the have also risen considerably. reporting period... In the reporting period, VIYELLATEX has not been subject to any fines or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Also, there is no incident of discrimination in this reporting year amidst strong awareness campaign. Over the years, VIYELLATEX has made key progress in diversification, not only adding Midland Power Ltd. into the family but also making significant progress in the completion of Eco-Couture, an environment friendly knit factory. It is expected to go into operation soon this year. Coupled with this progress, continuous improvement is being made to the workforce, bringing young talented recruits who are capable of driving rapid growth in the years to come. 2 H U M AN R I G H TS Principle 1 & 2 Employee’s health and safety is a top priority at VIYELLATEX ...A total 1156 women and the company goes to great lengths to ensure that all its and infants received employees are provided a congenial atmosphere to work and free of cost treatment excel at their respective workplaces. In that respect, cleaning at the EPI. 1873 personnel are available round the clock to keep floors, toilets, employees received and other places clean and sanitized. Also, Evaporative Cooling eye care at the Eye Pads are installed in all production floors, to keep the atmosphere Camps. 128 employees cool and pleasant. Moreover, drinking water is provided to all donated blood in the employees, and the water is tested and certified by “International Blood Donation Centre for Diarrheal Disease Research, Bangladesh (iccdr,b)”. program... Furthermore, VIYELLATEX has an in-house medical center where a professional medical team is available throughout the day to provide medical assistance, care and medicine free of cost. The medical center is also equipped to handle emergencies and carry out basic treatment. In the reporting period, VIYELLATEX has organized 12 Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) camps, where a total of 1156 people comprising of women and infants, availed the service free of cost. The EPI camp is a program where vaccinations (such as OPV, etc) are given to infants and pregnant women receive pre & post natal medical services. The quarterly held 0-5 clinic saw 309 children of workers turn up for medical check-up, while the Vitamin A plus campaign saw a total of 513 children receive vitamin capsules. Similarly, several eye camps were arranged where a total of 1873 employees received eye care related treatment. A Blood Donation program was also held at its premises where a total of 128 employees donated blood. Also, a mobile clinic for the physically challenged was organized on 9th March 2013 jointly with Center for the Rehabilitation of the Paralyzed (CRP). A total of 46 physically challenged individuals received various treatments. 3 H U M AN R I G H TS In supplement to ensuring a safe working place, training sessions are arranged regularly. In the reporting period, 2729 ...A total 10324 workers workers received training on firefighting, 722 workers on first aid, received training on 875 workers on chemical management, and 4537 workers on Fire Fighting, First Aid, Ethical Model Factory (EMF). Also, 1461 workers attended a Chemical Management, session on Environment Management System (ISO 14001). The Ethical Model Facotry Emergency Preparedness and Response procedure is designed and Environment Management System in line with the ISO 14001 standard. (ISO 14001)... VIYELLATEX also provides educational opportunities to children of workers and local community through the Early Childhood Development (ECD) and BIKASH project. In the ‘ECD’ project, eight pre-primary schools are administered in collaboration with PVH, USAID and Save the Children. Currently, the schools have 116 children, of which 51 are of workers employed at VIYELLATEX. ‘BIKASH’ is a school for the physically challenged and underprivileged children in the local community. A total of 78 children are enrolled in the school out of which 48 are of workers employed at VIYELLATEX. Principle 2 All our regulations, procedures and actions are formulated so that it ensures that all persons connected with our operation and business, be they customers or employees, are treated fairly and with due consideration of their feelings and rights. VIYELLATEX has strict non-discrimination and anti-harassment policies. These are enforced by the respective Unit HR Department and additionally monitored by the corporate department. On the job, any sort of grievances with regards to discrimination or abuse are handled by the counseling and employee assistance team at each business unit. This team, comprising of experienced executives, provides guidance, counseling and regular training on work ethics. VIYELLATEX also provides maternity benefits, provident fund, and gratuity scheme to motivate the workforce and is in constant development in extending human rights and special benefits. 4 L A B O R S TA N D A R D S Principle 3 & 4 To uphold freedom of association of workers, VIYELLLATEX on a regular basis arranges meetings and discussions with workers ...Human Resource and their representatives, in the form of Participation Committee. policy of VIYELLATEX The worker’s representatives are chosen by the workers is designed in themselves via election. Such committees have proven to be accordance to the 10 effective in building a fruitful relationship between the manageprinciples of UNGC. ment and the workers and also been instrumental in driving Including double basic improvements. salary for overtime, workers are provided Moreover, VIYELLATEX strictly prohibits the employment of with other benefits labor and staff by force. The company’s Human Resource policy such as attendance is designed in accordance to the 10 principles of UNGC and is bonus, food allowance implemented across all supervisory levels. For overtime work, and free medicine... workers are duly compensated by providing double their basic salary and other benefits and facilities such as attendance bonus, food allowance and free medicine are also available for all employees. Principle 5 VIYELLATEX follows strict regulation of not employing workers below the age of 18. All management staff and workers are required to provide identification documents during recruitment. The medical team conducts examination and tests to verify that the employee is of the required age and also possesses characteristics to perform the designated job. The internal compliance team conducts third party supplier audits on a regular basis to ensure that the system is followed across the supply chain. 5 L A B O R S TA N D A R D S Principle 6 VIYELLATEX abides by a labor-related citizenship policy which assures ongoing improvement in the company’s corporate ...Equal Employment responsibility performance, which has been designed by Opportunity ensures accommodating the principles of United Nations Global recruitment regardless Compact and the Bangladesh Labor Law. Henceforth, recruiting, of race, religion, hiring, training and promoting the most qualified individuals or gender, age, etc. In employees are done regardless of race, religion, age, gender, addition, 72 physically marital status, nationality, or physical disability. challenged individuals have been recruited The recruitment process consists of several steps comprising of through programs by aptitude test, stress and panel interviews, and final selection. ILO-TVET, Marks & Moreover, job analysis is carefully conducted to ensure that the Start and CRP... task is appropriately assigned to the right person. In addition, VIYELLATEX has so far recruited 72 physically challenged individuals through various programs such as ILO-TVET, Marks & Start. The ‘Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Reform Project’ is run with assistance from CRP, International Labor Organization (ILO) and PVH. 6 E N VIR O N M E N T Principle 7 & 8 The environment policy of VIYELLATEX is based on three core principles, which are to safeguard the natural resources of the ...We promote the country, prevention of pollution and continual improvement in concepts of 3R respect to environmental performance. The environmental (Reduce, Reuse and objectives are designed in accordance to these principles and are Recycle), Till date, a integrated with the Environmental Management System (EMS), total of 248,687 KG of which is ISO 14001:2004 certified. The internal audit team compost fertilizer have conducts internal audits on a quarterly basis to ensure that the been produced and ISO 14001 standard is being adhered to. used in the tea estate (Royal Valley Planters) VIYELLATEX also actively promotes the concepts of 3R and also distributed to (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle), and to this day, a total of 248,687 neighboring farms free kilograms of compost fertilizer has been produced at of cost... VIYELLATEX Spinning Ltd. The compost fertilizer is used in the tea estate (Royal Valley Planters) and also distributed to neighboring farms free of cost. Also, the waste paper generated at VIYELLATEX is given to CRP (Center for Rehabilitation of the Paralyzed) and Shishu Polli Plus for their recycling programs. Principle 9 In addition, VIYELLATEX has developed several heat recovery programs (e.g. Using Condensed Steam and Cogeneration boiler) in regenerating energy. Also, rain water harvesting system is in place to store rainwater for later use. Treated waste water of the effluent treatment plant (ETP) is reused for toilet flushing in bathrooms as well. Moreover, this year a massive campaign has been launched to substantially reduce energy consumption. VIYELLATEX has been successful in replacing more than 4000 fluorescent light bulbs with energy saving LED T5 Tube lights. Plus sewing machines are now fitted with servo mechanisms which are proven to consume less energy than clutch motors. Environmental standards and mechanisms have enabled VIYELLATEX to save roughly 97 million liters of ground water, 4.5 million m³ of natural gas resources every year and also helped in a reduction of 35% of energy cost in a year. 7 A N T I C O R R U PT I O N Principle 10 VIYELLATEX is committed to good corporate governance, which promotes the long term interests of shareholders, ...The use of Enterprise strengthens board and management accountability and helps Resource Planning build public trust in the company. The company’s Code of (ERP) software Conduct and Human Resource policy provides guidance on how solutions such as SAP to conduct business in a fair, ethical and legal manner. The use has enabled of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software solutions such VIYELLATEX to instill a as SAP has enabled VIYELLATEX to instill a culture of culture of transparency transparency and accountability. In addition, the Internal Audit and accountability... team (a cross-functional team) conducts investigations, detects misconduct and monitors compliance with anticorruption laws and company policy. The team assesses all the business units for risks related to corruption and concentrate’s auditing at the highest risk locations. To further aid in auditing, all significant locations are monitored 24 hours by close-circuit security cameras (CCTV). Furthermore, workshops and seminars are held on a regular basis to raise awareness and to educate the workforce on the importance of a corrupt free organization. Also, all new recruits, be it workers or management staff are obligated to attend induction sessions, where the aim is to familiarize each of them with the organization’s policies, code of conduct, and other commitments. 8 VA L U E S With Integrity, we work towards business sustainability to ensure Fairness to every stakeholder. We foster Innovation to enforce our Commitment towards the Environment and best practices to ensure Customer Satisfaction. If you have any queries, please contact: MK Z a k e r i a Arman Ud Dowla mk.zakeira@viyellatexgroup.com arman.dowla@viyellatexgroup.com +880 173 241002 +880 173 0089980 297 Khairtul, Tongi. Gazipur-1712, Bangladesh Find us on: 9 KNIT FACTORY WOVEN FACTORY SPINNING MILL ACCESSORIES PRINTING LOGISTICS TEA ESTATE GREEN FACTORY GREEN FACTORY POWER PLANT www.viyellatexgroup.com © 2013 All rights reserved.
