We Support C SR LEBANON Annual Report UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 2012 July 2011 – July 2012 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Towards a National CSR Strategy STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT This is the second communication on progress (COP) submitted by CSR LEBANON LLC. It has been a positive year for CSR LEBANON as we continue to spread awareness about CSR and sustainability. Our mission is steadily moving towards achievement; and despite having some of the most pressing socioeconomic and environmental problems in the world, Middle Eastern and Lebanese companies are still lagging behind their global counterparts in responding to these issues. However, we are seeing evidence that a growing number of forwardlooking companies understand that CSR initiatives such as the Global Compact are not simply PR or marketing tools, but a necessary element to being competitive and sustainable. CSR LEBANON faces some challenges in reporting on UNGC progress which relate to our company type and size. The activities of CSR LEBANON are more closely aligned with those of a business association or an NGO than a company, considered as a social enterprise. This creates difficulties in classifying the company for membership in the UN Global Compact. As a small business with less than ten permanent employees (the majority of employees our team are not permanent, handling time-bound and specific projects) whose main outputs are intellectual. The social, environmental and economic risk from CSR LEBANON’s operational activities is not high and the necessary actions to limit our risk are therefore minimal. CSR LEBANON’s main impact on the ten principles is achieved through awareness-raising activities about CSR and sustainability rather than its day-today operations. Since the main focus of the UNGC is on internal operations, policies and supply chains, reporting on the principles in relation to our operations often fails to capture the true role of CSR LEBANON in promoting the Global Compact. Faced with these challenges, the company nevertheless decided to join the Global Compact in 2010 for three reasons which remain applicable today. 5 The first was to demonstrate our support for the Global Compact. The UNGC continues to represent the most widely accepted set of international business standards in relation to corporate social responsibility and human rights. As such, it is an important step to promote corporate accountability and transparency, which is part of CSR LEBANON’s mission. Secondly, we wished to demonstrate the positive impact of the ten principles that we have achieved, despite our small size, mainly through our awareness-raising activities. During 2011-2012, we have held several major events, including our second CSR Forum in Lebanon, entitled ‘Banking & Finance 2012: The Social Risk’ (December 1st, 2011). The forum hosted a number of prestigious international speakers who introduced key CSR and sustainability concepts to participants and enabled discussion on their successful implementation in Lebanon. We also facilitated a training course and workshop in July 2012 on CSR Reporting. The two-day event was attended by 25 participants from Lebanon’s business community. Our major achievement in 2011/12 was the publication of our quarterly magazine, Responsible BusinessTM in January 2012. The magazine is the first & only magazine in the Middle East specializing in CSR. It is an authoritative reference on CSR and is dedicated to building the business case for corporations committed to improving their practices by offering accurate information and guidelines. Our third reason for joining the Global Compact was to ensure that as our business grows, it does so in a socially responsible way. Using the Global Compact, self-assessment procedure has enabled us to identify areas where further improvements are needed to ensure that the business grows sustainably and continues to have a positive impact in society. For example, in 2012 we introduced an Ethics Code despite our small operational size. It will also help us to identify concrete objectives year-on-year to improve our performance against the Global Compact principles. We will continue to use it as a tool for evaluation and improvement and welcome its contribution to corporate responsibility at a global and local level. Khaled Kassar Founder & CEO CSR LEBANON IT’S OUR BUSINESS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Established in 2009, CSR LEBANON LLC. is an independent consulting firm (social enterprise) aiming to raise awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility and to enhance CSR dialogue in Lebanon and the region. Through our consultancy, from strategy to reporting, we provide a better understanding of the CSR concept among the public and private sectors, and in the community. | From Strategy to Reporting TM www.csrlebanon.com ABOUT CSR LEBANON ABOUT CSR LEBANON CSR is Our Business The main aim of CSR LEBANON is to raise awareness about the importance of corporate social responsibility as the new business culture in Lebanon and the Arab region. We are firmly committed to help companies by offering our consulting services, CSR strategies and reporting expertise to increase business efficiency and competitiveness as well as enhance sustainable corporate involvement with society. Our Vision To make CSR an essential part of our national culture; towards a National CSR Strategy. Our Mission To provide an informative platform to companies and support them in embodying CSR in their core business strategies and operations, aiming to align profitability with sustainability and human development. Our Values At CSR LEBANON, we strongly believe that business with no ethics is no business at all. Ethical values are deeply entrenched in our daily operations, with an unrelenting sense of responsibility towards our stakeholders and society at large. Since our work is CSR, transparency, openness, communication, collaboration, and engagement are of the top values at our company. We vigorously strive towards creating a two-way dialogue with our stakeholders, engaging them continuously in our initiatives and providing a dynamic work environment where everyone is knowledgeable and engaged in the business. Our Sources of Income Our current status as a company rather than an NGO or a social enterprise is the result of the inexistence of an adequate status for our type of enterprise in the Lebanese law, which leads to two drawbacks: 1. the inability of CSR LEBANON to approach local and international institutional donors; 2. The difficulty of 9 comparing CSR LEBANON’s success in terms of consultancy and awareness-raising programs to that of similar enterprises which are more easily financed and promoted. CSR LEBANON continues to succeed as a result of its professional team’s efforts, transparency in its relationships and partnerships, and commitment to quality and high level of expertise, but such an approach can also generate high expenditures which means that the company is constantly fighting to maintain its sustainability and continuity. Our sources of income are as follows: Strategic Partnerships with the private sector Advertising spaces in Responsible Business Magazine, exclusively relevant to CSR initiatives and programs Sponsorships Training Fees Direct funding by the founder of CSR LEBANON These sources of income provide minimal profit after recovering our running costs over the last year, largely as a result of the challenges listed on the next page. ABOUT CSR LEBANON Our Challenges 1. Lack of funding because of the inexistence of an adequate legal status in the Lebanese law for operating as a social enterprise, which reflects the nature of our activities, rather than a for-profit company. For example, while CSR LEBANON signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the UNDP to prepare a national baseline CSR country report, we had to stop the project given the lack of funding and cooperation from the UNDP itself. 2. Operating within an economy that is based on family-owned businesses where integrating a new culture inside the organization remains challenging and difficult despite the willingness and enthusiasm of key people. 3. Time constraints: with expenditures growing and becoming due at a faster rate than income generation, this delays investing quickly into new initiatives and, as a result,risk losing some positive momentum created. 4. Security and economic constraints as well as weak infrastructure and local and regional political instability which makes business operations inefficient at many stages, especially for a small company like ours. 5. The weak back-up from the public sector which keeps the sphere of collaboration small and hinders the proper adoption of CSR since the corporate sector remains free in the way it approaches CSR (although CSR is voluntary in nature) and has the capacity to manipulate public expectations because of the absence of relevant regulations and supervision (CSR LEBANON is working hard to adjust this situation through our Responsible Business magazine, website, other media tools, and events). 6. As CSR is a new trend in the region, many event organizers and some consultants consider it as a mainly commercial opportunity and tend to deal with it in an unprofessional way. This is due to a lack of understanding amongst event organizers and some consultants, as well as at the corporate level, and requires CSR LEBANON to double its efforts not only to raise awareness about CSR, but also to keep communicating with these corporations to adjust their perception of CSR. 11 7. Lack of local and regional expertise which forces CSR LEBANON to partner with international experts thus increasing its costs. 8. Our commitment to minimum standards in relation to the environment entails us to use 100% eco-friendly paper in all our printings (magazine, stationery, and other handouts), which costs much more than regular paper. COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE To serve the objective of raising awareness about CSR and enhance CSR dialogue in Lebanon and the region, CSR LEBANON uses a communications mix aimed at reaching all of our stakeholders in the most effective and cost-efficient way. Our communications tools include: CSR LEBANON Website Our website (www.csrlebanon.com) educates viewers on different matters related to CSR, as well as portrays expert opinions and analysis on the subject. The website additionally includes a news portal highlighting most recent local, regional, and international CSR-related news. 15 CSR LEBANON Events During 2011/12, CSR LEBANON organized two major events. The first was CSR LEBANON’s 2nd CSR Forum in December 2011 on ‘Banking & Finance 2012: The Social Risk’. The forum hosted a number of prestigious international speakers who introduced participants to key CSR concepts. The second event was a training course and workshop held in July 2012 on CSR Reporting. The two-day event was facilitated by two leading consultants from the UK’s Business in the Community (BITC), one of the leading Prince Charles Charities, and Radley Yeldar. The workshop and training course was attended by 25 participants from Lebanon’s business community. COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE An Investment in Knowledge pays the best interest. Benjamin Franklin 17 The course is the first of its kind in the CSR domain in Lebanon. It went well beyond the basics of CSR to address an advanced topic. I found the information very practical and useful. Grace El Azar, International Communications Head of Unit, Holcim and workshop participant We have also held a private training course about CSR strategy and action planning at BankMed, one of the leading Lebanese banks. The training was attended by 10 key people from the bank and a relevant report was prepared to share with other employees and managers at the bank. The training was very successful and CSR LEBANON is currently following up the development and implementation of some of the recommendations provided at the training. CSR Reporting in Lebanon received a major boost following the first ever training course on this subject in Lebanon. The training was organised by CSR LEBANON on the 3rd and 4th of July 2012 at the Riviera Hotel, Beirut. Over the course of the two days, 25 participants from 17 of Lebanon’s leading banks and corporations, in addition to the Banking Control Commission of Lebanon (BCCL) and the Lebanese Association of Certified Public Accountants (LACPA) learned what it takes to communicate their CSR progress effectively and to achieve the best outcomes for their business from CSR reporting. Expert trainers from CSR LEBANON’s UK partners, Business in the Community (BITC)’s Dwayne Baraka and Radley Yeldar (RY)’s Oliver Dudok Van Heel, provided an engaging and informative training program which clearly demonstrated that the value of CSR reporting goes above and beyond the end product. The event was supported by the Association of Banks in Lebanon (ABL), the American Lebanese Chamber of Commerce (Am Cham), and corporate sponsors KAFALAT, BLOM Bank and INDEVCO. Also by our media partners “Annahar” and “The Daily Star”. COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE Responsible BusinessTM Magazine Responsible BusinessTM magazine is now in its 4th issue and has received positive stakeholder feedback locally and internationally from the CSR, media and corporate sectors. The quarterly magazine provides readers with an overview of CSR developments in the region and internationally as well as in-depth features. It is the first and only publication in the Middle East specialized in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and has fast become one of the top 3 business magazines in Lebanon. Responsible BusinessTM is an authoritative reference on CSR and builds the business case for corporations committed to improving their practices by offering accurate information and guidelines. Its CSR credentials are further boosted by the production process which uses 100% recycled paper. Key Facts Distribution Mixed Sources 15,000 copies in Lebanon and the Middle East (market and free distribution) Readership More than 50,000 Ecological Features Areas of coverage Printed on Freelife Vellum, recycled paper obtained Mainly Lebanon, the UAE, Qatar, KSA, Jordan with 40% FSC certified post consumer fibers, 55% and the United Kingdom FSC certified cellulose and 5% cotton fiber. Plans Expanding to new markets in the coming 2-3 years, and launching a dedicated website for the magazine where a weekly newsletter on CSR and sustainability will be available for free. First Year of Responsible Business Special Edition | The 2nd CSR LEBANON FORUM Issue No. 1 January March 2012 Issue No. 1 January March 2012 CSR in Lebanon An Industry Emerging on Misunderstood Concepts What is Corporate National Bank of Abu Dhabi: Social Responsibility? The Responsible Journey A brief overview of a concept with many names CSR & Brand Value: Top 100 Sustainable Corporations A more valuable brand is a by-product Denmark topping the list and the UK leading the way of CSR not its raison d’être ISSN 2226-6100 Where is CSR Heading? 0 1 Trends in 2012 9 772226 610004 Issue No. 3 July September 2012 Green Building Still Only a Dream CSR in the Workplace The Human Brand The role of HR in creating a sustainable corporation Aligning marketing strategy & Social Causes Sorry Bank Audi CSR Education is Gaining This is not a CSR Report! Momentum Youssef El Khalil ISSN 2226-6100 0 3 The Leader of Microﬁnance 9 772226 610004 Your Ultimate Source for Corporate Social Responsibility Knowledge COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON Consulting Services We also strive to spread the message by working directly with companies to help them incorporate Corporate Social Responsibility in their core business. Our consultancy services include: CSR strategy-development CSR reporting (guidance and preparation) In-house training Project management CSR preliminary assessment Consultancy on project evaluation, development, and implementation CSR Communications Consultancy services are still at a very early stage due to the weak market readiness to integrate strategic CSR by businesses especially in Lebanon. Due to the instability of the political and economic environment in the country, businesses mostly operate within a short term spectrum and restrain from investing in long term strategies and programs. CSR LEBANON expects to be more active in the consultancy area within the next five years. This will be mainly due to the fulfilment of our National Program for raising awareness about CSR which includes intensive conferences and educational workshops in collaboration with business schools and aimed at eliminating misconceptions heavily existing in this field. Philanthropic and marketing perceptions of CSR as well as the disengagement of senior leadership are among the main challenges encountered in driving integrated CSR forward. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNGC COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES The following section outlines our approach to the UNGC and a summary of how we are seeking to support the ten principles. Method CSR LEBANON has undertaken a self-assessment at the end of the reporting period using the UNGC Self-Assessment Tool to evaluate our progress to date. This was undertaken with input from the editorial and management team. Included in our evaluation was an analysis of our supply chain which is described below. Follow-up actions were identified which will be implemented in 2013/14 and are listed at the end of this report. Our Supply Chain In assessing our supply chain, we identified the magazine as the main product we produce and therefore has the most significant impact. Where other suppliers opt for single purchases such as stationery items, we have long-term extensive relationships with these companies. Our utility requirements (water, electricity and sewage) are met by the government and/or the management of our building and are largely outside of our control. Production of the magazine is undertaken by Salim Dabbous Printing Company Sarl, a Lebanese printing press. The paper used in the magazine is 100% recycled free life Vellum (FSC certified) and is sourced by CSR LEBANON directly from Nahhal Paper Co in Lebanon, which imports the paper from Fedrigoni in Italy. Such paper quality is unfortunately not available locally or through regional suppliers. Following production, distribution is undertaken by Messageries du Moyen-Orient de la Presse et du Livre S.A.L. The magazine is also distributed in other Middle East countries, especially in the United Arab Emirates, again using a distribution agent (Abu Dhabi Media Company – Tawzea, in the UAE). Using distribution agents allows the magazine to be distributed alongside other publications to the same vendors, which reduces the carbon footprint of the magazine as well as the cost. Courier delivery is used for smaller magazine distributions, eg to particular companies, and is undertaken by Aramex (www.aramex.com), a large distribution company in the Middle East with an established track record in sustainability. 25 THE 10 PRINCIPLES a) Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • CSR LEBANON supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks to ensure that its principles are embedded in its organizational practices. • CSR LEBANON seeks to provide a safe and healthy workplace environment for its employees. • CSR LEBANON seeks to ensure that wages, hours and leave allowances meet international and Assessment, Policy and Goals national standards. • CSR LEBANON seeks to provide fair treatment for all staff in handling grievances. • An assessment of the company’s environmental and social impact on the local community in terms of negative impacts has concluded that they are negligible. The company has a small office which has not displaced any local inhabitants and it has limited interaction with the local community. • The company does not manufacture any products which may have human rights impacts. • The company remains engaged in human rights issues related to the business community in Lebanon as part of its awareness-raising activities but does not consider the business itself to be at risk of involvement in human rights abuses. • The company’s supply chain is very limited. It includes office stationery equipment providers and the publisher of the magazine. No formal contractual arrangements currently exist with these suppliers to facilitate a contractual agreement to promote international human rights standards. However, CSR LEBANON makes sure that its suppliers have the minimum requirements of accountability and ethical business practices, like having at least a basic knowledge of sustainability issues and have plans or working towards enhancing their business processes and supply chains. • CSR LEBANON actively promotes international human rights standards in its interactions with partners. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES • CSR LEBANON uses its media products to portray social concerns and human rights malpractices. Through its publication, Responsible Business, it aims to promote support and respect for human rights in Lebanon and the Middle East. Implementation • CSR LEBANON hosts regular events and meetings to bring together individuals from Lebanon’s business community to discuss CSR and sustainability issues, including human rights. • CSR LEBANON has adopted an Ethics Code which supports international human rights frameworks. • CSR LEBANON is currently in the process of developing a Health & Safety Policy and Grievance Policy in support of its implementation of the UN Global Compact. • CSR LEBANON assures that no human rights abuses are taking place within its company, or amongst suppliers and business partners. Measurement of Outcomes • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2012. The publication seeks to educate Lebanese and Middle Eastern businesses about CSR and sustainability, including human rights issues. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the second CSR LEBANON FORUM on Banking and Social Risk, attended by leading figures in the Lebanese business world and supported by Banque Du Liban (Central Bank of Lebanon). Issues related to employee rights were discussed by more than 250 participants who attended the Forum. • CSR LEBANON delivered a training course and workshop on CSR Reporting, which included information promoting the UN Global Compact as a reporting framework, in which human rights issues feature. 27 b) Labor Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • The company recognizes the rights of its workers to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Assessment, Policy • Child labor and forced labor are not considered risks for the company due to the nature of our work and our workforce. and Goals • CSR LEBANON actively campaigns against all forms of forced or compulsory labor and child labor. • CSR LEBANON ensures that employment decisions are based on objective criteria. This is enforced by the aim of promoting CSR in a multicultural and multi-religious country like Lebanon through promoting social collaboration and inclusion. • CSR LEBANON has undertaken a collaborative process with its employees to develop and publish an Ethics Code. This includes reference to the right of employees to form associations and undertake Implementation collective bargaining. • The Ethics Code of the company includes a commitment to avoid discriminatory behavior, including recruitment, based on religion, race, ethnicity, or gender. • CSR LEBANON continues to undertake awareness-raising activities to promote greater understanding of labor issues within Lebanon and the Middle East. • CSR LEBANON promotes an open policy inside the organization where employees are free to express their opinions, needs, share their problems, and seek advice. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES • Employees of CSR LEBANON have not engaged in any trade union or collective bargaining activities during 2012 but have not suffered any restrictions on doing so. • There are no children under the age of 19 who have worked or are working for the company or its main suppliers. Measurement • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2012. The publication seeks to educate Lebanese and Middle Eastern businesses about CSR and sustainabilof Outcomes ity, including labor issues. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the second CSR LEBANON FORUM on Banking and Social Risk, attended by leading figures in the Lebanese business world. This included discussion about investment decision-making and CSR in relation to labor rights. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on CSR Reporting, which included information promoting the UN Global Compact as a reporting framework. c) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, • CSR LEBANON seeks to lead by example in taking actions to be an environmentally sustainable business. Policy and Goals • CSR LEBANON continues to undertake awareness-raising activities to promote greater understanding of environmental responsibility and uptake of new technologies in the Middle East. 29 • Responsible BusinessTM is the only magazine of its kind in the Middle East printed on 100% ecofriendly recycled paper obtained with 40% of FSC certified post consumer fibers, 55% of FSC certified cellulose and 5% of cotton fibers. The whole company stationery (letterheads, brochures, business cards, folders, envelopes, notebooks, etc.) is printed on high quality FSC certified paper, the Free Life Vellum, produced by the Italian paper supplier, Fedrigoni. We always mention paper specifications on our print-puts to encourage our partners to shift to the same. Implementation • The company has taken measures to reduce its energy use by turning off all electrical equipment overnight and using printers which turn off automatically when not in use. Natural light is also used whenever possible within the office. • CSR LEBANON held meetings with each of its suppliers to discuss environmental issues. • The company has implemented a recycling initiative to recycle paper and plastic bottles but this has to be better enforced and monitored. Printing is also being minimized and double sided. It is worth noting, that CSR LEBANON, as a small company, does not generate a large amount of waste. Thus, segregated waste cannot be collected by local agents because of cost inefficiency of waste collectors. Accordingly, CSR LEBANON is working on promoting this practice among their neighboring companies and partners to gather waste in one area for more efficient collection. • 100% of magazines and stationery is printed on recycled paper, using environmentally sound ink. Measurement of Outcomes • No environmental incidents or complaints were made against CSR LEBANON during the reporting period. • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2012. The publication seeks to educate Lebanese and Middle Eastern businesses about CSR and sustainability, and has included features on environmental issues such as Green Building, the need for businesses to engage in environmental sustainability and avoid ‘Greenwashing’, environmental issues surrounding the cement industry and others. Later issues will include in-depth reviews about other sectors mainly Telecom and chemical industries. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on CSR Reporting, which included information promoting the UN Global Compact as a reporting framework. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES d) Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • CSR Lebanon takes an active stance against corruption in all its forms both within its own Assessment, business and the business community at large. It is committed to ethical behavior, accuracy and transparency. • CSR LEBANON’s employment agreement states that unethical business practice is a reason Policy and Goals for terminating the employment contract. • The company considers that the risk of corruption within its own business relationships is very low. • CSR LEBANON has incorporated anti-corruption commitments within its Ethics Code Implementation during 2011/12. • The company is also planning to develop a grievance procedure to ensure that employees are able to raise concerns and report non-compliance with the Ethics Code without fearing personal consequences. • CSR LEBANON continues to conduct awareness-raising activities on the subject of corruption. Measurement of • There have not been any reports of corruption within CSR LEBANON’s business during the reporting period. • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ Outcomes during 2012 including articles that promote ethics and best practice. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on CSR Reporting, which included information promoting the UN Global Compact as a reporting framework. 31 Comment: CSR LEBANON’s commitment to transparency led the company to be established as a for-profit company rather than an NGO for two reasons: 1. The generally poor reputation of many national NGOs in the country. 2. Inexistence of a relevant legal status in the Lebanese laws for social enterprises. Nevertheless, we chose to be established as a private sector company rather than an NGO although this means an opportunity cost for us in terms of funding. Follow-Up The action points identified to improve our compliance with the Global Compact for 2013/ 2014 are as follows: 1. Activate a Health and Safety policy for the workplace 2. Activate a Grievance policy for the workplace 3. Activate a policy on Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 4. Ensure pregnancy and adoption/childcare leave is included in standard employment contract 5. Activate an environmental policy including a strategy to monitor recycling performance in the workplace and try to lobby among neighboring corporations 6. Develop an arrangement, contractual or otherwise, with major suppliers which will support our compliance with the UNGC ten principles (if applicable in Lebanon) 7. Assess feasibility of monitoring indirect outcomes of awareness-raising activities such as relevant external events and press coverage of CSR /Sustainability issues in other news publications WE BELIEVE IN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR MISSION... AND NOTHING ELSE Established in 2009, CSR LEBANON LLC. is an independent consulting firm, a social enterprise aiming to raise awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility and to enhance CSR dialogue in Lebanon and the region. Through our consultancy, from strategy to reporting, we provide a better understanding of the CSR concept among the public and private sectors, and in the community. | From Strategy to Reporting TM www.csrlebanon.com
