2012 GLOBAL REPORT Clients & Talent & Economies & Operations & Overview • insights • opportunity • communities • governance 2012 GLOBAL Content REPORT 3 14 22 29 37 Overview Clients & insights Talent & Economies & Operations & opportunity communities governance Executive message Deloitte Digital Leadership Water stewardship Organizational structure Vision and values Multifunctional offerings International experience Environmental sustainability Leadership and governance Investment in quality Strategic markets Distinctive talent experience Education and skills Public policy Locations Deloitte Audit Transforming a workforce Opportunity: China Quality and risk Outlook and strategy A major acquisition Physical security Ethics Performance numbers London 2012 Independence Inditex Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process GRI INDEX UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX 2 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Overview Home Overview Executive message Vision and values Investment in quality Locations Watch the Overview video Outlook and strategy Performance numbers Clients & insights Talent & opportunity Economies & communities Operations & governance 3 2012 GLOBAL Executive message From Barry Salzberg and Steve Almond REPORT Home Overview Executive message Vision and values Investment in quality Locations Outlook and strategy T he Deloitte member firm network’s performance Performance numbers in any given year is about more than numbers. It’s the stories behind those numbers—the strength We believe strongly that Clients & insights of our client relationships, the breadth of our global service global businesses like ours have capabilities, and the depth of our commitment to quality Talent & opportunity and innovation—that bring our performance to life. both the opportunity and the Economies & These factors enable member firm professionals around the responsibility to look beyond communities world to continue delivering value for our stakeholders year the bottom line—to understand after year. In FY2012, despite ongoing global economic Operations & instability, these professionals helped drive growth across and shape the broader impact governance industry sectors, business lines, and all three major geographic regions. of our operations. We take that They also empower the Deloitte network to make broader responsibility seriously. social, environmental, and economic impacts. Working Maintaining responsible business practices is a top priority alongside our member firm clients every day drives for the Deloitte network. It’s one of the reasons we innovation, fosters growth, and in the case of the audit continue to align operations and strategies with the ten business, helps build and preserve the public’s trust in principles set forth in the United Nations Global Compact. capital markets. And why we’re relentless in our commitment to quality in all aspects of our business—from the services we provide to the talent we hire. 4 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home Today’s complex global business environment calls for a From establishing a new three-year US$750 million keen understanding and a rigorous assessment of potential investment in 11 strategic markets in FY2013 to Overview risks for member firms’ clients, our business, and the augmenting member firm capabilities by accelerating greater public community. Our response—internally and the focus on acquisitions, efforts are already well under Executive message in the marketplace—begins with quality. In FY2012, the way to build on the foundation laid by this past year’s Vision and values development and global implementation of Deloitte Audit, achievements. Investment in quality a new audit service delivery program, exemplified our It is with great pride that we share the stories behind those focus on and investment in quality, with potential benefits Locations affecting a broad array of our stakeholders. achievements with you. They represent the work of nearly 200,000 dedicated member firm professionals around Outlook and strategy But our commitment to quality is only part of the the world who continue to expand the scope of what the Performance numbers equation. Throughout this report, you’ll see examples of Deloitte network can achieve. the global network’s commitment to clients, our people, Clients & insights our communities, and our environment; our investment in On behalf of those professionals, we thank you for taking time to read this report. strategic markets; and our emphasis on innovative thinking. Talent & opportunity All of these contributed to the strength of our global performance this past fiscal year and all will continue to Economies & be a key focus of the Deloitte network’s global strategy communities moving forward. Operations & governance Barry Salzberg Steve Almond Global Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 5 2012 GLOBAL Vision and values REPORT Home need is greatest to stimulating global business leaders’ thinking on the nature of leadership to promoting a clearer Overview understanding of international regulatory and tax policies. Applying the Deloitte network’s collective insight and Executive message expertise to problems and opportunities creates pathways Vision and values for individual growth and achievement, business success, Investment in quality and value for society. Locations The Deloitte Shared Values Outlook and strategy The Deloitte Shared Values bind the people of the Deloitte member firms together, providing the basis for trusting one Performance numbers another and helping enable the network to achieve its vision. Our Vision Clients & insights Integrity We aspire to be the standard of excellence, the first choice We believe that nothing is more important than our of the most sought-after clients and talent. Talent & opportunity reputation, and behaving with the highest levels of integrity Business and society’s success are inextricably linked: for is fundamental to who we are. Deloitte demonstrates a Economies & society to flourish, business must also thrive. Business drives strong commitment to sustainable, responsible business communities innovation. Through its investments, products, and services, practices. business contributes to societal progress and well-being. Outstanding value to markets and clients Operations & Deloitte is committed to driving economic growth, Deloitte plays a critical role in helping both the capital governance capitalizing on business opportunities, responding markets and our member firm clients operate more productively to challenges, and supporting the creation effectively. We consider this role a privilege, and we know it of a sustainable and prosperous society. It is working to requires constant vigilance and unrelenting commitment. make clients across the world stronger and better able to Commitment to each other compete in a globalized marketplace. We believe that our culture of borderless collegiality is a • Risk enterprise teams are promoting good governance competitive advantage for us, and we go to great lengths and anti-corruption. to nurture it and preserve it. We go to extraordinary lengths • Audit practices are building and preserving public trust in to support our people. capital markets. Strength from cultural diversity • Consulting professionals are unlocking innovation and Our member firm clients’ business challenges are complex productivity in businesses. and benefit from multidimensional thinking. We believe that working with people of different backgrounds, cultures, Deloitte’s support of clients helps drive advances across and thinking styles helps our people grow into better 6 the business spectrum—from breakthroughs in data professionals and leaders. analytics that help put healthcare professionals where the 2012 GLOBAL Investment in quality A critical, sustained focus REPORT Home D eloitte’s presence in the marketplace, its member firm client relationships, and its larger stakeholder Overview commitments are marked by a sustained focus on and investment in quality. Executive message Vision and values This commitment is perhaps most evident in the audit practice and discipline, reflecting the independent audit’s Investment in quality crucial role in protecting the investing public and capital Locations markets. Deloitte takes pride in this role, and Deloitte member firms are investing in their audit practices to Outlook and strategy continuously enhance the quality of their audit work. Performance numbers Deloitte is constructively engaged with regulators and other Clients & insights stakeholders worldwide on issues such as the role of the auditor and financial reporting, with significant emphasis Talent & opportunity on enhancing audit value and quality, improving corporate governance, and increasing public confidence in the audit Economies & process. communities Deloitte Audit, a global, transformative audit platform that provides clients with a customized approach to their Operations & most important issues and risks, exemplifies Deloitte’s governance commitment to audit quality. Quality also underscores Deloitte’s investment in talent and its support of leadership development and professional growth, including extensive training and education on technical and regulatory matters, and on professional ethics and independence. In addition, Deloitte’s systematic quality and risk frameworks support the member firms’ abilities to serve the public interest and consistently deliver services that meet high quality standards. 7 2012 GLOBAL Locations REPORT Home Overview Executive message Vision and values Investment in quality Locations Outlook and strategy Performance numbers Clients & insights Talent & opportunity As of 31 May 2012 there were AMERICAS Uruguay Croatia Kenya Rwanda ASIA PACIFIC Argentina Venezuela Cyprus Kuwait San Marino American Samoa Economies & 48 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Aruba Virgin Islands Czech Republic Kyrgyzstan São Tomé and Australia communities member firms. Collectively member Bahamas of the U.S. Democratic Republic Latvia Principe China, People’s firms have a presence in the following Barbados of Congo Lebanon Saudi Arabia Republic of Bermuda EUROPE/ Denmark Lesotho Senegal East Timor Operations & countries and locations: Bolivia Egypt Lithuania Serbia Guam MIDDLE EAST/ Equatorial Guinea Luxembourg Slovakia Brazil Hong Kong governance British Virgin Islands AFRICA Estonia Macedonia Slovenia India Canada Albania Ethiopia Madagascar South Africa Indonesia Cayman Islands Algeria Finland Malta Spain Japan Chile Andorra France Malawi Sweden Korea Colombia Angola Gabon Mauritania Switzerland Macao Costa Rica Armenia Gambia Moldova Syria Malaysia Curacao Austria Georgia Montenegro, Tajikistan Marshall Islands Dominican Republic Azerbaijan Germany Republic of Tanzania Mauritius Ecuador Bahrain Ghana Morocco Tunisia Micronesia, El Salvador Belgium Gibraltar Mozambique Turkey Federated States of Guatemala Belorussia Greece Namibia Turkmenistan Mongolia Honduras Benin Greenland Netherlands Uganda New Zealand Jamaica Bosnia and Hungary Nigeria Ukraine Northern Mariana Mexico Herzegovina Iceland Northern Ireland United Arab Emirates Islands Nicaragua Botswana Iraq Norway United Kingdom Palau Panama Brunei Darussalam Ireland Oman Uzbekistan Papua New Guinea Paraguay Bulgaria Isle of Man Pakistan Vatican State Philippines Peru Burundi Israel Poland Yemen Singapore Trinidad and Tobago Cameroon Italy Portugal Zambia Taiwan Turks and Caicos Cape Verde Ivory Coast Qatar Zimbabwe Thailand 8 United States Channel Islands Jordan Romania Vietnam Congo Brazzaville Kazakhstan Russian Federation 2012 GLOBAL Outlook and strategy REPORT Home Overview Executive message Vision and values Investment in quality Locations Outlook and strategy Performance numbers Clients & insights Talent & opportunity Economies & communities C Operations & omplexity and rapid change are defining and • Operate globally: complementing the inherent strength governance permanent features of the landscape for Deloitte of the Deloitte’s member firm structure with a focus on clients and Deloitte’s business. Deloitte’s ability to operating more globally, while ensuring consistent, highfulfill our promise to clients, and to sustain our own growth, quality client service rests on executing a strategy that appropriately addresses • As One: strengthen the professional services Deloitte a fluid competitive environment and anticipates the current delivers by working across geographic, functional, and and future needs of clients around the world. business borders. The Deloitte network is capitalizing on market opportunities These strategic elements are supported by continued through four strategic choices: investments in hiring, developing, and retaining top talent, improvements in audit practices, and increased industry • Market leadership: creating or sustaining a leadership knowledge and focus. position in each key market we serve by anticipating and rapidly responding to changing market realities and In FY2012, Deloitte grew across all of the organization’s consistently outperforming the competition major geographic regions, business lines, and industry • Focused market investment: growing and expanding our sectors. 9 business, especially in high-growth strategic markets 2012 GLOBAL Performance numbers REPORT Home FY2012 Revenue results See Metrics section for a Overview detailed performance table BY FUNCTIONAL AREA BY REGION BY INDUSTRY Executive message FINANCIAL SERVICES Vision and values $8.5 Investment in quality AUDIT AND ENTERPRISE RISK SERVICES AMERICAS Locations $13.0 $15.5 (+6.1%) (+7.9%) CONSUMER BUSINESS Outlook and strategy $6.0 Performance numbers Clients & insights MANUFACTURING CONSULTING $4.1 Talent & opportunity $31.3 $9.7 $31.3 EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST $31.3 US$ Bn (+13.5%) US$ Bn AFRICA US$ Bn TECH, MEDIA & TELECOMMS Economies & (+8.6%)* (+8.6%)* $10.9 (+8.6%)* (+6.4%) $3.2 communities PUBLIC SECTOR TAX Operations & $5.9 $3.2 governance (+3.9%) ASIA PACIFIC ENERGY & RESOURCES $4.9 $2.8 FINANCIAL ADVISORY (+16.3%) LIFE SCIENCES & $2.7 (+15.0%) HEALTH CARE $2.1 OTHER $1.4 *Year-over-year percentage growth in revenue 10 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home People by region People by year 2012 Overview 193,359 People PROFESSIONAL STAFF (GLOBAL) Executive message (excluding Partners, Principals, Directors and Administrative staff) Vision and values 2010 2011 2012 Investment in quality AMERICAS 84,855 Locations Outlook and strategy 129,219 138,790 148,947 Performance numbers EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST Clients & insights 68,317 AFRICA Talent & opportunity Economies & ASIA PACIFIC 40,187 communities Operations & governance New hire rate 26% 25% 31% AMERICAS EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC AFRICA (Global new hire rate = 27%) 11 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home People by gender Overview BY REGION LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE Executive message Vision and values AMERICAS DELOITTE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Investment in quality 47,649 37,205 94% 6% Locations Outlook and strategy EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA DELOITTE EXECUTIVE Performance numbers Clients & insights 37,392 30,925 100% Talent & opportunity ASIA PACIFIC LEADERSHIP TEAM Economies & communities 21,825 18,361 81% 19% Operations & governance BY LEVEL (GLOBAL) PARTNERS, PRINCIPALS AND DIRECTORS 81% 19% MANAGERS 65% 35% 12 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home Community investments* Community investments* Overview MEMBER FIRM / FOUNDATION COSTS Executive message FOR MANAGING COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAMS Vision and values Investment in quality Locations Outlook and strategy PRO BONO WORK 34.2 Performance numbers MEMBER FIRM PARTNER AND EMPLOYEE DONATIONS 9.2 (TO MEMBER-FIRM SUPPORTED ORGANIZATIONS) 29.5 Clients & insights Talent & opportunity VOLUNTEER AND Economies & communities $165.1 (US$ Millions) 81.8 PRO BONO WORK Operations & DONATIONS 74.1 26.4 governance SKILLS-BASED VOLUNTEERING 44.6 MEMBER FIRM / FOUNDATION DONATIONS (MONETARY AND IN-KIND) 21.2 TRADITIONAL VOLUNTEERING *33 member firms + DTTL representing 90% of global workforce 13 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Clients & Home Overview Clients & insights Deloitte Digital insights Multifunctional offerings Strategic markets Deloitte Audit A major acquisition London 2012 Inditex Talent & opportunity Watch the Clients & insights video Economies & communities Operations & governance 14 2012 GLOBAL Deloitte Digital Driving disruption across industries using digital REPORT M obile, analytics, security, social, and cloud: Five forces with huge potential to disrupt businesses and industries. Deloitte is turning these disruptions into opportunities to create value for clients, enable new types of interaction between people and technology, and redefine operating Home models. Deloitte Digital debuted in May 2012 as a global service line, combining Overview cutting-edge creative services with trusted business advisory and technology expertise. The ultimate goal: use digital technologies to change the face of Clients & insights business as usual. Global studio-based delivery centers are located in Australia, Deloitte Digital India, the United Kingdom, and the United States, where service capabilities are Multifunctional augmented by the recent acquisition of Übermind, an innovative mobile agency. offerings Diverse technology solutions Strategic markets Clients across sectors—including media and entertainment, technology, retail, Deloitte Audit government, and more—are turning to Deloitte Digital. The team delivers strategy and solutions across mobile, social, web, digital content, and digital A major acquisition enterprise resource planning—all helping to strengthen client brands and evolve London 2012 their businesses to address the digital needs of tomorrow. Inditex For example, Deloitte Digital helped deliver a cross-platform mobile shopping experience for one of the largest retailers in the United States. Talent & opportunity Economies & Technology and connectivity are changing everything—from social communities interactions to data analytics. With more than 70 percent of the world’s citizens just beginning their digitization journeys, and the installed base of smartphones and tablets expected to eclipse PC’s in Operations & early 2013, the effects of hyper-connectivity are only just starting to governance be felt on a global scale. Global Information Technology Report 2012, World Economic Forum 15 2012 GLOBAL Multifunctional REPORT offerings Making fresh connections to create new value T Home oday, companies are increasingly challenged to swiftly adapt to meet fast-moving market demands. Business strategists must make new and Overview often unexpected connections across their organizations uncovering novel ideas and ways of operating. For example: Clients & insights • An international retail bank sought to develop a customer insights platform Deloitte Digital to enhance its targeting efforts. Deloitte carried out a thorough analysis of a Multifunctional set of 10 million customers with more than 1000 attributes. These attributes offerings included products, channels, attitudes, and other criteria, and were leveraged Strategic markets to identify and align offers to appropriate customer groups. Deloitte Audit The complex interaction of capital, trade, information, and technology • Deloitte helped a leading provider of water, hygiene and energy technologies is leading to a new state of global interconnectedness. Understanding undertake a multi-billion dollar transformational acquisition. This required A major acquisition pre-acquisition financial, HR, IT and tax due diligence, as well as integration how to navigate this complexity is essential to building business and London 2012 strengthening the global economy. services that maximized opportunities to create value, without disruption to Inditex business-as-usual activities. The Global Village: Connected World Drives Economic Shift, International Monetary Fund To help clients navigate and harness diverse and multifunctional approaches to Talent & opportunity business challenges, Deloitte provides comprehensive, issue-based solutions that address timely, complex, and pressing areas of opportunity or challenge. For Economies & each engagement, Deloitte draws on diverse functional capabilities, deep subject communities matter expertise, industry knowledge, and strategic minds that can deliver fresh thinking and new connections. Operations & Deloitte’s current multifunctional offerings include: governance • Deloitte Analytics • Deloitte Sustainability • Finance Transformation • Governance, Risk & Compliance • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) • Mergers & Acquisitions 16 2012 GLOBAL Strategic markets Recognizing and investing in high-growth REPORT opportunities I n June 2012, Deloitte announced a commitment of US$750 million in investment in key strategic markets through 2015, a continuation of an earlier investment program that totaled US$500 million. The goal of Home the priority markets program is to increase the scope and scale of Deloitte’s capabilities in selected markets and enable member firms to serve clients more Overview effectively and respond to market opportunities. Clients & insights The program is a critical part of Deloitte’s global strategy to enhance the network’s ability to seamlessly deliver world-class services across borders, and Deloitte Digital underscores Deloitte’s commitment to invest in and develop the capabilities Multifunctional needed to best serve member firm clients anywhere in the world offerings The program’s investments focus on 11 markets: Africa, Brazil, China, Strategic markets Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Deloitte Audit Middle East, Southeast Asia, and Turkey. A major acquisition More than 50 percent of the US$750 million investment will be directed toward London 2012 China, India, Japan, Korea, and southeast Asian markets. Inditex The Deloitte network’s aggregate member firm revenues for Asia Pacific grew 16.3 percent in FY2012, making it the fastest growing region for Deloitte for the Talent & opportunity eighth consecutive year. Economies & After a period of greater than expected softness, output growth is communities now beginning to pick up slowly in the major market economies.… [In China], growth is expected to stabilize at just below 9% by 2014 … Operations & and in India, annual GDP growth is expected to strengthen gradually, governance to around 6% in 2013 and 7% in 2014. OECD Economic Outlook 2012, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 17 2012 GLOBAL Deloitte Audit Delivering on the commitment to quality REPORT D eloitte has always been committed to serving the public interest by providing high-quality audit services that strengthen global markets. This is an enduring hallmark of the organization. Home Overview Implementation is already under way with the nine largest Deloitte member firms, and Clients & insights in 2013, rollout will expand to a further nine Deloitte Digital Multifunctional member firms covering a significant portion offerings of the Deloitte global network. Strategic markets To uphold public trust, societies are seeking ever higher standards Deloitte Audit is the latest generation of Deloitte’s transformed audit platform Deloitte Audit of accountability and transparency. Countries are adopting new that is purposefully designed to address the complexities of modern businesses, A major acquisition accounting rules and standards, requiring companies to understand incorporating new methodologies, content, and technologies to ensure relevant, and adapt to changing compliance and regulatory requirements. high-quality audits in a constantly changing environment. Deloitte Audit addresses London 2012 the current scope and key evolving dimensions of the audit landscape, recognizing: Inditex Financial Regulatory Reform, Deloitte • Major changes in audit regulations and standards Talent & opportunity • Increasingly sophisticated business models Economies & • Advances in technology and data proliferation communities Deloitte Audit is a multiyear, global business-transformation effort. It provides clients with an insightful, customized audit approach that concentrates on their Operations & most important issues and risks. governance The innovative platform features substantially enhanced technology and tools that support systemic risk identification, globally integrated work teams, and the development of quantitative data analytics. It exemplifies a network-wide commitment to audit quality and innovation that encompasses the full spectrum of relevant stakeholder accountability, from client value to social and economic responsibility. 18 2012 GLOBAL A major acquisition Strengthening leadership in the mining REPORT equipment industry W hen a global mining leader announced it had entered into an agreement to acquire a competitor, Deloitte was relied on for significant assistance in assessing the highly complex, confidential Home transaction. Having worked with both companies previously, Deloitte’s principal role was to transition the distribution and product support aspects of the Overview business to new owners through a series of divestitures around the globe. Clients & insights Deloitte M&A Transaction Services led a team with representatives from Deloitte Deloitte Digital Consulting, Deloitte Financial Advisory Services, and Deloitte Tax to assist in a global service delivery, including: Multifunctional offerings • Vendor due diligence Strategic markets • Corporate finance Deloitte Audit Projected mining PROJECTED MININGinvestment INVESTMENT country, by BY COUNTRY, • Human resources between 2012 and 2031 BETWEEN 2012 AND 2031 ($USD BILLION) ($USD BILLION) A major acquisition • Transition assistance London 2012 Australia 55 • Service parts and logistics support Inditex Brazil 33 The multibillion-dollar transaction combined the best of both organizations to Chile 17 create one unparalleled equipment source for mining customers worldwide. Talent & opportunity Canada 12 Peru 10 Economies & Argentina 9 communities Indonesia 7 Alaska 7 Operations & Mongolia 6 governance Dominican Republic 4 Botswana 3 South Africa 3 Colombia 3 Mozambique 3 Zambia 2 Russia 1 Congo 1 United States 1 Iceland 0.5 Saudi Arabia 0.4 19 Sources: Compiled by Deloitte from company annual reports, press releases and Factiva 2012 GLOBAL London 2012 Inspiring performance for the Olympic and REPORT Paralympic Games T he London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games will go down in history as one of the most spectacular Games the world has ever witnessed. More than 800 Deloitte UK professionals made a contribution to the Home Games—a total of over 750,000 hours of expertise. Deloitte UK provided secondees into critical delivery roles and handled more than 200 advisory Overview engagements—from helping to establish a procurement function that sourced 1.8 million pieces of sporting equipment valued at US$1.2 billion in goods and Clients & insights services, to creating the program to test operational readiness of the world’s Deloitte Digital largest-ever peacetime event. Multifunctional As challenges go, this was about the biggest in Deloitte’s history, marked not offerings only by the ultimate immovable deadline and a relentless delivery program, but Strategic markets also by significant budget pressure and intensive media scrutiny. It was the kind of challenge Deloitte people thrive on—and the ultimate stage on which to Deloitte Audit showcase their expertise. A major acquisition London 2012 Inditex The staging of the Games is possibly the Talent & opportunity most complex project that London will ever undertake. Deloitte’s experience at providing Economies & communities solutions to its clients’ most complex issues was without doubt a valuable addition to the Operations & governance London 2012 team. London has raised the bar on how to deliver a lasting legacy. This great historical city has Lord Coe, Chair, London Organising Committee for the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games created a legacy blueprint for future Games hosts. Jacques Rogge, International Olympic Committee President London Legacy Development Corporation 20 2012 GLOBAL Inditex Deloitte audit services provide the right fit REPORT I n 2012, Inditex appointed the Deloitte Spanish member firm as auditors for the next three years, based on the group’s assessment of Deloitte’s comprehensive, global industry and functional expertise. Based in Arteixo, Spain, Inditex is one of the world’s largest fashion retail groups, Home with more than 110,000 employees and almost 300 companies operating in textile design, manufacturing, and distribution. Its more than 6,000 stores Overview operate on five continents and include Zara, Pull & Bear, Massimo Dutti, Bershka, Stradivarius, Oysho, Zara Home, and Uterqüe. Clients & insights Deloitte Digital Deloitte’s breadth of knowledge of the retail industry was critical to Inditex. Other valued areas of expertise included: Multifunctional offerings • Deep technical and regulatory experience, as illustrated by the Deloitte Global IFRS and Offerings Services group Strategic markets • Capacity to assemble a fully engaged, multicountry, and multidisciplinary team. Deloitte Audit A major acquisition By tapping Deloitte’s extensive cross-border and local experience in industry matters and ever-evolving regulatory and reporting requirements, Inditex is building London 2012 a strong relationship that has all the markings of a tailor-made, custom fit. Inditex Talent & opportunity High-quality audits and international competitiveness are closely linked. With more than two thirds of the G20 members requiring the use of the International Financial Reporting Standards, more countries Economies & will continue to adopt accounting standards to gain public trust and communities build confidence among investors globally. Operations & Annual Report 2011, International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation governance 21 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Talent & Home Overview Clients & insights opportunity Talent & opportunity Leadership International experience Distinctive talent experience Transforming a workforce Physical security Economies & communities Watch the Talent & opportunity video Operations & governance 22 2012 GLOBAL Leadership Developing world-class business leaders REPORT A t Deloitte, developing world-class business leaders and professionals is an investment that pays dual dividends: it furthers the career growth and aspirations of Deloitte professionals, and, most importantly, it provides new and unmatched levels of service, insight, and value to Deloitte clients. Home Deloitte University sets the organization’s standard for leadership development. Professionals from around the world come to the Westlake, Texas campus to Overview hone their leadership and professional skills in an environment designed to model and enhance global collaboration and service delivery. Clients & insights Training in technical skills and industry expertise strengthen the overall leadership New hires 2012* Talent & opportunity development experience, and the cumulative impact is intended to set Deloitte Leadership apart in the market. BY REGION BY LEVEL International experience In FY2012, Deloitte advanced its objective to be recognized as a top leadershipAMERICAS PARTNERS development organization in a number of ways: Distinctive talent 285 21,369 PROFESSIONALS experience • Talent leaders collaborated to create a new global leader framework, which 44,418 Transforming a includes a common leadership taxonomy and consistent global learning workforce curriculum for the Deloitte network. Physical security • Specific leadership development programs and initiatives were launched EUROPE/MIDDLE or bolstered, including ones for senior managers, global lead client service 51,440 Economies & 51,440 EAST/AFRICA partners, inclusive leadership, and “nextgen” leaders. communities 17,250 Deloitte University Deloitte University, a unique learning and leadership development center in Operations & Westlake, Texas welcomed more than 40,000 Deloitte professionals from governance 70 countries during FY2012. This facility provides a venue for Deloitte’s people ASIA PACIFIC to connect in person, share ideas and insights, and develop or enhance their ADMINISTRATIVE 12,550 STAFF approaches to serving clients and doing business. The goal of DU is to develop strong, globally minded leaders for today and a pipeline of leaders for tomorrow. 6,737 It is a catalyst for leadership and lifelong learning—where professionals connect, share their best thinking, and identify and capitalize on new and innovative ideas *Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total and approaches. 23 2012 GLOBAL International REPORT experience Working globally to meet client and talent needs D oing business across geographies is an essential part of Deloitte’s client Home service work. For Deloitte, international experience—whether working overseas or collaborating on cross-border projects and teams—is a Overview “must-have” to drive client, talent, and growth agendas. When globally minded leaders and professionals are needed to advance member Clients & insights firm client projects, Deloitte deploys the right people to the right place at the right time. In FY2012, nearly 5,300 Deloitte member firm people were on Talent & opportunity international assignments—21 percent more than in FY2011. Leadership Deloitte member firms take the same borderless approach to recruiting top International talent. The Careers Website lets graduates, experienced professionals, and senior experience executives search and apply for opportunities in 116 Deloitte member firms and Distinctive talent locations. In FY2012, more than 1.6 million people submitted applications via experience Number of Deloitte people on mobility assignments the site, and Deloitte hired 51,400, bringing the organization closer to its goal of Transforming a 250,000 professionals by 2015. workforce Physical security By 2014, the percentage of companies that Economies & 3,801 4,429 5,356 generate more than 30 percent of global communities (+21%) (+17%) (+128%) revenue from emerging markets will increase Operations & governance 2010 2011 2012 by 82 percent. As companies increase business in these markets and grow internationally, Building a pipeline of globally-minded leaders is the goal of the it becomes imperative that they attract and International Student Business Forum and Global Internship Program. Participating students from around the world said the programs better develop diverse, globally minded talent. prepared them for international careers and increased their interest in Fortresses and Footholds Report, Deloitte careers at Deloitte. 24 2012 GLOBAL Distinctive talent REPORT experience Diversity, development, and opportunity abound T he power of the Deloitte network is its people, and the future of the Home organization rides on their continued delivery of exceptional service and innovation for member firm clients worldwide. So when people seek to Overview join Deloitte or want to advance their careers within the Deloitte network, we ask them “why?” Top answers include: Clients & insights • Leadership Talent & opportunity • Development Leadership • Connection New hires by gender (Global) • Inclusive culture International experience ALL NEW HIRES • Flexibility Distinctive talent experience Deloitte is committed to sustaining a culture and providing a work experience Transforming a 54% 46% that are distinctively connected to these career goals and others, including those workforce expressed by “millennials” newly entering the workforce. Physical security NEW PARTNERS, PRINCIPALS AND DIRECTORS The empowerment and advancement of women and building the inclusive leadership and multicultural competence to work successfully across borders Economies & communities 76% 24% continue to be diversity priorities. Percentages of women in all major reporting categories remained nearly even or increased from last year, and women accounted for 22 percent of new member firm partner, principal, and director Operations & admissions. governance Deloitte helps prepare all its professionals to deliver solutions to member firm In January 2012 Deloitte published The Millennial Survey to consider clients, especially in light of shifting market challenges and opportunities. In how the views of Millennials differ from today’s business leaders. FY2012, Deloitte doubled the number of industry-specific training curriculums The Millennial generation represents the future of cultural, economic, available globally. There was a nearly 30 percent increase in the number of online political, and social life as well as the future of business. The report courses taken, as well as an increased focus on experiential learning. examines how today’s business leaders can do more to understand the purpose, impact, and leadership expected of business in society, and show the important link between business and societal purpose Deloitte has been ranked 5th in Universum’s “World’s Most Attractive Employers 2012” rankings by business students worldwide. 25 2012 GLOBAL Transforming REPORT a workforce Delivering an employability mandate in Saudi Arabia S Home audi Arabian nationals make up 70 percent of the country’s population but only 10 to 12 percent of the private sector workforce. Recognizing Overview this imbalance, King Abdullah made a commitment in March 2011 to increasing employment rates among nationals, as well as to opening the job Clients & insights market to women. Talent & opportunity Invited to support this transformation by delivering a pilot employment services program, Deloitte Middle East teamed with Deloitte UK, which has Leadership Emerging markets are home to 87 percent of the world’s youth. In a longstanding employability program, and with Ingeus, a top international International experience 2010, youth unemployment was 25.5 percent in the Middle East, with provider of employability services. The group was soon engaged to establish five higher rates among young women. The right skills matched with high Distinctive talent quality employment opportunities are critical for businesses and key to job placement centers, designed specifically for Saudi Arabia’s needs. experience sustainable social and economic development. Less than one year after opening, the centers had served over a million Transforming a job seekers, including women. And Deloitte had met its target of finding World Youth Report, United Nations workforce employment for 40 to 50 percent of the centers’ clientele. Physical security Economies & The Job Placement Center (JPC) is not communities a standard employment agency, and Operations & implementing the nationwide employment governance project was no small feat. The speed at which this project was delivered, along with our drive to exceed our promised targets, truly demonstrates the firm’s commitment to our communities, through supporting the issues of most importance for the advancement of the country. Abdelhamid Suboh, Partner, Deloitte Middle East 26 2012 GLOBAL Physical security We strive to protect our people wherever REPORT they are working D eloitte’s practitioners, who are working in more than 150 countries and locations and who often travel, can face unique exposures. DTTL and its member firms take seriously their duty to keep their people Home safe, especially during times of crisis or when client needs may take them to higher-risk locations. Overview DTTL’s Global Security Office (GSO) responded in FY2012 to more than 1,300 Clients & insights requests from member firms for guidance on travel to troublesome destinations. The number of requests nearly doubled from last year because more Deloitte Talent & opportunity leaders are aware of the service and member firms are increasingly considering work in unfamiliar locations. Leadership Strengthening the humanitarian sector GSO also continued to help Deloitte member firms improve their crisis International experience Deloitte is helping to protect not just its own people, but also the management and security programs. A first-ever global crisis-simulation exercise Distinctive talent communities where it has a presence. was held to identify gaps in member firm crisis plans. Thirty member firm experience countries have now implemented DTTL’s Travel Tracking system, which is used to In moments of crisis, Deloitte and other businesses have an important role Transforming a to play in responding and helping to protect, maintain, and rebuild the rapidly account for Deloitte travelers during emergencies. workforce communities where they operate. Deloitte endeavors to make a positive, Responding to crises Physical security lasting impact on the humanitarian sector by using the core business skills GSO tracks worldwide events and responds to virtually every major security of Deloitte people to enhance the humanitarian system’s preparedness to incident that has the potential to impact our member firms and people, ranging Economies & respond to crises. from natural disasters to civil unrest. DTTL has 24-hour security and emergency communities • Deloitte Brazil offers a professional service, Deloitte S.O.S, which is medical resources to quickly help Deloitte’s people. designed to help society, governments, and organizations develop Operations & strategies and processes for allocating resources more efficiently and Read more governance transparently. The Brazilian firm also worked with Red Cross Brazil on a The people of the Deloitte member firms travel all over the world in order to pro bono basis to strengthen the organization’s crisis response abilities. carry out projects for their clients, and DTTL’s people must also travel to work with member firms and other stakeholders. While most of their business trips • Deloitte East Africa led efforts, in response to the East Africa famine are completed without serious incidents, member firm people are occasionally that affected more than 3 million people in 2011, to assess the asked to visit higher security risk locations or get caught in potentially dangerous transparency and accountability of funds received by the Kenyans situations during crisis events. DTTL and its member firms recognize their duty to for Kenya fundraising campaign, and assessed distribution of food at protect their people and perform this duty with the utmost seriousness. feeding centers. • Deloitte United States has focused on providing pro bono services to humanitarian nonprofits. In the wake of the January 2010 earthquake in Haiti, Deloitte United States helped Project HOPE develop a strategic plan for improving its effectiveness in Haiti and all 35 countries where the organization operates. 27 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home DTTL’s Global Security Office (GSO) has a robust set of capabilities and programs for keeping Deloitte’s people safe at their home offices and on business or In FY2012, GSO assisted Deloitte practitioners during times of need, Overview personal travel. One important function of the GSO is making sure that Deloitte’s including: people are aware of particular risks that may be present in places they visit. To • Assisting a colleague after her husband tragically died while on a Clients & insights provide thorough information, GSO has developed general and country-specific business trip overseas. online courses and maintains a comprehensive travel security website that Talent & opportunity contains the latest security bulletins, assessments, country risk ratings, and other • Helping an employee who was detained by immigration authorities resources for travelers. GSO also has a network of specialized security providers due to visa issues in Central Asia. GSO’s work allowed swift Leadership resolution. who are based in many higher-risk locations, and who can be called upon for International experience direct support of specific member firm engagement teams. • Evacuating a member firm practitioner following a series of attacks Distinctive talent As part of DTTL’s global travel security protocols, member firms are encouraged by a militant group and a strike that caused major travel disruptions experience to incorporate security into their normal travel programs and to consult with across West Africa. Transforming a GSO before undertaking travel to riskier locations. GSO can provide member workforce firm leadership with the latest threat information to help them make informed Physical security decisions about whether to accept particular assignments. When member firm engagement teams cannot avoid traveling to high-risk Economies & locations, the GSO can assist them with designing comprehensive security communities plans, including location-specific security briefings, hotel and transportation recommendations, on-the-ground project logistics, and direct security support as Operations & needed. Should security emergencies happen in high-risk or other locations, GSO governance is able to mobilize security and emergency medical resources to quickly provide assistance to Deloitte travelers and immediate family members whether they are on business or personal travel. Additionally, whenever a crisis occurs anywhere in the world, DTTL, through its Global Crisis Management Team, is able to provide a swift response to help member firms account for the safety of their people, provide necessary relief, and resume normal business operations as soon as possible. 28 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Economies & Home Overview Clients & insights communities Talent & opportunity Economies & communities Water stewardship Environmental sustainability Education and skills Opportunity: China Operations & Watch the Economies & communities video governance 29 2012 GLOBAL Water stewardship Collective action is needed to address water REPORT scarcity D eloitte clients, in both the private and public sectors, face potential risks to business continuity and economic growth because of water scarcity driven by increased demands for water. Home An important, emerging approach to address current and future water risks is Overview collective action among private enterprise, the public sector, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and the civil sector. Collective action initiatives include Clients & insights community engagement, supply chain and watershed management, and public policy initiatives. Talent & opportunity During the past year, Deloitte’s water stewardship specialists worked with clients in industries such as retail, consumer goods, and life sciences to perform water Economies & footprinting practices, conduct water risk assessments relative to operations and communities supply chains, evaluate potential business value at risk and develop stewardship Water stewardship strategies in concert with local stakeholders. Environmental DTTL and Deloitte U.S. have also helped catalyze business action by sponsoring sustainability Today, some 780 million people globally lack regular access to clean and writing the Global 500 and S&P 500 reports for the CDP Water Disclosure drinking water. By 2025, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization Education and skills global project and contributing to the development of the CEO Water Mandate estimates that 800 million people will be living in countries or regions Water Action Hub. Opportunity: China with absolute water scarcity, and two-thirds of the world’s population could be under water stress conditions. Operations & governance According to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), more than half of the companies responding to its 2012 water disclosure survey experienced detrimental, water-related impacts in the last five years, and more than two-thirds reported exposure to water-related risks, including disruptions to energy and food production, and access to clean water. 30 2012 GLOBAL Environmental REPORT sustainability Transforming operations and working with clients A healthy natural environment is essential to societal well-being. Deloitte Home has made a commitment to promoting environmental sustainability across all our spheres of influence. Overview The cornerstone of this commitment is Deloitte’s strategy for lessening the environmental impacts of Deloitte’s business operations, which this year Clients & insights Greenhouse gas emissions per full-time equivalent delivered: Talent & opportunity metric tonnes CO2e/FTE (excluding offsets) • A more than 50% increase in the number of member firms reporting on environmental sustainability and societal impact Economies & • Global responses to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Investor and Supplier communities 5.0 programs Water stewardship • New internal platforms for sharing sustainability management practices Environmental sustainability 4.9 Deloitte’s sustainability performance exhibited several changes: Education and skills • An absolute increase of 10% in greenhouse gas emissions, mostly resulting Opportunity: China 4.8 from additional air travel and business growth • Modest absolute changes in greenhouse gas emissions from other sources Operations & • Slightly higher emissions per fulltime employee, accompanied by a slight governance 2010 2011 2012 decrease in emissions per revenue unit Deloitte is also advancing the sustainability agenda through work with clients. Greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of revenue Deloitte Sustainability comprises some 800 specialists helping clients transition to kg CO2e/$000 USD (excluding offsets) sustainable business models and practices that will deliver top and bottom line financial growth for the long term. 32.6 33.9 30.2 31 2010 2011 2012 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home 2012 Greenhouse gas emissions Overview Greenhouse gasemissions (metric tonnes By Protocol Scope(metric tonnes CO2e), CO2e) by category, including offsets excluding offsets Clients & insights BUILDINGS: ELECTRICITY Talent & opportunity 204,812 SCOPE 1: DIRECT Economies & GHG EMISSONS communities 83,797 Water stewardship BUILDINGS: OTHER SCOPE 2: ELECTRICITY SOURCES INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Environmental 35,008 sustainability BUSINESS TRAVEL: 217,768 AIR TRAVEL Education and skills 437,970 Opportunity: China SCOPE 3: OTHER INDIRECT 940,751 944,870 GHG EMISSIONS Operations & governance 643,306 BUSINESS TRAVEL: OTHER SOURCES 250,167 RESOURCES 16,913 GHG OFFSET CREDITS (4,119) 32 2012 GLOBAL Education and skills Deloitte21: Preparing young people for REPORT constructive futures O ver 350,000 young people are better prepared for work through the support of Deloitte21 programs. Equipped with greater financial literacy, employability skills like writing a resume, and knowledge of Home how to start a business, these young people are acquiring the skills to succeed in the 21st century workplace. Overview Through innovative Deloitte21 programs in 25 member firms, Deloitte people Clients & insights © Archivo EnseñaPerú applied their skills and experience to supporting underserved young people: teaching workshops and courses and serving as mentors to help them achieve Talent & opportunity their ambitions. Hours of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people Deloitte member firms also provided more than 45,000 hours of pro bono Economies & services to educational organizations, helping them strengthen their business communities 883,593 capacity and thereby reach more students. Working alongside educators, Water stewardship 197,876 377,486 308,231 non-profit leaders, and governments, Deloitte member firms are leading the development and delivery of solutions to local education and skills challenges. Environmental PRO BONO WORK SKILLS-BASED VOLUNTEERING TRADITIONAL VOLUNTEERING sustainability Since the launch of Deloitte21 in 2009, member firms have directed over US$130 Education and skills million in pro bono services, volunteer time, and cash or in-kind giving to education and skills programs. Supporting young people is one way that Deloitte Opportunity: China makes a lasting positive impact on its communities and society. Operations & governance In 2012, the increasing gap between the skills young people have and the skills that employers need contributed to an unemployment rate of 17.1 percent among 15to 24-year-old OECD country residents. Tackling chronic youth unemployment and underemployment will require structural changes in formal education and new approaches to on-the-job training and mentorship. World Youth Report, United Nations 33 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home Deloitte21: Member firm achievements in FY2012 Deloitte Chile – Preparing for my Future Program Deloitte Brazil – Projeto Comunidade (Community Project) More than 30 students pursuing environmental degrees received Overview Deloitte Brazil is making an impact on young people in disadvantaged São Paulo communications and employability training to help them create a sustainable neighborhoods. More than 100 students were trained on entrepreneurship and future, through Deloitte Chile’s Work Skills Diploma and Mentoring program. Clients & insights encouraged to set ambitious goals, guided by 16 Deloitte Brazil volunteers. Deloitte China – A Village Adoption Project in Yunnan Deloitte British Virgin Islands – Company Program and Our Nations In a pioneering public-private collaboration established in 2007, Deloitte China Talent & opportunity Program with Junior Achievement has supported sustainable development in a rural community with a unique Over 100 students received practical training thinking entrepreneurially and ethnic background through program leadership, service learning and volunteers. Economies & managing a business, following Deloitte BVI’s leading role in the reinstatement of The approach supports cultural heritage and addresses challenges in health, communities Junior Achievement in the Virgin Islands. economic development, and education through programs reaching more than Water stewardship Deloitte Canada – Focus on Youth Citizenship 400 students. Environmental Developing leadership and ethical skills is a key issue for students in the Canadian Deloitte Finland and Deloitte Peru – Corporate Responsibility Champion sustainability public school system. With the nonprofit Learning for a Sustainability Future, Program Deloitte Canada co-led roundtables to engage education, government, and Deloitte Finland and Deloitte Peru launched a three-year multistakeholder Education and skills nonprofit leaders, along with youth representatives, to take action. collaboration intended to reach 50 teachers and 300 disadvantaged young Opportunity: China people with employment and entrepreneurship training. People from Deloitte Finland contributed more than 1,000 hours, including volunteering in Peru and Operations & designing the program with a local nonprofit. governance Deloitte France – The Winning Twinning Recognized for innovation, this pioneering exchange between a public high school in Paris and Deloitte France enables 1,900 students and their teachers to access mentoring and support from more than 100 Deloitte volunteers. Deloitte Germany – Hidden Movers Award Since 2010, the Hidden Movers Award has honored nonprofits that assist students with the transition to employment. Stiftung Hilfe mit Plan was selected from among more than 150 applicants this year for its positive impact on young immigrants. Deloitte Middle East – INJAZ al-Arab To address high regional youth unemployment rates, Deloitte Middle East and INJAZ al-Arab introduced an entrepreneurship curriculum that reached 700 high © Franco Meza school and university students and aims to serve more than 2,000 next year. 34 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home Value of pro bono and skills-based volunteering aspercentage of Deloitte Southern Africa – Port Elizabeth Commerce Incubator School value of all volunteering and pro bono work (COINS) Project Overview Deloitte professionals, the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, and the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants embarked on an innovative Clients & insights collaboration that enabled more than 40 students from disadvantaged schools to improve their math and accounting performance. 74% Talent & opportunity Deloitte Trinidad & Tobago – Compassion with Action and After School Program Economies & Fourteen primary-school students were paired with Deloitte mentors to meet communities twice a month as part of a five-year pledge to address the root causes of crime Water stewardship and poverty in Trinidad and Tobago. Deloitte Netherlands – Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation Environmental Deloitte United Kingdom – Employability Initiative Training more than 6,500 students in money management, Deloitte Netherlands’ sustainability Over 1,800 students completed the Deloitte Employability Skills Course. Since Money Exam is one of the firm’s Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation programs, 2001, the program has been completed by more than 25,000 students, and Education and skills which are helping underserved young people nationwide. now through a new collaboration with Pearson, a global education provider, the Opportunity: China Deloitte Peru – Fundacion Deloitte Peru (Deloitte Peru Foundation) program is set to scale up further. Deloitte UK people contributed more than 600 More than 45,500 students benefited from the education, social development, volunteer hours supporting students, and more than 900 teachers have been Operations & and cultural programs supported by the Deloitte Peru Foundation. trained to deliver the course. governance Deloitte Spain – Empieza por Educar Deloitte United States – Achievement Centers with Pratham USA Deloitte Spain assisted with launching Empieza por Educar, a member of the More than 600 disenfranchised young women pursued secondary school Teach for All global network, by advising on human resources. Deloitte Spain certification and vocational skills training as part of a program that Deloitte also helped nurture Empieza por Educar’s relationships with universities, where U.S. professionals helped design. With Deloitte U.S. and DTTL support, four talented students are recruited to become teachers in high-need schools. Achievement Centers were opened in India in 2011 and three more were opened in 2012. The program aims to reach another 600 young women in 2013. 35 2012 GLOBAL Opportunity: China Industry programs leverage expertise and REPORT relationships T o sustain a strong network of experts who can help senior Deloitte member firm professionals and their clients around the world better understand and address opportunities in China, Deloitte runs a number Home of programs and platforms that explore and evolve best practices, deepen knowledge, and bring people together. Overview • The China Liaison Industry Program (CLIP), created by the U.S. China Services Clients & insights Group in cooperation with the China member firm and global industry programs, helps create a knowledge base and linkages between China-based Talent & opportunity industry specialists and global industry leaders in the Deloitte network. • Deloitte’s Global Financial Services industry (GFSI) practice recently opened a Economies & center of excellence in Shanghai. communities • The Deloitte China Research and Insight Center, established by Deloitte China Water stewardship in 2008 in Beijing, provides clients with information, trends and analyses on Environmental developments in China relevant to different business sectors and industries. sustainability • The Asia Pacific International Core of Excellence (AP ICE), established in Education and skills 2010, integrates seasoned international tax professionals into Deloitte’s Asia Pacific tax practice, based in Hong Kong, and offers tailor-made international Opportunity: China tax solutions to both multinational companies and regional ones looking to extend their global footprint. Operations & governance 36 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Operations & Home Overview Clients & insights governance Talent & opportunity Economies & communities Operations & governance Organizational structure Leadership and governance Public policy Watch the Operations & governance video Quality and risk Ethics Independence Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process 37 2012 GLOBAL Organizational structure REPORT Home T he Deloitte network is made up of firms that are members of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), an English private company limited by Overview guarantee. This structure allows the member firm network to be a leader at all levels—locally, nationally, and globally—because its central governance Clients & insights policies are sensitive to the professional environments and cultures of individual countries. Individual member firms have access to the skills and knowledge of Talent & opportunity other member firms, the ability to consult with the entire Deloitte network, and the benefit of the network’s market recognition and reputation. DTTL itself does Economies & not provide services to clients. communities Member firm structure Operations & The partners of Deloitte member firms are generally the sole owners of their respective member firms. Their member firms are organized on an individual governance country or regional basis, and each operates within the legal and regulatory Organizational framework of its particular jurisdiction. They are separate and independent firms structure that are owned and managed locally. These firms have come together to practice Leadership and under a common brand, methodologies, client service standards, and other governance professional standards and guidelines. Public policy The member firm structure fosters compliance with rules of local ownership and management governing the accountancy profession in many countries. It also Global cooperation Quality and risk Deloitte member firms support and adhere to the purposes and policies of DTTL by: reflects the fact that the member firms are not subsidiaries or branch offices of a Ethics global parent. Rather, they are separate and distinct locally formed legal entities • Conducting themselves in a manner that sustains the reputation of the Independence that have voluntarily joined the network to coordinate their approach to client Deloitte member firm network service. Data privacy and • Aligning national plans, strategies, and operations with those of DTTL, as security This structure confers significant strengths: a deep understanding of local appropriate, in consultation with DTTL’s executive management Metrics markets and a sense of responsibility among member firms’ professionals, who • Adhering to DTTL’s requirements regarding professional standards, shared have a direct stake in the integrity and growth of their local practices. Reporting process values, methodologies, governance, and systems of quality control and risk management • Providing DTTL the details of all joint ventures, joint practices, proposed mergers, and other combinations of any type with other member firms, as well as practice activity in jurisdictions other than those assigned to the member firm. 38 2012 GLOBAL Leadership and governance Strength in management and leadership REPORT Home A t the start of DTTL’s 2012 fiscal year on 1 June 2011, Barry Salzberg and Steve Almond began their four-year terms of office as DTTL’s Chief Overview Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, respectively. As CEO of DTTL, Barry Salzberg has executive authority for the management of Clients & insights DTTL. He leads and manages the DTTL Executive and sets the strategic course of DTTL. The 20-member Executive that was appointed during FY2012 comprises Talent & opportunity senior DTTL and member firm leaders. Economies & Steve Almond is Chairman of the DTTL Board of Directors, DTTL’s highest communities governing body. The Board’s 32 members, appointed in FY2012, represent 15 countries, Deloitte’s three major regions, and three clusters of mediumOperations & and smaller-sized member firms. Among the Board’s committees is a governance standing Governance Committee, which is responsible for oversight of DTTL’s management. Organizational structure Leadership and Enhancing the Board’s performance governance During FY2012, DTTL Chairman Steve Almond initiated a self-assessment exercise, built around a detailed questionnaire based on materials that Deloitte Public policy professionals use to assist clients to undertake board self-assessments. This Quality and risk self-assessment exercise was designed and implemented with assistance from DTTL’s Global Center for Corporate Governance. The Board agreed certain The DTTL Executive Ethics enhancements to the way it operates in response to the self-assessment The DTTL chief executive officer is ratified by the partners of DTTL’s member firms Independence findings and will conduct a second assessment during 2013, with some changes and serves a term of four years. The DTTL chief executive officer (CEO), currently Data privacy and emerging from the 2012 exercise. Barry Salzberg, chooses the members of the Executive subject to approval by the security Governance Committee of the board of DTTL. Read more Metrics The 20-member Executive comprises DTTL’s most senior leaders. It is responsible Strong governance and leadership structures, established in accordance with Reporting process for establishing DTTL’s vision and strategy. With members from various regions generally accepted standards, help make it possible for Deloitte member firms to around the world, the group works in a collegial style and reaches decisions maintain high levels of quality and integrity and sustain the trust of their clients, through consensus. their people, the capital markets, and the public. As a global network comprising DTTL, its member firms, and their affiliates in more than 150 countries and locations, Deloitte has governance and management structures in place at both the global and member firm levels. 39 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home The DTTL Board Member firm leadership The Board of Directors is DTTL’s highest governing body. Currently chaired by To foster effective and responsive management within member firms, DTTL has Overview Steve Almond, the Board addresses DTTL’s most important governance issues, adopted standards describing specific leadership and governance structures to be such as global strategies, major transactions, and the election of the CEO. implemented by member firms, including: Clients & insights Board members are appointed by individual member firms that are themselves • A managing partner, senior partner, or equivalent who is responsible for selected based on size, the number of significant clients they serve, and other managing the member firm and ensuring that the firm delivers high-quality Talent & opportunity factors. The board also includes three regional seats, ensuring that smaller services in accord with professional standards and DTTL policies member firms are represented. Other than the DTTL CEO, all members of Economies & • A governing body, such as a board of directors or board of partners, to the DTTL Board are executives or board members of their member firms. communities Determinations regarding the allocation of DTTL Board seats are made every facilitate sound governance of the individual practice, implementation of local rules and regulations, and implementation of DTTL policies and procedures four years with an interim review after two years. The board is constructed to be Operations & multicultural with proportionate representation of member firms. During FY2012, • A representative to serve as a liaison to DTTL and to represent the member governance directors were drawn from 21 member firms, covering over 60 countries. firm at the DTTL World Meeting, held annually to discuss strategy and Currently there are two women among the 32 board members. As directors are initiatives proposed by DTTL management and to vote on specific DTTL Organizational structure appointed by member firms rather than by the Board, the Board is not able to matters, such as approval of Board members, financial statements, voting Leadership and entitlements of the member firms, and changes in the governing documents directly manage gender diversity. governance Public policy The board has a standing Governance Committee, which is responsible for oversight of DTTL’s management. Like the Board of Directors, the Governance Quality and risk Committee is multicultural, with one seat allocated to each of the 12 member Ethics firms that have the greatest impact on the network. It engages in open discussions of issues and matters within its purview. Each committee member Independence has one vote on matters considered by the committee, except for the CEO, Data privacy and who is ex-officio. To avoid conflicts of interest, no member of the Governance security Committee may also serve on the Executive, except for the CEO. Metrics The Board has other committees that coordinate and recommend action on a Reporting process wide scope of financial, administrative, economic, environmental, and social issues. These other committees include Board Composition, Succession, Risk, Audit & Finance, Membership Affairs, and CEO & Chairman Evaluation & Compensation. 40 2012 GLOBAL Regulatory & public policy Proactive engagement in the public policy arena REPORT Home D eloitte is an active player in the dynamic regulatory and public policy arena and, through its professional practices and thought leadership, Overview contributes to strong capital markets. Significant emphasis is placed on enhancing the value of the audit and improving corporate governance, Clients & insights which contribute to the investor confidence that underpins well-functioning capital markets. Strong markets improve the flow of capital to business and fuel Talent & opportunity economic growth. Through these activities, Deloitte member firms are delivering on their public interest responsibilities to the marketplace and to society at large. Economies & To this end, Deloitte engages stakeholders on issues such as the role of the communities auditor and financial reporting, with a focus on delivering information that can satisfy the needs of investors and other financial statement users; the important Operations & responsibilities of boards, audit committees, and company management to governance maintain effective corporate governance; and the benefits of harmonization of • G20—The G20, representative of the world’s largest economies, is a key Organizational structure financial reporting and auditing standards needed for an increasingly globalized pathway to debating many of the world’s biggest policy questions concerning society. DTTL and its member firms continue to support the work being done the global regulatory and financial architecture. Deloitte leaders participate Leadership and by national regulatory authorities to promote consistency and convergence of in the B20, which is the voice of business at the G20. Deloitte is working governance regulations, oversight, and enforcement. Common approaches to regulation will to deepen and broaden engagement with this and other multilateral Public policy smooth the way for a freer flow of trade and investment across borders with organizations. Quality and risk benefits for many participants in the global economy. • Youth employment—Youth (un)employment is an ever-increasing challenge Ethics Deloitte’s voice on public policy regarding some of today’s biggest challenges to global economic recovery and future economic and social development, impacting economic growth and development—concerns that are shared by not to mention the immediate personal cost to affected women and men and Independence governments and society worldwide—is about sharing knowledge, experience, their families. Deloitte’s practical experience and knowledge on issues such Data privacy and and opinions with policymakers and stakeholders on issues of mutual interest. as education, including continuing education and professional development, security talent management, human capital, entrepreneurship, and data analytics can Examples of issues and pathways where the Deloitte network is expressing its contribute to informed policy discussions and decisions in addressing this Metrics public policy voice include: critical challenge. Reporting process • Women and the economy—Advancing the economic empowerment of Through the combined efforts of professionals across Deloitte, the Global women, which is fundamental to future economic growth, innovation, Regulatory and Public Policy Group continues to work with and support and competitiveness. Deloitte has been putting forward ideas and thought stakeholders, including public authorities, investors, and business and leadership on improving the gender dividend in various capacities and forums, professional organizations, to improve various aspects of the capital markets. The such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the Organisation Deloitte network strives to demonstrate a strong commitment to the public duty for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). as a professional service provider, as participants and as contributors to effective capital markets and a stable, growing global economy. 41 2012 GLOBAL Quality and risk Systematic frameworks mitigate enterprise risk REPORT Home D Deloitte maintains a steadfast commitment to quality and risk management, which supports the member firms’ abilities to serve Overview the public interest and deliver services that consistently meet high standards. DTTL made a number of enhancements to its quality and risk Clients & insights management policies, processes, and methods in FY2012. Continuing its current practice, DTTL identified and analyzed the top 15-20 risks Talent & opportunity to the Deloitte organizations in its enterprise risk framework periodically during FY2012 and shared these updates with the DTTL Board of Directors, which Economies & oversees the organization’s approach to risk management. DTTL also initiated communities an extensive collaboration with the member firms on creating enterprise risk frameworks of their own. Operations & governance DTTL revised existing policies on potential conflicts of interest, for reissuance during FY2013, and its policies on compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Organizational structure Act. Additional plans are under way to revise and reissue other policies, including Leadership and portfolio review and external communications. DTTL also launched an online governance learning course about prevention of insider trading. Public policy Read more Quality and risk Deloitte strives to be consistently recognized by its stakeholders for world-class Ethics quality and risk management, which serve the organization’s commitment to the public interest and bring Deloitte closer to becoming the standard of excellence. Independence The DTTL Policies Manual (“DPM”) comprises a set of global policies that provide Data privacy and the basis for member firms to establish consistent and rigorous quality and risk security management processes and procedures. The global quality and risk management Metrics policies, processes, and methodologies (collectively referred to as “Policies”) Reporting process apply to all of the Deloitte member firms and their functional areas. The Policies are designed to help member firms address unique considerations associated with the delivery of high-quality services while challenging member firm professionals to do the right thing under any circumstance, even if that means declining a prospective client or engagement or terminating a client relationship. The Policies encompass business, economic, social, and environmental risks. 42 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home The Policies of the DPM require all member firms to assign a “reputation and Enterprise risk framework risk leader” who leads his or her member firm’s risk program, with support from The ongoing success of DTTL and the member firms depends in part on Overview risk leaders in each of the member firm’s functions. These senior member firm maintaining a current understanding of how changes to internal and external leaders are responsible for developing and implementing policies and procedures conditions may pose risks to the services member firms provide and how they Clients & insights that address specific quality control considerations for their functions and for the make strategic and operational decisions. DTTL’s enterprise risk framework is member firm overall. a core process that allows DTTL to monitor business, economic, social, and Talent & opportunity environmental risks and provides leadership with the information and insights Certain DPM Policies specify processes to help ensure that member firms needed to effectively manage and mitigate such risks. The risks encompassed by evaluate the acceptability of every client and engagement and the related Economies & the enterprise risk framework are reviewed semiannually. engagement risk. These processes include identifying and addressing matters communities related to independence and potential conflicts of interest and classifying the risk associated with the engagement. DPM Policies can be supplemented by member Operations & firm policies that take into consideration local market practices, local laws, and governance regulations within their jurisdiction. Organizational structure Practice reviews Leadership and Each member firm is responsible for conducting practice reviews under the governance guidance and oversight of DTTL. Held at least once every three years, these reviews consider whether member firms’ own policies and processes comply, Public policy at a minimum, with DPM Policies and are operating effectively in practice. Quality and risk Practice reviews cover all functions and service lines within each member firm. Ethics The practice review process also assesses the quality of work performed and services delivered by the member firm. These reviews involve detailed reviews of Independence individual engagements. Data privacy and security Findings and recommendations from a member firm’s practice review are presented in a report and management letter to the member firm’s leadership. Metrics In response to the report, the member firm establishes a detailed action plan Reporting process to address findings and recommendations together with a mechanism for monitoring the resolution of the findings. 43 2012 GLOBAL Ethics Ethical tone and practices sustain a culture of integrity REPORT Home D TTL’s Ethics team and the member firm ethics officers are responsible for designing and implementing programs to promote and sustain Overview ethical conduct by Deloitte professionals. During FY2012, DTTL Ethics added new messaging and learning platforms to its strategy, with the goal of Clients & insights making discussion about ethics an integral part of professional life at Deloitte. DTTL Ethics worked with global audit leadership to develop guidelines supporting Talent & opportunity the addition of ethics criteria to remuneration and performance evaluation processes for member firms’ audit partners. DTTL also established a requirement Economies & that all member firm people annually confirm their compliance with member firm communities anti-corruption policies. Operations & DTTL Ethics created an online course focused on ethical sensitivity, judgment, governance and decision-making skills, which more than 20 member firms launched or began customizing. The annual global ethics survey, which measures awareness Organizational structure and effectiveness of member firm ethics programs, was implemented by Leadership and 38 member firms. governance Read more Public policy Deloitte member firms strive to uphold the trust placed in them by clients and the Quality and risk capital markets and to build a similar sense of trust among their professionals. One of the most important responsibilities Ethics One of the most important responsibilities of DTTL and member firm senior of Deloitte senior leaders is to set a tone at leaders is to set a tone at the top that emphasizes our commitment to ethical Independence behavior and reinforces the responsibility of everyone in the organization to act the top that emphasizes our commitment to Data privacy and security with integrity. This tone is essential to creating a culture of integrity throughout ethical behavior. the Deloitte organization. Metrics The DTTL Ethics team and the member firm ethics officers work closely with DTTL’s formal ethics program comprises the following elements: Reporting process senior Deloitte leaders to carry out the organization’s ethics programs. These • The nine Ethical Principles and four Shared Values of the Deloitte member programs are designed to help member firm people understand expectations firms (see next page) for ethical behavior, develop skills for ethical decision-making, and gain the confidence to speak up about challenging ethical situations. • A global ethics policy that sets out the specifications for member firms’ own ethics programs • A global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment 44 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home • Ethics training programs, including a new online training course (launched • Competence—We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to every client in FY2012), an introductory online course, classroom programs, and assignment. Overview facilitator-led interactive case discussions • Objectivity—We are objective in forming our professional opinions and the • Support activities, including communications, workshops, and webinars to advice we give. Clients & insights facilitate best practice sharing among member firms • Confidentiality—We respect the confidentiality of information. Talent & opportunity • Provision of a survey to allow member firms to measure their program’s • Fair Business Practices—We are committed to fair business practices. effectiveness • Responsibility to Society—We recognize and respect the impact we have on Economies & • Practice review program to measure compliance with global ethics policies and the world around us. communities encourage collaborative discussions and continuous improvement over time • Respect and Fair Treatment—We treat all our colleagues with respect, Operations & In addition, DTTL plays a role in various multilateral efforts to promote ethical courtesy, and fairness. conduct in the business world. The efforts in which DTTL participates include: governance • Accountability and Decision-making—We lead by example, using our Shared • World Economic Forum, Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI)—Since Values as our foundation: Organizational structure April 2010, a DTTL leader has held a position on the PACI board to represent – Integrity Leadership and the professional services sector. Ordinarily rotated annually among the Big – Outstanding value to markets and clients governance Four, this board position was offered to Deloitte for a second year and was – Commitment to each other Public policy held by DTTL Chairman of the Board Steve Almond from June 2011 through – Strength from cultural diversity October 2012. Quality and risk Collaboration on business ethics • UN Global Compact—DTTL Ethics sits on the Global Compact’s Working Ethics DTTL and its member firms collaborate with other businesses and civil society Group on Anti-Corruption (the tenth Global Compact principle). Deloitte Independence groups on efforts to promote ethical business conduct. These engagements U.S. partners led the Compact’s Sub-Working Group on Anti-Corruption Risk include: Data privacy and Assessment and played an instrumental role in creating a new risk assessment security guideline. • UN Global Compact—Working Group on Anti-Corruption and Sub-Working Metrics • Conference Board—DTTL’s Deputy Ethics Officer serves as a member of the Group on Anti-Corruption Risk Assessment Executive Committee for the Conference Board’s Global Council on Business • World Economic Forum—Board of the Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Reporting process Conduct. Initiative and member of the Global Agenda Council on Anti-corruption Ethical Principles of the member firms of DTTL • B20 Business Summit—Member of the B20 working group on anti-corruption All of the Deloitte member firms have adopted the following Ethical Principles, and transparency which provide the foundation for their ethics programs: • Conference Board—Executive Committee of the Board’s Global Council on • Honesty and Integrity—We act with honesty and integrity. Business Conduct • Professional Behavior—We operate within the letter and the spirit of • University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business—Ongoing Deloitte 45 U.S. support of the Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership applicable laws. (NDDCEL) 2012 GLOBAL Independence Sustaining objectivity protects the public interest REPORT Home A s auditors of public companies, Deloitte member firms comply with well-established policies and implement appropriate procedures to help Overview safeguard their objectivity and the independence of the organization and their people. These policies and procedures help ensure that the member Clients & insights firms are acting in the public interest and the interest of member firm clients, as well as protecting the reputation of the Deloitte organization. Talent & opportunity The independence specialists of DTTL assist member firms in creating, implementing, and monitoring quality controls over independence. DTTL and its Economies & member firms are continually making improvements to these programs. communities Operations & governance To fulfill their duty to protect the public Organizational structure interest, Deloitte member firms must Leadership and governance maintain independence from their audit Public policy clients. Quality and risk Read more During FY2012, the DTTL independence team released an internal training By providing assurance on the reliability of companies’ financial statements, the Ethics program on business relationships for member firm partners, principals, directors, independent audit serves a crucial function in maintaining investor confidence Independence and managers. Member firms are generally expected to customize the training and the stability of the capital markets. As auditors of public companies, Deloitte Data privacy and program to include the policies and processes the member firm has implemented member firms have a duty to protect the public interest. security regarding business relationships. All member firm PPDs and managers are To fulfill this duty, member firms must maintain independence from their audit required to complete the program by the end of FY2013. Metrics clients. Standards for independence are shaped by legislation, regulations, professional guidance, and public expectations. Maintaining independence, Reporting process therefore, is both a matter of compliance with rules and regulations and a matter of appearance. 46 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home The DTTL Board of Directors has adopted robust independence policies and DTTL’s independence specialists provide member firms with information and processes to help DTTL and its member firms, and their people, safeguard their guidance on independence issues and management approaches, including Overview objectivity. DTTL requires all of its member firms to follow DTTL’s independence frameworks and sample materials for inspection and testing programs. The policies and procedures, which address potential conflicts of interest, within DTTL independence specialists assess member firms’ independence controls Clients & insights or among member firms, arising from the proposed acceptance of client and compliance systems that assist member firm personnel in complying with engagements or proposed business or financial relationships with third parties. independence requirements. These systems: Talent & opportunity DTTL’s independence policies and procedures are designed to allow member • List up-to-date information on international restricted entities, including audit firms to comply with all applicable independence standards. These policies and clients Economies & procedures are based for the most part on the Code of Ethics for Professional communities Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. • Help confirm that services to be provided by member firms have been properly reviewed and approved by an audit committee or other appropriate When the national professional requirements that apply to a firm are more Operations & restrictive than the requirements in the DTTL policies, member firms must follow governance body governance those requirements as well. • Enable individuals to review personal financial interests that may create threats to independence Organizational structure Deloitte member firms frequently serve the same clients in multiple jurisdictions. • Affirm that member firm partners, professionals, and administrative staff are Leadership and Each member firm considering whether to accept a new audit client must compliant with independence policies governance consider the independence of other member firms. For existing audit clients, a Public policy member firm must evaluate the independence implications of other member firms’ relationships with that client, including the provision of non-audit services. Quality and risk Each member firm has a partner assigned with responsibility for the Ethics independence quality controls in the member firm, including monitoring Independence compliance with those controls. On an annual basis, all member firms report to Data privacy and DTTL that they have conducted procedures for determining that the firm and security its professionals are in compliance with DTTL’s independence policies. These procedures require all member firm personnel to confirm that they have complied Metrics with DTTL’s independence policies during the year. Reporting process 47 2012 GLOBAL Data privacy and security Keeping data safe, secure, and private has never been more critical REPORT Home W orkforce mobility, cloud computing, and social media—as well as sophisticated cybercriminal tools—create abundant opportunities Overview for data security breaches. The stakes in data security are rising as national privacy laws become more stringent and member firm clients seek Clients & insights stronger assurances that their data is safe. During FY2012, DTTL’s data security and privacy teams worked with the member Talent & opportunity firms on evaluating security and privacy programs for compliance with DTTL’s policies and on strengthening these programs. DTTL has created an online course Economies & and launched an internal campaign to make practitioners aware of data security communities risks when using social media and other online tools. A global security awareness council was also established to reinforce understanding among Deloitte’s people Operations & of their responsibilities to protect data. governance In November 2011, the legal entity that employs most United States-based Organizational structure personnel working on behalf of DTTL recertified its adherence to the Safe Harbor Leadership and Framework, which bridges differences between the United States and European governance Union privacy laws and helps safeguard permitted personal information sharing Public policy among Deloitte member firms and DTTL. Quality and risk Read more Ethics The clients and people of Deloitte member firms routinely entrust the firms with highly sensitive information that is needed to perform projects or provide Independence employee services and benefits. To retain the trust of their stakeholders and Data privacy and comply with contracts and regulations, Deloitte member firms make every effort security to prevent data security failures and limit harm from privacy breaches. Metrics Even strong information security programs are subject to lapses: laptops, Reporting process smartphones, and documents can be lost or stolen or let slip accidentally. And opportunities for such breaches are multiplying as workers and IT hardware become more mobile, increasing volumes of data are transmitted and remotely stored, and the use of social media accelerates. 48 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home DTTL and its member firms have moved rapidly to keep their privacy and security policies and practices up-to-date with global mandates and stakeholder Overview expectations. DTTL’s global policy on information security requires member firms to institute a wide range of security measures, covering areas such as virus Clients & insights protection, data backup and recovery, encryption, password authentication, access to systems, and network security. Talent & opportunity Member firms must affirm on an annual basis that they comply with this policy. In addition, DTTL’s information security specialists work with member firms to Economies & strengthen their information security regimes when necessary. communities DTTL’s comprehensive global privacy policy took effect in August 2011. This Operations & policy requires every member firm to put in place: governance • A privacy policy that defines principles to be followed in all data handling Organizational structure processes and systems and that meets the requirements of local laws, Leadership and customs, and regulations governance • A designated privacy leader Public policy • A process for responding to privacy incidents Quality and risk • Regular privacy communications and training programs for member firm Ethics people • An annual self-assessment of compliance with the DTTL privacy policy The legal entity that employs most United States-based personnel working on Independence behalf of DTTL, certified its adherence to the Safe Harbor Framework in November Data privacy and To help ensure a consistent and high standard of compliance throughout the 2009 and has re-certified this adherence in 2010 and 2011, each time completing security global network, DTTL’s privacy specialists have created a toolkit, sample policies, a comprehensive verification process. The Safe Harbor Framework between and an online training program to assist member firms in all jurisdictions establish the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Commission gives U.S. Metrics these program elements. organizations a set of requirements for complying with the European Directive Reporting process on Data Protection, which governs the transfer of personal information from the European Union (EU) to third countries such as the United States, among other issues. This framework is designed to bridge differences between the privacy protection approaches of the United States and the EU. 49 2012 GLOBAL Metrics REPORT Home FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 Overview GLOBAL PRESENCE Number of member firms at the end of the fiscal year 48 53 53 Clients & insights REVENUE (US$ Billion) Aggregate revenues Talent & opportunity Aggregate member firm revenue 31.3 28.8 26.6 Economies & By functional area communities Audit and Enterprise Risk Services 13.0 12.3 11.7 Financial Advisory 2.7 2.3 2.0 Operations & Consulting 9.7 8.6 7.5 governance Tax 5.9 5.6 5.4 Organizational structure By region Leadership and Americas 15.5 14.3 13.0 governance Europe/Middle East/Africa 10.9 10.3 10.0 Public policy Asia Pacific 4.9 4.2 3.6 By industry group Quality and risk Consumer Business 6.0 5.4 5.2 Ethics Energy & Resources 2.8 2.2 2.1 Independence Financial Services 8.5 7.8 6.9 Data privacy and Life Sciences and Health Care 2.1 1.9 1.7 security Manufacturing 4.1 3.8 3.5 Metrics Public Sector 3.2 3.0 2.8 Reporting process Technology, Media & Telecommunications 3.2 3.0 2.9 Other 1.4 1.7 1.5 50 2012 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 GLOBAL Revenue growth (Percentage growth in US Dollars) Aggregate member firm revenue growth 8.6% 8.4% 1.8% REPORT By functional area Audit and Enterprise Risk Services 6.1% 4.7% -1.4% Financial Advisory 15.0% 15.1% -1.6% Consulting 13.5% 14.9% 14.9% Tax 3.9% 5.2% -5.3% Home By region Americas 7.9% 10.4% 3.9% Overview Europe/Middle East/Africa 6.4% 3.2% -2.9% Asia Pacific 16.3% 15.8% 8.5% Clients & insights TALENT (1) Talent & opportunity Aggregate talent Aggregate member firm people 193,359 181,566 169,587 Economies & By level communities Partners, principals, and directors 9,948 9,673 9,538 Professional staff 148,947 138,790 129,219 Operations & Administrative staff 34,464 33,103 30,829 governance By region Organizational structure Americas 84,855 78,957 72,858 Leadership and Europe/Middle East/Africa (2) 68,317 65,298 62,732 governance Asia Pacific (2) 40,187 37,312 33,997 Public policy By level and region Quality and risk Americas Ethics Americas partners 4,228 4,159 4,142 Independence Americas professionals 63,685 58,225 52,722 Americas administrative staff 16,941 16,573 15,994 Data privacy and security Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) Metrics EMEA partners 3,357 3,229 3,243 EMEA professionals 53,232 50,700 49,014 Reporting process EMEA administrative staff 11,728 11,369 10,475 Asia Pacific Asia Pacific partners 2,363 2,285 2,154 Asia Pacific professionals 32,029 29,864 27,484 Asia Pacific administrative staff 5,794 5,162 4,359 51 2012 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 GLOBAL Talent by gender By region and gender male REPORT Overall 106,866 n/a n/a Americas 47,649 n/a n/a Europe/Middle East/Africa 37,392 n/a n/a Asia Pacific 21,825 n/a n/a By region and gender female Home Overall 86,492 n/a n/a Americas 37,205 n/a n/a Overview Europe/Middle East/Africa 30,925 n/a n/a Asia Pacific 18,361 n/a n/a Clients & insights Percentages of women in Deloitte member firms Talent & opportunity Overall 45% 44% 45% Among partners, principals, and directors 19% 18% 19% Economies & Among managers 35% 34% 35% communities Among new hires 46% 45% 47% Among new partners, principals, and director admissions 22% 22% 23% Operations & Percentages of women in DTTL leadership and governance bodies governance On DTTL Board of Directors 6% 11% n/a Organizational structure On DTTL Executive 0% 0% n/a Leadership and On DTTL leadership team (3) 19% 9% n/a governance Turnover rate Public policy Aggregate turnover rate 20% 21% n/a Quality and risk By region Ethics Americas 18% 19% n/a Europe/Middle East/Africa 20% 22% n/a Independence Asia Pacific 24% 24% n/a Data privacy and By gender security Male 19% 20% n/a Metrics Female 21% 23% n/a Reporting process 52 2012 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 GLOBAL New hires Aggregate new hires 51,440 49,152 33,600 REPORT Aggregate new hire rate (4) 27% 27% 19% By region Americas new hires 21,639 n/a n/a Americas new hire rate (4) 26% n/a n/a Europe/Middle East/Africa new hires 17,250 n/a n/a Home Europe/Middle East/Africa new hire rate (4) 25% n/a n/a Asia Pacific new hires 12,550 n/a n/a Overview Asia Pacific new hire rate (4) 31% n/a n/a By level Clients & insights New partners 285 273 n/a Talent & opportunity New mangers 4,952 5,408 n/a New staff 39,466 36,255 n/a Economies & New administrative staff 6,737 7,215 n/a communities By gender Percentage of women among new hires 46% 45% 47% Operations & LEARNING governance Hours training per full-time employee (5) 44 44 n/a Organizational structure MOBILITY Leadership and Number of Deloitte member firm people on mobility assignments 5,356 4,429 3,801 governance Increase in mobility assignments 21% 17% 128% Public policy GLOBAL CAREERS WEBSITE Quality and risk Number of RMS (Recruitment and Mobility System) student applications received per day 1,653 1,160 n/a Ethics Visits to website 10,328,940 10,028,940 n/a Average visits per day 28,300 27,476 n/a Independence Largest number of jobs posted on a given day 20,939 15,313 n/a Data privacy and Member firm locations with searchable positions 116 92 n/a security Total number of RMS applications 1,604,805 n/a n/a Metrics Reporting process 53 2012 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 GLOBAL SOCIETAL IMPACT (1) (US$ million) Number of reporting entities. Societal impact metrics are for reporting entities, and 33 member firms and 18 member firms and 17 member firms and REPORT estimates have not been made for non-reporting entities. DTTL (representing 90% of global DTTL (representing 73% of global DTTL (representing 73% of global workforce) workforce) workforce) Monetary value of community investments (US$ million) Aggregate community investments (6) 165.1 157.5 138.2 By source Home Aggregate donations (6) 74.1 76.3 68.4 Member firm/foundation donations (monetary and in-kind) (6) 44.6 47.9 42.1 Overview Member firm partner and employee donations (to member firm-supported organizations 29.5 28.4 26.2 and fundraisers) Clients & insights Aggregate member firm/foundation costs for managing community investment programs 9.2 9.1 6.6 Talent & opportunity Aggregate value of volunteer and pro bono work by member firm people 81.8 72.1 63.2 Pro bono work 34.2 33.7 31.1 Economies & Skills-based volunteering 26.4 20.9 18.4 communities Traditional volunteering 21.2 17.5 13.7 By contribution area Operations & Contributions toward education and skills-building organizations (6) 29% 29% 33% governance Value of pro bono and skills-based volunteering as percentage of value of all volunteering 74% 76% 78% Organizational structure and pro bono work Leadership and Hours of community investments (Thousand hours) governance Aggregate hours of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 884 709 588 Public policy Pro bono work 198 193 154 Skills-based volunteering 377 275 247 Quality and risk Traditional volunteering 308 241 187 Ethics Independence Data privacy and security Metrics Reporting process 54 2012 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY (1) Number of member firms reporting on environmental sustainability. Environmental 32 member firms and 21 member firms and 19 member firms REPORT metrics are extrapolated to represent all member firms and DTTL. DTTL representing 93% of global DTTL representing 76% of global representing 73% of global workforce workforce workforce Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions including offsets 940,751 851,973 790,028 Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions not including offsets 944,870 859,026 790,028 Home By source (Metric tonnes CO2e) Buildings: electricity 204,812 201,739 213,360 Overview Buildings: other sources 35,008 35,916 36,550 Business travel: air travel 437,970 360,339 297,966 Clients & insights Business travel: other sources 250,167 242,293 225,348 Talent & opportunity Resources 16,913 18,738 16,803 Offset credits (4,119) (7,053) n/a Economies & By GHG Protocol scope (Metric tonnes CO2e) communities Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions 83,797 80,910 82,618 Scope 2: Electricity indirect greenhouse gas emissions 217,768 212,060 221,363 Operations & Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 643,306 566,056 486,047 governance Intensity measures (Metric tonnes CO2e) Organizational structure Greenhouse gas emissions per full-time employee (metric tonnes CO2e/FTE) excluding offsets 5.0 4.8 4.9 Leadership and Greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of revenue (kg CO2e/$000 USD) excluding offsets 30.2 33.9 32.6 governance Energy usage (GW) Public policy Aggregate usage of purchased electricity in Deloitte facilities 418 423 438 Quality and risk Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (TJ) Ethics TJ of natural gas 202 233 n/a Independence TJ of gasoline 262 304 n/a TJ of diesel fuel 517 276 n/a Data privacy and security Indirect energy consumption by primary source (TJ) TJ of electricity 1,506 1,524 n/a Metrics TJ of district heating 138 110 n/a Reporting process TJ of district cooling 27 41 n/a Material usage (Metric tonnes) Paper usage 5,413 6,590 n/a Percent of recycled input materials used based on estimate of recycled content paper 9% 7% n/a A detailed description of this report’s boundaries and the performance measurement methods used is available here. Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total (1) Includes DTTL and the member firms unless otherwise noted. (2) Number of Deloitte people in FY2011 is restated to reflect a change in the operational alignment of one member firm from EMEA to Asia Pacific Region. (3) The DTTL Leadership Team comprises senior leaders of functional areas from clients, services, and talent to quality, strategy, communications, and operations. 55 (4) The rate is calculated using the total Deloitte people in that region at the end of the reporting period. (5) Represents a lower bound for measures of learning because certain types of training are not tracked in the online learning platform. (6) FY2011 and FY2010 values restated. 2012 GLOBAL Reporting process Stakeholder insights shape our report REPORT Home We listen carefully to the many stakeholders with whom Deloitte people interact. In accounting for the Deloitte contribution and performance, our aim is to Overview combine the interests and concerns of our stakeholders, as well as to explain what guides and motivates our own approaches and priorities. Clients & insights Deloitte identifies stakeholders through internal discussions which are guided by knowledge of the business. Stakeholder groups considered most important to Talent & opportunity engage are those with a notable ability or tendency to: Economies & • Help influence Deloitte’s success communities • Be highly affected by Deloitte’s endeavors Operations & • Alter the markets, regulatory settings, and industries in which Deloitte operates governance • Affect the supply of resources that are critical to Deloitte’s business Organizational structure This year, in-depth stakeholder analysis was conducted with Deloitte people and member firm clients, two vital stakeholder groups. Deloitte surveyed its Leadership and people from different member firms, regions, levels, functions, and tenures governance about the organization’s priorities. Survey respondents had to make trade-offs Public policy among multiple priorities—as executives do when setting strategies—and this Quality and risk helped Deloitte assess their relative importance. For member firm clients, Deloitte gathered a large sample of their requests for information and ranked the topics Ethics in importance based on their frequency. Independence Deloitte business unit teams were interviewed to understand how they had Data privacy and engaged stakeholders during the year and how those stakeholders’ interests security had evolved. Some senior Deloitte leaders were interviewed about how they see Metrics Deloitte’s priorities. A full list of stakeholders engaged and their priority issues is available in the following pages. This Global Report is one instrument that Deloitte uses to address stakeholders’ Reporting process interests. Stakeholders likely to read the Global Report include current and The issues that were analyzed through stakeholder engagement were also prospective employees, member firms’ clients and suppliers, media and considered with respect to Deloitte’s business strategy. This enabled us to analysts, and civil society organizations. A detailed description of this report’s refine the priorities we attach to some material business issues. In the resulting boundaries and the performance measurement methods used is available in the materiality matrix, issues are classified into three categories according to their following pages. overall importance. These material issues were used to shape the scope and content of this report. 56 2012 Materiality matrix GLOBAL Issue is of critical strategic interest to REPORT Deloitte member firms and stakeholders Issue is actively managed Frequent interaction with key stakeholders occurs Client satisfaction/value of service Corporate responsibility commitment Issue is actively managed by Deloitte and discussed Diversity and fair treatment with constituents that have a direct stake Home CONCERN TO STAKEHOLDERS Employee development Ethics and integrity Overview Governance, risk, and compliance Issue of concern to select member firms and stakeholders Privacy and data security Clients & insights Protection of public interest Generally managed through member firm programs Talent & opportunity Community engagement Economies & Environmental performance communities Physical security Work-life balance Operations & governance Compensation Health and safety Organizational structure Human rights Leadership and Labor rights governance Supply chain risks/issues Public policy Quality and risk Ethics CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON MEMBER FIRMS Independence Data privacy and CATEGORY AREAS INCLUDED security Ethics Anti-corrpution Metrics Protection of Transparency, public policy positions, professional standards, Reporting process public interest professional performance Community Includes range of community engagement engagement activities, for example, youth education Environmental Includes greenhouse gas emissions, performance energy usage, water, material usage and waste 57 2012 2012 Stakeholder engagement summary Key stakeholder Engagement approach Sample of Sample topics Type of response (may Areas of high GLOBAL groups and typical frequency of representative members vary across Deloitte) stakeholder concern REPORT Member firm clients interaction Ongoing • Publicly traded • Service needs of clients • New service offerings • Ethics and integrity • Client interaction company clients, • Independence • Organizing client • Client satisfaction during engagements including their audit • Ethics service around • Governance risk and • Client satisfaction committees and • Security and privacy industries • compliance process boards of directors concerns • Lead client service roles • Protection of public • Business development • Closely-held company • Value of trusted and responsibility interest activities clients advisor relationship • Adoption of anti• Anti-corruption Home • Conferences • Government clients • Need for industry corruption policy • CR commitment • Proposal responses and • Non-profit clients understanding • Adoption of policy • Privacy and data Overview follow up on losses • Past and potential • Sustainability reporting regarding privacy security • Client questionnaires clients • Supply chain risks and programs and • Environmental Clients & insights standards leadership performance • IT security policies • Supply chain risks/ • Voluntary sustainability issues Talent & opportunity reporting • Value of service • Supply chain policies Economies & and codes of conduct communities Deloitte people and Ongoing • Current, former, • Job satisfaction • Flexible work • Employee development their families • Internal discussions retired, and elements arrangements • Diversity and fair Operations & • Alumni network prospective employees • Work-life balance • Benefits package treatment • Social media, external • Spouses/partners, • Career advancement changes • Ethics and integrity governance and internal children, and family • Fair treatment • Extension of certain • Client satisfaction Organizational structure • Recruiting events members of Deloitte • Privacy services to family • Privacy and data • Exit interviews employees • Security members security Leadership and • Confidential ethics • Contributions to • Mentoring programs • Governance, risk, and governance hotline society • Coaching programs • compliance • Training sessions • Environmentally • Opportunities for • CR commitment from Public policy Multiple times a year sustainable operations global deployments leadership Quality and risk • Performance reviews • Access to technology • Industry training • Protection of public • Employee councils • Diversity • Wellness programs interest Ethics • Advisory councils • Ethics • Updates to software • Public policy positions • Town-hall meetings and hardware • Environmental Independence • Affinity groups performance Data privacy and Annual basis • Health and safety security • People survey • Community • Partner meetings engagement Metrics • Labor rights • Physical security Reporting process • Compensation • Work/life balance • Professional standards • Professional performance 58 2012 Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach Sample of and typical frequency of representative members Sample topics Type of response (may vary across Deloitte) Areas of high stakeholder concern GLOBAL interaction REPORT Governments and regulators Ongoing and/or ad hoc • Contribution to shaping of new • National financial market regulators • Audit oversight bodies • • • Auditor independence Transparency Quality • Participation in advisory and advocacy groups • Protection of public interest • Anti-corruption regulation • Finance ministers and • Competitiveness of • Independence policies • Public policy positions • Collaboration on policy central bank governors markets and monitoring • Ethics and integrity • Participation in • Diversity • Audit standards • Diversity and fair development of • Corporate governance • Responses to reviews treatment standards • Employee diversity • Governance, risk, and Home • Web site and current programs • compliance event monitoring • Supplier diversity • Privacy and data • Responsiveness to programs security Overview inquiries • Issuance of • Health and safety Annual or regular transparency reports • Transparency Clients & insights recurring basis • Environmental • Quality/performance performance Talent & opportunity reviews Professional Ongoing • Associations of • Governance • Standards for • Professional standards Economies & associations • Involvement in certified/chartered • Barrier-free trade engagement • Professional committees and accountants • Sustainable acceptance and performance communities working groups • Associations of tax development performance • Employee development • Representation on professionals • Adherence to • Peer reviews • Public policy positions Operations & leadership councils • Management professional • Commentaries on • Ethics and integrity governance • Attendance at consulting professional performance standards proposed standards • Governance, risk, and conferences associations • Standards for auditing • Training compliance Organizational structure Ad hoc • Financial advisory of non-financial • Thoughtware • Protection of public • Collaboration on professional information • Strategy formulation interest Leadership and industry white papers associations governance • Speaking engagements Public policy • Participation in development of Quality and risk standards Ethics Non-profit Ongoing • United Way Worldwide • Training • Skills based • Youth education organizations and • Board representation • Junior Achievement • Performance volunteering • Diversity and fair Independence community • Pro bono engagements • Teach For All improvement • Community treatment Data privacy and organizations • Collaborations • Accounting for • Funding volunteering • Ethics and integrity • Volunteering Sustainability • Marketing • Impact day • Anti-corruption security • Social media • Carbon Disclosure • Specific agendas • Pro bono engagements • Human rights Metrics • Electronic mail Project germane to their cause • Foundation and firm • Transparency • Meetings and • Local business (e.g. sustainability, monetary and in-kind • CR commitment Reporting process conferences organizations education, water, gifts • Public policy position • Speaking engagements diversity, etc.) • Voluntary sustainability • Privacy and data • Local business reporting security promotion • Environmental • Transparency in performance reporting • Community involvement • Protection of public interest 59 2012 Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach Sample of and typical frequency of representative members Sample topics Type of response (may vary across Deloitte) Areas of high stakeholder concern GLOBAL interaction REPORT International multi-stakeholder organizations Ongoing • Steering committee memberships • United Nations • World Economic Forum • Establishment of and adherence to international norms • Pro-bono engagements • Internal and external training • • • Ethics and integrity Anti-corruption Public policy • Organizational • World Business • Understanding of • Thoughtware • Protection of public stakeholder meetings Council for Sustainable frameworks and • Working towards • Diversity and fair Development initiatives integrated reporting treatment • International • Economic, social, for Deloitte • Education Integrated Reporting and humanitarian • Voluntary reporting on • Governance, risk, and Home Committee development sustainability • compliance • Global Reporting • GHG reduction • CR commitment Initiative targets in place or in • Privacy and data Overview • International Business development (varies security Leaders Forum across member firms) • Environmental Clients & insights • Cross-industry business performance alliances • Human rights Talent & opportunity • Health and safety • Community engagement Economies & • Physical security communities Suppliers Ongoing • Software suppliers • Purchase volumes • Establishment of • Ethics and integrity • Negotiations • Hardware suppliers • Purchase projections alliances • Anti-corruption Operations & • Meetings • Travel service suppliers • Pricing • Establishment of • Diversity and fair governance • Proposals • Certainty preferred vendors treatment • Industry meetings • Opportunities for • Establishment of green • Privacy and data Organizational structure (mutual) sustainable purchasing practices security solutions • Contracts Leadership and • Opportunities for • Supply chain audits governance collaboration Public policy Analysts Ongoing • Forrester • Capabilities • Improved performance • Value of service • Dialogue • Gartner • Growth • New service lines • Client satisfaction Quality and risk • Question and answer • IDC • Leadership • Strategy refresh • Ethics and integrity Ethics sessions • Kennedy • Innovation • Innovation programs • Governance, risk, and • Webinars • Verdantix compliance Independence • Provision of • Anti-corruption Data privacy and information • CR commitment security Educational Ongoing • Funding of chairs • Subject matter • Deloitte21 • Education Ethics and institutions/ • Participation in and scholarships at knowledge • Matching gifts integrity Metrics academia programs universities • New perspectives • Guest lecturers • Diversity and fair Reporting process • Collaborations • Leading research • Funding treatment • Recruiting • Career placement • Employee development • Guest lecturing and • Anti-corruption speaking engagements • Human rights 60 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home Basis of reporting FY2012 societal impact data was reported by 33 member firms and by DTTL, Scope and methods for performance measurements which represent 90 percent of aggregate Deloitte people and 96 percent of Overview Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) adhered to widely accepted standards aggregate member firm revenues. No estimate was made for the member in developing this report. These standards define a systematic approach to firms that did not report due to the variations in societal impact activities Clients & insights understanding the issues that the report should cover and measuring and across member firms. It should be recognized that this limits the year-to-year documenting performance with regard to those issues. comparability of the data. Comparability is expected to improve over time as the Talent & opportunity Performance measures for societal impact and environmental sustainability are number of non-reporting member firms decrease. based on widely recognized guidelines. For reporting on societal impact, DTTL Data that formed the basis of the reporting was obtained from financial Economies & and its member firms observed standards from the Committee Encouraging reporting systems, other internal records, and outside sources such as travel communities Corporate Philanthropy and the London Benchmarking Group. The monetary agencies, utilities, and property managers. In addition to adhering to the UN value of community activities by member firm people was estimated according Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative frameworks for reporting, Operations & to the type of service performed. The value of volunteer work was based on local this report was prepared according to the principles of inclusivity, materiality, governance member firms’ staff costs. Pro bono work, defined as work that the member and responsiveness from the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard Organizational structure firms might otherwise sell but that was performed for free, has been valued at (AA1000APS). rates representative of the local member firms’ client service rates. Leadership and Emission factors governance Estimates of carbon emissions were prepared according to the Greenhouse Gas DTTL member firms are encouraged to select the most accurate, source-specific, Public policy Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard created by the World localized, and recently published greenhouse gas (GHG) emission factor available Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development for each emission source, such as specific emission factors for a local electric Quality and risk with emissions accounted for on the basis of operational control. DTTL and utility. Member firms are also provided with default emission factors from the Ethics the member firms have applied recent, authoritative, and locally specific GHG following sources: emissions factors as available and as appropriate for the countries in the report’s Independence • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol published by the World Resources Institute and scope. In 2011, the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council Data privacy and for Sustainable Development issued a new standard, the Corporate Value World Business Council for Sustainable Development security Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Deloitte will consider the • The International Energy Agency (IEA) Metrics methodologies set forth in the Scope 3 standard for future reporting. While the • The UK’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) reporting for FY2012 includes a significant number of Scope 3 sources, it does Reporting process not consider full upstream and downstream emissions across all sources. • The U.S. Department of Energy (US DOE) FY2012 environmental performance data in this report was directly collected • Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator (www.papercalculator.org) from 32 member firms and from DTTL. These entities represent 93 percent of • The Carbon Neutral Company aggregate Deloitte people and 96 percent of aggregate member firm revenues. A compilation of emission factors used to calculate the data in the Report is Extrapolations were used to account for the emissions of the remainder of the included at the end of this section. organization that did not directly report data. 61 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home Global warming potential in some years and underestimates them in others, but over time captures the The 100-year global warming potentials (GWP) of the Fourth Assessment Report fugitive emissions of the system. A similar simplifying assumption is used for Overview of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR4) were used in calculating the volume of diesel fuel used for backup power generation; that is, it calculating carbon dioxide equivalents. is assumed that diesel fuel purchased during the fiscal year is used that year. Clients & insights Building-related emission sources Business travel — Air Talent & opportunity Building-related emission sources included in the GHG emissions data of the Reported GHG emissions are those resulting from air travel by professionals flying Report were those associated with the use of electricity, natural gas, district for business reasons in accordance with DTTL and member firm policies. GHG Economies & heating, and district cooling and those arising from the fugitive emissions of emissions from flights taken by non-employees are also reported in instances refrigerants in the office buildings and data centers that DTTL member firms where flight activity data is captured in DTTL or member firm travel systems communities either own or over which they have operational control. Upstream buildingand reimbursed or paid for by DTTL or a member firm (such as travel by family Operations & related emission sources, such as those associated with electric transmission and members in accordance with policies or travel by prospective DTTL and member distribution line losses, were not included in the GHG emissions inventory. firm professionals). The majority of business air travel data was obtained from governance DTTL and member firm travel systems. Much of the rest was obtained from travel Organizational structure Some of the activity data associated with building-related emission sources expense records. was available directly to the DTTL member firms. For example, some facilities Leadership and have direct utility meters or submeters from which DTTL member firms obtain The default GHG emission factors used to calculate emissions from air travel governance readings. For facilities that have no available meter data, activity data for the were based on information published by DEFRA. Flight segments were identified Public policy entire building was typically allocated on the basis of the percentage of total by distance, and emission factors were applied according to whether the flight building floor space used (based on rentable square meters) by the DTTL member segment was categorized as long haul (more than 1108 km), medium haul (463 Quality and risk firm. Where building-specific data was unavailable, DTTL member firms estimated to 1108 km) or short haul (less than 463 km). Where data on seat class was Ethics electricity and fuel usage using actual data from a similar building or an average available class-specific emission factors were also applied (e.g., First, Business, Independence from a recognized source. Premium Economy, Economy). An uplift factor of 1.09 was applied to airline distance data to account for non-direct routes, delays, and circling. The emission Data privacy and GHG emission factors and system information (such as equipment type) factors used did not include radiative forcing or indirect emissions. security associated with district heating and cooling are seldom available through the Metrics utility provider. In instances where emission factors and system information were Business travel — Road unavailable, benchmark emission factors from the U.S. DOE were used. Reported GHG emissions from business travel by automobiles includes travel in Reporting process Deloitte-owned vehicle fleets (personnel driving in vehicles owned by DTTL and/ Fugitive emissions of refrigerants used in building cooling systems were included or the member firm), reimbursed driving (personnel driving in personal cars for as a GHG emission source. To determine refrigerant leakage from a system, which they are reimbursed), rental cars (personnel driving in rented/hired cars, the refrigerant volume readings from the beginning and the end of the fiscal for which the member firm pays); buses and taxis (reimbursed personnel trips in year are needed along with any volumes added or removed. For most systems buses, taxis, car-service vehicles, and limousines). and equipment at DTTL member firm facilities, this complete data set cannot be obtained and data is limited to refrigerant additions. In such instances, the For road travel, activity data was gathered from expense reports, rental agency assumption is made that all refrigerant added in a given year replaces refrigerant records, travel agency records, company accounting systems, fuel receipts, 62 leaked during the same year. This method likely overestimates actual emissions 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home odometer logs, and receipts or other records indicating distance and location factors were selected using the Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator of trip segments. When fuel information was available, GHG emissions are based on the percentage of recycled content and applied to the purchased Overview calculated on the basis of mobile combustion factors for the given fuel type. weight. Where a specific percentage of recycled content could not be identified, When only distance information was available, GHG emissions were calculated the most conservative possible assumption was made (for example, 30 percent Clients & insights on the basis of average emissions factors (emissions per kilometer traveled) for recycled content was assumed if the paper source was identified as having 30 vehicles according to vehicle type (bus or car), fuel type (diesel, petrol, hybrid, or percent or more recycled content). Talent & opportunity unknown), and location. Estimations A very limited amount of employee commuting activity data was available from Economies & In calculating emissions, various estimations and extrapolations were made to member firms. Where available, this information was added to the emissions account for known data gaps. communities total. As more member firms collect this data, reporting is expected to grow in future years. For many travel activities, activity information and cost data were available both Operations & from travel providers (reservation systems, travel agencies, or travel vendors) and governance Business travel — Rail from DTTL or member firm expense systems. Travel expenses recorded in DTTL Organizational structure Rail travel accounts for GHG emissions from employee trips on subways, railways, or member firm expense systems often exceeded the corresponding expenses and trams, with different GHG emission factors used for each type of rail system. recorded by travel providers because of travel arrangements made outside of Leadership and Activity data sources included travel agency reports, employee expense reports, reservation systems or without travel agencies. In cases where such differences governance company accounting systems, receipts, and other records indicating the distance were identified, the travel activity data associated with the incremental cost was Public policy and location of trip segments. In cases where actual distance was unavailable, estimated based on the same proportion of cost to activity that was reflected in estimates were made using travel expense data and average travel costs per unit the original travel system reservation. Quality and risk of distance traveled. Ethics Not every DTTL member firm has the capacity to report activity data for GHG Accommodations emissions, and some member firms report on some, but not all, of the activities Independence within the report boundaries. Ratios of emissions per FTE (average full-time The GHG emissions inventory in the Report includes emissions from Data privacy and accommodations at hotels, guest houses, and apartments for business reasons equivalent for FY2012) by emission source were calculated for the member firms security and in accordance with DTTL and member firm policies. Data was collected from that reported, and averages of these ratios were calculated based on clusters of Metrics corporate travel agency records, employee travel expense reports, and internal geographic location and size. Using the appropriate cluster ratio, missing data records. The emission factors were applied according to the location of the was extrapolated based on the known FTE data. Reporting process accommodation. Consistent with other Global Reporting Initiative indicators, emissions intensity per FTE was calculated using the FTE total at the reporting year-end (31 May 2012). Paper Emissions associated with paper used in business by DTTL and member firm While the above description is intended to be as accurate as possible, invariably offices, mainly printer paper, were included in the inventory. Paper used in the inventory will contain some exceptions to this reporting basis. None of documents produced by outside vendors was not included in the inventory. the known exceptions are considered to materially change the total emissions Paper data was obtained from procurement records and grouped by sheet size, reported. 63 percentage of recycled content, and paper type and weight. Default emission 2012 GLOBAL REPORT Home Emission factors The table below shows emission factors that were used in the inventory. Overview Note — Some values below may differ slightly from the published reference source due to the use of the IPCC AR4 GWPs rather than the GWPs of the Second Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Where factors are used in specific countries only, these are listed after the emission source. Clients & insights Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Talent & opportunity Air Travel – Various lengths and seat classes 0.087-0.347 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Annex 6, Table 6l), Version 1.0 with 9% uplift and AR4 GWP; various factors used depending on class Economies & and distance communities Air Travel – Various lengths (Belgium) 0.22-0.66 Passenger km Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Air Travel – Various lengths (Finland, Germany) 0.131-0.201 Passenger km Travel agency records Operations & Air Travel – Various lengths (Japan) 0.102 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2010 governance Air Travel – Various lengths (South Africa) 0.112-0.165 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2011 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Annex 6, Table 6l) Organizational structure Bus (Europe) 0.149 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Leadership and Bus (Japan) 0.048 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2010 governance Bus (Outside Europe) 0.067 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Public policy Bus (United States) 0.107 Passenger miles WRI GHG protocol emission factors from cross sector tool set v 1.1 (June 2011) District Cooling 0.887 Ton-hour (Short ton) U.S. DOE EIA-1605 (November 18, 2010) Appendix N Quality and risk District Cooling (Japan) 57 GJ Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Ethics Measures to Cope with Global Warming Independence District Heat 88.56 MMBtu U.S. DOE EIA-1605 (November 18, 2010) Appendix N District Heat/Steam (Denmark) 4.7 Cubic meter Denmark Power plant average Data privacy and District Heat/Steam (Denmark) 158 MWh Denmark Power plant average security District Heat/Steam (Germany) 0.257 kWh Deloitte Germany emission factor based on DEFRA Metrics District Heat/Steam (Japan) 57 GJ Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Reporting process Electricity (Australia) 300-1212 MWh Australian Government Department of Climate Change National Greenhouse Energy Reporting System (NGERs) Technical Guidelines (June 2011). Table 7.2 Indirect (scope 2) emission factors for consumption of purchased electricity from a grid. Page 373 Electricity (Belgium) 0 MWh Electrabel Alp Energy Hydro energy Electricity (Belgium) 227 MWh Estimation based on Luminus energy mix and EF for energy production by energy source (Source Manicore) (20%) Electricity (Canada) 2-840 MWh Environment Canada National Inventory Report 1990-2010 Electricity (Denmark) 365 MWh Energinet (Government of Denmark, 2011, 125% method) 64 2012 Emission source Electricity (Finland) Emission factor 240 Unit kg CO2e/unit MWh Reference Finnish Electricity Company GLOBAL Electricity (France) 35 MWh Electricity provider EDF Average of monthly emission factors for 2011-2012 REPORT Electricity (Germany) Electricity (India) 562 750-830 MWh MWh Umweltbundesamt, Strommix Deutschland, UBA 2010 India Environmental Portal CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector User Guide v 6.0 Electricity (Ireland) 521.686 MWh The Commission for Energy Regulation, “Fuel Mix and CO2 Emission Factors Disclosure” Table 1, 2010 Electricity (Japan) 311-935 MWh Various Japanese Power Companies Electricity (New Zealand) 120-160 MWh New Zealand Ministry of Economic Development Quarterly Energy Update Electricity (Serbia, Montenegro, Republic of 685.8 MWh Value provided by utility Home Srpska, FYR of Macedonia, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina) Overview Electricity (South Africa) 1023 MWh Eskom’s 2011/2012 data Electricity (UK) 520.3 MWh DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Clients & insights Electricity (U.S.) 226-828 MWh USEPA eGRID 2012 Version 1.0 Subregion Data (Year 2009) Electricity (Various countries) 2.7-761.0 MWh IEA Statistics, “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights.” 2011 Edition Talent & opportunity Hotel Stays 31.93-33.45 Nights Carbon Neutral Company (legacy source) Hotel Stays (China, Australia, U.S.) 40.91 Nights Private study based on IEA 2005, DEFRA 2005, DTI 2004, and DOE 1997. Economies & Hotel Stays (Denmark) 16.06 Nights Based on a representative sample of Danish hotels that have reported their emissions. communities Hotel Stays (Japan) 7 Nights Carbon Offset Japan Hotel Stays (New Zealand) 2.559-7.966 Nights Landcare CarboNZero emissions factor database Operations & Hotel Stays (South Africa) 19 Nights Deloitte 2008 “Qualified Greenhouse Gas Inventory” Report: Emissions factor provided by governance UNEP World Meteorological Organisation Climate Change And Tourism Report; A2.2.3 Accommodation; 9-Jul-2008 Organizational structure Mobile Combustion Black Car/Limo 0.157 Vehicle km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Leadership and Mobile Combustion Bus (Europe) 0.112 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 governance Mobile Combustion Car (Average) (Diesel) (Europe) 0.187 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Public policy Mobile Combustion Car (Diesel) 2.668 Liter DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Quality and risk Mobile Combustion Car (Diesel) (Belgium) 2.947 Liter Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Mobile Combustion Car (Hybrid) 0.135 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Ethics Mobile Combustion Car (Luxury) (unknown fuel) 0.313 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Independence Mobile Combustion Car (Petrol) (Belgium) 2.835 Liter Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Data privacy and Mobile Combustion Car (Petrol) (Germany) 0.153 km Rental company security Mobile Combustion Car (Petrol) (Japan) 2.322 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Metrics Mobile Combustion Car (Petrol) (New Zealand) 2.32-2.36 Liter Landcare CarboNZero emissions factor database Reporting process Mobile Combustion Car (Petrol) (Outside Europe) 0.237 km WRI (2008) GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion v 2.2 Mobile Combustion Car (Petrol/Gasoline) 2.314 Liter DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion Car (unknown fuel) 0.248 km DTTL estimated using data from WRI (2008) GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion v 2.2 Mobile Combustion Car (unknown fuel) (Australia) 2.289 Liter Australian Government Department of Climate Change (July 2011) National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors. Table 4 Mobile Combustion Car (unknown fuel) (Belgium) 0.214 km Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Mobile Combustion Car (unknown fuel) 0.202 km Provided by ALD Leasing Company (Luxembourg) 65 2012 Emission source Mobile Combustion Car (unknown fuel) (New Emission factor 0.241 Unit kg CO2e/unit km Reference Ministry for the Environment, Guidance for voluntary, corporate greenhouse gas reporting, 2009 GLOBAL Zealand) Calendar Year REPORT Mobile Combustion Car average (unknown fuel) 0.392 Mile WRI GHG protocol emission factors from cross sector tool set v 1.1 (June 2011). US (U.S.) Environmental Protection Agency default fuel economy for generic car transport Mobile Combustion Car or Van (Diesel) (Denmark) 0.14-0.156 km Denmark traffic authority (trafikstyrelsen) Mobile Combustion Car or Van (unknown fuel) 0.19-0.31 km ADEME Bilan Carbone (France) Mobile Combustion Car or Van (unknown fuel) 2.4-2.7 Liter Petroleum company Information (France) Mobile Combustion Car or Van (various fuels) 0.141-0.207 km Specific fleet and rental car information Home (Europe) Mobile Combustion Europe Car (Average) (Petrol) 0.209 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Overview Mobile Combustion Europe/Car (Average) 0.195 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 (unknown fuel) Clients & insights Mobile Combustion Motorcycle 0.119 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Mobile Combustion Outside Europe Car (Average) 0.280 km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Talent & opportunity (Diesel) Mobile Combustion Outside Europe/Car (Average) 0.237 km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Economies & (Petrol) Mobile Combustion Outside Europe/Car (Average) 0.248 km DTTL estimated using data from WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October communities (unknown fuel) 2011) Mobile Combustion Outside Europe/Car-Average 0.204 km Assumption at 70% of the travel is petrol and 30% is diesel and use 2011 Guidelines to Defra / Operations & (uUnknown fuel) (South Africa) DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Table 6b governance Mobile Combustion Taxi 0.147 Vehicle km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Mobile Combustion Taxi (Australia) 0.235 Vehicle km Australian Government Department of Climate Change (June 2009) National Greenhouse Organizational structure Accounts (NGA) Factors. Table 4 Leadership and Mobile Combustion Taxi (France) 0.296-0.312 Vehicle km ADEME Bilan Carbone governance Mobile Combustion Taxi (Japan) 0.169 Vehicle km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2010 Public policy Mobile Combustion Taxi (New Zealand) 0.31 Vehicle km Landcare CarboNZero emissions factor database Mobile Combustion Taxi / Car service (U.S.) 0.143 0.252 Passenger km Specific information from service providers Quality and risk Mobile Combustion Taxi / Car service (U.S.) 0.230 0.406 Passenger miles Specific information from service providers Ethics Mobile Combustion Taxi/Car service (UK) 0.176-0.234 Vehicle km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Independence Mobile Combustion Van (Diesel) 0.226 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Data privacy and Mobile Combustion Van (Petrol) 0.212 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 security Mobile Combustion Van (UK) 0.266 km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Paper resources 1.52 kg Japan Paper Association LCA Inventory (published in FY2011） Metrics Paper resources 1.688-3.012 kg Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator v 3.1 (www.papercalculator.org) Reporting process Paper resources (Belgium) 1.32 kg Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) 2010 Paper resources (Denmark) 2.634 kg From Klimakompasset (FEFCO) Paper resources (Germany) 1.06 kg German initiative for paper production. Source: www.initiative-papier.de Paper resources (South Africa) 2.78 kg Average factors provided by Mondi and Sappi Paper Rail Average (Light Rail or Tram) 0.072 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Rail Average (Light Rail or Tram) 0.102 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) Rail National Rail 0.115 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) 66 2012 Emission source Rail Subway Emission factor 0.102 Unit kg CO2e/unit Passenger km Reference WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) GLOBAL Rail Subway (U.S.) 0.164 Passenger mile Derived from the U.S. EPA REPORT Rail (Belgium) Rail (Denmark) 0.01 0.034 Passenger km Passenger km ADEME (Train en France, Moyenne) Calculations made by Danske Statsbaner in 2011 Rail (Eurostar) 0.015 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Rail (Germany) 0.043-0.086 Passenger km Direct information from Deutsche Bahn Rail (Japan) 0.018 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2010 Rail (National Rail) 0.056 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 Home Rail (Subway) 0.074 Passenger km DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Version 1.0 DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Annex 6, Rail (UK) 0.015-0.058 Passenger km Table 6k), Version 1.0 Overview Rail (U.S.) 0.185 Passenger mile Derived from the U.S. EPA Clients & insights Refrigerant HFC-134a 1430 GWP Fourth Assessment Report (2007) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Refrigerant HFC-143a 4470 GWP Fourth Assessment Report (2007) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Talent & opportunity Refrigerant R-403a 1400 GWP American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 34 (WRI) Economies & Refrigerant R-404A (Australia) 3260 GWP American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 34 (WRI) communities American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard Refrigerant R-407c 1774 GWP 34 (WRI) Operations & American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard Refrigerant R-410a 2088 GWP governance 34 (WRI) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard Organizational structure Refrigerant R-427a 1800 GWP 34 (WRI) Leadership and Stationary Combustion Diesel 2.676 Liter WRI GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion V 2.3 (October 2011) governance Stationary Combustion Diesel (South Africa) 2.670 Liter DEFRA/DECC’s 2011 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Table 1b) Stationary Combustion Diesel or Heating Oil (Low Public policy Heating Value) 74.53 GJ WRI (October 2010) GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion Quality and risk Stationary Combustion Heating Oil (France) 0.301 kWh ADEME Bilan Carbone Ethics Stationary Combustion Heating Oil (Japan) 2.71 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Independence Stationary Combustion LP Gas (Mexico) 0.002 Liter National GHG Inventory Data privacy and Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (France) 0.238 kWh Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) security Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (High Heating 5.342 Therms WRI GHG Protocol (September 2011) Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools Value) (U.S.) Metrics Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (Japan) 2.150-2.294 Cubic meters HV-gas company Reporting process Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (Low Heating 1.89 Cubic meters WRI (October 2010) GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion Value) Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (Low Heating 56.26 GJ WRI (October 2010) GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion Value) Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (New Zealand) 0.194 kWh Landcare CarboNZero emissions factor database (ending 30th June 2011) Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (Switzerland) 0.198 kWh Swiss department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communication Stationary Combustion Natural Gas (UK) 0.185 kWh DEFRA/DECC’s 2012 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Annex 6) 67 Contact us GlobalReport@deloitte.com Learn more www.deloitte.com/GlobalReport Stay connected Produced by DTTL Global Brand & Communications Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte has in the region of 200,000 professionals, all committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This publication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. For the convenience of the reader, a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) in a particular country is identified in the body of this report by the word “Deloitte” coupled with a country name (e.g., Deloitte Greece), in lieu of using the actual legal name of the member firm of DTTL in that country. In many countries, services may be provided by the actual member firms but could also be provided in addition by—or solely by—subsidiaries or affiliates of the DTTL member firm in that country, which are often organized as separate legal entities. Each of these separate legal entities is liable for its own acts or omissions and not those of other separate legal entities. Specifically, with respect to the United States, Deloitte LLP is the member firm of DTTL and does not provide services. Services in the United States are provided by Deloitte LLP’s subsidiaries; Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP. All of these U.S. entities are referred to in this publication as “Deloitte United States.” Additionally, for the purposes of this publication only, individuals are identified by their name and the nomenclature discussed above for referring to a DTTL member firm, whether that individual is a partner, principal, shareholder, member, director, or employee of that DTTL member firm or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., Paige Flanagan, Deloitte Ireland). Rev7 © 2013. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
