Through the looking glass of history Lewis Caroll’s 19th century classic ‘Through the Looking Glass’ blurred the boundaries between the real and the virtual worlds in A delightful manner that only the famed novelist could create. In the first scene, Alice steps from the cold, wintry night of her real existence into a sunny, spring garden in the alternate world of the mirror, beginning another sequence of wonderland adventures. Charmingly bizarre as the story seems, it holds many wonderful lessons – one is that the mirror’s reflection is not just a static image of reality but hides within it a dynamic world that is as true and real. Only, this other world, so full of new insights and experiences, is accessible only to the curious and the courageous, like Alice. Our theme for Wipro’s fifth sustainability report, ‘Through the looking glass of history’, draws inspiration from Carroll’s much loved story. To mark our fifth report, we have crafted and put together a special booklet on the ‘History of Sustainability’. Starting with Henry David Thoreau and the epiphany of his ‘Walden’ experience, the booklet brings to the reader a wondrously varied cast of characters and events that have shaped our world over the last 200 years. Whether it is Rachel Carson with her seminal book ‘Silent Spring’ or the radical ‘Clean Air Act, 1970’ or J.C. Kumarappa’s brave construction of Gandhian Economics, the history of sustainability provides us with new meanings into life on earth and our place in it. It is a history that is perhaps not as well known as it should be for it is a narrative of courage, of questioning accepted wisdom, of breaking new ground and of dreaming up a new world. * The idea of having a booklet on History of Sustainability with Wipro’s 5th Sustainability Report has its roots in wanting to do something special and unique at the end of 5 years of reporting on sustainability. This booklet covers the sustainIt has been famously said that those who do not learn from the lessons of history are doomed to repeat ability journey by tracing routes through ideas, people and them. The history of Sustainability holds within its folds several rich lessons for us as we navigate the events that have stood out, brought in new knowledge or had a large impact. Sustainability is all-encompassing – it includes uncertain terrain of our future in a planet that has its climate changing, its oceans and rivers turning many disciplines like humanities, technology, social sciences, natural sciences and so on. Our focus in this booklet is primarblack and its people living on the edge. Using Carroll’s looking glass as a metaphor for making the unreal ily on the intersection between ecological sustainability and real, we think that sustainability’s rich past offers us a dynamic template for transforming this journey development. forward. It is up to us to pay heed, wake up and act – for the future is no longer a distant mirage, it is already upon us. 01 Theme CONTENT 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 3 5c. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY AT WIPRO 69 1a. WIPRO’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY: 2007 – 2012 4 5d. CUSTOMER STEWARDSHIP 82 2. REPORT PROFILE AND ASSURANCE APPROACH 6 5e. SUSTAINABILITY AND THE RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR 88 a. Report Profile 7 b. Materiality Determination 9 5f. ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN 96 c. Note on Data Metrics in this Report 10 d. Wipro’s Approach to Report Assurance 11 5g. EDUCATION & COMMUNITY CARE 101 3. AN ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 13 5h. ADVOCACY AND PUBLIC POLICY 113 a. Spirit of Wipro, our foundation of values 14 b. Our Business Profile 15 6a. FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION 117 c. Good governance and management practices 18 6b. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 118 4. WIPRO’S STRATEGIC PERSPECTIVE 24 a. The Sustainability Mobius 25 7a. GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS 121 b. Business and The Sustainability Mega Forces 25 c. Sustainability Strategy and Governance At Wipro 29 7b. INDEX OF GRI INDICATORS 134 d. The Wipro Sustainability Dashboard for 2010-11 30 e. Aligning with Sustainability Charters and Networks 35 5. WIPRO AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS 36 5b. EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY AT THE WORKPLACE 41 listing of the World’s Greenest Companies. This is something satisfying, but it is also concerning in some measure. For we realize how early we are in our journey and how much remains to be done; and therefore, if we are among the world’s leaders, it can only mean that collectively, our society has a long, long way to go. I am convinced that if government and business can effectively get to work together to address sustainability challenges, the results can be remarkable. This, of course, is easier said than done as it needs the coming together of good regulation, transparent implementation and the consensus of all stakeholders. The government in India has, through the Companies Bill 2012, proposed a mandatory spend of 2% of profits after tax on Corporate Social Responsibility by companies of a certain size. Our belief is that good, genuine work in sustainability and social responsibility can arise only from a company’s deeply Dear fellow stakeholders held convictions and a clear vision; external factors do not help much in aiding or accelerating this. Welcome to our fifth sustainability report. Our journey of the past five years in sustainability has been exciting, full of meaning and learning. It has set us on a Let me conclude by saying that we have been talking and debating the ‘What’ path that we know is not easy and yet is so full of promise that we look forward and the ‘Why’ of sustainability for quite some time now; it is time to move on to to pursuing it. the ‘How’ and ‘When’ without further delay. The theme of this year’s report ‘Through the looking glass of history’ suggests that we have enough lessons 2007-2012 : Wipro’s leap of faith into Sustainability from our past to help us do this and to navigate the futurea future that is already upon us. When we started our corporation wide initiative in Sustainability in 2007-08, its different facets were not new to us. Our programs in community care and school education were already more than five years old, and we had been With Best Wishes, working on water and electricity conservation for over a decade. We had started Azim H. Premji these programs, driven by belief that the business sector must stop seeing itself as separate from its surrounding social context. We systematized and deepened our work in ecology with the launch of our Sustainability initiative. This was driven by the recognition of the reality that ecological issues will be a defining force for the future. Over the last five years our range of initiatives has expanded in scope, scale and richness covering multiple dimensions across ecology, the workplace, our customers and suppliers, education and community care. The milestones of this five year journey are depicted in the infographic in the next page. Our work has won considerable recognition globally as well as in India, among which are successive inclusions in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index and the No: 2 ranking in the Newsweek 03 Letter from the Chairman Wipro’s sustainability journey: 2007 – 2012 The pull-out leaf is to help you with a quick walk through of the milestones in Wipro’s sustainability journey over the last 5 years. 04 Wipro’s sustainability journey: 2007 – 2012 05 Wipro’s sustainability journey: 2007 – 2012 In this section, we provide an overview of the profile of our sustainability report for This Report’s Scope, content And Boundary 2011-12; the profile provides the anchoring context in terms of coverage and scope The process for defining the scope of this report is based broadly on the for the report itself. A key topic discussed in this section is Wipro’s Materiality guidelines provided by the GRI framework (G3.1 guidelines).The content of the approach that helps determine the priorities of our sustainability program and the report is based on the following guiding principles. corresponding disclosures. Scope and boundary: Wipro Ltd. is a diversified conglomerate with a strong In the latter part of this section, we articulate our approach to report assurance, a presence in the IT services, Consumer Products and Infrastructure Engineering key determinant of the quality and transparency of any report. markets. This report is primarily for Wipro’s IT businesses. The chart of the following page provides a visual representation of Wipro’s business divisions with the broad scope of reporting for the IT business. Report Profile The Content Of This Report The profile of our sustainability report is covered under the following heads: This is our 5th sustainability report and like our previous reports, we continue to adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is such a crucial cornerstone of the AA1000 and the GRI frameworks, Profile Parameter Brief Description we believe that the stakeholder format is more appropriate for focusing attention Provides information on Reporting Period and on key material aspects for each of the stakeholders. In doing so, we are cognizant Time Period frequency of publishing the report of other sustainability dimensions that may cut across stakeholders or are context specific. We have tried to ensure that these are covered in the ‘Sustainability Provides the scope of the report in terms of business Strategy’ section. Scope divisions that are covered and the sustainability and Boundary topics covered in each In this sub-section, a framework is articulated for determining the relative materiality of different Content sustainability areas for Wipro – this largely determines the depth of coverage of these topics in the report Provides a contextual framework of the underlying Data processes, systems and empirical assumptions for Methodologies the data and metrics published in this report Reporting Period The reporting period for this sustainability report is the fiscal year April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012, referred to hereafter in short as ’11-12. Date of the most recent previous report: Our most recent sustainability report was for the fiscal year 2010-11, released in March 2012. Reporting cycle: Our sustainability report is published on an annual basis. 07 Report Profile & Assurance Table Showing the Scope and Coverage of Report IT Businesses IT Services IT Products Consumer Care Infrastructure & Lighting Engineering Software Services BPO Services WI > Consulting > Business Process > Enterprise Products > Personal Care Products > Hydraulics > Package Implementation Outsourcing > Personal Computers (PCs) > Lighting > Water Treatment > Application Development > Network Products > Furniture > Clean Energy Primary & Maintenance > Testing Services Offerings > Technology Infrastructure > Product Engineering > Americas > India > India > India > India > Europe > Americas > South East Asia > Europe Geography > India > Europe > Japan Presence > Middle East > Asia Pacific > Financial performance > Financial performance > The IT products division > The sustainability > The sustainability indicators for all geographies indicators for all geographies serves only the India market; disclosures of this division disclosures of this division > Environmental performance > Environmental performance therefore wherever the report are not covered under are not covered under > Employee metrics for all > Employee metrics for all contains specific reference to this report this report data on IT products, it is for Scope of geographies > Social Programs cover geographies > Social Programs cover the Indian geography Reporting primarily India primarily India > Other qualitative reporting > Other qualitative reporting covers all geographies covers all geographies (unless otherwise specified) (unless otherwise specified) 08 Report Profile & Assurance Materiality Determination Materiality Ecological / Economic Goals Sustainability reporting cannot happen in a vacuum and should be a faithful reflection Product/Service Quality HIGH of an organization’s values, vision, plans and progress on the different dimensions Economic Climate of sustainability aspects. Therefore, determining the most material issues to include in this report really stems from the sustainability issues that are the most material Resource Efficiency Relative Relevance to Wipro to Wipro, the IT industry and regions where we operate from. Climate change Biodiversity Pollution Our materiality determination framework is driven by what issues hold more Public Policy importance for our stakeholders. Our seven sustainability stakeholders are MEDIUM 1 Employees Economic Disclosures 2 Current and Future Generations Public Benefit 3 Customers 4 Investors 5 Suppliers 6 Community 7 Government and Policy Makers LOW MEDIUM HIGH Stakeholders' Interest The identification and relative prioritization of material issues is based on a combination of the following three factors ; Further it is important to recognize that these issues and their relative importances are not static and are likely to change with time. Direct feedback from the stakeholder e.g. Employee perception survey, Customer Materiality – Social / Human Rights feedback, Feedback from one-on-one interaction with government and community Indirect inference from public sources of information e.g. rating by sustainability Safety & Health HIGH People Development raters and analysts, expert NGO and think tank reports Informed dialog and discussion between Wipro leaders and employees in Voice of Stakeholders meetings, open houses, blogs etc Work benefits Relative Relevance to Wipro A detailed delineation of the primary sustainability issues for each of the above stakeDiversity Community Engagement holders is available in Section 5 of the report. Supply Chain MEDIUM The distilled outcomes of the above processes are represented in the two matrices Human Rights below – one for Social and Human Rights and the other for Ecological & Economic Freedom of Association factors. The materiality of a particular sustainability dimension is based on the combination of two criteria – The Stakeholders’ interest in the issue and its Relevance / Anti-Corruption Priority to Wipro’s IT Business. The 19 sustainability dimensions–are really an aggregate of more granular parameters and factors that are part of the GRI framework. The Annexure at the end of this chapter details out the correlation between each of the 19 dimensions and multiple GRI LOW MEDIUM HIGH indicators. Stakeholders' Interest 09 Report Profile & Assurance There are no significant shifts in the materiality positions of the 17 indicators repreThese 11 sustainability dimensions – and the balance eight as well – are covered in sented in last year’s report (Please refer Page 10 of our report for 2010-11). However detail in the rest of this report where we articulate Wipro’s vision, goals and we have added two new dimensions: Economic Climate and Supply Chain taking performance on these. the total number to 19: Sustainability Matrix Matrix position Remarks A Note On The Data Metrics In This Report: dimension position in 2011-12 (Relevance in 2010-11 to Wipro, Relevance Methodologies, Protocols And Systems to Stakeholders) Economic None New, H-H The global economic environment is facing uncertainty from a host of This report contains several data metrics and numerical indicators – these are placed Climate causative factors, many systemic in against the larger context of the relevant articulation of different sustainability nature – which have a bearing on the issues. These metrics and numbers are… business growth, costs and overall socio-economic stability and predictEither derived from IT systems or Manually calculated (largely in MS-Excel) ability. We have introduced economic Either based on standard protocols or on organization-specific rules climate as a separate dimension, as Sometimes based on assumptions and rules of thumb the emerging scenario in developed markets of EU and North America has the potential to have a cascading Further, it is important to take note of the following points in the above context impact on a wider set of stakeholders. Social and Environmental perfori. Wipro maintains a sophisticated infrastructure of internal IT applications – Supply Chain None New, M-M mance considerations of supply chain based on SAP R/3 and satellite systems where most of the enterprise data and have so far been implicit in globally information is captured, collated and analyzed. These systems cover financial, accepted norms of ‘Human Rights’ , HR, sales, delivery and procurement processes. ‘Freedom of Association’, ‘Health and Safety’ and are also incorporated in ii. Our financial systems comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley the Wipro code of conduct. However, Framework. we see sustainability aspects of This implies a high degree of rigor and a robust system of checks and balances supply chain, especially social, emerging as a distinct aspect with that ensures integrity of financial data. increasing relevance to Wipro, its iii. While our Environmental IT systems are not of the same maturity as our financial customers, and the investor commuand HR systems, we have been making steady progress in the automation of these nity. The organization has to continuously evaluate its control and systems. The recording of all key EHS parameters in Wipro-owned campuses is influence on the supply chain, requirdone in a central IT system ; we evaluate platform based tools for GHG analysis ing active collaboration and engageand it continues to be a priority action area for us. ment to manage risks. The 11 most material issues for this year remain the same as enumerated in the last report with the addition of economic climate – these are those in the Top-Right quadrant of the two matrices and reflect high relevance for both Wipro and its stakeholders. 1 Product and Service Stewardship 2 Employee Health and Safety 3 Economic Climate 4 Voice of the stakeholder 5 Climate change 6 People Development 7 Workplace Benefits 8 Resource Efficiency 9 Pollution 10 Diversity 11 Community Engagement 10 Report Profile & Assurance Our report assessment and GRI Application Level Wipro’s Approach To Report Assurance We have assessed our report at application A level as per GRI Application matrix below. This report has been independently verified and assured by Det Norske Our approach to report assurance right from our first year of reporting has been to Veritas AS and the assurance engagement is for Type 2 and Moderate level as set subject our report to the highest standards of independent, third-party scrutiny – this, out in the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. The independent assurance is we believe, will aid our objective of continuous learning and incorporating improvepresented in Sec 6.0 of this report. ments into Wipro’s sustainability program. We continued to engage the services of DNV AS (Det Norske Veritas) to audit and assure our report. C C+ B B+ A A+ Report Application Level Report on: Report on all criteria listed Profile 1.1 2.1 – 2.10 for Level C plus: 1.2 Same as requirement Disclosures 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 3.9, 3.13 for Level B 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Disclosures on Management Approach Management Approach Management Not Required Disclosures for each Disclosed for each Approach Indicator Category Indicator Category Respond on each core and Performance Report fully on a minimum Report fully on a minimum Sector Supplement* indicator Indicators of any 10 Performance of any 20 Performance with due regard to the Indicators, at least one from & Sector Indicators, including at least each of: Economic, Environmateriality Principle by Supplement one from each of: Social, either: ment, Human Rights, Labor, Economic and a) Reporting on the indicator Performance Environment.** Society, Product or b) Explaining the reason Responsibility.*** Indicators for its omission * Sector supplement in final version ** Perfomance indicators may be selected from any finalized sector supplement, but 7 of the 10 must be from the original GRI guidelines *** Peefomance indicators may be selected from any finalized sector supplement, but 14 of the 20 must be from the original GRI guidelines 11 Report Profile & Assurance Materiality dimension Corresponding GRI indicators Human Rights LA5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8 Workplace Benefits LA1, LA3, EC3 Safety and Health LA6, LA7 , LA8, LA9 People Development LA10, LA11, LA12, HR3 Anti-Corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 Economic Disclosures EC1, EN30, EC4, EC9, SO6 Public Benefit EC6, EC7, SO1, SO5 Public Policy EC7,EN28,EC5,EC8,PR2,PR4,PR6,PR7,PR8,PR9,S07,SO8 Voice of the Stakeholder LA4, LA2 Product / Service Stewardship PR1, PR3, PR5, PR8 Diversity LA13 , LA14 , EC7 Resource efficiency EN1-10, EN26-27 Pollution EN19-26, EN29 Climate change EC2, EN16-18, EN29 Biodiversity EN11-15 Freedom of Association LA4, HR5 Community engagement SO1 Economic Climate EC1, EC4, EC9 Supply Chain HR2, HR6, HR7, HR8 12 Report Profile & Assurance Spirit of Wipro, Organization Profile Our Foundation of Values In this section, we provide an overview of Wipro, the organization and provide Wipro Values define character, whether that be of an individual, an institution or a an overarching context to the business organization. At the core of Wipro is the “Spirit of Wipro”. This encapsusustainability disclosures that follow. lates the values which are the guiding principle for our culture and behavior in The organization profile includes many Wipro. The Spirit is rooted in current reality, but it also represents what Wipro dimensions, based on a strong aspires to be hence making it future ready. They bind us together and inspire us to foundation of values and corporate achieve excellence in whatever we do. governance practices which encompass its services and products Spirit of offered, customers and markets and Wipro brand profile. The IT services industry is essentially people centric and relatively less capital intensive Our compared to other industries. The Business majority of the workforce is in the Profile early stages of their working years. The customer profile is spread across a wide range of domains and geographies. Unlike manufacturing, the IT services industry does not have a deep supply chain though it has significant socio-economic impact on the local economy of its key operations. Due to their engagements with global customers and the relative advantage of starting fresh, the industry has been an early adopter of corporate governance best practices and innovation. In the pages that follow, we provide a summary overview of each of these elements of Wipro’s business profile The information is also available in great detail in our website www.wipro.com as well as in our Annual Financial Report 2011-12, which can be downloaded from http://www.wipro.com/annualreport/2011-12/ 14 An Organizational Profile Our Business Profile Our Growth Story Wipro (NYSE:WIT; NSE: WIPRO) is a Global Leader in ADM, BPO Services, Consulting & IT Global leader in providing IT Services, Outsourced R&D, Infrastructure 1945 Incorporation of Western Services, Business Process Services and Presence in 57 countries India Vegetable Products Ltd. Business Consulting. With over 25 years Global workforce comprising of 75 nationalities track record Wipro is the first to perfect a unique quality methodology, the Investors from 24+ countries Wipro Way a combination of Six Sigma, Lean Manufacturing, Kaizen and CMM 1980 Wipro enters the IT hardware practicesto provide unmatched business business value and predictability to our clients. Global Footprint Our industry aligned customer facing business model gives us a deep understanding of our customer's needs 1984 Wipro enters the IT software Indicative Map Not drawn to scale business to build domain specific solutions; while our 55+ dedicated emerging technologies 'Centers of Excellence' Americas Europe Middle East Asia Pacific enable us to harness the latest United States of America UK UAE India technology for delivering superior Wipro listed in the NYSE and Canada Germany Saudi Arabia Japan 2000-01 enters the BPO business business results to our clients. We Brazil France Qatar China employ over 138,000 employees, serving Sweden Bahrain Australia over 900 clients including a number of Netherlands Oman Singapore Fortune 500 and Global 500 Corporations Finland Kuwait Malaysia and are present in 57 countries with a $7.37 billion* organization serving Switzerland Egypt Taiwan predominant presence in the Americas, 2011-12 customers across the globe Romania Hong Kong Europe and India. Portugal New *IFRS figures (2011-12) We continue to have a strong presence in Austria Zealand niche market segments of Consumer Products & Lighting and Infrastructure AMERICA EUROPE REST OF WORLD INDIA Engineering. Revenue Share: 52% 28% 10% 10% No. of Employees: 8% 5% 8% 79% 15 An Organizational Profile Wipro Limited has four major business segments –IT Business (Wipro Technologies and Wipro Infotech), Wipro Consumer Care and Lighting, Wipro Infrastructure Engineering and Wipro GE Medical Systems. Following is a graphical representation of the IT business structure by business areas, services and products that Wipro provides. CUSTOMER STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNITS Energy, Retail, CPG, Healthcare, Financial Global Media Natural Manufacturing Transportation & Pharma Services & Telecom Resources & & Hi Tech Government & Services Utilities SERVICE LINES Consulting Business Analytics and Global Business Product Application Information Infrastructure Process Engineering Services Management Services Outsourcing Solutions (BPO) BPO Services IT Products Finance and Network Customer Service Enterprise Desktops Technical Support Accounts Human Resource Procurement Order Management Knowledge Process Technology Outsourcing Servers Laptops Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing Products 16 An Organizational Profile Key Organizational Metrics Awards nd Accolades Received During The Year 2011-12 Sustainability 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 > Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2012:Wipro is listed in the Dow Jones Sales (` Billion) 203.9 256.9 272.0 310.5 372.0 Sustainability Index 2012-13 for the Third year in a row Recognized as World Sector Leader for the 'Computer Services and Internet' sector. PAT (` Billion) 32.8 38.8 45.9 53.0 55.7 > Carbon Disclosure Project (2012):Wipro is one of the 7 companies from the Total Assets (` Billion) 219.3 284.3 329.9 371.4 436.0 IT sector globally and the only one from India in CDLI 2012 (Comprising 51 companies) Number of shareholders 232,932 228,456 179,438 220,238 227.158 > Wipro is ranked 2nd globally and 1st among IT companies in the Newsweek Number of Employees 2012 World’s Greenest Companies. 94,152 98,521 108,000 130,145 138.694* (Total for IT and non-IT) > Wipro is part of the NASDAQ Global Sustainability Index, a list of 100 global sustainability leaders (Nasdaq:QCRX). Geographical breakup of revenue India > Ranked Global No 1 in the Greenpeace Guide to Green Electronics. 24% 21% 23% 22% 21% Americas 44% 45% 44% 41% 40% > Included in the Greenpeace CoolIT Leaderboard Europe 24% 22% 21% 22% 23% > NASSCOM Corporate Award for Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion “Women Helping Women award” for Women in Business ROW (Rest of World) 8% 12% 12% 15% 16% * This does not include contractors and support services workforce in the campus. Business Innovation and Excellence Further details of Wipro’s financial performance for 2011-12 can be found in our Annual Report (AR) 2011-12 at > Wipro named as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere http://www.wipro.com/annualreport/2011-12/index.html Institute, 2012 > Ranked 23rd in the Top Companies for Leaders’ global list announced by Aon Hewitt, The RBL Group and Fortune >Wipro won the American Society for Training and Development, ASTD BEST Award for the eighth time in a row, in 2011 > “Wipro has been named as one of the best outsourcing service providers in the Global Outsourcing 100® ranking published in 2012 by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP). Wipro was ranked 7th, up from 9th place in 2011” > Wipro wins the “The Business Impactors” award at the NASSCOM EXemplary Talent (NExT) Practices Awards 2012 > Wipro named in the NASSCOM Top 20 IT BPO Employers in India for FY 2011-2012 > Wipro won “High Performance Brand” Award from All India Management Association, 2012 17 An Organizational Profile Good Governance and Enterprise Risk Management Practices Management (ERM): Governance and Management Architecture at Wipro An organization’s license to operate in the long run is dependent on the Wipro’s ERM journey started more Strategic Planning>Operational Planning>Regular reviews by Board and CEC soundness of its governance and than five years back in 2005 and has management practices. The visual evolved rapidly in maturity and scope. below showing the organizational People Continuous Empowered Leadership Diversity & architecture of Wipro illustrates this learning workplace development Inclusivity Wipro’s Enterprise Risk Management point – most of the boxes reflect a office is at the center of our ERM program long-term orientation that a company Environment, Information which it drives in an integrated manner needs to assiduously build and ingrain Policies People Procurement Health, Safety Security with all key business stakeholders. The into its DNA. Business strategic planning at Wipro charter of the ERM program is to takes key inputs from a variety of enable and support business growth Talent Supply Global Delivery Wividus Continuous through risk-intelligent assessment and stakeholders with respect to changes, Processes Chain Model Backoffice Internal Audit current and foreseen in the mitigation mechanisms while providing Socio-economic climate and/or reassurance to all stakeholders including technology landscape. These create Governance Practices Sustainability Customers, Shareholders and Employees various risks and opportunities for a • Enterprise Risk • Resource & Cost by way of: • Innovation business entity. The purpose of Management A. Assessing and mitigating risks within Efficiency enterprise risk management in an key business & operational processes • Quality organization is to manage, mitigate • COBC • Ecological footprint through an inclusive approach. and optimize the risk for compliance reduction • Customer Centricity B. Nurturing and building the culture and assurance to various stakeholders. • Ombuds-process • Education and of risk management & compliance Hence the need for an integrated approach to governance mechanisms, • Knowledge Community across the organization. • Board governance risk management and compliance. Management C. Stress testing. • Transparent D. Though Leadership and Benchmarking. These assume greater importance in a • Internal Audits disclosures climate of changing regulatory landscape, increasing system complexity, larger scale and deeper supply chain systems. In the following sections, we articulate our approach to these interconnected elements, namely – Enterprise Risk Management Corporate Governance and the Ombuds process. 18 An Organizational Profile Wipro’s Integrated Risk Management: Deployment Areas ERM Framework & Automation Awareness & Advocacy Alignment with Global Risk Management Standards and Enhancing risk & compliance literacy Automation (GRC Governance, Risk Management & across the organization Compliance tool) Business Risk Management Project Lighthouse Models enabling Risk identification Monitoring Ensuring Transparency & Propriety in controlling and reporting in all Business Commercial Processes & Transactions Integrated Risk processes from Deal to Delivery Management at Wipro Code of Sales Ethics Intellectual Property A training program to the sales team covering Reducing recurrence of incidents of IP IP, FCPA, Anti trust, Anti competitive acts, infringement & positioning Wipro as the Discrimination and Work Place behaviour 'Best of Breed' in the area of IP safety. For an updated overview of our ERM initiatives, please Finance Controls refer page 45-47 of Wipro’s Annual Financial Report 2011-12. The top 16 risks and the current/planned status in Strengthening and automating controls across Finance function, Stress testing organizational preparedness and planning are shown and Anomaly detection below. We started including climate change and sustainability risk from 2008-09 onwards. Wipro Risk Management Areas (2011-12) 1. Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery 7. Fraud 14.Physical Security & Employee safety 2. Climate Change & Sustainability 8. Global Economic Conditions 15. Regulatory Compliance including 3. Country (Geo-Political) Risks 9. Information Security & Compliance FCPA, UK Bribery act, Employment, 4. Critical Partner Alliance Risks 10.Intellectual Property Risks Immigration and Tax laws 5. Code of Business Conduct Compliance / 11. Large Project Risks 16. Reputation Risks Governance 12. M&A Integration Risks 17. Systemic Vulnerabilities 6. Emerging Technology Adoption 13. People Engagement & Supply Chain Risks 19 An Organizational Profile Good ERM practices: Root Early Warning Functional Cause Analysis Systemic Diagnostic Risk > Our Chief Risk Officer reports to the Signal & Productive Correction Tracking Dashboards Chief Finance Officer and the Chief Testing Executive Officer who are both executive members of the board. Our CRO reports to the Board committee on Risk 1. Exception reporting 1. Root cause analysis to 1. Identifying systemic 1. Function wise 1. Crisp summary for and Compliance on a quarterly basis. 2. Complaint received identify process failures change risk register management action via Ombuds process & 2. Vulnerability 2. Stock take of other 2. Joint review 2. Repeatability and The risk officers of all the major other organizational assessment of the similar processes with functional reproductability of business units, service lines and channels process 3. Control automated teams controls. 3. Security incident logs 3. Stress testing of where feasible programs report to the Chief Risk & other periodic risk control point 4. System generated Officer. reports 4. Post mitigation triggers for non 4. Feedback analysis of control assurance automated employee helpline corrections. > We are planning to implement a calls/mails rigorous stress testing program to assess repeatability and reproducibility of controls in finance , Information Corporate Governance Security and procurement processes. While good management creates value for the business, good governance preserves this value. The primary purpose of > We are consciously moving to a good corporate governance is to protect the interests of all the stakeholders of the company – by institutionalizing a regimen of responding to weak signals strong system of checks and balances and by promoting transparency in the company’s disclosures. backed by program-managed mitigation and validation. This is also aligned Key elements of good corporate governance to the Article 15 of the Rio Principles • Board Committees • Board Diversity (also known as precautionary principle ), • Assessment of Board Effectiveness which we subscribe to, in our enter• Lead Independent Director(s) prise risk planning. Apart from various energy efficiency design and manageBoard ment practices across our facilities, we Governance • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Annual General Meeting (AGM) have taken a conscious decision to • Code of Conduct for Principal • Shareholders Satisfaction Survey ensure all our new campuses encomFinance Officers Codes of • Quality and Frequency of Communication • Spirit of Wipro Shareholder with Investors / Analysts pass Biodiversity and ecological Conduct • Web based query redressal system Governance planning at the design/construction stage. Our product and services portfolio, ranging from Green computing to • Ombuds-process for both Employees energy management and sustainability and Non-Employees Ombuds • Compliance Oversight • Online Portal for Registering and Checks and services for customers are examples of Process • Prevention of Insider Trading Tracking Complaints Balances • SOX Compliance the application of precautionary principle to customers. Wipro has a long legacy of pioneering and maintain good governance practices – as the visual below shows, while we had instituted the practice of an independent board of directors since inception; we were one of the first to introduce stock ownership for senior managers in 1985 and to set up an Audit committee and a Compensation & Benefits committee in 1986. 20 An Organizational Profile Spotlight on corporate governance @ Code of Business Conduct and The Ombuds process: The ombuds process statistics for Wipro: Ethics: Having a robust whistleblower policy 2011-12 are provided below. We have Details of our four layer corporate Wipro‘s Code of Business Conduct & that the employees and other stakeseen a significant increase from previgovernance structure and the update Ethics (COBCE) is a formal articulation holders can use without fear or appreous years – due to the launch of the for 2011-12 can be found in the followof our approach and position on multihension is a sine non qua for a transmultilingual 24X7 hotline, revamped ing sources ple dimensions of business ethics and parent and ethical company. Wipro’s internet site and wider communicaintegrity. The COBCE along with our ombuds process is designed to be this tion on possible channels with all the > Pages 64-83 of Wipro’s Annual FinanEnvironment and Health & Safety and more. It allows and encourages stakeholders. Also the sexual harasscial Report, 2011-12 policies provide policy shelter on a any affected stakeholder to report ment case, reported separately in > Pages 94-97 of the Business Responsiwide range of issues of ethics, labor breaches of the COBCE and any other earlier years, have been included bility Section in the Annual Financial and human rights. The COBCE covers matter of integrity to the concerned under Ombuds from 11-12 onwards. In Report, 2011-12 human rights, prevention of frauduOmbudsperson. line with the trend of the previous two > A detailed overview at lent and corrupt practices, freedom of years, nearly half of the employee http://www.wipro.com/corporate/inv association, elimination of child and In Wipro, our Chief Risk Officer is also complaints pertained to ‘workplace estors/corporate-governance.htm . forced labor, advertisement and media the Chief Ombudsperson who works issues’ and more than a third are Some of the highlights to be found policy, avoidance of conflict of interwith designated ombudsperson in resolved through the process/policy here include est, prevention of sexual harassment each BU. The process ensure confidenchanges. > Our Corporate Governance guideand unyielding integrity at all times. tial and anonymous submissions lines The COBCE is socialized at multiple regarding (i) questionable accounting > Code of Ethics for principal finance points of an employee’s lifecycle – it is or auditing matters, the conduct of officers first covered as part of the induction which results in a violation of law by > Code of Business Conduct and Ethics program of new hires and subseWipro or (ii) substantial mismanage(COBCE) quently, every employee has to take ment of company’s resources (iii) Any > The NYSE Corporate Governance an online test annually to assert his instance of sexual harassment or any report for 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. familiarity with the tenets of the other form of discrimination (iv) Any > The charters of the three board COBCE. We have a zero tolerance violation of human rights as articucommittees on ‘Audit/Risk and Compolicy for non compliance with the lated in the COBCE and as per the pliance’, ‘Compensation’ and ‘Board COBCE, especially on non-negotiable principles of the U.N.Global Compact. governance/ nomination’ factors – e.g. child labor, antiComplete details of the Ombuds > Wipro’s ombuds process corruption etc – process for employees is available at > Results of the postal ballot for 2010 More details of the COBCE are availhttp://www.wipro.com/documents/in able at vestors/pdf Lead Independent Director: http://www.wipro.com/investors/Pag files/wipro_ombuds_process.pdf for Our CG guidelines require at least 50% es/corporate-governance.aspx non-employees at of the board to be independent direchttp://www.wipro.com/documents/in tors, of which one member is to be vestors/pdf-designated as the ‘Lead Independent files/wiproobudsman-process-non-em Director’. The Lead Independent ployees.pdf . Anyone can report a Director’s primary role is to coordiconcern to the ombudsperson online nate the responsibilities and activities at www.wiproombuds.com of the other independent directors. 21 An Organizational Profile Ombudsprocess Complaints by Type Types of Complaint 2011 12 2010 11 2009 10 TED / HR / People Process Violation 46% 40% 50% COBCE / Security Policy Violation 7% 18% 16% Harassment (Sexual / Otherwise) 11% 8% 7% Fraud / Financial Impropriety 7% 3% 3% Aggressive / Hostile/Biased Behaviour 20% 20% 17% Others 9% 11% 7% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% Total Number of Complaints 728 453 451 Ombudsprocess Complaints by Action Taken Action Type 2011 12 2010 11 2009 10 Separation 9% 9% 6% Warning Letter 8% 5% 6% Counseling 17% 24% 35% Process/Policy Change (Remediation of Process deficiency) 42% 31% 20% Minor Issue/Clarifications/Closed (Benefits Granted) 12% 23% 22% Others 12% 8% 11% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% 22 An Organizational Profile Diversity of our Governance Bodies Our topmost Governance bodies comprise of The Board of Directors and The Corporate Executive Council (CEC). We value the diversity of our governance bodies as it provides different perspectives on various issues on account of their varied backgrounds and experience in managing businesses across a spectrum of industries. The table below provides the slices of the diversity of the above governing bodies. Tenure in Wipro Board Duration 0-5 yrs 5-10 yrs >10 years Total No. of Directors 5 2 5 12 Experience Diversity of the Board CATEGORY NO. OF DIRECTORS FORMER CEO'S FMCG 3 FORMER CEO'S TECHNOLOGY 2 FORMER CEO'S FINANCIAL SERVICES 1 LEGAL 1 ACADEMIA & CONSULTANT -MARKETING STRATEGY 1 GOVERNMENT, DIPLOMAT 1 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 3 TOTAL 12 Experience diversity of Wipro’s Corporate Executive Council (CEC) Experience in Wipro Experience >20 years 10-20 years 0-10 years Total No. of Members 4 2 0 6 23 An Organizational Profile The Sustainability Mobius The last two decades have been term impacts keep changing. our fragmented and siloed societal What follows is an articulation of the watersheds in recognizing the Over the past few years, there is structures have largely been incapable updated summary of the eight inextricable links of the role and growing consensus that systemic of responding to these with a greater sustainability megaforces that we responsibilities of corporations and global economy integration issues and sense of urgency. have been talking about in our business to the pressing issues of governance, volatility of energy and previous reports. ecological sustainability and social food prices, climate change, water The role of the business sector is equity. Beyond being social issues, stress, urban centric growth focus visibly clear The lines are blurring these also pose major risks to the long with resultant migration and geo between all the stakeholders, their term sustainability of business and the political issues will have a significant interests and business – with no clear societies that they are part of. impact on our common near future. start and end points much like the Like slow shifting sands, the The World Economic Forum’s 2013 mobius strip. landscape of sustainability related Global Risk Report affirms this. These issues and their immediate and long are complex, interrelated issues and BUSINESS AND THE SUSTAINABILITY MEGAFORCES Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role The UN climate talks in Doha called COP18 (held in Nov-Dec The Indian government’s National Action Plan on Climate 2012) has been a damp squib and modest at most. The second Change, has the two key missions one on Solar the phase of the commitment, till 2020, accounts for only 15% of National Solar Mission and on Energy Efficiency anchored global emissions and is resting on the tenterhooks of some by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. A National Wind Climate hope that there will be renewed commitment by 2015. mission is also proposed. Change There are wide variations in expectations from participating Business must set ambitious goals for itself on GHG countries the exclusive developed, developing and transition reduction and energy efficiency and back it up with the economy position has not helped much. The question is also of necessary investments. The Renewable Energy regulatory technology transfer, financing/incentives and the concessions framework provides purchase of electricity through open that each stakeholder can bring to the table. Poorer or developaccess, however significant variations exist in grid ing countries may eventually pay a higher overall cost both readiness and implementation from state to state. in terms of impact and mitigation readiness. However the Notwithstanding policy issues, it is important that continued global financial stability and its impact on labor business continues to engage with developers and policy markets and growth have constrained countries from taking makers to significantly ramp up capacities. ambitious long term views. 25 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role In the recent Global Risks Report 2013, released by WEF, Water Agribusinesses and biotech companies must step up research supply crisis was ranked as one of the top 5 crisis in terms of on water efficient seeds and crops. This will have a cascading likelihood and impact the number of people globally without impact on water availability as agriculture accounts for more access to clean drinking water or sanitation continues to rise. Of than 80% of total freshwater consumption globally. Water Stress the 1.1 billion people across the world who do not have access to Water intensive industries while continuing to reduce its clean water, 400 million are from India. India is widely water consumption must ensure that community water recognized as a water-stressed country with withdrawal to resources are not compromised. availability ratios ranging from 0.5 to 0.8. Access to clean water is The business sector must further the agenda on water by inevitably linked to positive outcomes on gender equity, higher going beyond internal efficiencies and looking at water in a life expectancy and improved child mortality. more responsible way that includes social and ecological impacts of their consumption. Further, they must take the lead on driving advocacy on fair and equitable pricing of water – which implies a willingness to pay significantly higher prices. With more than 50% of the world’s population living in cities today > The business sector is one of the prime drivers of increased and with another 1.2 billion people set to join the ranks of city urbanization and therefore has a major stake in reversing the dwellers by 2025, cities are often power centers in their own right. tide of unsustainable urbanization that is the norm today. Cities are held to be crucibles of innovation, diversity and wealth > Business must work with city governments in shaping the Sustainable creation; at the same time, they are responsible for a policy agenda in the direction of sustainable urban spaces. Cities disproportionate share of resource consumption, air and water > Sustainable infrastructure – building materials, energy pollution and for destroying natural ecosystems. They also have efficient assets, mass transit systems, smart uses of technology largely contributed to unplanned development, resulting in urban along with the preservation of urban water ecosystems, sprawl putting high stresses on natural resources like water and biodiversity and green spaces must find place in the business contributing to migration from rural areas – due to the prevalent sector’s social agenda. select urban centric growth model in the minds of policy makers and planners. That education is the most powerful force multiplier in the vision Business must recognize that solving the seemingly of a just, humane and sustainable society is almost axiomatic . It is intractable problems of quality education cannot be the Universal one of the eight U.N. MDGs and high on the priorities of most Government’s job alone. Education governments and yet achieving universal education has proven to be an elusive goal for many developing countries. With nearly 35% of children studying in Class 5 in India not able As the biggest customer for the education system’s output – to read or write, we clearly have a long path ahead. This is borne employable talent, the business must partner with by recent studies: Pratham’s Annual Status of Education Report government in addressing the challenges of education. This (ASER), the Programme For International Students Assessment will require a steely willingness to get involved in a sector (PISA) and the Quality Education Study (QES) by Wipro and where the processes of change are gradual and where Educational Initiatives. outcomes are likely to become visible only over the decades. 26 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role Diversity as a key engine of innovation and balance has been accepted The business sector must commit to strong affirmative action to by social historians and increasingly business. promote diversity and inclusivity at the workplace. The Diversity, Closely linked to diversity are the twin issues of Inclusivity and dimensions must include gender, nationality, physical disability Inclusivity and Human Rights – eliminating discrimination on any ground and and economic status at the minimum. Human Rights including disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social processes is Further, business must exercise oversight on its supply chain to a crucial driver of more diverse and vibrant schools, colleges, ensure that basic human rights are protected without exception – workplaces and cities. in particular, child and forced labor must be avoided without any But as the latest U.N MDG reports indicate, progress has been slow. On exception. gender diversity for example : women continue to be over-represented in vulnerable jobs and under-represented in mainstream jobs e.g. the proportion of women employees in industry has not changed from 30% between 1999 and 2008. Empowerment of women has shown to be closely correlated with variety of social outcomes e.g. the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor, better management of community resources like water and healthier families. Transparency is normally equated with ethical behavior, A recent Reuters’ survey disclosed that public trust in business in anti-corruption and high standards of voluntary disclosures. Financial the U.S. tumbled by 14%; Therefore, one of the business sector’s Ethics and corruption, as much as it is a moral issue, diverts crucial monies from primary tasks is to restore trust in itself. This, it must do through Transparency much needed spending on social challenges and has therefore, an transparent disclosures about its products and services, and indirect but tangible impact on sustainability. Disclosures by demonstrate what it is doing to protect human rights within and institutions hold them up to public scrutiny and thereby, in a constant outside the company and about its zero tolerance for bribery, state of responsible behavior. corruption and discriminatory practices. Rising food inflation in India and in many other parts of the world over Business should actively engage with various stakeholders the last few years is seen by experts as symptomatic of a deeper (environmentalists, nutritional scientists and citizen groups) to malaise with agriculture and the food supply chain. As the global ensure that food productivity is balanced with potential impacts population is set to rise from 7 billion to 9 billion over the next four of the solutions on the long term impacts to food diversity and Sustainable decades, the problem of feeding the world adequately is further pollution. Food compounded by considerations of equity and sustainability. Food logistics companies must continuously reduce wastage in the Agriculture is the biggest consumer of water, accounting for nearly supply chain. 80%; Reducing the intensity of its water consumption can prove central Agri-business must collaborate with academia and research to water security in many countries . Other sustainability challenges institutes for ways of preserving and enhancing soil fertility for include improving crop productivity without the use of soil depleting that holds the key to sustainable food security. pesticides/ fertilizers and encouraging continued dialogue on biotechnology’s role. 27 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role An outcome of the global financial crisis of 2008 that is not widely Business – in consonance with government must address known is that the number of people living in extreme poverty has poverty elimination in two ways – first, it must place job creation actually risen since then. Fuelled by the economic crisis and rising as one of its central responsibilities and second it must address food inflation, nearly 2 billion people live on less than $1.25 a day at underserved and unserved markets with appropriate products Eliminating 2005 prices – as extreme poverty is defined . Linked with extreme and services e.g. microfinance, affordable product versions for the Poverty poverty are higher infant and maternal mortality, lower life poor, local sourcing that opens up local livelihood options, expectancy and poor levels of education. extremely affordable healthcare etc. The fact that addressing these markets has a strong business case should be further reason for the business sector to embrace the poverty challenge whole-heartedly. Wipro is deeply aware of these sustainability forces and the complex inter-relation between them. We are engaged intensely with some of these, especially on the issues of climate change, water, education, diversity and inclusivity and transparency. These are detailed in the rest of the report. 28 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability strategy and governance at Wipro The unique characteristic of corporate sustainability is that it straddles both to set up an effective governance structure that addresses the twin drivers of the worlds of business and the social arena outside; this can however result in strategy and execution equally. What follows is a visual representation of the their confused positioning within the organization and therefore, it is critical key elements of sustainability governance and how Wipro tries to address them. ecoeye and Wipro’s Finance group have created a policy A > Our view of corporate citizenship based on the belief that Create a and decision framework that provides guidelines for compelling business must get involved in social issues because it is the robust evaluating internal investment proposals on vision that has investment leadership right thing to do, and not because of compliance pressures decision sustainability; the framework balances the need for backing framework accelerated implementation of sustainability programs with the need to stay focused on financial prudence > ecoeye carries primary responsibility for Wipro’s All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the regular Vest sustainability program at the corporate level; WATIS and Integrate planning and budgeting cycles of the corporation formal Wipro Cares carry distinct responsibilities for education into mainstream accountability planning, and community care programs. These are groups at the budgeting The sustainability program is reviewed quarterly at at corporate level corporation level that pull together the different strands of and review multiple levels –by the board, by the corporate executive the program and steer it forward in the defined direction processes council and by the chairman > Formal training programs on sustainability are conducted for EHS, HR and Finance managers at regular intervals > Drive committed involvement of key functions across the organization. For environmental goals Wipro’s Facilities > An e-learning program on Diversity that is available to all Sustainability Create employees as part of the employee portal Management Group and Civil Infrastructure groups are key is organizational custodians and hold responsibility against defined goals ; capacity at everyone’s > Creation of Sustainability Council consisting of C-level and business Other key stakeholders that hold defined sustainability multiple levels goals are Human Resources, Legal, Finance, senior leaders who meet on a quarterly basis to review the communications and Risk Office progress of our sustainability goals > A strong employee chapter program that is based on voluntary but committed participation > We have a structured and well defined dashboard of five year goals for Energy, GHG reduction, Water, Waste and Set well Learn and > Our programs in Education, Community Care and Biodiversity; these goals have year-wise milestones and are defined and continuously Sustainability Advocacy are largely predicated on the part of all our public disclosures measurable explore the principle of nurturing partner networks that foster sustainability power of synergies between different areas of expertise and goals > We have similarly articulated statement of direction and partnership strengthen diversity of institutions in the country qualitative goals on Health and Safety, Diversity, Green Computing and Wipro Education 29 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective The Wipro Sustainability Dashboard for 2011 12 For sustainability to be institutionalized within an organization, the same rigor setting and tracking in the sustainability arena must not be equated to a set of of goal setting, measurement and monitoring is necessary as is common in neat numbers. The goals and measures presented in the sustainability dashboard business operations. Sustainability goals hide multiple layers and dimensions below are a condensed summary but a complete understanding of these dimenmany of which are not quantifiable or where a numerical metric does not sions is possible only in the detailed analysis that follows in subsequent disclose the complete picture. Our position therefore is that the rigor of goal sections Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2011-12) Vision and Goals for Future > Our Energy Efficiency per employee stood at 258 units (kwh) per > To reduce Wipro’s GHG emissions intensity to 1.3 metric tons per month Vs 270 units per month for 2010-11. The 4.4% decrease is due to employee by 2015 from a 2011-12 baseline of 2.6 metric tons per improvements in energy efficiency and higher occupancy resulting from employee ( only Scope 1+2) better space management. Energy & > To cover all applicable Scope 3 emission heads, baseline and set GHG Intensity >Our GHG emission intensity (Tons per employee per annum) has reduced targets by nearly 20 % to 1.95 metric tons per employee as compared to 2.42 metric tons in 10-11. This represents the global Scope 1 and 2 footprint > To significantly ramp-up share of Renewable Energy in our energy from our office space operations. mix from about 17% currently to over 40% by 2015. > 34 % of our total water requirements in 2011-12 was met through > To improve our fresh water efficiency by 5% year-on-year as recycling of waste water. The recycled water is primarily used for measured on an per employee basis (Base year: 2010-11; this sanitation and landscaping translates into a reduction from 1810 liters per employee per month to 1480 liters per employee per month by 2015). Water Efficiency >In all Wipro owned campuses, we ensure zero discharge of any untreated water into municipal drains or common public areas. > Pilot the responsible water management framework in a few campuses. > Water audit of campuses to improve data quality. > Launch program to significantly improve water infrastructure – metering, tertiary treatment, harvesting and efficiency technologies. 30 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2011-12) Vision and Goals for Future > 84% of the total generated waste is recycled – either within our premises > To ensure by 2013 that not more than 5% of the total waste or externally through vendors. reaches landfills; 95% of the waste to be processed within Wipro itself Waste Recycling or through partners – and either recycled for further use or safely and Pollution > The quantum of e-waste processed and recycled through certified disposed off. Mitigation vendors has been consistent over 200 tons annually. > Complete independent waste audit at key locations in 2013 – the audit will help us verify our data, benchmark our processes and get insights into improving the quality and quanta of our recycling. > OHSAS 18001:2007 certification completed for 2 new locations, taking > Sustain and improve wellness programs across businesses the total to 16. and locations. Employee Health > Employee Health & Safety committees: Committees that consist of cross and Safety functional members formed across locations who meet quarterly & > Publish a comprehensive Health & Safety policy, covering all participate in risk assessments, safety inspections, hygiene audits, etc aspects of safety, occupational health, well-being and people > In-house occupational health centers (OHC) at 20 locations across India practices by end 2013. to provide amenities ranging from basic First Aid and to emergency care units. The OHC’s are operated 24/7 at major campus locations. The OHC > Conduct Health and Safety assessments for all infrastructural aims at monitoring and managing adverse health effects that may occur modifications prior to their commissioning. at the work place by promoting good workplace health practices, imparting health education, conducting employee awareness programs, > All Occupational Health Centers to become Emergency Care capturing illness trends and by developing a framework to interpret Centers that house emergency equipment, drugs and Advanced Life employee health statistics to drive fitness. Safety Ambulance. > Launch of the Project Assessment Checklist – This is a tool used to assess and approve all infrastructural projects based on building codes and > Complete OHSAS and EMS certification for the balance owned standards to ensure the required safety standards are met. facilities by 2013. > Employee engagement and involvement was strengthened with the launch of online surveys to invite employee feedback on Environment, Health & Safety, Transportation, Hospitality and related services. Environment, Health & Safety received high scores, while the latter present identified opportunities for improvement. > The program is designed to actively reach/seek out and nurture three > To continue to strengthen our diversity initiatives around gender, areas of Diversity – People with Disability, Gender, Nationality and the Diversity and people with disability and nationality. This will translate into both, (I) Economically Disadvantaged. Inclusivity  We have more than 350 persons with disability working in various roles higher numbers and proportions and (II) processes and systems. across geographies, as compared to a count of 253 in 2010-11.  Women constitute 28% of the workforce, a steady trend over the last two years o 10.6% of the workforce is from non-Indian nationalities representing 75 countries. 31 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2011-12) Vision and Goals for Future > Diversity parameters are incorporated into our supplier evaluation > To further our supplier engagement program on diversity by questionnaire and are being actively sought where appropriate. empanelling more suppliers who meet the criteria of a ‘Diversity Diversity and Supplier’. Inclusivity > Conscious effort to source meritorious talent for each diversity category. Relationship program with sourcing agencies. > Work with industry associations, like NASSCOM in India, on supplier diversity advocacy. > Wipro's first rural BPO delivery centre was inaugurated at Manjakkudi, a village in Thiruvarur District near Kumbakonam, Tamil Nadu. The focus of the centre is to capitalize on the literate talent pool available in the region and in doing so, create employment opportunities in the village and its surrounding areas. > WOW (Women of Wipro) speaker series enabling networking opportunities with women leaders. > Employee Perception Survey (EPS) 2011 recorded higher levels of > Create initiatives to strengthen capability and build careers across engagement over EPS – an improvement of 4% compared to 2009. levels, for a global workforce. People > Over 650 certified Wipro Learning Champions from across the Development business. > Create and implement an overarching Employee Value Proposition > Over 3000 students joined the Wipro Academy of Software Excellence that aims to enhance continuous learning through (WASE) program, now in its 18th year. 400 people enrolled in WiSTA – a multi-dimensional learning opportunities appropriate to every new work integrated M.S. program in IT. career stage. > 180 senior executives from outside India attended the Global assimilation program. > Structured induction for over 47,000 new entrants. Wipro Infotech launches Day One Delight program – for a smoother on boarding experience. > Over 28,000 employees certified on various technical skills via the Unified Competency Framework. > Special focus on middle manager capability building via Growth Centers for Program Managers, Delivery Manager Academy and a new career framework for architects. > Leadership capacity building aligned to Wipro Leaders Qualities (WLQ) enters its 20th year. 32 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2011-12) Vision and Goals for Future > All models of Wipro laptops and desktops are 100% RoHS compliant > Launch the supplier engagement program for our top suppliers since 2009-10. based on the supply chain risk assessment study. Customer > Launched first PVC and BFR free desktop in early 2010. Now 80% of our Stewardship desktop product launches (up from 37% in 10-11) are PVC and BFR free. > Continue to progressively phase out PVC and BFR from new > Launched two desktop models free from antimony, beryllium and product launches. phthalates. > Energy Star 5 compliant desktops and laptops. Compliance with new > Continue to work on the energy-chemicals-waste management Indian standard: BEE Star Ver 1 standard for laptops. plank at the same time providing differentiated value proposition > Green Leaf– Enterprise power management solution available with to our customers. desktops. > Average of 250 tons of e-waste collected and processed over last two years. Comprehensive e-waste management study in progress to assess impact of new e-waste regulations. > Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) , our decade long program > Wipro Applying Thought in Schools: To strengthen our programs in systemic reforms in school education has reached out to 10500 based on the defined outcomes of organizational capability Education and educators and 800000 children across 2000 schools through multiple development, educational material and publications and public Community programs that we have done through our network of 30 partners. advocacy. initiatives > WATIS launched following new projects in 11-12: Partnerships with > earthian: Build a strong sustainability in education program for Matrubhoomi and CSE (Centre for Science and Environment) for schools and colleges over the next five years. seasonwatch program, Social sciences curriculum intervention, Bilingual approaches to language education and Holistic school > Wipro Cares: To further strengthen our programs in primary engagement program. health care by expanding to our other factory locations; to continue our existing programs in education for the underprivileged in > National level QES (Quality Education Survey) to understand student urban centers and community environment programs. performances and school/teacher values and attitudes were completed. QES covered 89 schools, 23,000 students, 800 teachers and 16 principals. Followed up with a large scale advocacy program. > earthian – the annual sustainability program for schools and colleges launched in 2011 in association with our education and ecology partners. > Mission10x reached out to a cumulated total of 23000 faculty members from 1200 engineering colleges across 25 states. 33 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2011-12) Vision and Goals for Future > Wipro Cares, our decade old community care program, strengthened our initiatives on primary health care(PHC) by adding projects in two more locations – Mysore and Amalner. > Continued our support for the 2nd year for an innovative social forestry project , TIST (The International Small Group and Tree Planting) program in Tamil Nadu. The program combines livelihood opportunities with ecological benefits Our engagement on public policy and on issues that require wider > To continue to play a central role in advancing the agenda on advocacy centered around climate change, water, e-Waste, education critical issues of Climate Change, Energy Efficiency, Water and Advocacy and and CSR. Waste through industry networks like CII, FICCI and NASSCOM Public Policy > We continue to be part of the CII Climate Change Council which > To be closely involved in shaping the specifics of the guidelines works with government and industry on furthering the agenda on pertaining to Section 135 on the CSR provisions of the Companies climate change mitigation and adaptation Bill 2012 > As part of the Planning Commission working group on Water and > To continue our strong advocacy on relevant systemic issues of Land, we provided detailed inputs including a position paper on school education through the publishing of studies and literature Water > To work with the government on rationalizing the e-Waste rules > We were part of the central working group of CII’s Green so as to make them simpler, transparent and more inclusive. This, Procurement task force that published a report of comprehensive we will do, through the CII Environment Committee on e-Waste as guidelines on green procurement well as through other industry networks > Based on two year study of nearly 900 schools across the country, we > To raise the pitch on issues of water – in particular those relating along with our partner Educational Initiatives published a detailed to endowment, entitlement, pricing and inclusive access – analytical study of quality of school education in India’s urban school through our Responsible Water advocacy system. The report was shared with thousands of schools across the country and was widely reported in the national press. > We worked very closely – as part of the CII working group – on the CSR guidelines proposed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. See Section 5h ‘Advocacy & Public Policy’ for details 34 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Aligning with sustainability charters and networks Sustainability is a multi-stakeholder game and collective action is the only effective way to address it challenges. Since inception, we have believed that subscribing to select charters and aligning with the right networks can be a force multiplier for some of our own programs. We continue to be deeply engaged with the networks that we started out with – we have provide below the updated summary of our associations and networks, an updated version of the table from our previous report. Charter / Network / Brief Description Wipro’s Engagement Association The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a pioneer in climate action by Wipro has been a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project since Carbon Disclosure trying to align industry, government and the investment community 2007-08 and has been a top ranked member of the Carbon Disclosure Project onto a common vision and platform. It represents the interests of 655 Leadership Index (CDLI) for India. In addition, Wipro participates as investors with a combined asset base of US $ 78 trillion and illustrates part of the Technical working groups of CDP – for 2011-12, we were a the growing trend of responsible investment. part of the global working group that created the ICT sector supplement for the CDP disclosure. The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development (CESD) constituted a Wipro has been a part of the core working group, the primary CII-ITC CESD’s task task force to study the proposed guidelines on CSR from the Ministry recommendations of which have been force on CSR of Corporate Affairs (MCA). The group has been engaged with the I. The ministry’s proposed 2% of Profit After Tax spend on CSR should guidelines government as the voice of industry and in trying to evolve a balanced not be mandatory as it certain to become counter-productive perspective of the bill’s provisions. II. To keep the reporting requirement as simple and consistent as possible. Indian Society for The ISTE is a nodal group at the national level which furthers the cause Wipro’s Mission10X is a member of the ISTE. Technical Education of engineering education in the right direction . Please visit http://www.isteonline.in/ for details. (ISTE) The ten principles of the UNGC act as both a policy platform and a Wipro became a formal signatory to the UNGC in September 2008. U.N. Global Compact practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability. Our first COP (Communication on Progress) was published in July 2010 and our most recent COP was published in 2012. CII committee for The confederation of Indian Industry (CII) constituted a committee to Wipro is part of the core committee. employment of people look into issues of employability of people with disabilities into the workforce. with disabilities NASSCOM working NASSCOM constituted a working group to explore and communicate Wipro is a member of the working group. group on gender best practices on gender inclusion. inclusion 35 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective Wipro and its Stakeholders A sustainability-lead organization with two new stakeholders – partners anything else, otherwise our vision takes a holistic and integrated in the education ecosystem and will stop short of being truly approach to stakeholder engagement. proximate communities. While the IT sustainable; therefore, while this The primacy is not with one group services industry model does not stakeholder group may not have a investors, employees or customers. necessitate a deep supply chain, the tangible and real face to it, they act as Undoubtedly it is them and beyond. rapid expansion of this sector in the an anchor for our decisions. For business to earn and retain its last two decades has resulted in a rightful role in society, it has to variety of ancillary services e.g. bus What follows is a summary engage on key material issues and transport, housekeeping, canteen, representation of our eight stakeholders, potential risks with different security. Services suppliers and the modes and frequency of our stakeholders. Being in positions of contractors have become thus a engagement with them, the major relative strength compared to most critical stakeholder for our operations. issues of engagement that have other stakeholders, organizations As the case study on the Wipro Green emerged over a period of time and the should engage responsibly and with PC in Section 5d shows, our suppliers primary internal custodians within sensitivity. At the same time, an have played a strategic role in the Wipro for each of these groups organization has varying degrees of success of our Green Computing influence and control over its journey. In progressing towards the stakeholders, dependent on the goal of a sustainable and inclusive structure of its relationships and society, government, academia and relative economic power. For example, research play a crucial role –> the an organization running its government by legislating progressive operations from community sources policies and the academic / research in a water stressed area has to worlds by driving fundamental necessarily engage with the innovation. Over the last few years, community – responsibly and with Wipro has started engaging and various groups – civil society and the collaborating closely with government government. It is no more a question and policy bodies on matters related to of why and which stakeholders, it is energy, water and ICT in governance. how and how much. Simultaneously, we have also started collaborative partnerships with At Wipro, we have always viewed our research and academic institutions. To customers, employees and investors as these stakeholders, we have added strategic partners and stakeholders. another stakeholder, Current and Over the last decade, our deep outreach Future Generations. We think that the into education and community care future must inform our thinking and has brought us in close engagement actions on sustainability more than 37 Wipro and its Stakeholders A summary of our stakeholder engagement Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Modes: Strategic and operational • Quality and timeliness of delivery Chief Quality Ofﬁcer, the Sales and reviews, Customer Meets, Formal Marketing functions and their teams customer feedback and surveys • Impact on customer’s business goals Customers Frequency: Ongoing and continuous; • Does Wipro meet the expected norms Surveys are annual and project-based on environment, labor and human rights and corporate responsibility? Modes: Open houses, Performance • Empowerment, Continuous Learning, The Human Resources group, reviews, 360 deg feedback, All Quality of Work, Work-Life balance Environment Health and Safety hands meet, Focus groups, • Compensation & Beneﬁts, Workplace group (joint responsibility for Leadership webcasts, Blogs facilities health and safety) and discussion groups, • Health & Safety, Counseling and Perception Surveys Advice Employees • Diversity in the workplace Frequency: Ranges from daily • Career planning, Appraisal and (blogs) to annual Feedback (360 deg feedback) • Integrity and transparency at workplace, the company’s larger vision on sustainability and social issues Modes: Annual General Meeting, • Company strategy and performance, Investor Relations team, Chief Annual Report, Investor meets, future plans Finance Ofﬁcer, Chief Strategy Ofﬁcer Analyst conferences, Road shows, • Returns to shareholders Shareholder voting, Investor • Corporate governance standards complaints • Top risks and company’s approach Investors to risk mitigation Frequency: Ranges from Quarterly to Annual; Analyst meets and road shows may be periodic depending on situational requirement 38 Wipro and its Stakeholders Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Modes: Regular operational • Quality and cost effectiveness of The Central Procurement Office, reviews, Supplier meets, Vendor services Wividus Shared Services, Facilities survey • Innovativeness of delivery Management Group, Legal Group Frequency: Will vary from • 100% compliance on labor and Suppliers monthly to annual human rights; Must subscribe to Wipro COBCE • Zero tolerance for lapses in integrity • Alignment with Wipro expectations on ecological sustainability Modes: Periodic meetings and • Systemic reform in India’s school Wipro Applying Thought in Schools discussions, Regular e-mail education system: Educational (WATIS) for school education exchanges, Annual Education material and publications, Mission10X for engineering education Forum, Faculty Workshops, Organizational capability The Education Mission10X collaborative portal development and Public advocacy Ecosystem • Improving the quality of Frequency: Varies from weekly engineering education through to annual both curriculum interventions and faculty training Modes: Periodic meetings with • Education for disadvantaged Wipro Cares, Location leadership partners, open meets with children e.g. children of migrant community, Partner newsletters laborers, children with hearing disability etc Frequency: Varies from monthly • Primary healthcare for rural Communities to quarterly communities and NGOs • Environment issues that affect disadvantaged communities e.g. Water • Long term rehabilitation for disaster affected areas 39 Wipro and its Stakeholders Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Modes: Planned meetings, workshops, • India’s policies on climate change, eco-eye, Corporate Affairs group, taskforces and steering committees energy efﬁciency, water, e-waste Senior Leadership of industry network bodies and ICT • Policy research on energy options Policy, Research Frequency: Varies from monthly for India and Advocacy to annual • Advocacy papers and reports on business responsibility Modes: Indirect inference from our • Ecological sustainability of our ecoeye, Human Resources school interventions mentioned planet Current and Future above, Published sociological • Meaningful work, work life balance Generations research and analysis of emerging generation Sections 5b to 5h that follow provide extensive details of each of the stakeholder programs. For reasons of consistency, we continue to report on our Education and Community Care programs in one section. 40 Wipro and its Stakeholders Our Approach To Human Capital: Commitment To Human Rights: Wipro’s sustainability disclosure is in Our commitment to the UNGC and its fifth year; however, our journey our Spirit of Wipro values is towards establishing sustainable translated into action via the Code of workforce practices began over two Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE). decades ago. Being an IT services The COBCE combines universal organization, we are well aware that in principles with our specific order for our clients to be successful, organizational context and defines our employees must succeed at what our actions as a responsible and they do and must look forward to doing equal opportunity employer. The more of it. We have always sought and COBCE undergoes periodic revision implemented pioneering and too, and every year, all Wipro meaningful practices to enhance the employees undertake an hour-long engagement, capability and online training module and competitiveness of our talented, certification, to renew their global workforce. These practices are understanding of the code. aligned to different phases of hiring, Induction training for new hires The evolut ion of huma n as the Magna Carta (13 th In 1999-2000, the U.N. Global assimilation, learning, growth and includes a session on the COBCE as rights can be traced back to centur y), the French Compact i n it i at ive was retention. They are shaped by well. Training programs on the 6th century B.C., when Revolution (18th century), founded, for businesses to organizational values and industry compliance with Foreign Corrupt K i ng Cy r u s t he Great of U.S.A. Bill of Rights and promote sustainable and best practices. During the last five years Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, OECD Persia decreed certain basic Constitution (18th century) responsible practices. UNGC particularly, our sustainability Convention on Anti-Bribery, the rights and freedom for his and the Geneva Convention members are committed to disclosures have made us more mindful Indian Prevention of Corruption Act, people. Known as the Cyrus (19 th century). aligning their operations of employee stakeholder priorities and Business Courtesy, Gifts and C y l i n de r, t he de c r e e i s a nd st rategies w it h ten we have a specific ‘people sustainability’ Entertainment, Conflict of Interest, recognized as the world’s The United Nations came universal principles in the charter that will focus our efforts on etc. are included as part of the first charter of human rights. into existence in 1945 and a r e a s of hu m a n r i g ht s , key actions during 2012-13 and beyond. employees’ focused training It is translated into all six in 1948 the Universal labour, environment and These actions will focus on strengthening programs, leadership programs and official languages of the D e c l a r at ion of Hu m a n a nt i c or r upt ion . T he s e advocacy, making initiatives more global assimilation program on Un ited Nat ion s a nd it s Rights (UDHR) was adopted principles are aligned with aligned with material issues and ethics and compliance. provisions are reflected in by member s of t he U.N. the UDHR. Wipro became a improving people supply chain the first four Articles of the and consists of 30 universal formal signatory to the U.N. governance. The progress of these The COBCE is applicable to all Universal Declaration of articles of human rights. Global Compact since 2008. Human R ight s. O ver t he The UDHR i s a keystone Since 2010, we have actions is reviewed on a quarterly employees of all categories, previous millennium and global guide and has been published updates on our basis by Wipro’s Sustainability Council, including contract employees and t he cur rent one, t he translated into over 3000 action and progress, in consisting of the CEOs of all Wipro Ltd. consultants. Business relationships de velopment of n at u ra l languages and dialects. Its our annual sustainability Divisions, Chief Sustainability Officer, with service providers, contractors, l aw, de mo c r a c y a nd principles are included in reports. and senior executives responsible for dealers and distributors are human rights have been d i f fe r e nt w a y s i n t he Ecological, Social and Diversity programs. governed by the COBCE and service shaped and influenced by constitutional laws of many agreements explicitly state the significant markers such democratic countries. expectation that our partners conduct their businesses in a legal 42 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace and ethical manner. These include Brazil, Romania, Mexico and Australia. and socialized method of receiving and including the Corporate Ombudsperspecific clauses prohibiting child labor, We also have Work Councils in France redressing employees’ complaints. son. In 2011-12, a total of 728 forced labor, discrimination, fraud and and Germany. Collective Bargaining Employees are encouraged to report any complaints were received via the anti -corruption. We have zero tolerance Agreements are entered into with trade inappropriate conduct that leads to a Ombuds process and the resolution for breaches of fundamental human unions in Finland and Brazil. HR violation of the COBCE. The Ombuds percentage of cases was 92%. rights principles, bribery and practitioners meet and consult with process also explicitly prohibits anti-corruption with the resultant these groups on an-going basis, to discrimination, retaliation or harassment Since 2010-11, the prevention of sexual termination of any supplier found consult on any changes that can impact of any kind against employees who come harassment framework has been guilty of such breaches. work environment and terms and forward with complaints. If the employee revamped to improve awareness, conditions. All operational and policy registering a complaint chooses to understanding and resolution. The All policies and practices related to related changes are implemented with remain anonymous for any reason, revamp included a revised policy, hiring, training, salary, compensation due notice period, as defined by local his/her wishes are respected. The redraft of the committee, a revised and separation are based on merit and regulation and global company policies. harassed employee can use the services fact-finding framework, and an performance. We are committed to The trade unions and work councils of external counselors or internal in-house built online training module. non-discrimination on any grounds, collectively cover a small percentage of counselors through the Mitr initiative. Complaints related to sexual harasssuch as nationality or ethnic origin, our global workforce. Our entire The Ombuds channel is also available to ment are referred to the Prevention of gender, race, religion, caste, disability, workforce however, consists of business partners, customers, vendors, Sexual Harassment Council and invespolitical or sexual orientation. We empowered knowledge workers who service providers, contractors and other tigated by fact-finders. The council believe that this approach fosters a have access to various means of stake holders. The Audit/Risk and consists of senior women executives progressive and high-performing communication and dialogue. These Compliance Committee periodically from across all divisions / business units workplace culture. One indicator of this include structured engagement events, reviews the functioning of the Ombuds of Wipro Ltd. The team of fact-finders is our female:male salary ratio, which documented webcast meets with the process, and employees are kept updated consists of over 28 persons from key across levels and across our IT CEO, an active employee advocacy about the feature of the process via functions such as Human Resources, businesses, is just under 1. Employee platform and a well institutionalized well-planned mailers and other means of Risk, Legal and Security. 61% of the fact compensation levels are determined by Ombuds process. communication. finding team comprises of women role, experience, expertise and In 2011-12, the Ombuds process categoriemployees. They have received trainperformance and compensation zations and definitions were made more ing from an external expert and are differentiation is based on these same FREE & FAIR WORKPLACE comprehensive. The revised categories equipped to address complaints relatprinciples of merit. Our people policies include more explicit reference to human ing to sexual harassment. and practices are periodically revised to > GLOBAL OMBUDS PROCESS: rights principles. The process for logging keep up with regulatory changes and ACCESSIBLE 24 X7 complaints is widely communicated global best practices, so as to enable > GLOBAL PREVENTIOR OF within the Company across all levels and GUILDING PRINCIPLES SEXUAL HARRASMENT is available on the intranet and corporate employees to realize their career PROCESS: ACCESSIBLE 24 X7 aspirations in a supportive and website. The Ombuds portal has been progressive atmosphere. upgraded with a 24/7 multi-lingual > OUR VALUE: SPRIT OF WIPRO hotline facility for ease of access in > CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT logging Ombuds concerns. Resolution of & ETHICS (COBCE) Freedom Of Association complaints is supervised by the Ombuds Ombuds and Prevention of At Wipro, we respect employees’ right to person of the respective Sexual Harassment processes division/business unit. In all, there are 9 form or participate in trade unions. We have registered trade unions in Europe, Our Ombuds process is a well-established Ombuds persons – 2 women, 7 men, 43 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Employee Perception Employee Advocacy WBPO’s EAG enters it’s 57 Best People People Sustainability Employee engagement is an inclusive and Survey (EPS) 2011 Group formed in 2011 8th year. 37 EAG Managers recognized survey 2011-112 was empowering platform that connects employees recorded higher engagewith 120 volunteers to members across across businesses, for held, to gauge with leaders as well as peer groups. Forums ment levels over EPS drive change to location implement excellence in people materiality and impact such as company level Wipro Meets, Business 2007 and 2009 improve Wiproites people processes and management of people facing experience of Wipro enable manger in initiatives. Over 2000 Unit level All Hands Meets and Regional meets driving the responses received are interactive platforms for the sharing Engagement Index information, voicing feedback and conferring reward and recognition. Webcasts and Joining and Assimilation Benefits and Well-being Learning and Growth web-chats also form a regular channel of engagement between senior leaders or Subject Structured Induction for over 47,000 Flexible, menu-driven benefits High impact Talent Enrichment Centers Matter Experts (SMEs) and employees. A host of new entrants package to enable customization and introduced, for skill building and re-skilling newsletters are created internally by respective choice Over 3000 students joined Wipro Over 28,000 employees were certified with functions to keep Wiproites abreast of latest Comprehensive Medical benefits, various technical skills, via the Unified Academy of Software Excellence, now developments and initiatives. Information on in it’s 18th year Technology Insurance cover and Leave Competency Framework people policies and practices are made package, globally top-ranked by Special focus on middle manager capabil400 enrolled in WiSTA – a new workavailable to all employees on the company employees in the People Sustainability integrated M.S. program in Information ity building via Growth Centers for Program intranet portal; revisions to policies are Survey Technology Managers, Delivery Manager Academy and a updated regularly as well. New Maternity Support program for new Career Framework for Architects Over 180 senior-executives from motherto-be Over 650 certified Wipro Learning Champioutside – India locations attended the Individual 1x1 Meets Over 30,000 users of the online ‘Fit for ons from across businesses Global Assimilation Program Life’ health monitoring and upkeep Over 1000 new entrants in WBPO’s New Day One Delight program Project Meet Project-Related initiative launched in Wipro Infotech, for a academic enrichment program – SEED Counseling support available via an smoother on-boarding experience Leadership building aligned to Wipro’s Quarterly / Region-Based Employee Assistance program, for India Regional Meets Leaders’ Qualities enters its 20th year and U.S. based employees All Hands Meet Business Unit-wise Diversity & Inclusion WOW (Women of 'Women in Leadership' 7000 employees Structured focus group Continued focus to Wipro Meets Company-wide Wipro) speaker series workshops and sensitized on Diversity discussions and make policies inclusive networking with 'Mentoring for Success' and Inclusion via an round-table launched and improve senior women leaders program for online training for Persons with accessibility of high-potential women module. Disabilities. infrastructure for During 2011-12, the engagement was made broader from client employees. Persons with and deeper by strengthening existing processes and organizations. Disabilities. introducing new ones. 44 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace People Sustainability Survey Employee Perception Survey Communications around action plans were centered on the theme of EPS Keeping in mind our theme of reaching The Employee Perception Survey has week during which mailers/update “We need to share with our out to employees, we ran a survey to always been the most effective way of meetings and web chats were employees about our long term gauge ‘materiality of the key people gathering employee opinions. We conducted to communicate the initiatives from the employee’s believe the EPS is probably the best updates on the action plans to all sustainability programs and its perspective. The survey covered 36 way to gauge impressions on career, employees. linkage to business goals. Today people practices across 6 themes. The professional development, manager our communication to employees survey was for voluntary responses quality, rewards and other critical on Sustainability or Diversity is and 2394 employees responded to it. areas that shape the employees very much activity based” ‘Free & Fair Workplace’ was voted experience of life and work in Wipro. The Overall Engagement highest in impact, which upholds the EPS is held once every 2 years and covers perception of a strong values and various themes that are material to Scores : IT Business “It is very important that we governance approach. Medical and employees –Culture, Manager Quality, educate the concept of sustainability Insurance benefits were ranked #2, Role, Work Environment, Leadership and therefore as part of the followed by Engagement initiatives and the Spirit of Wipro values. In 2011, 51 % % 63 % 67 induction program a couple of such as the Employee Perception the survey was launched by our CEO slides on Sustainability will Survey. Qualitative comments indicate and subsequent communication was ensure that people are on the that employees look forward to more led by Business Unit Heads through right track from day one” feedback and communication on e-mails, Open Houses and employee sustainability themes. meetings. 60% of the global Wipro IT business workforce participated in the survey and the overall engagement scores in Wipro improved by 4% to 67% compared to 2009. The overall engagement level is positive and supports a promising trend and progress around our people initiatives. 2007 2009 2011 The top-rated engagement levers of EPS 2011 were Diversity, Team, Social Responsibility, Customer Focus and Overall Engagement represents the Values. The areas of improvement on sum of Strongly Agree + Agree scores which we are focusing are career (known as ‘Top Box’ scores) to core growth, development linked to role, engagement questions greater communication around Wipro’s strategic direction. We are working on improvements at an overall organizational level – related to policies and process SURVEY THEMES changes – and at specific business unit level too. 45 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Employee Advocacy Group “The EAG gives me a chance to that impact employee experience. This “It’s an immense pleasure to work as a contribute the organization beyond my One of the key actions of 2011-12 was is a 120 member representative group core member for Employee Advocacy prescribed goals and objectives and the formation of the Employee managed by Wiproites to voice their Group (EAG). We have made slow but more importantly in an area very close Advocacy (EAG). The EAG is a forum of suggestions and the forum is steady progress. Though change process to my heart – “employee advocacy”. By Wipro employees that has volunteered employee led. The EAG members (more obvious ones) is taking little virtue of being a member of the EAG, I to drive a change in Wipro, through selected among employees will listen longer time than anticipated. However, am able to bring the notice of the senior seeking and acting upon feedback to ideas regarding improvements in as the old saying goes “slow and steady management/heads at Wipro the from their colleagues about Wipro processes and company policies from wins the race” and we are definitely concerns of the employees across the processes, policies and services. This employees across the organization. steady. We have chosen to come-off board, whether big or small, significant group has been formed with a vision The suggestions are evaluated and with flying colors as change in or non-significant. I believe by doing so I “To improve Wiproites’ experience of implemented by the functional established process involves change in am enabling a sense of belongingness Wipro. The objective of the EAG is to representative along with EAG established mind-set as well. Therefore, in the employees at Wipro, which will augment existing mechanisms within members. To ensure and maintain it has made this job more thrilling. ensure them acting with integrity and functional teams for employee credibility of the system, the CEO, Mr. T Since direction is set as right now, it is being loyal to the organization. More K Kurien reviews the progress of the the time to speed up. I am sure; feedback and encourage employee often than not employees often feel group on a quarterly basis. employees will see true differentiators involvement in decisions disconnected or discouraged without from EAG. I am excited to see employees any medium to voice their concerns. I having a greater Wipro experience believe the EAG is bridging this gap very Rajesh Srivastava well. The one change I would like to 13% bring through EAG is to narrow down of the total the forums available to the people and suggestions received to make specific people liable for action have been such that concerns, big or small are implemented, via addressed in a fast and effective changes in process manner” or policy. Tushar Mehrishi By the close of 2011-12, the EAG had received 775 suggestions. Of these, 28% are work-in-progress and 72% were addressed. 59% was addressed by way of clarification and feedback. 46 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace “We ensure that we take our employees with us, as we evolve each day as an organization. It Employee Advocacy Group Action Distribution and Status is important for us to listen, respond and act on the feedback from employees. The institutionalization of Employee Feedback forum, especially the Employee Advocacy Group Suggestions % Clarified: % Work in % (EAG) was done with the same objective. The Employee Advocacy Group funnels suggestions received – as Rationale Progress Implemented from employees which get evaluated for implementation. This group has the involvement of a percentage Explained (Pending / and Closed all Function heads, who meet on a periodic frequency to assess progress, and iron out issues if of total Under discussion / any, on a quarterly basis a report is sent to the CEO who reviews the same.” Awaiting Mr. Saurabh Govil, SVP, Human Resources implementation) Wipro BPO Engagement Index financial parameters, is linked to the Finance and EI score for the quarter. The index Engaged employees at all levels is the Marketing 2.2% 47% 47% 6% key to high performance and retention consists of specific parameters, and functions each one carries 20% weight-age. of employees. We observed that across Target vs. achievement decides the EI processes and locations the approach score for each manager. Achievement Overseas travel to and hence levels of employee operations, Quality, data is captured on an online tool as engagement were varied. In June of well as manually, and is audited by the Talent Acquisition, 19.2% 62% 36% 2% 2010 WBPO launched the Engagement Talent Transformation location HR team on a monthly and and Global Delivery Index (EI). Engagement Index, as the quarterly basis. Over the years, EI has functions name suggests, is a tool used to track been internalized as an integral the basic employee engagement responsibility of people managers. activities for first level supervisors The EPS scores for WBPO have improved Internal I.T. and middle management from provider 10.8% 64% 34% 1% operations. Their variable pay (QPLC), by 5% from 68% in 2009 to 73% in 2011. functions The Engagement Index has had a in addition to other performance and credible influence on this result. Facilities Engagement Index Parameters management, Travel, 24% 26% 28% 46% Key parameters for First level Key parameters for midlevel ManHospitality and Supervisors: agers: Security functions Early Warning System (EWS) coverage Saving Talent at Risk (STAR) meet ups Early Warning System (EWS) Monthly performance review Human effectiveness Resources, and 43.7% 74% 23% 2% Coffee sessions with teams within HR operations One on one meet up once a month their alignment functions Fun activities within the team Training for team members Rewards and recognition within the Rewards and recognition within TOTAL 100% 59% 28% 13% team the team 47 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Employee Advocacy Group in ment from operations to HR through “Career Mosaic” process. Applicants I joined Wipro BPO in Wipro BPO matching predefined criteria undergo 2004 as an Associate and an online test and shortlisted canditoday I am Deputy Wipro BPO works in 24*7 shifts. dates go through a panel interview Manager in HR. When I Employee touch time was a challenge and then a personal interview with look back through the across shifts with the core HR team GM – HR. In the year 2011-12, we Best People Manager members only. Hence we decided to years Wipro has given selected 13 EAG’s through this process. Awards select employees from the operations me everything. I enjoy working here As of now there are 37 EAG’s across floor, who are familiar with the nature because of the value system that we Best People Manager Awards is a locations. There is a career path of business operations and understand as an organization have. I have always company-wide, annual event to charted out for the EAG’s. Basis perforemployees concerns. The first batch of been given opportunities and recognize and thank leaders who have mance they get the planned progresEAG’s was selected in Oct 2005. The role challenges to prove myself and achieve institutionalized best practices to sions. 29 EAG’s from the initial batches has matured over a period of time. To greater heights. I cherish all the engage, motivate and retain their teams. are at mid management levels in start with the EAG’s primary role was memories that have come my way A select number of awardees are chosen Human Resources function today. to maintain touch time with the from among many nominees, by a and I am thankful to my leadership Associates on the floor, understand the stringent evaluation process. The awards and peers for their constant support pulse and be the first point of contact are presented by the Chairman and the and faith in me. for associates in case of any grievance. event is attended by the senior As the role matured, EAG’s leadership team as well as awardees’ responsibilities increased. These now spouses. During 2011-12, 57 leaders include driving Engagement Index, received Best People Manager awards. monitoring Confirmations, proactive I have been with Wipro BPO for 8 years. I neither had the knowledge employee engagement, grievance of what a BPO is or how corporate world would be. But, ever since I handling and conducting FGD’s, open joined Wipro, it has been a journey of learning. With the continued house, and Policy Bytes sessions on the growth at Wipro, I have been given lots of opportunities to work at floor. In addition the senior EAG’s are trained to conduct Skips for first level different levels and in areas with different roles and responsibilities. supervisors, Exit Interviews, STAR We have a lot of fun every day as we work towards achieving the meet ups. An EAG member is aligned organizational objectives. Thanks to Wipro for believing in me and my potential. with approximately 250 – 300 employees. Joining TED has been one of the best decisions of my life! My job allows me the unique opportunity to work with diverse people. This opportunity is definitely one EAG’s, if not already management of the most rewarding experiences of my life. I never feel complacent or bored with graduates in HR, are encouraged to my role in this organization. take up the Management Courses in HR through SEED (WBPO’s academic Today I stand tall with my vast experience and proudly say that I am part of the study program) or otherwise. MoveWipro BPO TED family. ment to EAG role is viewed as the first step towards career in HR. A stringent selection process is followed for selection of the EAG’s. It is a lateral move48 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Wipro BPO’s Wipro At Home Initiative – OVERVIEW Assistance in Company lease car portal Sabbatical Leave program: Bringing Families Closer OF PEOPLE Money Management now provides a comparative view of savings from Unpaid study leave for maximum 2 years. Wipro at Home was launched by Wipro BPO at Kolkata in December 2007 and is now held at all POLICIES company car leasing vs. a car finance loan. Timesheet Management WBPO India locations once a month. Parents and families of WBPO employees visit the BPO System: Introduced to location and interact with senior location bring in flexibility of executives. They are given a tour of the campus, Rewarding recording efforts. which includes visiting the premises where performance their wards work. The evening ends with a Leave Calculator: Provides dinner for the families, hosted at the cafeteria. a view on number of leaves These events help improve organizational one must avail over the year transparency and address family members’ to avoid lapse. concerns, especially wrt night shift / odd-hours working. Basket of allowances to Feedback from families: choose in Wipro Benefits Retirement benefits “The company environment is excellent which I Program, ranging from meal and contingency have not seen before. Also your managerial vouchers to retirement assistance staff is very helpful and helped us to know investment plan. about the company.” Pratap Chandra Manna Winners Circle Revision in Car running and maintenance limits A consolidated points’ “I felt good after visiting Wipro if this is how based platform of rewards Wipro works then my kid who is working here and Telephone allowance to keep up with the market and recognition launched will have a bright future. I cleared a lot of for all employees. doubts and misconception” Irshad Shaikh trends. Furniture and equipment scheme. All employees are covered Employee Assimilation under the half yearly Arthashastra Retirement planning In-house financial performance management tools that also enable During the year gone by, over 47,000 new planning portal. process. efficient tax management. employees underwent structured induction programs, across our IT businesses. At Wipro Infotech, the recruitment team initiated a Day Interest free loans. PF, Gratuity, Survivor Flexible work Benefit Program, 401 (K) One Delight program, to facilitate a smoother joining experience for new hires. This includes Wipro Advantage arrangements plan and retirement plans providing basic facilities for the new employees Special price tie ups for for each geography in like laptop, ID cards and mail id creation on the products under lifestyle, accordance with laws and day of joining, to customized induction courses health & fitness, finance, etc. best industry practices. and training programs for a seamless transition to professional life. 49 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Policies for Retainer Employees Comprehensive Benefits: Employee Safety and Well-Being 16 of our locations, covering over The ‘retainer’ employee model is a Wipro Benefits focuses on providing a Wipro promotes and adheres to a 70% of our workforce, is OHSAS well-established one in the corporate comprehensive benefits package that cohesive and holistic approach to the sector today, especially in the IT caters to every reasonable need of an well-being of its employees – 18001:2007 certified (Occupational industry. Retainerships are mutually individual. The key advantages of this including physical, emotional and health and safety assessment beneficial to the individual and package are: mental well-being. Work-life balance series). organization and are formalized by at Wipro is perceived not just as a time legally valid contracts. Traditionally, Works as a safety net against share between work and home but they were created to fulfill low-skilled financial impact of major life events rather as a focus on all aspects We plan to cover all significant positions of a temporary nature. governing ‘Life’ for all employees, Provides a variety of tax managing irrespective of gender or any other owned and operationally However, today the retainership is a flexible employment offering, opted options factor. controlled locations in the next 1 for by specialists, consultants and to 2 years. For leased and smaller freelance experts. Across Wipro’s IT Offers opportunities to enhance We view employees as complete businesses, retainers fulfill important basic medical benefits package so that individuals and hence our practices to office spaces, we follow and and basic positions in technical and individual specific benefits needs can promote safety, health, emergency implement same practices and functional roles. Retainer terms and be addressed response and overall wellness are governance mechanisms. conditions include mandatory frequently revised based on benefits such as Provident Fund and Provides for continuity of basic regulations, industry trends and paid leave. Retainers in specialized medical benefits upon retirement employee feedback. This approach is roles who are required to travel or reflected in our workplace security relocate for official requirements are Is dynamic and innovating to meet administration, prevention and eligible for appropriate travel and the changing needs of the Company mitigation of health and safety relocation expense reimbursements. and Wiproites hazards, comprehensive medical Retainers are also covered by a policies and numerous initiatives on medical insurance package that Mirrors the latest offerings in the fitness, nutrition and emotional covers hospitalization, life insurance industry wellbeing. Employees actively support and accident insurance. and participate in these initiatives, Reflects principles of sound thereby making them relevant and regulatory compliance at all times successful. 16 of our locations, covering over 70% of our workforce, are OHSAS 18001:2007 certified (Occupational health & safety assessment series). All major certified locations have Emergency Care Centers for recording ailments. These ailments are analyzed each month and the data is used for organizing employee health awareness programs under Wipro’s Fit for Life initiative on a monthly basis. 50 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace SUMMARY OF SAFETY Physical Safety Confidence and capacity building of the Medical Benefits Security and Emergency Response team AND WELL-BEING and Security through conduct of Un-Armed Combat Comprehensive medical cover across PROGRAMS Security teams trained in vigilance. (Kravamaga), First Aid, Fire Safety and locations, globally. Yoga has been incorporated as part of Area domination and joint patrolling of the diversified training curriculum and Life cover, Accidental Death and The focus has always been on commuting areas in collaboration with has inculcated a greater sense of self Disability cover in all key geographies. effective communication on Central Industrial Security Force and belief by encouraging active participation the range and value of Police by way of Joint Task Force to during drills and providing leads for Additional financial support available benefits available. We make secure commuting of employees at odd investigations and crime busting. in case of life-threatening or critical hours assist the commuting employees tremendous use of digital ailments. on SOS and for providing security beyond Senior Police officials are invited for medium, through web chats, web-chats with employees. the campus through 24x7 helpdesk. quiz, surveys and discussions Reimbursable out-patient expenses on internal social networking Enablement and empowering Health & Safety portal on intranet for self and immediate family. interface to socialize the employees by conducting anti-terror allows employees to log their concerns/ mock drills in coordination with safety incidents and provide suggestions Company sponsored health check benefits and at the same Central/State counter terrorism forces, on enhancing health and safety. scheme time, solicit suggestions Local Police, Fire services and Pandemic awareness and response from end users. Hospitals and encouraging internal Comprehensive leave policies program with updates published via Emergency Response Team (ERT) Covering Medical Leave and Industrial email, intranet website announcements members for role plays during Injury Leave and posters displayed at office locations. Evacuation and Fire Drills at all locations. Interactive briefing and Maternity, Paternity and other debriefing session after the event with Parental leave, as mandated by law, the Government agencies and their across geographies. representatives leading to greater self-belief and faith in the process. Voluntary pension plans. Intensive awareness drives aimed at extensive coverage by conduct of Security Awareness Sessions, Security Weeks along with online Interaction with Senior Police officers, quizzes, live chats, conduct of mock drills and role plays. 51 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Well-being Practices Ergonomic sessions for employees, with emphasis on Repetitive Stress Health & Safety Events [ 2011 2012 ] Injury mitigation. Tie ups with crèche, hospitals, pharmacies and gyms. Blood Donation and Eye check-up Camps at various locations. Mitr 9 years old and a unique Health and Safety inspections and audits by Employee Health & Safety “Employee Assistance program (EAP)” for emotional counselling as well as committees with cross-functional membership. specialist legal and financial advice in India. Accessible 24X7 on phone. Over ‘No Food Wastage Day’ held across locations. Nearly 8% decrease in food 700 calls received by Mitr during wastage was observed after the event 2011-12. Plans for 2012-13 year include identifying and focusing on major World Environment Week was held to mark World Environment Day. The Fit for Life stressors and expanding the concept week consisted of: This program has over 34,000 registered users. Easy access to health of emotional wellness. > Awareness Programs by Greenpeace risk assessment tool, online chat with > Sale of Eco-friendly products dietician and fitness expert, and > Emission checks for vehicles literature on variety of health related Employee topics are available. Assistance ‘Leakage Hunts’ and other awareness sessions to observe World Water Program Day. There was an increase in the number of employees reporting Maternity support program Healthy leakages which led to faster corrective action. Water committees have Moms, Healthy Babies – to provide been formed in all locations to take the ideas from employees in water guidance and support to enable an expecting woman smoothly sail $ conservation. through pregnancy. Support is available in the form of online second opinion, E-waste awareness sessions on World Earth Day. insights / tips from subject matter experts, yoga sessions and discounted ? Mitr International Day For The Preservation Of The Ozone Layer -16th Sep’11: tariff on hospital packages for Ozone day was celebrated at our locations by creating awareness by Accessible means of posters, quizzes and talk sessions. maternity. on the phone Physical fitness facilities such as gym, 24x7 41ST National Safety Day: tennis court, basketball courts available Activities included Flag Hoisting, pledges, rewards, role play on on major Wipro Campuses. Health / emergency preparedness and speeches on safety. low calorie food options in cafeterias. 9 year old EAP, accessible 24x7 on phone Occupational Health Centres at 20 major campus locations. Analysis of ailments reported by employees at the Similar EAP programs also available in OHC’s are carried out and corrective key geographies like the U.S. and U.K. actions are implemented on month Package/ Retirement Benefit Options and month basis. 52 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Workforce capability and performance and managers. The plan addresses These initiatives are programs for LEARNING AND enhancement are fundamental drivers learning needs through the Integrated middle managers to the unique PERFORMANCE of our IT businesses. Continuous Talent Management System (ITMS Leadership Programs for senior leaders learning, performance management portal), which is a vast repository of over and industry veterans. Learning takes and leadership development are 17961 e-learning titles, spread over 3520 place in different ways classroom therefore not enablers, but core strategic courses. These courses are customized techniques, e-learning, simulations, levers. Every employee has an to various levels and roles. Our training outbound learning and coaching Individual Learning Plan that is and development initiatives span across programs. The range of training spans embedded in his/her annual basic skill building for campus hires, technical, domain, process and performance goals; learning plan middle management capability building behavioural training. fulfillment is co-owned by employees and leadership building across levels. CERTIFICATE Enhancing Wipro Leaders’ Qualities Leadership Wipro Leadership Program Capabilities Business Leaders’ Program Global Program Excellence Group Delivery Managers Academy Architect Career Essentials Managerial Future Managers Program Capability Wipro Learning Champions Building SEED Gurukul STAR Talent Enrichment Centers Unified Competency Framework Nurturing Welcome! Certified Trainers Initiative Young Wipro Academy of Software Excellence Professionals Wipro Software Technology Academy / Wipro Infotech Master of Science Soft Skills 53 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Entry Level Training Programs Workshop to become effective OVER About 2000 employees were trainers. Till 2010-11, 493 in-house Objective: To shoulder the trained using the TEC’s in the middle and senior level employees responsibility of grooming new As of 2012, we have over 450 were trained. year 2011-12. employees into project-ready WIMSians in the organization. professionals armed with basic Year 2011-12 saw 170 new technical, professional and social Wipro Software Technology Unified Competency Framework [UCF] certified trainers under this skills for immediate deployment on Academy [WISTA] projects. initiative on Technical, Wipro Software Technology Academy The Unified Competency Framework Behavioral and Business skills (WiSTA) is the latest entrant in Wipro’s gives a competitive edge to our Wipro Academy of Software training repertoire. Launched in 2011, business by identifying technical Excellence [WASE] WiSTA is a new, workintegrated M.S. competency needs of people and SEED program in Information Technology businesses, assessing gaps and The pioneering WASE program (Wipro for science graduates with non enabling competency development for Wipro BPO’s SEED academic program: Academy of Software Excellence) was mathematics disciplines. It is structured employees. Through structured Since 2004, SEED has enabled over launched in 1995. The WASE program along similar lines as WASE, in training and evaluation methods, the 4000 WBPO employees shape and consists of an 8-semester (four years) collaboration with VIT University, UCF enables a steady pool of transform their careers. The SEED off campus collaborative MS Program Vellore (Tamil Nadu). competent engineers, which is academic program helps employees with the Birla Institute of Technology necessary for addressing the enhance their academic capability and Science (BITS), Pilani (Rajasthan, OVER business’s growth needs. through various courses in diverse India). Students receive technical and subjects such as Information Techacademic inputs as well as the In 2011-12, over 400 students Over 28,000 employees from nology, Software & Network Engiopportunity to apply their learning in neering and General management, live projects. were inducted into the across lines of business, Airlines, Finance, Payroll, Insurance, program. were certified in 2011-12. Credit Management, Foreign Languages, Investment Banking and Project Management. Through these Talent Enrichment Centers courses, employees can equip themEntry & Middle Management In 2011-12, 3143 students joined [TECs] selves with the requisite knowledge Level Programs and skill to seek different roles and the WASE program. Last year also witnessed the launch of career opportunities within the Talent Enrichment Centers (TECs). The Wipro Learning Champion organization. SEED courses are Wipro Infotech Master of objective of TEC’s is to enable [WLC] imparted via classroom or e-learning Science [WIMS] employees to upgrade their skills, WLC is an initiative that nurtures a modules and are available in India spend minimal in-between projects learning culture, by creating and international locations. A dediSimilar to WASE, the WIMS (Wipro and find the right assignments Learning Champions who would cated SEED portal provides 24*7 Infotech Master of Science) program through a dedicated Workforce spearhead the dissemination of access to information and conveniwas started in Wipro Infotech in 2006 Management Group. This is achieved knowledge across the organization. ent online course tracking. with 40 campus hires joining at through Up-skilling, Cross Skilling or Participants undergo a 2-day Mysore. Re skilling. Facilitation cum Certification 54 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace 415 4900 employees have enrolled 547 employees attended Middle Management Level under this program till date, Gurukul during the year with 1008 enrolments in 2011-12. The STAR Program In 2011-12, 415 first time 2011-12. The STAR Program launched in 2010 managers completed the focuses on selection of engineering Gurukul graduates from premier colleges and FMP. WBPO’s Gurukul was set up to create putting them through a 2 year a pool of domain experts, sourced program which focuses on a fast track career plan aligned to business goals. Delivery Manager Academy from the existing employee base. A core team of trainers and business [DMA] Gurukul provides a career enhancement opportunity to those leaders mentor the program and are involved in recruitment, training, The Delivery Manager Academy offers employees who have the potential to assessment and on-the-job deployment individualized development in driving achieve and impart higher levels of of participants. The second batch of 43 growth, operational efficiencies, learning and expertise within the graduates has joined us in July 2011. customer relationships and people organization. Gurukul members engagement. The program is delivered design and create specialized Project Management capability by experienced faculty drawn from learning content, which in turn expectations have evolved over the within the organization as well as improves knowledge levels across years and we have a comprehensive premier academic institutes such as WBPO. The initiative serves to create approach to build capability across the Indian Institute of Management, a ready pool of domain specialists to levels, covering all aspects of people, Bangalore (IIMB). The learning work on solutions and consulting process, and cultural excellence. methodology is a blend of live and assignments for prospective clients. online learning modules, In doing so, Gurukul provides a video-based-learning and case-based competitive edge to WBPO and also Future Manager Program workshops. acts as a retention mechanism, to attract and develop high potential First-time managers handling 187 talent. operational responsibilities participate in the Future Manager Program. Successful completion of the FMP then paves the way to prepare for the next step, which is the Project Manager In 2011-12, 187 Delivery Academy which prepares front-line managers build critical operational Managers were training and managerial skills. under this program. 55 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Architect Career Essentials [ACE] The ACE career framework was launched in October 2011, with the 700 employees nominated under Foundation Level Architect Enablement & Nearly 55 program managers attended GC interventions during the year 2011-2012. 400 program managers are Manager Excellence Framework objective of providing a transparent targeted to complete assessments Plans for 2012-13 include launch of and structured approach towards Certification Process in March by Q1 2012-2013. the Manager Excellence specialist career development. The Framework which aims at building 2012. Based on the inputs from growth capability for frontline managers. framework is available to all employees center development initiatives like on the intranet and provides a clear This includes a set of resources In 2010-11, customized interventions Mentoring have also been launched. view of career levels and sample career available to the frontline managers were initiated to enhance capability at to boost team performance, build movements. An Architect Enablement middle and senior levels. process capability and chart out and Certification process has also been launched, to baseline and build skill self-learning and developmental levels for senior architects and Global Program Excellence plans. Through this program enterprise architects. Group managers will have access to workshops, online courses and A Global Program Excellence Group mentoring which will help them has been formed under Global become more capable people Transformation Office to assess, develop managers. and deploy program managers. Growth Center Certified Talent Transformer A development center aimed at assessing The reach and coverage of the Talent and developing program managers Transformation expertise was was launched in 2010. The approach enhanced by the introduction of the consists of psychometric assessment, Certified Talent Transformer initiative, expert panel interviews and in 2010-11. In-house professionals, who development via training, coaching were keen to share their expertise and and mentoring. The initiative was experience by training others, were designed in-house with inputs from trained on classroom or online job experts, business leaders and facilitation. This initiative has been psychologists from external agencies given a new structure and specializing in the field of behavioral nomenclature in 2011-12. assessments. The design of the framework has matured over the years. 56 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Wipro Leadership Program The Business Leaders’ [WLP] Program [BLP] Leadership building highlights Wipro’s signature Leadership Programs The BLP for senior leaders builds an At Wipro, leadership development are aligned to the qualities identified in integrated view of business. While the is a strong, institutionalized WLQ. The Wipro Leadership Program program itself is aligned to WLQ 2012, process that comprises lifecycle (WLP) for mid-management leaders a stronger emphasis is laid out on programs and customized contains a separate session structured Strategic perspective and Passion for interventions to build leaders at around coaching, mentoring and results. The design of both WLP and nurturing people. The program also BLP incorporates Spirit of Wipro all levels. features an outbound learning values. experience that is structured around self-experiences w.r.t. to Client Wipro Leaders’ Qualities Centricity, Collaborative Working, In 2011-12, over 11,000 employees, across levels, [WLCs] Passion for Results, and Execution Excellence. attended leadership training offered by the Corporate Every year, all leaders above the middle management grade receive Human Resources Development group. Wipro BPO’s Wipro’s flagship leadership program, 360-degree feedback on the Wipro Strategic Leadership Development group trained over Wipro Leadership Program (WLP), Leaders’ Qualities (WLQs). The qualities builds a strategic perspective of our 13,839 employees, both nationally and internationally are periodically revised to keep corporate philosophy through the aligned to current and emerging Chairman’s message and personal across all WBPO locations. business realities. In 2011, the WLQs interaction. WLP emphasizes themes underwent revision. The revised of Governance, Risk, Quality, qualities are centered around the twin Innovation, and Shareholder Value pillars of Client and People, on a Creation. foundation of the Spirit of Wipro values. Across IT businesses, leadership programs are aligned to Spirit of Wipro values, Wipro Leaders’ Qualities and specific domain / business leadership needs. 57 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Wipro recognizes it’s talented and diverse workforce as a key competitive advantage. Our business success is a reflection of quality and skill of our people. Wipro is Wipro’s vision statement for Persons Under committed to seeking out and retaining Gender With Nationalities privileged diversity agenda emphasizes on the finest human talent to ensure top Disabilities Communities our commitment to promote and business growth and performance. improve demographic diversity NALITI EMPLO TIO E N INDIANS EN Y WI TH DISA BI across organizational levels. NA S NO M S E WO PEOP EE LI S The focus on diversity makes L TIE Wipro creative and flexible in a global environment and enables 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 12 12 12 12 0-1 0-1 0-1 0 -1 engagement with a diverse 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 client group. 69 75 19% 10.6% 28% 28% 253 350 Attracting, Recruiting and Communicating and Training Sustaining and Nurturing Retaining Diverse Talent Developing Sensitivity Conscious effort to source meritorious Training trainers for sensitivity to diversity Diversity focus in succession planning talent for each diversity category Learning methodology and tools Making Diversity a prominent organizational Our Approach Relationship program with source agencies Building a culture of Diversity: diversity performance driver and key feature of sustainability disclosures to Diversity Advocacy and advertising of opportunities awareness training for employees, customized sensitivity training for Segmented action for identified population Making processes more inclusive and Inclusion managers and teams working with Diversity awards at corporation level Identify, develop and track high potential employees with special needs diverse employees Customized support for specific employee groups Our focus on Diversity and Inclusion has gathered significant momentum over the last four years and today it is seen as a key aspect of our work culture and ethos. At Wipro, meritocracy is an essential guiding principle to how we work. Our diversity program is about creating a supportive and understanding environment which enables our employees to deliver their best at work and strike a balance between their professional and personal lives. Our people policies and practices are aligned with the regulatory and cultural context of the countries in which we operate. 58 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace GENDER Objectives self-awareness and self-confidence it builds helps women take ownership of This program came at a juncture when DIVERSITY To improve retention of women their careers. The plan is to replicate I was at the cross-roads of my career. It employees this model across all business units in is a very helpful program as I have been ‘The Women of due course. To enhance the talent pipeline of able to work on certain focus areas Wipro program’ is a women leaders at senior levels identified in conjunction with my strategic business To sustain Wipro as an equal mentor. He has dedicated time regularly enabler for Wipro. opportunity employer The goal of our Gender Diversity for our discussions and has been a great initiative is to nurture an environment sounding board for me. He has shared Notable Initiatives by WoW within which women are not just his experiences and has guided me on encouraged but well supported to build the way ahead. I am looking forward to Women in Leadership workshops successful careers. Action programs like further sessions with my mentor to These help identify and address issues “Women in Leadership”, “Mentoring for gain from his experiences... and dilemmas that are faced by successful career women. Success”, “WOW Speaker Series” and Thanks for the initiative! “Mentoring for Success” “Career Conversations” were platforms Program for high-potential women in that presented practical solutions to TEJASWINI PURANDARE middle management. Project Manager, Wipro Technologies life-stage barriers, widened the vistas Career Conversations Mentoring program participant of her exposure, and enabled flexibility As a way forward on this, 2012 saw the launch of ‘Career conversations’ in one and empowerment that support her business unit, with an aim of creating career. awareness on different career paths and setting holistic goals which will SUNITA CHERIAN enable high potential women Vice President, Human Resources employees to make the right career decisions at cross-roads. The Exposure [Life-stage 1] Flexibility [Life-stage 2] Empowerment [Life-stage 3] Wipro has crafted a Visibility and rotation of career Flexible leave policies; Day Care / Crèche Executive coaching segmented approach opportunities. facilities towards Gender diversity Mentoring for women leaders Women of Wipro website featuring blogs Sensitivity workshops focusing on 3 major Women in Leadership Workshops and articles. themes according to the Work-life balance initiatives WoW series: enabling networking life-stage of the employee. opportunities with women leaders 59 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace DIVERSITY FRAMEWORK FOR PERSONS WITH Inclusive actions for Persons with Disabilities: 2011 12 Highlights DISABILITY PROGRAM Awareness and Emergency Response internship opportunity for one month In 2009, Wipro introduced a Self Identification at WBPO's Chennai campus. Post the Teams and procedures now pay more internship, all candidates received comprehensive framework designed to aid the inclusion and a high degree 3200 employees specific attention to the needs of employment offers from various accessed and responded to the Self Persons with Disability, in case of organizations, including Wipro. of contribution by employees with Identification process. evacuation scenario, fire, etc. disabilities who worked with Wipro. This laid the foundation to welcome 150 employees Communication Assistance In-house audits more people with disability into Wipro. employees voluntarily declared their disability / medical conditions, along These are conducted to continually A full time sign language interpreter has with reasonable accommodation improve our facilities and campuses to been hired who will focus on ensuring We believe an environment that is needs. cater to be inclusive to people with signing is done for the employees during automatically inclusive is basic to technical and soft skill training. She is disabilities. The audits are conducted facilitating not just employment but available for signing during one-one Reasonable accommodation by an internal audit team and include career building for persons with disability. feedback discussions with Persons discussion with managers and HR. As Use of reserved parking space a next step, managers and HR with Disability. Progress on audit With a growing population of employees Call for battery operated vehicle -related actions are tracked for closure. representatives would undergo basic with disabilities, we scaled our efforts sign language training. Wheel chairs made available in the to make Wipro inclusive in the year. Campus Assistive Technology Accessibility in Mainstream Many software applications were made Escorts during drop and pick up at Assistive devices and access to Education accessible, over 7000 employees office locations Information Systems. 17 core intranet Further to the success of the ERNET successfully completed the Inclusion & applications have been made more Accessible guest rooms in the Wipro project of equipping 51 schools with Diversity certification, a Reasonable accessible. The plan is to make all guest houses. an accessible computer lab, the Wipro Accommodation Policy was launched, intranet modules accessible during Cab pickup and drop facility from team was able to set up accessible labs FY 2012-13. and “Winclusive”, a self-support group residence to office in 125 schools in Rajasthan. This framework for different categories of included Servers, Desktops, Peripherals, Engagement Training disability was launched. We believe Assistive Technology Solution for these helped create a significantly Focus group discussion and Round 7000 employees persons with different impairments, Table launched for regular updates have undergone sensitivity training Chat & Video Conferencing Solution, more supportive climate for persons and feedback with Persons with towards Diversity & Inclusion. E-Learning and Content Management with disability to succeed and to build Disabilities. Interviewers undergo sensitivity Solution. These solutions impact more meaningful careers. training to eliminate hiring biases. than 2000 students per year. The 80 employees were covered by these during 2011-12. Feedback from these is team also ensured that the teachers V. ISAAC GEORGE discussed by 'Win-Clusive', an Outreach Initiative are equipped to train students in an Vice President, Human Resources Employee Resource Group, which inclusive manner so that more and comprises Persons with Disabilities 27 candidates more children with disabilities are and functional teams. with hearing impairment were given an included into mainstream education. 60 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Responsible People Supply Chain Governance The Wipro Infotech Example The Global Infrastructure Services Partner Employee Engagement One-to-one discussions with partner (GIS) India is a unit of Wipro Infotech Initiative Partner Employees are an integral part employees to address issues and that operates on a talent intensive of the Global Infrastructure Services, improve retention. business model, providing services To mitigate these challenges and craft a Wipro Infotech (erstwhile known as to India based clients with offices more inclusive approach towards all Professional Services Division) Eco E-enablement and automation across various cities. As of August 2012, employees, the Partner Employee system. The number and spread is performance management, skills Global Infrastructure Services India Engagement initiative was established database and online learning. large across the India Geography. has deployed 10462* partner in May 2010. During the initial phase of Given that they all work with our employees, nationally from 79 the initiative, a governance and Educating front line managers on partners. Almost 60% of this workforce engagement framework was partner employee policies and existing teams –a strong need was felt is deployed on basic IT management implemented, with a focus on engagement, through training to have a defined framework to engage skills such as desktop support, compliance, grievance handling and sessions and a separate Partner with them and assimilate them to helpdesk and call management and engagement practices. In the last 1-2 Employee Engagement Handbook. enable a consistent customer providing Level 1 domain support to years, the initiative has progressed experience across. We have covered Annual legal and compliance audit. higher levels of IT Infrastructure beyond basic compliance; today, By August 2012, 10% of the partners, many milestones and the attempt has support. This model brings with it partner employee engagement is a who are responsible for 30% of the been to take this journey to the next several unique challenges which comprehensive talent management partner workforce, were at 100% level of Partner employee experience need to be addressed: offering. compliance. 82% (49 partners) were at and their over-all development as a Clients express concern about Induction sessions over 50% compliance levels. Starting pool of talent for Wipro. uniform quality of services and These cover Spirit of Wipro, COBCE, 2012, this will be a bi-annual process. network security. Security policies and operational policies. Career framework revamped for ACHUTHAN NAIR Site-o-Meter partner employees, with a wider Sr. VP & Business Head, Professional Contract workforce does not exhibit An engagement survey carried out coverage of roles across all similar levels of engagement as Services Division, Wipro Infotech twice a year, at each customer site where technologies and lines of business permanent staff Employees not fully employees are deployed. Partner within GIS. engaged. employees of GIS are invited to share their feedback on multiple aspects of * This number represents third party the workplace, people processes, and Legal & Compliance Audit Update February 2012 July August 2012 employees deployed in the GIS line of business customer site experience. Survey results alone. Across IT businesses we have around and progress updates are published 26000 third party employees, of which, over No. of Partners who participated 57 60 periodically. 16000 are deployed in IT projects, around 6000 employees are deployed in the Security An Appreciation framework was Partners with over 50% compliance 40 49 function and over 4000 employees are deployed launched, to enable employee in Facilities Management and other support recognition, along with monthly, Percentage of partners with over functions. quarterly and annual awards. 70% 82% 50% compliance 61 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Wipro’s Rural BPO is a community I am very proud to say Wipro BPO Opens its First Rural Center at Manjakkudi, Tamil empowerment initiative. Manjakudi that I am the pilot batch Nadu, India was selected due to the abundant of our First Rural BPO. My availability of talent with the right office is near to my home. Wipro's first rural BPO delivery centre Wipro’s employees at Manjakkudi qualifications, skills and attitude. This I feel happy that I am was inaugurated at Manjakkudi, a process warranty and non-warranty has led to employment opportunities working in MNC from my hometown. village in Thiruvarur District near service claims and cash and bank being available at home It is the rarest of the rare opportunity Kumbakonam, Tamil Nadu, on August reconciliation for a large US retailer. towns/villages of employees. This will for the rural graduates like me. My 26th, 2011 with a capacity of 120 seats. The team also services Wipro’s benefit our society by distributing family is not in a position to send me The centre focuses predominately on internal employee related processes non-voice data processing, conceptualized which were earlier handled by employment opportunities beyond to Chennai or Bangalore for searching on the 'Back Office to the Back Office' Wividus’ (internal operations) services metros thus enabling employees to of jobs. More over if I get a job in (BOBO) outsourcing model. at Bangalore. live at home and as a result help their Metros my parents will not allow me families continue with their to work due to their traditional and The focus of the centre is to capitalize on the literate talent pool available in the occupations. It also controls migration cultural fear. I am extremely happy region and in doing so, create employment opportunities in the village and its of families to metros. In addition, the and my sincere thanks to the top level surrounding areas. initiative will help the business in management for starting the BPO terms of cost optimization and operations in rural areas. The entire attrition management. This venture Manjakkudi area which is a tier 3 / 4 I did my graduation in Swami Dayananda College of arts & science at which started with a pilot of 50 seats city has been developed because of Manjakkudi. I had big question mark while completing my has been a great success and has now our rural site. Thank you very much graduation about my life, but at that time Wipro BPO gave me a grown to 150+ seats, with more clients for this opportunity. career opportunity to me and my ambition of working in an MNC wanting to be part of the project. came true. I feel very proud to be a part of first Rural BPO (Wipro). I KAYALVIZHI take this opportunity to thank all for giving me such a wonderful career -PRATHAP GEETHA ANANTHARAM KUMAR Vice President Corporate Business Services 62 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Spirit of Wipro Run Spirit of Wipro Run was started in 2006 Philippines, across countries and July and over the years it has grown ended in Vancouver 24 hours later. both in terms of popularity, scale and Each location began the celebration the sheer number of runners. The run with a local culture piece of that is an embodiment of how Wipro as an region – so while in India, the organization believes in the spirit of locations had performances like the inclusivity. The range of running Chenda, Dollu Kunitha and Bhangra to activities cater to different individual kick off the run the overseas needs – we have the run varying from locations had dragon dance (china), 2kms to 21kms across different drum circle (Canada) and flash mobs locations. The run is also an occasion (Romania) to name a few! where Wiproites come together with their family, friends, clients, suppliers – anyone a Wiproite knows and celebrate the spirit of running. The 6th edition of Spirit of Wipro Run was held on 15th October 2011. “Miles with the Sun” as it was called, was held in over 50 cities across the world and relayed with the dawn at Oregon Pune Hyderabad Illinois Minneapolis Bangalore SPIRIT OF WIPRO RUN 2011 Chennaiwith the Sun” “Miles THE RUN FACT SHEET: Date: 15th October 2011 Time: Start Time (IST): 2:30 AM, 15thNew Oct/ End Time (IST): 01:00 AM, 16th Oct Jersey Venue: 6 Continents22 Countries – 56 Cities Registered Runners: Over 25000 Distance Covered – Over 30 million miles 63 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace People Metrics Employee Distribution Retainers Count As on 31st March, 2012 % % % % % % % % (8 72% 100% 70 30 83 17 69 31 86 14 9, 77 4) 4 9 3 4 9 (3 8% 5, 2 4, 1, 6, 1, 5 1, 53 0) 66 33 00 75 23 98 24 27 51 90% 7000 80% 6000 70% 5000 60% 4000 50% 40% 3000 30% 2000 20% 1000 10% 0 0% Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Wipro Wipro Wipro Wipro Wipro Wipro Wipro Wipro Technologies Infotech BPO Technologies Infotech BPO EcoEnergy* IT Business *In other graphs, Wipro Eco Energy is included as part of Wipro Technologies Partner Employees WEE WBPO New Hires Wipro IT Businesses 147 ,115 ,247 ,141 36 39 47 2,146 50000 45000 WI 40000 35000 30000 WT+Wipro Corporate 25000 10,599 11848 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 2009 -10 2010 -11 2011 -12 For a detailed breakup of people metrics, please refer to: http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm 64 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Attrition Metrics Wipro Technologies 18 15 17 22 22 22 17 17 17 .39% .66% .52% .57% .89% .66% .87% .31% .71% 30.00% 20.00% 10.00% 0.00% Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total 2011 -12 2010 11 2009 10 Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO 5% % 8% % 0% .2% % % % 48 49.5 48 58.6 60 59 59 .0 67.5 61 .7 . . . 80% % 9% % % 4% % .1 % .6 % 70% .7 .6 .9 .0 1.5% 13 1. 15 16 2. 25 12 13 60% 30.00% 50% 20.00% 40% 30% 10.00% 20% 0.00% 10% Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total 0% Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total 2011 -12 2010 11 2009 10 2011 -12 2010 11 2009 10 For a detailed breakup of people metrics, please refer to: http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm 65 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Summary Metrics of Health & Safety Incidents *Wipro Technologies Health and Safety Incident Report *Wipro Infotech Health and Safety Incident Report *Wipro BPO Health and Safety Incident Report 6 1 8 16 93 145 183 21 * Transportation related incidents cover those happenTotal Number of Industrial Injury ing when traveling by company arranged transport. The Leave Incidents IIL (Industrial Injury Leave) incident count also includes the number of accidents that happen outside the Total Number of Transportation Summary Metrics of Health & Safety Incidents premises while commuting to and from office through related Incidents other modes (public, private or personal). At present we 4 8 3 7 6 0 3 do not track these incidents separately. 28 27 26 16 25 41 22 26 18 No. of Health & Safety Incidents 500 For a detailed breakup of people metrics, please refer to: http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm 400 300 200 100 Post Maternal Leave Retention 0 2011-12 2010-11 2009-10 2011-12 2010-11 2009-10 2011-12 2010-11 2009-10 Return to work (+3 months in the org after leave ended in 11-12) 93.8% WBPO WT WI Retention rate (+12 months in the org after leave ended in 10-11) 80.8% 66 Average number of training days per employee 8 .1 9 4 9 7 .0 .6 9 8. 10 6. 7. 4. 4. 25 17 7. 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2011 -12 2010 -11 2009 -10 2011 -12 2010 -11 2009 -10 2011 -12 2010 -11 2009 -10 Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO Note: The person days reported above are based on summation of all training hours and normalized into an 8 hour day. For a detailed breakup of people metrics, please refer to: http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm 67 People Sustainability – Awards and Recognitions > 2010 and 2011: Winners of 2010 and 2011 Association of Diversity Council Awards > 2011: Wipro was presented the 2011 ‘NASSCOM Corporate Award’ as the Best IT services and Product Company for Excellence in Gender Inclusivity. > 2011: #1 in the ‘Women helping Women’ category, at the 8th Annual Stevie Awards for Women in Business > 2011: Asia's Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Winner for the Ninth Year Running > 2011: Featured in the 2011 Global Top 25 Companies for Leaders rankings by Aon Hewitt, the RBL Group and Fortune. > 2011: Partner Employee Engagement practice awarded a Best Practice at the NHRD National Conference and Exhibition one among 8 awardees. > 2012: Among the Top 3 in the 2012 Business Today list of Best Companies to work for in India. 68 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace Scope Of Reporting (See our CDP 2012 report for more details EMS Certification: by Employee -https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Res Occupancy India ults/Pages/responses.aspx) 66 locations comprising of 27 owned and 39 leased facilities of Wipro Environmental Management Leased Offices Client Technologies, Wipro InfoTech and Systems: Offices Ecological sustainability is a cornerstone Wipro BPO. The number of locations We have been following the guidelines of our charter and a major driver of has been consistently increasing of the ISO 14001 standard for more 9% many of our key programs, internal every year from 54 in 2007-08 to 66 in than a decade now as one of the 10% and external. Hitherto, resource 5% 2011-12. All India locations are part of cornerstones of our Environmental efficiency –materials, energy, water -, the environmental reporting scope – Management System (EMS). The 76% waste management and pollution energy, emissions, water and waste. standard, progressively implemented mitigation have been the principal across all of our large campuses, has levers of any corporate organization’s Overseas provided a framework to create an Due for Certified environmental program. But this has 75 locations, which includes 8 environmental policy, identify key certification Locations changed in the last few years; with the customer datacenters. The Wipro aspects and set goals, ensure increasing centrality of issues like overseas offices operate out of leased regulatory compliance and enable the climate change and water stress, Over the years, the ISO14001 system facilities – we have energy consumption right governance structures for organizations have come to realize that has been embedded into the internal data available for 80% of the facilities effective review and feedback. Over externalizing the costs of ecological practices and processes and is now while for the balance 20% we have the years, the ISO14001 system has damage is a poor idea in the long run. being consistently applied across the used extrapolations based on been embedded into the internal smaller and/or leased office space assumptions to arrive at best practices and processes and is now operations. estimates. being consistently applied across the The uncertainty due to these smaller and/or leased office space 20 of our campus sites in India & extrapolations is estimated to be less operations. 2 leased sites in Australia are than 0.3% Key aspects and set goals, ensure certified to the standards of regulatory compliance and enable the ISO 14001:2004. right governance structures for effective review and feedback. OUR PROGRAM PILLARS ENERGY WATER BIODIVERSITY PRODUCT WASTE EFFICIENCY EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILTIY MANAGEMENT & GHG & RESPONSIBLE MITIGATION USE 70 The below dashboard provides a summary of our emission reduction (absolute and per employee intensity) and the Energy And GHG Reduction contribution of renewable energy to achieve the same: % reduction KPI (Baseline) 11-12 12-13 13-14 2014-15 wrt baseline > GOAL Absolute emissions Reduce the Scope 1 and Scope 2 Sc 1 + Sc 2 (MT) 290151.0 266938.9 242914.4 221052.1 198576.0 32% GHG intensity of Wipro’s operations from 2.6 MT per MT Per Employee 2.5 2.2 1.9 1.6 1.3 47.5% employee in 2010-11 to 1.3 MT per Total RE footprint employee by 2014-15, translating in millions of units 25 38 73 115 161 into a net reduction of nearly A summary of our Scope 3 emissions reporting is provided below. In2011-12, we added new reporting heads contributing to 5% of 60,600 tons at the Wipro Ltd level. overall emissions, for example Agent airline bookings and cash claims on on conveyance and hotel stays. We report on 8 of the 13 applicable scope 3 categories for our business. This target applies to all of our Scope 3 Emissions Category Applicability Current Reporting, Coverage office space facilities. Upstream scope 3 emissions Purchased goods and services Yes Yes, 85% (India) Intensity Target Across our Office Space Facilities Scope 1 & 2 GHG Included in the Supply Chain section Capital goods Yes Not yet reported Tons per employee per annum Intensity Target 3 Fueland energy-related activities 2.5 2.6 (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) Yes Not yet reported 2.2 2 1.9 Upstream transportation and distribution Yes Not yet reported 1.6 1.5 1.3 1 Waste generated in operations Yes Yes Yes, 85% (India) Not yet reported 0.5 Business travel Yes Yes, 100% for Air Travel and 95% for other modes. 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Employee commuting Yes Yes, 100% Upstream leased assets (Leased office space) Yes Yes, 100% this is reported under Scope 1 & 2 Downstream scope 3 emissions Note: Downstream transportation and distribution Yes Yes, 100% Material only for transportation & distribution of computer products For Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Data center business division), goal setting exercise is Processing of sold products Yes Not yet reported in progress and will be in place by 2013.For Scope 3 emissions, while we have a strong Use of sold products Yes Yes, 100% Included as part of the customer stewardship section baseline measurement in place; we are in the process of expanding the sources to be End-of-life treatment of sold products Yes Yes, 100% Included as part of the customer stewardship section included under this Scope as per the new Downstream leased assets No GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. We Franchises No will complete this exercise by end-2013 and simultaneously establish goals for Investments Yes Not yet reported reduction that are appropriate for this category. As detailed earlier in the goals section, the intensity metrics provided in this section are only for our campus facilities/office spaces providing business IT services. This contributes to nearly 85% of our overall Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions footprint. 71 Ecological Sustainability at Wipro Energy and Emissions Intensity Energy Consumption Per Employee Global Energy Consumption 270 267 (In Million Units) 258 255 4.4% REDUCTION 2011 2011 77 2012 2012 317 IN INDIA GLOBALLY Data Centers 20% Campus Facilities 80% Emissions Intensity Aided by improvements in energy efficiency as well as a steep increase in our renewable energy 3 footprint during the year, our GHG emission intensity improved by nearly 20% when measured on 2.68 19 2.63 a Per Employee basis and by about 9.5% on a Per Sq.Ft basis. The two charts below show the 2.5 2.39 2.34 17 CO2 eq. Kg per square feet per annum details Target: <= 2.20 CO2 eq. Tons Per Employee Per Annum 15.43 1.97 2 1.94 15 2010-11 2011-12 14.32 Metric Including RE Including RE 1.5 13 Overall Overall Purchase Purchase 11.83 11 Emissions Intensity – India 2.7 2.45 2.39 1.98 1 (in MTons per employee per annum) 9 0.5 Emissions Intensity – Global 7 2.6 2.42 2.35 1.95 (in MTons per employee per annum) 0 5 2010-11 2011-12 2011-12 (incl RE) Emissions Per Area – India Emissions Intensity-India 2.68 2.39 1.97 (in Kgs per sft per annum) 15.91 13.03 14.33 11.83 Emissions Intensity-Global 2.63 2.34 1.94 Emissions per Square feet India 15.43 14.32 11.83 Energy efficiency measures include energy optimization measures, replacement of some older equipment with more energy efficient equivalent and the consolidation of operations accompanied by a transition from leased to owned facilities with the resulting increase in overall utilization of office space. We have doubled our RE procurement to 55 Million units as compared to the earlier period 2010-11. Note: We have used separate grid emission factors (from Central Electricity Authority) based on locations of our operations; for South India operations we have used 0.75 Kg/KwH while for other regions we have used 0.80 kg/KwH. The undifferentiated emission factor in 2010 was 0.79 kg/KwH. The emission factor for south used is 5% lower than the grid emission factor used for 2010-11. This is a more accurate representation of our GHG emissions. 72 Ecological Sustainability at Wipro Absolute Energy and GHG Emissions Profile 600 459 490 GHG (in kilo tons) 413 450 400 360 333 IT BUSINESS (TOTAL) 200 IT BUSINESS (INDIA) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 3 Year Absolute GHG Profile (IT Business Office Space and Data Centres) 600000 500000 400000 TONS 300000 200000 100000 0 PURCHASED GENERATED FUEL FUGITIVE WASTE EMPLOYEE BUSINESS DOWNSTREAM TOTAL ELECTRICITY ELECTRICITY (LPG & EMISSIONS COMMUTE TRAVEL LOGISTICS COAL) (HFC, PFC) 2009-10 Global 211688 19049 1352 1407 374 51214 74230 359315 20010-11 India 212097 26122 2043 3515 364 78928 90158 413228 20010-11 Global 258206 26122 2277 3515 364 78928 90159 459571 2011-12 India 215965* 30907 2351 3052 367 98093 98370 1573 450678 2011-12 Global 255690* 30907 2351 3052 367 98093 98370 1573 490403 *The emission reduction due to share of procurement of Renewable Energy is not included in this graph to show like to like comparison over previous years.Only Scope 2 emissions (purchased electricity) is available for overseas offices. There is no fuel use reported for overseas locations. Business travel is combined with India figures. Across the last three years, the contribution of electricity related emissions has remained consistent at around 60% of our total GHG emissions, with the balance coming mainly from business travel and employee commuting. 73 The below charts provide a split of emissions across our two main IT business Server virtualization: divisions and the sources of energy. IT hardware is a small component Since 2007, we have been working on a server rationalization and virtualization (amounting to less than 1%) and is included in office space profile. program, through which we have decommissioned old physical servers and 250000 replaced the processing capacity with virtualization technology on fewer numbers 236466 237550 of servers. GHG (Tons of CO2 eq.) 200000 Remote collaboration and mobile productivity enablers: The IT services outsourcing model require frequent travel to customer locations 100000 – primarily to overseas locations across the delivery life cycle and contributes 100000 to around 20% of our overall emissions footprint. Over the years, we have 40845 34453 launched various remote collaboration and workstation productivity solutions 50000 e.g. Internet enabled voice and video conferencing technologies and 5497 5273 7290 9332 accessibility of intranet based applications over internet. This has resulted in a 0 30% increase in the use of web meeting technologies -e.g. Microsoft Live Meeting India Row India Row and WebEx -, translating into a GHG emissions savings of over 30,000 tons. Office Space Data Center As of March 2012, we have 800 virtual servers running on 120 physical servers Emissions split (by office space and Data centers India and Rest of the World) contributing to an energy savings of approximately 3 Million units annually. 72% of our power consumption for 2011-12 was acquired from the electricity grid This assumes a saving of 0.75 KW/hour for every physical server avoided. This, we believe, is a conservative estimate considering that many servers run for 7 with the remainder 28% being powered from captive sources, namely Diesel, Coal & LPG. days a week and the power rating ranges from 0.75 Kw to 1 Kw (we have considered the lower power rating for the savings estimate calculation). Our GHG Mitigation Program Renewable Energy: Our five year GHG mitigation strategy consists of three key elements – Energy Renewable Energy procurement: Use of captive renewable energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy (RE) Purchase and Captive RE ; of this, strategic RE Our five year plan (2009-10 to 2014-15) is to in our operations: We implemented procurement will contribute the maximum to GHG emission reductions. The scale-up the sourcing of RE to 161 million two pilot installations of solar PV of 100 visual below depicts a graphic representation of this strategy: units from clean power technologies, a KW each in our Kolkata and Chennai more than six times increase. For the campuses; this is combination with our 5% extensive use of solar water heaters in our Renewable Energy (Gen) MW reporting period of 2011-12, we procured 55 15% Scale generation of Solar PV, Mn units of Renewable energy through the guest blocks and cafeterias have resulted Wind Bio Gasifier PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with in a cumulated savings of 1.6 Mn units of Renewable Energy (Purch) MW Scale purchase of clean Energy private producers, which amounted to purchased electricity. The approximate from third party providers approximately 17% of our total office space electricity savings from these applications 80% Energy Efficiency Higher Cooling Efficiency (Earth Air Tunnel, energy consumption. At the current level of are shows in the table below: Geo-Thermal) Higher Lighting Efficiency (LED) Changes in bldg. design Behavioral and process changes. RE usage, the total estimated reduction in Approx. Savings GHG emissions was of the order of 41,250 Category of use Energy Efficiency Measures: Metric Tons of CO2-eq for 2011-12. There is (Mwh/Year) Over the preceding five year period, we have implemented a variety of energy increasing focus on putting in place an Solar Thermal Heating 1332 efficiency measures e.g. we were one of the early adopters of Green Building enabling regulatory and infrastructure Design with 18 of our current buildings certified to the international LEED Solar PV installations 289 environment to increase the share of direct standard (Silver, Gold, Platinum). PPA’s in the space of renewable energy. 74 Business Travel and Commute Business Travel distance traversed by various modes of transport from 4880 Km PEPA (per employee per GOAL The multiple measures that we have annum) in 2010-11 to 4533 Km PEPA in 2011-12 (This is only to provide a sense of the commute i. To improve water efficiency adopted – virtual conferencing, targeted miles reduction. The figures are aggregated across modes of transport and hence emission (Freshwater use per employee) by reductions etc – have resulted in a reduction from this cannot be allocated to each employee) A summary of the above GHG 5% year on year reduction of travel intensity of 5% mitigation programs, excluding direct commute and travel reduction, is provided below: ii. Responsible Sourcing To compounded over the last two years from ensure responsible water sourcing an average of 5791 KM per employee per Estimated GHG Savings in the in proximate communities, annum (PEPA) to 5221 KM PEPA on a Mitigation Programs reporting period in tons CO2 especially in locations that are consistent basis. prone to water scarcity Renewable Energy Procurement 44,000 Commute Renewable Energy Generation (inch 1,290 Solar Water Heating) Our Sources of Water Employees have various choices for Water is withdrawn from four sources – commuting in addition to company Virtualisation 2,400 Direct ground water withdrawals, arranged transport, employees utilise Municipal water supply, Private purchase Energy Efficiency Measures 11,400 public transport, and own vehicles. Over and Rainwater utilization with the first the past few years, we have been taking Travel Substitution initiatives 30,131 two sources accounting for nearly 63% of (Live meeting, Virtual conferencing) steps to facilitate access to public the sourced water. The majority of the transport for employees. Our annual Total (Tons) 89,221 balance 37% is from private sources that transport survey launched last year are typically in the vicinity of our provides insights into modes of transport, operations. distance traversed and qualitative Water efficiency We take care not to withdraw water from feedback on improving services across our At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of water bodies that are recognized to be locations. Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated goals are particularly sensitive due to their relative Around 7000 people have participated in therefore predicated on these three dimensions. size, function, or status as a support source these surveys for the last two years. for endangered species. None of our operations impact any nationally or In our last Sustainability Report (2009-10, internationally designated water pages 170-174), we had detailed a case study conservation areas. on the successful transition towards public transport arrangement at one of our WATER major locations – this was largely due to a EFFICIENCY symbiotic arrangement with the local transport authority. We also aim to provide a more comprehensive and clear ‘Work from Home’ policy. This and other options like enabling secure personal device connectivity through the BYOD initiative (Bring Your Own Devices) are steps in WATER WATER enabling more flexible work place options. SECURITY RESPONSIBILITY There is a 7.5% reduction in the average 75 Salient Water Metrics Case study of Responsible > The per employee water consumption Water Study for the reporting year was 1.71 m3 per month, a 5% reduction on the figure of As India grows, an emerging issue is the 1.81 m3 in 2010-11. 2500000 Water Consumption by Source (Ki) “Water Cost” of urban-industrial growth. The last decade has seen conflicts – 2000000 > About 1,025,781 m3 of water across 23 of small and big – arising out of waters our major locations is recycled through 1500000 being diverted from rural and in-campus Sewage Treatment Plants agricultural use for urban or industrial 1000000 (STPs). This represents about 34% of our use. While the corporate /business total water consumption for our India 500000 relationship with water has been driven operations and a 17.5% increase in by the need to secure supply, regulation 0 recycling over the previous year’s and pollution control norms, it is time Ground Municipal Private Industrial Rain Water Total quantum of 872,880 m3 across 21 Water Water Purchase Association Utilized for them to locations. Supply be more proactive and imaginative in 2009-10 265459 635722 478632 13204 5052 1398070 engaging with issues of water. It must > Approximately 64729 m3 of the 2010-11 416143 749988 626031 110242 3423 1905827 realize that being responsible in its rainwater that is harvested in our water use is an imperative a matter of 2011-12 383769 900108 747698 240 7024 2038839 campuses is used effectively to recharge business continuity and sustainable the groundwater. growth. With the objective of improving our own understanding of the 39 of our 66 locations in India are leased socio-economic context of our water use and located in prime city areas. For 34% and acting upon it, we along with a these locations, waste water is reputed water expert organization in discharged to CETPs (Common Effluent India, BIOME, embarked on a Treatment plants) and to the municipal comprehensive study to explore these sewerage systems. We take care not to aspects at two of our large campus discharge waste water into any environs in Bangalore and Chennai. subsurface waters, surface waters or The two locations are unique in the sewers that lead directly to rivers, sense that both are located in a water oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground stressed environs and rely on private water. The treated water from our external sources of fresh water. sewage treatment plants are tested and are in conformance with the The project started with an in-depth parameters specified by the respective assessment of the water trail inside local pollution control boards. these campuses covering various Our two computer factories at Kotdwar infrastructure and management aspects Note: We are continuously exploring improved metering of our water like understanding demand points, the and Pondicherry are equipped with infrastructure at both, input and consumption points. This will help Effluent treatment plants to for embedded energy in distribution and strengthen the measurement processes which currently rely on a mix of meter processing and treating effluents. treatment of water and the potential for readings and water balance derivations. improvements. 76 The study in the immediate neighborhood included an assessment to understand the Pollution and Waste Management use and source profiles of water, surface water systems of the area and aquifer however its trail is not entirely known to mapping of the proximate area. > GOAL us or verifiable and therefore, we have Understanding the knowledge and To ensure by 2013 that not more adopted a conservative approach of prevalent behaviors to source management, classifying it as landfill waste. than 5%of all generated waste ends the regulatory mechanism, context of the city and economics of various sources up in landfills In 2012-13, we are initiating a were also considered. The study has also comprehensive and independent waste evolved a guiding “framework for Pollution of the air and water poses one audit at key locations through an responsible water management” that can of the most serious threats to external agency – the audit will help us help institutionalize water sustainability community health and welfare and verify our data, benchmark our as an objective across the organisation. industry – which is one of the principal processes and get insights into sources of pollution – bears special improving the quality and quanta of our We plan to share the study learnings responsibility for effective mitigation recycling. across a wider audience of practitioners, and minimization. Our goal in this thinkers and researchers in the water regard goes beyond the organizational In the reporting period, there were no sector through a workshop for feedback, fence to what happens downstream all instances of environmental fines refinement and potential collaboration. the way to the landfill. Our waste imposed or negative consequences due The study, to be completed in late 2012, will management strategies are centered to our operations. serve as a reference template for Wipro to around either i) recycling the waste for form an informed understanding of the further use or ii) arranging for safe water scenario in the other locations that disposal. it operates in. The study could also play a role in larger advocacy across government, To operationalize our strategy, we follow utility service providers and business. robust processes of segregating waste into organic, inorganic, E-waste, hazardous, packaging, Bio medical and Incineration other categories, which are then Recycle 0.25% Landfilling recycled either in-house or through 15.94% 83.81% outsourced vendor arrangements. 84% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. A majority of the balance mixed solid waste is also Aquifer map of one of our campuses handled through authorized vendors 77 Ecological Sustainability at Wipro The series of figures below provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories Emissions to Air (Tons) of waste generation, recycling and disposal pertaining to our operations 80 63 60 44 Waste Disposed by category (Tons) 40 27 36 11 7 9 20 5 6 2500 0 2000 Nox Sox SMP 1500 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 1000 500 0 Inorganic Organic Hazardous Packaging E-Waste Bio Other Total Medical Waste Ozone Depleting Substance (CFC Equivalent) 2009-10 197 962 29 178 28 1 202 1598 0.133 0.140 2010-11 318 800 48 89 241 1 342 1838 0.150 0.112 2011-12 258 1201 84 116 236 0.40 400 2295 0.100 Air emissions 0.050 We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 44 of our locations, 0.000 this helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen 2009-10 2009-11 2011-12 (NOx), oxides of Sulphur (SOx) and particulate matter. Waste: Quantum of and type of disposal (All figs in metric tons) Controlled emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS): The quantity of Ozone depleting substances in 2011-12 was 2.30 metric tons (excluding Waste By Disposal Methodology (Tons) R22) for 34 locations. GHG emissions footprint for this has been included in the dashboard on Page 73. In addition, R22 gas is used in existing HVAC system as 1924 2000 refrigerants. A total of 2 Tons was used in the reporting year, which amounts to 0.112 1536 Tons of CFC-11 equivalent (this is not part of the emissions footprint in Page 73). We 1500 1342 plan to phase out use of R22 in the next two years. All new campuses have been designed to have zero CFC usage. 1000 366 500 247 298 9 4 6 0 Incineration Recycle & composting Land filling 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Details of different categories of solid waste disposal (All figs in metric tons) 78 WASTE DISPOSED IN TONS Note on Computing Electronic Waste: Electronic-waste reported above does not include Category 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 end of life (EOL) computing equipment, only Garden Waste 158 179 673 electronic peripherals and parts of replaced Food Scraps 697 526 439 electronic components . The computing waste is handled centrally under the ‘Computing E-waste Dimensional Wood/Lumber 14 22 26 Take Back program’ by a division of Wipro. The STP Sludge 94 73 63 consolidated figures for e-Waste processing reported in the Customer Stewardship section under the Organic Waste (Total) 962 800 1201 Green Computing case study update also include a Magazines 15 1 6 minor component of e-waste from our computing Newspaper 19 12 11 products customer. Office Stationery 3 65 7 The new e-waste (Management and Handling Rules), Paper 92 76 74 2010 notified in May 2011 are expected to be Tissue Paper 69 164 161 applicable from May 2012. The rules provide Inorganic Waste (Total) 197 318 258 guidelines on responsibilities on the role of the producer, bulk consumer, collection centers, Cardboard 173 78 98 dismantler and recycler. It also provides rules for Styrofoam 0 5 5 authorisation and procedures for filing of annual Thermacol 4 6 13 returns by all life cycle stakeholders. This is a significant ruling in the context of the primary Packaging Waste (Total) 178 89 116 responsibility for collection of ‘end of life’ Bio Medical Waste 1 1 0 electronic products being placed with the producer, in line with the principle of ‘Extended Producer Electronic Items 28 15.5 6 Responsibility’. By mapping to our current Tubelights & CFL’s 0 2 2 processes, at least three of these roles are applicable Used Oil 17 26 35 to Wipro – that of producer, bulk consumer and Batteries 4 18 42 collection center. We are studying the e-waste regulation and its impact on our operations closely. Oil soaked cotton waste 2 0 1 DG Filters 6 2 2 Oil spills: There were no incidents of significant Ink Cartridges 3 spills of oil or chemicals during inbound transportation in the reporting period. Hazardous, Biomedical E-waste (Total) 178 89 116 Mixed Metals 52 104 42 Mixed Mis. Solid Waste 143 125 203 Mixed Plastics 8 41 20 Other Waste (Total) 202 342 400 Total Waste 1598 1613 2066 79 Environmental Expenditures Biodiversity in our Campuses The majority of the environmental expenditures incurred fall under the Nature provides us the best operation and maintenance of pollution control equipment –These expenses are illustration of why diversity is critical inclusive of both Capital as well as Operating & Maintenance costs. The chart for it is well understood now that below summarizes our annual expenditure on environmental protection and biodiversity or the plurality of species management during 2011-12: is crucial to human wellbeing ranging from providing new sources of medical cures to preserving climate integrity and providing livelihoods to Environmental Expenditures (In Million Rupees) millions. We believe therefore that the business sector must get involved 50.00 much more in issues of biodiversity. 40.00 As an organization with large campuses in urban settings, we are 30.00 acutely conscious of our responsibility on this front and have 20.00 set for ourselves the following goals. 10.00 0 GOAL Treatment & Treatment & Operations & Training External Research & Other disposal of of emissions Maintenance & Education Certification Development environmental • To convert ﬁve of our existing waste of Pollution of management management campuses to biodiversity zones by Control systems costs. 2015. Equipment • All new campuses will incorporate biodiversity principles as an integral part of their design 2010-11 1.77 2.53 40.97 0.04 0.95 0.16 2.78 2011-12 2.14 3.60 21.99 1.07 0.22 0.00 2.77 80 Electronics City Biodiversity Project Our first biodiversity project was The project area is divided into four initiated in 2010-11 at our Electronic themed parts: City campus in partnership with a) Butterﬂy Court: Garden showcasing ATREE, a globally renowned biodiversity native butterﬂy host and nectar plants institution. The project started with an b) Deccan: Based on the predominant assessment of the existing plant, birds, geology of south India uses mounds, butterflies, insects, small mammals and rocks and natural water body designs other taxa in the campus and c) Medicinal Circuit: Herbal garden recommendations to increase locally classiﬁed by types of healing – i.e. heart adapted species biodiversity and its and circulation, women’s issues. integrated linkages to better water d) Wetland Park: ecosystem sustaining efficiency and conservation, nutrient a variety of ﬁsh, water birds, insects and recycling, reduce cooling needs of amphibians. Also integrating sustainable some buildings and improve overall water management inside the campus. aesthetics of the campus. The project is The ﬁrst stage of the project a butterﬂy perhaps the first integrated effort of its park – is expected to be completed by Dec nature in India. 2012. Trees-growing Carbon Biodiversity Water-use Livelihood Resilience to regimes sequestration values efficiency benefits pest attacks Biodiversity Single species Tree plantations (Exotic) Single species Tree plantations (indigenous) Towards Sustainability Mixed Species C plantations Water Carbon Locally adapted C forests Agro forestry (Trees Integrated approach towards grown in farms) campus sustainability Impacts of various tree growing regimes (Source: Adapted from Smith.J & Scherr, 2003. Capturing the value of forests of carbon for local livelihoods) VI. Assumptions and Rules of Thumb The assumptions for calculation of reported metrics on different environmental areas in this section are available online at <http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm> 81 Overview of Across the space: Customer Stewardship Smart Grids Generation, Solutions Space Transmission & Distribution, Retailing, Increasing automation in of complex data. Data analytics and Energy Trading etc. manufacturing and dematerialisation integration with smart devices can of services through IT over the past help in creating and designing Consulting : few decades has resulted in achieving sustainable built environments. They Strategy Vendor Smart Grids Project Management economies of scale through can also help improve efficiencies in Selection, Advisory, (Energy and and Implementation productivity gains in all sectors of the resource and energy intensive sectors Solution Integration Utilities) modern economy. This has also lead like power generation, utilities, to increasing stress on natural and logistics, consumer goods and retail. Operating Expertise derived resources – be it energy, across markets: Regulated and water, raw material leading to huge Wipro, over the past four years, has De-regulated markets, socio-environmental challenges. built a portfolio of leading IT enabled Americas, Asia Pacific, Businesses , governments and sustainability solutions for our Europe consumers are increasingly therefore customers. The strengths of our demanding energy and resource positioning come from decades of working with partners and customers Overview of IT efficient products and services. to understand stakeholder needs – and Solutions for The businesses of today, whether in the placing it in the context of a larger Energy Intensive Dematerialisation manufacturing or services sectors, common purpose of providing Sectors increasingly rely on making ‘sustainability’ inspired solutions. meaningful sense of large amounts Solutions for Customers Efficiency and in transportation, Analytics and manufacturing, low cost smart Optimisation Natural Resources Overview Of (oil and Gas), retail. infrastructure IT for Sustainability Sustainability IT Solutions Space Energy Carbon and Sustainability IT Service Management and IT Products Solutions EcoEnergy is the clean-tech business division of Wipro providing intelligent, sustainable alternatives in energy generation, infrastructure and management. Enterprise Smart Grids for Management, We leverage analytical insights obtained from energy data into energy efficient Green Energy Energy and Retail, and solutions helping our customers reduce their energy related cost. Our unique Computing Management Utility business Transportation managed service offering holistically addresses the entire spectrum of energy and sustainability services. 83 Customer Stewardship Enterprise Energy Reduce Recover Replace Management Solutions Wipro has a suite of energy management solutions in the area of energy infrastructure management and maintenance to drive efficiencies. Enterprise Energy Green IT Solutions Green Infrastructure Renewable Energy Carbon management and energy Management Services Solution • Carbon EH&S and procurement services are also • Energy Efﬁciency Services sustainability • LEED Certiﬁcation • Utility Scale MW Solar integrated into the solution. Wipro • Regulated & Monetary Performance • Energy Star Rating Plants delivers the set of services by uniquely Services Management Services • MEP Consulting • Distributed Alternative integrating the customer facility data • Procurement & Billing • Data Center Energy • Turnkey Project Energy Solutions and external environmental Optimization optimization Management monitoring data feeds with the Energy Management Enterprise Energy Management Platform Platform. The platform integrates with an operations service desk which aids in dynamic real-time interventions to deliver energy efficiency, emissions reduction and cost benefits to the Customers Site customer. A typical deployment snapshot of our solutions is provided below: Meter, Censor and Controller External Data Feeds Central Data Aggregation Wipro’s Energy Management Platform Wipro’s Energy Operations Centre ` Centralised Asset Mgmt. and O&M Energy Green Carbon Policy Energy Optimization Intelligence Procurement Accounting Enforcement Manufacturing 84 Customer Stewardship Clean Energy – WEM Solution: energy storage systems, efficient data centers ranges from 1.65 to 2.0. services. We estimate around 8 to 10% On the energy generation side, we building systems and lighting and savings in energy from provide turnkey solutions for utility other building process/operations implementation of these programs Energy and Utilities scale MW solar power plants. Our optimizations. On an average these and most of it can be attributed to buildings are estimated to have (E&U Domain) the IT solution integration part. energy management solution, WEM Wipro is one of the pioneers, among (Wipro Energy Manager), can be 15-20% lesser energy consumption the global IT services companies, in integrated into the plant to boost as compared to a standard building providing dedicated focus to the Transportation and system performance. WEM provides (ASHRAE code). Energy and Utilities (E&U) industry. Logistics: an analytics based remote With more than a decade of Our portfolio in the transportation management solution to improve Greening our Data Centers: experience, Wipro was the first Indian sector involves joint collaboration the performance of solar plants The Wipro data centers in the US IT services vendor to provide System with customers to provide solutions (either MW scale or distributed) (through Infocrossing acquisition Integrator (SI) services to E&U industry. on route optimization and through real time data collection in 2007) historically had low energy Our Smart Grid practice provides dematerialisation of services. A few / monitoring and predictive efficiency compared to industry due expertise ranging from strategic examples are the e-freight work in diagnostics. to older design. We are implementing consulting to vendor selection to association with IATA and route targeted energy efficiency initiatives solution integration and optimization work for a range of Green Infrastructure: progressively at each data center. implementation. Our consultants logistics service providers. We provide Green Infrastructure have rich domain knowledge that Services (GIS), through which we A summary of the key initiatives are: spans across Electricity, Gas and provide green building design • Efﬁcient data center infrastructure Water Utilities in multiple consulting and project management • Efﬁcient computing infrastructure geographies. We have successfully services. The offerings in GIS cover • Strict raised ﬂoor management deployed solutions to over 75 top certification consulting, design • Raised ﬂoor support systems design E&U companies across North services for mechanical, electrical, America, Asia-Pacific and Europe in plumbing infrastructure and This suite of initiatives will be rolled regulated and de-regulated market in integration with Building Management out over the next 2-3 years, starting the areas of generation, Transmission Systems (BMS). IT is a key enabler for from 2013-14. & Distribution, Retailing, Energy building automation and management Trading & Risk Management and information systems. In the reporting In June 2011, we commissioned our Smart Grid. period years, we have implemented data center in Kings Mountain, North and designed five large green building Carolina. Recently this data center For oil and gas companies, our projects 2 for Wipro factory office was awarded the coveted LEED Gold solutions portfolio includes spaces and the balance 3 for certification. This is significant providing advisory and commercial office spaces. Three of the considering that there are less than implementation services for Health projects are green certified by IGBC 50 data centers worldwide which are and Safety management and carbon and the other two are in the process LEED certified. In July 2011, one of our management. Over the past two of commissioning and certification. enterprise data centers in India was years, we have worked with 8 Some of the key initiatives also accredited with LEED Gold by customers in the areas of enterprise implemented in these buildings are IGBC. The PUE (power usage system implementation (SAP EHS 2 stage evaporative cooling, thermal effectiveness) rating of the newer modules, Enablon) and maintenance 85 Customer Stewardship An update on Wipro Guide To Greener Electronics Green Computing Our commitment to responsible innovation in our green computing journey has recognised by Greenpeace since 2009. While we have been rated the No.1 company in the India version of the annual green electronics rankings since 2009, we were placed in the No.1 position globally in the 2012 Greenpeace Guide to Greener electronics, ahead of larger industry players. Source: http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/Guide-to-Greener-Electronics/18th-Edition/WIPRO/ Energy Management Waste Handling Chemicals Management Energy star 5 compliant desktops and laptops 19 collections centers across India, First one set up in 2006. Total RoHS compliance since 2007 Green Leaf Enterprise power management solution available Adopted WEEE standard Follow OSPAR list for toxics compliance with desktops Work with authorised e-waste processing firms Journey so far 2011-12 Update Energy Management Waste Handling Chemicals Management Compliance with new Indian standard : Average of 250 tons of e-waste 80% of desktop product launches BEE Star Ver 1 standard collected and processed over are PVC and BFR free (up from for laptops. last two years. 37% in 2010-11) 50 Models certified for Energy Comprehensive e-waste Launched two desktop models Star 5 or its equivalent management study in progress free from antimony beryllium to assess impact of new e-waste and phthalates regulations. 86 Customer Stewardship Energy Management: range free from these three hazardous e-waste is collected and recycled by chemicals, which is an encouraging authorised recyclers.” All new products launched in 2011-12 development. are compliant with Energy Star 5 In use energy savings: norms in both sleep and standby Waste Management: modes. By sales, 98% and 26% of We assume a 15 to 18% energy desktops are ES5 certified. Green 19 collection centres across India. We efficiency of our Energy Star 5 (ES-5) Leaf – the power management are studying the modalities of the new compliant computing products solution is available for desktops. E-Waste Management and Handling (desktop and laptop) over conventional Rule 2012 and its impact on our models. Considering a life time of 5 Chemicals Management: operations. Collected and recycled 229 years for our products and based on tons of EOL (end of life) material in the sales of ES-5 in the reporting year, All desktops and laptops models are 2011-12. we estimate a savings of 6057 tons of 100% ROHS compliant. We consider the CO2 equivalent due to product use. OSPAR list of chemicals as a primary We have also communicated to reference point for identification and suppliers on not sourcing tin, tungsten The total in use emissions from our elimination of toxic chemicals from and gold (minerals) from conflict hardware products over a five year its products. The list provides 21 zones. The assessment process is period, for the ES 5 and conventional chemicals that are banned, restricted, currently in progress, the output of models sold in the reporting year or subject to phase-out from its which will help in understanding and (2011-12), is estimated at 291000 products. 80% of desktop product helping eliminate conflict minerals tons of CO2 equivalent. launches are PVC and BFR free (up from our manufacturing. from 37% in 2010-11) Launched two desktop models free from antimony, “The emission from the e-waste beryllium and phthalates. These two disposal is estimated at 2.29 tons of products constitute 20% of its product CO2 equivalent (as per US EPA’s WARM tool emission factor). However, all Year 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Total E-waste Recycled 92 260.43 229 (Tons) Average per month 7.6 21.7 19.1 (Tons) The emission from the e-waste disposal is estimated at 2.29 tons of CO2 equivalent (as per US EPA’s WARM tool emission factor). However, all e-waste is collected and recycled by authorised recyclers. 87 Customer Stewardship (World) for three years in a row – in Wipro and Responsible Investing 2012, we were also designated the RobecoSAM Gold Class sector Today, companies are required to • Example : leader for the Computer and comply with a rather elaborate and The Dow Jones Sustainability Internet Services sector. 2,500 extensive set of statutory financial largest companies (by free-float Index statement disclosures – the logic for market capitalization) from 58 this is that detailed reporting can act sectors are invited to report as a guide for further investments and ESG indices of stock exchanges annually on their sustainability can protect investors. The investing performance DJSI, launched in 1999 and business community have come follows a best-in-class approach – to appreciate the importance of these which means they only include disclosures accompanying financial • Example : companies that fulfill certain • Many leading Principles of statements in present a true and fair banks and FIs ESG assessments Carbon Disclosure sustainability criteria better than Responsible Project (CPD), Oekom, view of the financial health and state subscribe to PRI Investing (PRI) by rating firms the majority of their sector peers. Bloomberg of affairs of the reporting entity. The index family has USD 6 Billion in assets under management A parallel trend has been that of the growing impact of corporate Customs assessment • Wipro is one of the 51 companies organizations on the environmental, of sustainability risks from the Global 500 selected that business and social eco-system the are part of the Carbon Disclosure requirements for non-financial • Example : Trucost’s Leadership Index (CDLI) 2012. The disclosures have also gained Environmental risk index is administered by Carbon relevance. These disclosures enable models of industry Disclosure Project (CDP) on behalf stakeholders to assess the externsectors of 655 investors with assets of US$ alities that are material to both the 78 Trillion, this is the definite business entity and society at large. climate change disclosure The increasing recognition that social framework. The only company and environmental risks can affect a Our engagement with participant in multiple such from India in this ranking, we are company’s operational strength and responsible investment disclosure frameworks; this has also ranked # 1 in the CDLI (India) continuity has prompted investors to helped us continuously calibrate version Our CDP responses can be incorporate ESG criteria We view the trend of responsible our sustainability program and viewed at www.cdproject.net. (Environmental, Social and investment from two distinct enhance it through step changes. Governance) into their decision angles – (i) as a catalyst for making Our commitment is reflected • Part of the NASQAQ 100 Global frameworks. Over the last decade, the business sector more and more in the recognition of our leadership Sustainability Index that this has manifested in at-least four responsible and (ii) as a driver of in various global ESG rating comprises 100 global sustainability different ways as shown in the chart internal rigor, innovation and programs leaders from across industry below improvement in a company’s sectors. operations. Therefore, we have • Wipro has been a constituent of been a conscious and keen the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 89 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor • Rated ‘Prime’ by Oekom, a leading European ESG rating agency. The rating indicates a low-risk Part of NASQAQ 100 assessment from the point of view Global of ESG risks and therefore ‘prime’ Sustainability Index from an investment perspective. Oekom’s clients are reputable financial service companies, Part of Carbon Disclosure managing a total volume of EUR Leadership Index (CDLI) Rated ‘Prime’ by 520 billion on the basis of their sustainability research. • Wipro was selected by Ethisphere institute in their 2012 ‘World Most Ethical Companies’ list. The think Part of tank has been publishing the World Most World’s most Ethical (WME) Ethical Companies company rankings for the last six years now by reviewing hundreds of companies and evaluating applications utilizing its Developed by an international proprietary methodology through group of institutional investors, the in-depth research and multi-step 6 PRI (Principles for Responsible analysis. The 2012 list features Investment) reflect the increasing companies in more than three relevance of environmental, social dozen industries, including 40 and corporate governance issues to companies headquartered outside investment practices. UNEP the United States. Ethical Finance Initiative and UN Global investing or commonly referred to compact are partnering with PRI in as Responsible Investing in this initiative. The below table for companies provides long term Wipro shows an increasingly value for investors by exemplary alignment of investors to PRI. governance mechanisms and taking active stewardship of 2011 2012 environment and society. Signatories to PRI 915 1,122 Investors in Wipro >10% >30% 90 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor Our engagement model with the investor community Investors are significant stakeholders at Wipro. We have multiple channels of communications to keep the investors informed about various development and events. Communication through voluntary disclosures in financial statement has been the bedrock of investor engagement at Wipro. Communication with stakeholders in the Annual Report – A chronological journey: 1977 • Comparative ﬁnancial information of 5 year and • Segment reporting on business performance. 10 years 1993 • Graphs on trends of key ﬁnancial indicators. • In addition to 'About the Company' now titled 'About the • Earnings per share. 1983 Corporation', a two page statement titled 'Chairman's • Shareholders' return over ten-year holding period. Statement' included. • This statement included a paragraph on 'Research and 1995 • Wipro Leaders' qualities. Development and Wipro team'. • Vision for the year 1999-2000. • Consolidated ﬁnancial statement. 1996 • Cashﬂow statement. • Chairman's Statement content enhanced to include a • Letter to the stakeholders. 1984 paragraph on 'Finance, Future Policy and Wipro beliefs'. 1998 • Reconciliation of proﬁts between Indian GAAP • One page on the directors, senior executives of the and US GAAP. company and manufacturing locations. • Theme-based annual reports: 2001 Customer testimony on the quality and nature of 1988 • Five-year goals included in the Chairman's Statement service offerings. • Business Responsibility Report (BRR) section as per the • In the Chairman's Statement, a paragraph on National Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) the ﬁrst company 1991 exports introduced. 2012 to include an independently verified report in the Annual Report The Shareholding pattern in Wipro The table below shows the total number of shareholders consolidated during the year in both domestic (India) and ADR holdings: 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 No. of shareholders 232,932 228,456 179,438 220,237 227,157 ADR holders 18,428 14,945 15,383 12,544 13,322* Total shareholders 251,360 243,401 194,821 232,781 239,701 * Holders data as on 31st December 2012. 91 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor Our senior management leaders along Breadth of engagement with our dedicated Investor Relations team participate in various forums INFORM LISTEN DIALOGUE like investor conferences and investor road shows, in addition to hosting > Website > Annual General Meeting > Investor Road shows investors who visit us. Our quarterly > Press Release > EGM > Meeting with individual > Quarterly Earnings Release > Board Independent Directors investors/analysts results, regulatory filings, transcripts > Investor Presentation > Press Reports > Investor conference of our earnings call and media > Annual Reports > Feedback on Annual Report > Analyst Meet India and US > Financial Information presentations are available at http://www.wipro.com/investors/ 2011 2012 April May June January 20102011 Results Announced Road show in UK Road show in US and Europe Q3 Results declared 10 press release Investor conferences in US, Investor Conference in US & Road show in Singapore Singapore, Hong Kong & India 7 press release India Met over 60 investors Met over 60 investors 2 press release 3 press release July August September February AGM held Road show in India Road show in London Road Show in US, Singapore Investor Conference in US, and Hong Kong Q1 Results declared Singapore and India Met Over 80 investors Met Over 60 investors 5 press release Met Over 90 investors Investor conference in US &UK October November December March Q2 Results declared Met over 120 Investors 1 press release Investor Conference in US, 5 press release Road shows in India UK and India Met Over 40 Investors Investor Conference in US, 1 press release Singapore, Hong Kong and India 2 press release 92 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor Response to Investors’ and Our economic performance Shareholders’ Concerns and value add to investors The global environment One of the measures of our success is Investors in Wipro are our key Though the overall macro having satisfied stakeholders. Quick stakeholders and must get fair returns environment continued to be volatile, responsiveness to complaints and for staying invested in our company. with a lot of uncertainty originating queries from our investors is part of Investors’ benefit stem from the fact of from sovereign debt crisis and high this whole process. Our goal is to benchmarking and comparing of unemployment levels, businesses have Zero pending complaints or companies against the primary have tried to transform by driving queries. criteria of governance, performance towards a dual objective of growth The table below presents the status of consistency and the adequacy and and differentiation, with technology complaints/ queries received and our transparency of financial disclosures as a key enabler. response. allows them to take informed decisions on short, medium and long term investments. Companies who Description Nature Received Replied Pending meet and exceed these performance criteria deliver stronger financial Non receipt of Securities Complaint 33 33 0 performance which, in turn ensures appropriate compensation / returns to Non receipt of annual reports Complaint 40 40 0 investors. Correction / Revalidation of Dividend Warrants Request 429 429 0 Wipro tries to translate the benefit of company’s performance to its SEBI/ Stock Exchange complaints Complaint 7 7 0 investors through best in class governance practices, voluntary Non Receipt of Dividend Warrant Complaint 161 161 0 disclosure of facts in financial statements as appropriate, and Demat request received Request 0 actively engaging with the investors through various mediums of Others Request 0 communication and dialogue. Our financial performance can be Total 670 670 0 better understood against the larger backdrop of the Global and Indian IT industry and the macro forces that are important underlying drivers 93 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor a pace of tripledigit growth. Public cloud These exports also account for over The Global IT sector services spending is expected to outpace 68.5% share in aggregate IT-BPO revenue. growth of the overall IT spend by about four ITBPO exports is expected to grow 2011 recorded steady growth for the times between 2012 and 2015. 11-14% in FY 2013, driven by proliferation technology and related services of as –a – service model around sector, with worldwide spending enterprise mobility, cloud and platform exceeding USD 1.7 trillion, a growth of solutions, analytics offerings and social 5.4% over 2010. The global sourcing media. spend grew twice as fast as global technology spending in 2011. Global Domestic IT – BPO revenue (excluding GDP grew 2.7% in 2011 and is expected hardware) is expected to grow at almost to grow 2.5% in 2012. Developing 17% to reach Rs. 918 billion in FY 2012. It economies are expected to grow is expected to grow at 13-16% in FY 2013. thrice as fast as developed economies. Strong economic growth, rapid Better economic conditions signifying advancement in technology return of consumer confidence and infrastructure, increasingly competitive renewal of business growth, is Indian organizations, enhanced focus by expected to drive IT spending going government and emergence of business forward. IT outsourcing market is set models that help provide IT to new to grow at a CAGR of about 8% over customer segments are key drivers for 2011 and 2012, while BPO off shoring is increased technology adoption in India. The India IT sector expected to grow at a little over 7% From a verticals perspective, BFSI is set during this period. Industry expertise to increase its share in India IT-BPO As a proportion of national GDP, the sector and innovation is expected to drive exports to 41.2% however, share of revenues have grown from 1.2% in FY 1998 to an future sourcing requirement. telecom is to decline from 20% in FY 2011 estimated 7.5% in FY 2012. The aggregate The year 2011 was the year of to 19% in FY 2012, largely due to revenue for the India IT-BPO industry for FY 2012 technology adoption with growth in slowdown in telecom investments in the is expected to cross USD 100 Billion. Aggregate tablet and smartphone sales. This US and UK. Emerging verticals – retail, IT software and services revenue (excluding mobile revolution witnessed, spending healthcare, media and utilities continue hardware) is estimated at USD 88 Billion. by organizations in developing both to record fast growth. consumer apps and enterprise apps. The industry currently accounts for almost 25% From IT industry perspective – the of India’s total exports, and 11% of total The direct employment provided by the enterprise mobility solutions alone is services revenue. Its share of total Indian IT Sector in FY 12 is expected to reach 2.8 expected to grow to USD 17 Billion by exports (merchandise plus services) increased million, an increase of 230,000 2015, presenting a huge opportunity to from less than 4% in FY 1998 to about 25% in FY employees, while indirect job creation increase revenue from this segment at 2012.Export revenue (excluding hardware) is estimated at 8.9 million. during FY 2012 is likely to reach USD 69 Billion. 94 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor Wipro’s Financial Performance Wipro’s economic value add and distribution among its constituents is broadly 4% in FY 11. This entire increase came from lower Economic Value retained in consistent in FY 11 when compared with FY 10. To the equity business. owners, the dividend payout increased from 2% of revenue in FY 10 to Particulars 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Rs. in Mn % Rs. in Mn % Rs. in Mn % Rs. in Mn % Revenue 256,891 100.0% 271,957 100.0% 310,542 100.0% 371,971 100.0% Operating cost 104,241 40.6% 111,988 41.2% 125,997 40.6% 156,889 42.2% Employee Wages and benefits 107,266 41.8% 107,230 39.4% 126,867 40.9% 154,066 41.4% Payments to government India 4,649 1.8% 6,457 2.4% 7,448 2.4% 12,993 3.5% Others 2,538 1.0% 3,403 1.3% 3,895 1.3% 4,065 1.1% Payments to providers of Capital Interest 2,333 0.9% 1,232 0.5% 776 0.2% 1,057 0.3% 2.5% 15,582 5.0% Dividend 6,842 2.7% 6,788 17,229 4.6% Economic Value retained 29,022 11.3% 34,859 12.8% 29,977 9.7% 25,672 6.9% Financial Assistance from the Government The India IT sector has been a leading generator of direct and indirect Tax benefit to Wipro 2010 2011 2012 employment as illustrated in the India IT sector overview. Also it has been a generator of foreign exchange for the country. In light of such Employees in Global 108,071 122,385 135,920 IT services contributions to the economy fiscal incentives have been provided by the Government to the sector. Benefit from Income tax 12,040 11,085 10,501 exemption (in INR. Mn) Wipro has benefitted from such incentives extended to the IT sector as illustrated in the table below. We have not received any other direct or Percentage of tax benefit 22% 18% 15% indirect financial assistance beyond the scope of the state policy. to Profit Before Tax (PBT) The data calculation methodology and assumptions for this section can be viewed here <www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm>. PBT(in INR. Million) 55,095 62,348 69,814 95 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor The distributed, multi-tier and global supply chain in communicating and Materiality of environmental and nature of the supply chain is one of the influencing change in the right social aspects is impacted by various defining characteristics of a global direction down the supply chain. factors like product category and the corporation. These supply chains have region’s human rights and corruption developed with increasing focus on In the core IT services organization, record e.g. Manually intensive work in resource efficiency, supported by scale our supply ecosystem comprises of a developing countries with poor economics and specialisation of high proportion of contract workforce Human Development Index (HDI) standardized processes. The supply who have specialized skills in indicators is more prone to human chain footprint for most companies software development. The People rights breaches. While there are extends beyond state and national engagement function bears primary differences in the nature of supplier boundaries. On an average, a supply responsibility for engaging with this requirements and their region of chain environmental footprint can be group. Our practices allow a range of operation, the rating of materiality of a significant higher order compared options for feedback and grievance and maturity provided below is to that of organizations own internal redressal (See Pages 43 and 46-48). averaged across IT services and IT footprint – estimated to account for From our ongoing assessments and products supplier portfolio. about 85% of a company’s total feedback, we do not see any major emissions (Reference: CDP Supply issues or concerns on basic human Chain Report 2011) . Compliance on the rights and labour practices with this social dimensions of human rights, empowered and informed stakeholder labour practices and ethical principles group, most of who are equally is seen as a sine qua non today and qualified and experienced as our own even minor breaches can increase the knowledge workers. risk of reputational and legal damage greatly. Wipro recognizes the critical role of the primary produce in any The other constituents of our supply chain are shown below in the tabular summary for our IT Services and the Computer divisions IT Services IT Product Manufacturing Business Support Services Computer and Electronic Products Facilities Management Electrical Equipment, Appliance Information Management and Component Telecom Services Chemical Civil Infrastructure Paper Fabricated metal product 97 Ethical Supply Chain We present below the broad areas of supply chain engagement and some examples of our engagement areas. A low maturity is primarily due to social context and the governance mechanisms we have been able to reasonably effect. Broad Supplier Role Sub-Categories Materiality Maturity Examples of Engagement For resource subcontracting, we have extended our diversity and Contract Workforce High Medium-High equal opportunity program to our people supply chain in India and this encourages the suppliers to provide a diverse resource base, especially women and persons with disabilities. Also see Partner Employee Engagement Initiative on Pages 61 People For our subcontracted manual and skill labor, efforts are made to Skilled and Medium Low extend the bidding to all suppliers especially to organizations / Unskilled Labour NGOs and suppliers who have a focus on diversity and can bring in diverse candidates like women, people with disability and people from socially and economically backward communities. Our Code of Conduct has a clear no-compromise position on core human rights principles, like elimination of child and forced labour. Socio-economic context and education /information have a crucial role to play in improving compliance in spirit. Transport, Utility High Medium Periodic review of performance and Integrating feedback. Service (Electricity, Water) Providers The responsible water use framework study, which we are doing with a reputed NGO, works closely with local water authorities and suppliers. The preliminary report from the study and its larger advocacy goals were discussed with a wide representative stakeholder group in the water sector. Civil and High Medium The supplier code of conduct was launched in early 2012. In Materials and Infrastructure association with two expert organizations, an environmental Equipment and social risk profiling study was completed for our supply chain (see case study at the end of this section). Providers Software/ Hardware Medium Medium-High Most of our software and hardware providers are large multinational organizations. We have been collaborating with our supply chain over the past few years as part of our green computing program which is based on sourcing of energy efficient hazardous substances free components. 98 Ethical Supply Chain OUR BROAD APPROACH TO SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Ecological Responsible Local Wipro expects its suppliers to adhere On ecological sustainability, our We recognize that it is our extended Recognizing the socio-economic to similar standards of ethics and expectations from suppliers are responsibility to maintain oversight benefits of local procurement, we integrity as for itself. twofold – first, we expect suppliers for the fact that our suppliers and encourage sourcing from the local Wipro launched ‘Supplier Code of to supply products and services that contractors adhere to the minimum economy. Conduct’; this Code shall apply to all exceed environmental standards. In principles of human rights and Suppliers who engage in business particular, for our LEED buildings employee welfare. As per our Aligned to the LEED standards, relationships with Wipro or on and for our Energy Star green ‘supplier code of conduct’, suppliers nearly 50% of the construction behalf of Wipro. The term ‘Wipro’ computers, our suppler selection materials are sourced locally. shall include all its group companies, criterion is entirely based on this set > Demonstrate – in policy and action subsidiaries and affiliates. of capabilities. – zero tolerance for child and forced At an aggregate level, nearly 88% (up labor from 80% in 10-11) of our supplier Our Ombudsprocess is available 24X7 As per new ‘Supplier Code of > Adhere to regulations and laws base is based in India; by value, 73% (online and through specified Conduct’ -Wipro Suppliers are regarding child labour (up from 44% in 09-10 and 68% in contacts) for suppliers and expected to contribute to preserving > Adhere to all regulations on 10-11) of the procurement for the year contractors to report any breach of nature and be responsible for minimum wages, maximum was from these India based code of conduct by Wipro employees. conducting safe and working hours etc suppliers. In 2011-12, we have launched a environmentally-sound operations. > Adhere to regulations on ‘equal multilingual 24X7 call center. There is a direct impact on the employment opportunity and We have also started an exercise in environment through our daily non-discrimination/ no harassment consolidating our supply chain base During 2011-12, there were 25 consumption needs of natural > Protect health and safety of – to make our engagement more instances of suppliers who were resources via energy, water and employees focused and meaningful. found in breach of the, subsequent to other inputs in our process. Wipro > Demonstrate – in policy and which we terminated and Suppliers shall comply with action – zero tolerance for child and blacklisted 6. For the balance 19 applicable environment and related forced labor where the breaches were not laws and regulations. > Demonstrate business relationship serious-limited actions were taken and compliance with anti-bribery along with counseling and warnings As regards Health & Safety, Wipro laws Suppliers shall take appropriate Green Computing: Over a two year measures to prevent workplace We influence suppliers who are in period, we have worked with 30 injuries and ill health and to provide the breach to take corrective actions suppliers covering 100% of targeted employees with a safe and healthy and help them with measures like components to meet requirements. working environment by counseling and warning considering evolving industry practices and societal standards of care. 99 Ethical Supply Chain Supply chain program – the first steps Key summary data from the study: We have taken the first steps of our supply chain program this year, starting with Green computing: Of the total supplier base of 94 , just 5 suppliers contribute to the roll out of the supplier code of conduct. In association with Trucost and nearly 60% of the carbon footprint while 50% of the suppliers contribute to nearly Fronesys (two UK based organizations), we have also completed a preliminary 99% of the footprint. This concentration suggests that reductions can be made by environmental and social risk assessment of our supplier base. On the engaging with only a handful of the top contributing suppliers. The total GHG environmental impact side, the study estimate is based on Trucost’s database of emissions footprint estimated from all of the supply chain activities is 21705 tons environmental data from 4000+ companies and a hybridised input-output of CO2 equivalent. The below graphic shows the footprint of our operations (16% econometric model based on different environmental resources and business of total GHG footprint) in comparison to the supply chain (the balance 84%). activities. The social risk assessment was based on a weighted scores based on following metrics: Operational Supply Chain Human rights risk for the country of supply Corruption risk for the country of supply 25 1018 Child labour risk for the country of supply Waste (tons) Product category risk Risk associated with level of spend Risk associated with volume of units purchased 4400 21705 Emission (tons CO2 equiv.) Internet sentiment score The initial hotspot analysis then drove an engagement process (only for the 3 18000 1726703 Water m computing division) with the top 50 suppliers responsible for Wipro’s supply chain environmental impacts. There was a 24% response rate from this engagement process, which is low, but the companies that responded were IT Services business: Out of 174 suppliers analysed who make up for 90% of responsible for over 50% of Wipro’s supply chain environmental impacts. The top total expenditure, the top 5 contributes to a quarter of carbon footprint, while areas of suppliers business which have a higher social risk profile are from the top 50 contribute to 60% of the footprint. The total GHG emissions footprint hospitality, security and other office based people support services. estimated from all the IT services supply chain activities is 21,778 tons of CO2 equivalent. The next steps in the program is to prioritise risk areas and select suppliers for a Operational Supply Chain detailed engagement; with the intention to first understand and then collaborate with them on a jointly agreed program to better environmental and social 1311 tons 2694 tons performance . This will be done through a program consisting of periodic Waste footprint reporting, benchmarking, assessments and feedback. Our aim is to progressively include sustainability considerations into procurement decisions. 2034330 m 3 4442863 m 3 Water footprint In contrast to IT products, IT services presents a differing picture where a significant part of the overall footprint is from operations this is primarily due to the low raw material dependency of the supply chain. 100 Ethical Supply Chain Wipro’s Education and Community other civil society organizations, in working towards a more democratic Wipro applying thought care initiatives continue the schools, teachers, students and and humane society in schools multi-pronged, multi-stakeholder, parents. long-term approach taken by Wipro Wipro Applying Thought in Schools is a Over time these have achieved signifiTowards the larger objectives as more than a decade back. The social initiative of Wipro’s working on cant scale in terms of 1000s of schools described, each of the initiatives initiatives address diverse building capacities in school and colleges and many lakhs people below have followed strategies education reform in India. Our work in stakeholders ranging from the touched directly or indirectly. It has appropriate to their own context – education is driven by the belief that proximate communities to Wipro also built partnership networks and the context determines the strategy. education is a key enabler of social facilities and colleges from which thus created value through capacity Wipro Cares focuses on ensuring change. We believe in a social vision of Wipro recruits a large pool of its building. Such value though needs to overall wellness & sustainable living democracy where each citizen is not human resources to the larger society. be seen at different levels: for communities and hence has only capable in an individual sense The impact of these will be felt in the • The direct value received by someone supported direct provision of but also sees the ethic of equity, the short and long term both and this is receiving a healthcare service or healthcare services, school education, essentiality of diversity, the ethos of done by engagement with as diverse school education environmental restoration and justice, and is thus driven by social stakeholders as village and peri-urban • The indirect value in the long-term to disaster rehabilitation. Mission 10X sensitivity. Schools have to be spaces communities, local educational and society through the capacities that are focuses on making the engineering that nurture these principles, healthcare institutions, engineering created education system responsive to capabilities & values. colleges, universities, educational and • The indirect business value to Wipro evolving needs and so has supported We believe that a sustained effort is faculty development in colleges to required and our projects are attempts Visual Summary of Wipro's Programs in increase learning with understanding to bring about a change of this kind. Education and Community Care and employability of graduates. Wipro Our key strategy is to partner with Applying Thought in Schools focuses civil society and other organizations on long-term societal development across the country in this endeavour. through school education reform and This gives us higher leverage, deeper so has supported civil society connect with the place and also capability development, published ensures higher sustainability of the EDUCATION COMMUNITY CARE quality educational support material initiatives we commence. 'Long-term disaster rehabilitation & Issues of deep systemic reform in issues of health, education and and influenced ideas in education India’s education ecosystem environment through public advocacy. Mission 10X, a Wipro For more information on our needs Wipro Cares, a non-profit trust Applying not-for-profit trust assessment of our community Thought in Schools programs please refer to page 146 of Works with (WATIS) Works with our 2010-11 Sustainability report and 700+ engineerproximate also www.wipro.org ing colleges communities across 20 Through a through partners states, reaching network 10,000 faculties of 30 partners, reaches 2000+ schools across the country 102 Education & Community Care The key outcomes in the three focus areas since 2002 can be summarized as Org Capability Edu Material & Working in schools Public Advocacy building Literature Leads to Key Impact (cumulative) Worked with around 2000 schools Supported over 65 projects with Published 3 books 3 in progress Student Learning Study results as and 10,500 educators across 17 states 30 organizations cover story of “India Today” reaching around 800,000 students. Learning Standards for primary Partner network of 27 of India’s classes Student Misconception video foremost educational organizations disseminated to 10,000 schools A video series on Student 14 Wipro Fellows recruited so far Misconceptions Completed Quality Edu. Study, advocacy efforts underway Focus themes going forward Within these areas our current focus is on: Outcome areas Our aim is bring about a systemic Within the various possible outcome > Ecology & education We feel that these areas are integral to change towards what we envision as areas, based on historical experience > Affective education & school any conception of good education but “good education”. Our idea of what is and assessment of strengths, we have environment are very often neglected good education has been outlined in identified three key areas to focus on: > Social Sciences the reports before and can also be read > Organizational capability building: > Language education specifically in detail on the website to help organizations increase focused on multi-lingual approaches (www.wiproeducation.com ) under the capability in bringing about quality titles: “Good Education” and “Our Our current focus area: education by working in different Concerns on school education”. parts of India and in different In moving in this direction, the most knowledge areas important thing is to identify gaps in > Educational material & Literature: to the current system and address them. address paucity of good quality Ecology & educational material and literature to Through our decade long experience, education we have identified gap areas which are aid in this effort integral to the above conception of > Public Advocacy: to increase Affective education but are most often education & awareness and critical thinking neglected. Social Sciences amongst educationists, parents and school environment government Language Thus our current strategy, in short, is education to focus on the above outcomes and theme areas. 103 Education & Community Care Project update by themes Theme area Overall idea Specific projects Key 2011-12 updates Ecology Work on following key areas: •SeasonWatch with National Centre for 2 Key partnerships ‘Mathrubhumi’ in Kerala • Science & Nature Biological Sciences: A project to instill the and Centre for Science and Environment in and education • Ecological footprint and scientiﬁc spirit and connect with nature by New Delhi • Conservation. going outside the classroom and being with •In GSP2, 20 schools where identiﬁed and trees customized workshops conducted for all. Progressively integrate these into a •Green Schools Program 2 (GSP2) with Tasks to be completed by them have been connected learning experience on Centre for Science & Environment: A project identiﬁed. Continuous support being ecology and education. that makes children aware and active about provided. their ecological footprint on land, water, energy etc starting from the school campus •Nature Conservation Foundation: We have just started working on a new project that tries to bring localized knowledge created through conservation activities into school education. Affective education To bring about changes in the school • The Teacher Foundation is taking forward • The 2nd year of the intervention (2010-2011) environment by making the environment the ‘Safe and Sensitive Schools’ project by focused on helping the teachers set up & school more safe and friendly for the child. The starting work on research project that will processes and systems in the school that environment affective education element covers a wide draw on existing literature and work in this would help instill listening and appreciation range of elements: attitudes, beliefs, values, area and attempt at arriving at some kind of as part of the school culture feelings, emotions, interpersonal relations learning standards in this area. •A number of workshops and events were etc. • In a radically different approach there conducted with diverse sets of schools, is also work going on which draws on colleges and groups of educators on the The Kabir project and creates resources for theme of ‘Learning with Kabir’. The work teachers and schools to bring the richness of done and materials collated were reviewed this mystic poet to classes. to put out a bank of shareable ideas and resources through a website for teachers and educators. Social Sciences This is a new area of work for us, though Partnership with Vikramshila to •Social Sciences Textbook analysis and Social Science has been an important part consolidate on what they have done in the initial workshops have been completed. of many of the earlier projects and was one past in Social sciences and also come out •Existing curriculum has been of the focus areas within the Quality with tangible curricular material which is consolidated. Education Study(see table below). interdisciplinary and project-based. •Schools to pilot have been brought on board See table on next page 104 Education & Community Care Theme area Overall idea Specific projects Key 2011-12 updates Language education The idea here is to use the child’s mother Partnership with Eklavya in the ﬁnal stages Partnership with Eklavya in the ﬁnal stages tongue in learning other languages like of being drafted. of being drafted. specifically focused English. It is a research-based project and on multi-lingual it will look at the effectiveness of such an approaches approach. However this is more than just learning language as existing research suggests that usage of mother tongue boosts self-esteem and may have a larger link with the child’s education. Holistic school We started working on Holistic School Partnership with: •Phagi project (Direct work with 550 engagement engagement programs to build Digantar in 100 government schools in children ,20 proving academic support to 40 capacities and understand school Phagi, Rajasthan. 6 year project with schools ) concluded in its stipulated time by reform work better. teacher and community engagement in March 2012. alterative pedagogic practices, leading to • Madrasah project: Consolidate the better functioning of the government school activities and learning of the past 4 years system though resource books & documentation of ﬁeld level experiences with a Vikramshila and the West Bengal documentary ﬁlm. Madrasah Board schools in West Bengal. Intensive work done with 10 schools to improve the quality of education and with the Board by helping them in planning, reviewing and developing curricular material. 105 Education & Community Care Future plans Quality Education Study (QES) Over the 2011-12 period we have commenced 8 new projects mostly within the focus theme areas. We plan to consolidate these and align them to the reﬁned What is QES? strategy as above. Over the course of 2012-13, 4 resource/advocacy portals will be launched: A study of schools with these objectives: • Study of student performance, values and attitudes of students and •Portal on Quality Education •GoodBooks.in having reviews on good quality children’s literature teachers in popular, good schools in India •Kabir resource portal for educators • To be followed by a nation-wide campaign to expand the popular notion •SeasonWatch revamped portal for citizen science of a Good School QES covered 89 schools, 23,000 students, 800 teachers and 16 principals. We also plan to consolidate on our work in ecology and education and provide leadership in this area and shape the idea of Sustainability education within the post-awards engagement of earthian program (www.wipro.org/earthian ). We will continue on the advocacy work in QES and may take up advocacy in Key findings of QES another important area within school education. We believe that by working on these areas we would address the systemic gaps that exist in the school education system and move in the direction of our idea • Further dip in conceptual understanding of students from last study of what is good education. • Problematic biases in student attitudes and values • Schools with a participative climate have higher student performance Read more at: www.wiproeducation.com/qes Large-scale public advocacy campaign • Covered thro a 4-day series in Mint newspaper • Main Editorial and Op-Ed in The Hindu • More than 20 coverages in newspapers and magazines • Key ﬁndings shared with school principals and teachers at day long advocacy events in Chennai, Kolkata; Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore to follow • TV Panel discussion in partnership with Mint. Telecast awaited. 106 exceptional caliber of leadership from Over 1700 institutes across the country research, non-governmental organizaThe earthian program our future generations. Those in registered to participate in the ﬁrst tions and business roles. Even though schools and colleges today will be our edition of this program in 2011.The the evaluation criteria and selection Sustainability thinking has future policy makers, technocrats, engagement was through online and process were in place – picking a few environmental, social and economic administrators and educationists who face to face mediums. Over 50 employbest entries has not been an easy dimensions. It is a way of looking at will lead this change. ees across the organization volunprocess. The best entries were these issues in an integrated manner teered to mentor teams across the awarded by the Chairman of Wipro at a without straying from paying Program Design country. We also leveraged our access day long program, which comprised of attention to either the human to schools and engineering/science engaging, informative and entertaindevelopment problem or the value and This program is positioned distinctly – colleges through our long running ing sessions by experts, writers, school constraints imposed by our both in structure and expected programs, namely, education partners and college panel discussions and environment. outcomes. In the ﬁrst phase of the with Wipro Applying Thought In music performances. This kind of thinking requires program, we asked teams to write Schools and Mission10x. We also understanding, debate and action, critical and well reasoned essays on created a short video for earthian – The selected institutes are now part of especially in our educational various themes – by looking at issues that received encouraging reviews. a 3 year Continuous Engagement institutions. At Wipro, we have through the lens of different socio (http://tinyurl.com/cdtm2qo) Program (CEP) which will be a focused endeavored to work on both the economic contexts and exploring To get a drift of the approaches being intervention to embed sustainability educational challenges in schools and interrelatedness of issues. We had taken, we invited teams to submit a thinking and action in their school colleges and on ecological debates on what is the right medium brief before the main paper. We and community environments. The sustainability issues, both, within our of expression for schools and colleges. received over 1000 abstracts. At the CEP is being offered by our partners organization and outside. From our We thought writing, a skill that is ﬁnal count, we have received more and in the ﬁrst year covers teacher work in these areas came this increasingly marginalized in the than 800 entries, 60% of them from workshops, campus environmental realization that sustainability issues present times, will engage multiple schools. The 10 best entries, 5 each footprint measurement, biodiversity require greater attention in schools faculties and take them through the from schools and colleges, were and theater workshops. The 2nd and colleges. This was the genesis of rigor which one may ﬁnd hard to see selected by an eminent jury with edition of earthian will be launched in the earthian program, an annual in other mediums like a slide varied experience in academia, May 2012. program , the ﬁrst edition of which presentation, video or collage. was launched in April 2011. The purpose of earthian The vision of earthian is rooted in the challenging task that humanity faces of ﬁnding solutions to several sustainability issues – climate change, water scarcity, rapid urbanization, biodiversity loss to name just a few. The fact that solutions will have to be found to these challenges even as we ensure balanced and inclusive economic growth will require an 107 MISSION 10x It has its network across 25 Indian Key Highlights of Mission10X 2011-12 States and Union Territories viz., On 5th September 2007, Mission10X a Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West ALW: Initiated Academic Leadership Workshop for the Principals of engineering not-for-profit initiative of Wipro Bengal, Maharashtra, Orissa, Kerala, colleges to help them in institution building. This leadership workshop helps embarked a journey – “to transform Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Uttar Principals to enhance their strategic thinking capabilities, vision building, engineering education in India”. With Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Punjab, skills and competency developments. This program is designed in collaboration the growing demand and need for Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, with international partners like Development Dimension International (DDI) engineers in the economy, it is a chalHaryana, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Chhatand Harvard Business School Publishing (HBSP) along with Mission10X Research lenge for the education system to be tisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tripura, Center. responsive and adapt quickly to the Sikkim, Assam, Goa and Jammu & Conclave 2011: The Mission10X Conclave was conducted to provide a platform to changing demands and requirements Kashmir. teachers in sharing their classroom experiences and various Mission10X teachfrom the Industry. ing methodologies that were implemented across classrooms. Various groups To overcome the challenges faced by were formed to discuss and work on “Mathematics and its applications in Engithe industry, Wipro initiated neering”. 120 faculty members from 38 colleges across Karnataka took part in Mission10X to empower the engineerGlobal Recognitions: this Conclave. ing faculty on new methods of IIT Madras MoU: Partnered with IIT Madras to collaborate in the areas of teachTeaching-Learning. > World Economic Forum featured ing, learning and research. Graduates from the top engineering colleges in India Mission10X closely works with faculty Mission10X among 50 best talent rank excellently in employment suitability, but there is a steep decline in qualmembers and Principals from various mobility good practices across the ity beyond the top-tier institutions. To address such issues Mission10X signed a Engineering Institutions across India. world. It was highlighted as the MoU with IIT Madras, this MoU intends to bring collaborations in the areas of collaborative work Teaching, Learning and Research in Engineering Education. Mission10X Learning Approach is a of the industry and academia which MTLC: Launched Mission10X Technology Learning Center to bridge the technolmethodology designed to empower addresses skill gaps in engineering ogy gap between Academy and Industry. This platform will help faculty to the faculty members with innovative educational scenario in India. provide experimental and project based learning to theirs students. The MTLC teaching techniques which enables being part of the Unified Technology Learning Platform (UTLP) provides an teachers to: > Mission10X was honored with the opportunity for students to work on industry relevant projects and gain the • Imbibe higher levels of understand“Best Practice” award at the 13th necessary skills required by the Industry. Currently 12 technology centers have ing of a subject Annual Corporate University Exchange been inaugurated at engineering colleges across India. • Effectively apply the concepts learnt (“Corp U”) Awards for Excellence and Mission10X Impact Study: This was conducted in engineering classrooms which to practical situations, and Innovation at the University of opened insightful points about the changing classroom practices. 220 • Develop key behavioral skills Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, USA. Mission10xians across the state participated in this study. Though the results of required for employability. Mission10X won this award in the the study are to be officially published, the study indicated that the attitude of “Launching” category for its effort in teachers and the pedagogy followed in the classroom have changed enormously Since its launch Mission10X has addressing the long-term need to after teachers underwent Mission10X workshops. gained tremendous recognition and improve the employability of Indian Karnataka Conclave 2012: A congregation of Industry and Academia to bring out momentum in the field of engineering engineering graduates. the best practices that can benefit both Institution and the Organization. It was education. Mission10X has reached held on the 25th August, 2012 at Vidya Vikas Institute of Engineering and Techout to over 1,200 engineering colleges nology, Mysore. The theme of this Conclave was “Innovative topics for interdisciacross 25 States in India and has plinary projects”. Over 110 participants from 20 engineering colleges in and empowered over 23,000 engineering around Mysore took part in this event. Principals from various colleges shared faculty members. the impact of Mission10X in their colleges while the faculty members shared some of their best classroom experiences. 108 Education & Community Care Mission10x: Future Directions Mission10X aims at reaching greater Mission10X also plans to extend heights and it plans to do the Mission10X workshops to faculty in following through an online Center of Science Colleges: Excellence. Being aware of the fact that faculties This Center of Excellence would in Science Colleges do not have much include creating an Online Learning Industry Orientation, Mission10X System on ‘Pedagogy’ as part of conducted surveys to assess the Education Support; Video modules on feasibility of extending such various methods of Pedagogy, workshops to them. converting the 5 days Faculty Empowerment Program and Academic • The results of the survey are Leadership workshops into interactive encouraging and training modules video sessions and role / career based would be designed based on the Learning plan for faculty in survey outcomes engineering colleges • It is planned to roll pilot workshops to these faculty during Q3 of 2012-13 “Mission10X is an extraordinary effort in building the builders of the nation; I learnt the science and art of teaching with the effective tips given from extraordinary facilitators from Mission10X. I am proud to be part of Mission10X community”. A faculty participant 25 States 1,200 Engineering 23,000 Colleges Engineering Faculty Members 109 Education & Community Care Wipro Cares The theme and its macro context for The primary stakeholders and the Wipro: most material issues that arise Covers Responsibility towards proximate from them: 30 Villages communities, specially pertaining to The principal stakeholders for Wipro more disadvantaged sections, is not Cares include Wiproites, NGO partners just the prerogative but duty of every and most importantly, marginalized 71500+ responsible corporate citizen. It is proximate communities that face Kids with this belief and philosophy that challenges with regards to access to Wipro Cares was formed. A strong focus quality education and healthcare, on marginalized communities in degraded environments and that are Built immediate neighborhoods on issues of affected by natural disasters. 539 Houses access to quality education and healthcare, degraded environments and disaster rehabilitation is based on Key highlights of Wipro Cares 2011-12 the ‘Spirit of Wipro’, which drives the Supported Supportedaapopulation population ofof 45,000 45,000 covering covering 30 villages 30 villages in Aurangabad, in Aurangabad, Tumkur and Tumkur and Hindupur charter of Wipro Cares. Primary Health Primary Health CareCare Services Services with OPDwithand RCH (Reproductive Child Health) facilities Hindupur OPD and RCH (Reproductive Child Health) facilities Wipro Cares is organized as a Trust Started Startedsimilar similar projects projects inin Mysore Mysore andand Amalner Amalner coveringcovering a population a population of 5000 people of 5000 people with funds donated by Wiproites being matched by Wipro. In each location, Wipro Cares work is driven by a Access toto Access Education Education Supported Supportedthe the education education ofof 71500+ 71500+ children children in 6 &cities in 6 cities & 1village through 8through 1village projects 8 projects Location Committee made of volunteering Wiproites. Restoration of Environment Restoration of Environment Planted more Plant more than than 25,000 25,000 treestrees and generated and generated livelihoodlivelihood for more than more for 25 subsistence than 25farmers subsistence in Its charter is to support the farmers in rural rural Tamil NaduTamil through Nadu through a social forestry social forestry project a project developmental needs of marginalized communities in those cities and towns where Wipro has a large presence and Disaster Disaster Rehabilitation Rehabilitation Karnataka KarnatakaFloods project Floods project completed, completed, builtbuilt 539 houses for two for 539 houses two (Yadgir districts districts (Yadgir & & Koppal) in North Koppal) inKarnataka North Karnataka offer Wiproites an opportunity to engage meaningfully with local Completed Completedthe projectwhich the project which provided provided eco sanitation, eco sanitation, dug dug wells, harvesting harvestwells, rainwater rainwater communities. The primary focus of ingfor a village for a villageof 90ofhouseholds which was 90 households wasby affected which the Kosi by affected theinKosi floods Biharfloods in Bihar Wipro Cares is to ensure overall Carried out Carried out global collection a aglobal drive collection drive forfor Japan, Japan, collected collected 100,000 100,000 USDwas USD which which was donated donated wellness & sustainable living for to Ashinaga, to Ashinaga, NGO that ananNGO that supports supportsthe educational the educational and emotional and emotional needs of children needs of children communities with larger ecological sustainability in mind. Overseas Overseas Trained134 Trained 134professionals through professionals through its Communication its Communication Excellence for Publicfor Excellence Public EducaEducation Wipro Cares approach to engage (CEPE) initiative in Philippines tion (CEPE) initiative in Philippines meaningfully with communities includes clearly identifying areas of Employee Employee Engagement Engagement Increasedemployee Increased employee engagement engagement through various through campaigns various across Wipro campaigns locations across Wipro locations engagement, with appropriate pan-India, currently have a base of around 700 volunteers pan-India, currently have a base of around 700 volunteers partners and well defined measures & governance to assess social impact of Clocked Clockedin inaround around 900 900volunteering volunteering hourshours in Indiain India in 2011-12 in 2011-12 each project. 110 Education & Community Care Brief Description of the New Projects in 2011-12 Mysore Health Care project, Karnataka: Social Forestry in Rural Communities, TIST, Tiruvallur and Mysore Health Care Project is one of our recent projects, which was started in Tiruvannamalai District, Tamil Nadu: Dec 2011. Wipro Consumer Care & Lighting Group (WCCLG) and Wipro Infotech The project involves sustainable tree plantation and its scientific management Ltd (WI) has a presence in Mysore. The chosen villages in Mysore, house around along with generation of livelihoods for farmers. The project is managed by TIST 70% of schedule caste and 30% of (Other Backward Caste’) OBC’s. The project (The International Small Group & Tree Planting Program) but the governance caters to the primary health care needs of 5 villages in Mysore taluk reaching model is really one of collaborative community management of the commons – out to a population of around 3000. The project includes focus on personal and this ensures stability, consistency and eventual durability of the trees. We have community health and hygiene with specific emphasis on women and child continued to support TIST for the second year with another 25,000 tree saplings health. Since December 2011 the project has catered to the medical needs of 1035 on about 40 acres of land. This project is a stand-out example of an initiative that people, 9 health awareness programs, on personal and community hygiene, meets both, ecological and social goals in a balanced manner. The program is the were organized which were attended by 270 people. 83 malnourished children recipient of several awards from the state forest department. have been identified through the health camps. Aikyatan Primary School, Midnapore, West Bengal: Amalner Health care Project, Maharashtra: Wipro Cares is attempting to provide educational opportunities to rural children Amalner Health Care Project is one of our most nascent projects. It was started in through Aikyatan Primary School in rural Bengal. This school was started by January 2012. Amalner is considered as the birth place of Wipro; currently we few dedicated youths of the area, to address the educational needs of the have a Wipro Consumer Care & Lighting Group (WCCLG) plant situated in Amalner. children in that area. 43 children benefited from the project and were promoted The five villages selected for the project, lack adequate health care facilities. The to the next higher class. project aims at providing curative and preventive health care facilities, along with working towards increasing the efficacy of existing health care infrastructure. Since January 2012, 374 people availed the health care services. 111 Education & Community Care Communication Excellence for Public Education (CEPE), Philippines: The Communication Excellence for Public Education (CEPE) initiative was launched by the Wipro Philippines team in May 2011 under the aegis of Wipro Cares. CEPE initiative aims to produce better English speakers in the country’s graduate pool. By partnering with the Department of Education, Wipro hopes to increase the students’ test scores by helping public high school teachers improve their verbal and written proficiency in the English language through training and refresher courses on communication skills. 134 professionals from the ﬁeld were trained through five batches of training Rural Connect– Partnering in the Common Services Center(CSC) for Rural Communities Program Wipro is part of a consortium, anchored by the Indian Institute of Management – Bangalore, comprising of a group of organizations who volunteered to join in a true PPP (Public Private Partnership) spirit aimed at bringing a constructive change in Rural India. This is by way of introducing sustainable Common Service Center (CSC) at Gram Panchayat level in line with the objectives of the National E-Governance Plan. The CSC is intended to be an effective service delivery mechanism to all stakeholders –Public, Private and more importantly Citizens of Rural India. The CSC’s provide high quality and cost-effective video, voice and data content and services, in the areas of e-governance, agriculture and allied sectors, artisans, education, health, telemedicine, insurance as well as other private services. A highlight of the CSCs is that they will offer web-enabled e-governance services in rural areas, including application forms, certificates, PHOTO OF RURAL CONNECT and utility payments such as electricity, telephone and water bills etc. There are 15 CSC centers running in Gubbi Taluk, Tumkur District, Karnataka State at Gram Panchayat Level. 112 Education & Community Care Good policies and regulations help At Wipro, we have always strongly Advocacy and catalyze social change and environbelieved that meeting the challenges public policy mental protection by aligning the of development cannot be the incentives and benefits of all stakegovernment’s job alone and that the holders. A good policy can be differenbusiness sector must participate tiated from a mediocre one by how along with other stakeholders. Our easy it is to implement and by sustainability advocacy is whether benefits derived from it constructed on the three pillars of: outweigh the costs of compliance. The short history of social and environDirect policy inputs to government mental regulation over the last few Engagement and dialog as part of decades has been characterized by a industry networks ‘Business Vs Government’ position Publications and Disclosures that that is ruled by a paradigm of compliadvance and further knowledge ance, rather than collaboration and action between the two. This paradigm must change to one of constructive dialog Our areas of focus have been Climate and interaction especially in the Change, CSR norms, Green Rating of arena of sustainability where enlightcompanies, Green Procurement and ened regulation can be a clear differe-Waste. The visual below illustrates entiator for driving change. A sterling our actions in the area of climate example is the Clean Air Act, 1990 in change on the praxis of the three the U.S.A – over a 20 year period, it has pillars mentioned above. resulted in a cumulated savings of $ 20 Bn and avoided premature deaths of CII Climate Change Council 10000 people for a total compliance CII working group on CSR cost of $ 870 million. The Indian Planning Commission working group on Water business sector has been an active Industry CII working group on public procurement participant in both, policy formulaNetworks CII committee for Persons with Disability tion and in a more general process of debate and dialog on various challenges of development and Wipro-EI study of 'Quality of Education' sustainability. Clean Energy, Climate Publications Carbon Disclosure Project, GRI Report Public Policy Change, Energy Efficiency, Water, & Disclosures e-waste, Green Procurement and Corporate Social Responsibility norms are some of the areas where the business and government have been Direct Policy Proposed CSR rules in Companies Bill 2012 engaged with each other quite deeply. Inputs Education reforms Water and Land strategy for 12th plan 114 Advocacy and Public Policy Our engagement in sustainability advocacy is summarized in the table below where we articulate the highlights of five of our engagements on multiple areas: Sustainability rating of companies, CSR norms, Green procurement, Solar Energy roadmap for India and e-waste regulation. Program Key Highlights Planning Commission working The Planning Commission constituted several working groups as part of the process of the 12th plan formulation. groups on ‘Land and Water’ Wipro was part of one such group that was tasked with looking at issues of land and water. As part of the inputs, we provided a position paper where we articulated our views. On Water, a key issue that we think needs urgent addressing is that of strategic management of groundwater in terms of endowment, entitlement, pricing and rainwater harvesting. How well we manage this issue will determine our water future that is, in turn, inextricably linked to sustainable economic development. CII-ITC CESD work group on The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development (CESD) constituted a working group that was tasked with the goals proposed CSR rules in of coming out with a set of recommendations that would represent industry’s position on the above points. Wipro Companies Bill 2012 has played a central role in this whole exercise which is still ongoing. Wipro’s position on mandatory CSR spend is that such a move would eventually prove counter-productive. We think that CSR must flow naturally from a company’s values and convictions and that any mandate based regime will kill the motivation to go the extra mile and will lend itself to window-dressing and trying to game the system . Good work cannot and must not be legislated. This is different from the need to legislate environmental protection which must be done, albeit in a transparent manner. Quality of Education study in Based on two year study of nearly 900 schools across the country, we along with our partner EI published a detailed partnership with Education analytical study of quality of school education in India’s urban school system. The study was covered in detail in Initiatives (EI) select national press media. We convened discussions with schools and other stakeholders in education across the four cities of Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore and New Delhi . In addition, the report shared with thousands of schools across country. The Study and discussions around it can be accessed at www.qualityeducationstudy.com CDP working group on ICT We were part of the working group constituted by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) that was tasked with providsector module ing detailed inputs towards creating a sector specific module for the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry. This module will constitute additional questions that ICT companies will need to respond to as part of the annual CDP disclosure process. We have been part of the CII Climate Change Council that works towards advocacy around GHG mitigation in industry and works with government on the several dimensions that frame this issue. The council led the industry Initiatives on e-Waste and delegation to the Durban Conference of Parties (COP 17) Climate Change We have been playing a central role – through MAIT (Manufacturers Association of Information Technology) in the provision of inputs to the e-Waste rules 2012. While we believe in the need for such a regulation, we think that act in its current form does need directional changes so as to make it more transparent and less cumbersome, inclusive of the informal sector and to create the right structure of incentives for all stakeholders i.e. producers, recyclers and end-users. 115 Advocacy and Public Policy Wipro and regulatory compliance As a responsible corporate citizen and driven by our core values of integrity the common regulations and directives that Wipro complies with in the and ethics, Wipro has an exemplary record of compliance with government financial, labor and environmental domains across the geographies we regulations in all the countries that it operates in. The visual below illustrates operate in. Taxation (Payment of Excise duties, Sales tax, Customs duties, Corporate Income Tax) Mandatory publishing of quarterly and annual results (both U.S. GAAP and Indian GAAP) Financial Compliance with SEBI guidelines for companies listed on Indian stock exchanges and with SEC rules for companies regulations listed on U.S. stock exchanges Compliance with requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act Maximum number of working hours per week Minimum number of days for casual and sick leave Labor Minimum Wages Act regulations Shops and Establishments act Freedom to form trade unions and employee associations Laws in EU and American countries that govern data privacy on employee information Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) prior to the start of a new facility Clearance from state Pollution Control Board (PCB) on measures for water treatment, diesel storage, handling and Environmental disposal of hazardous substances etc. This is required prior to the commencement of a new facility and subsequently regulations on an annual basis Compliance with e-Waste rules 2012 Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) is an important reference Code of business conduct with the government anchor that determines our compliance with key regulations pertaining to labor and human rights, anti bribery and anti corruption, supplier As with other business partners, our code of business conduct and ethics responsibility and transparency on government engagements. There were governs our engagement with governments and regulatory authorities. no instances of environmental fines paid by us during the reporting year. The Code covers Wipro’s policy on lobbying and dealing with Government contracts. We do not as a matter of policy, contribute to political parties in cash or kind in any geography that we operate in. 116 Advocacy and Public Policy 6a FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION We welcome our readers’ feedback, points of view and suggestions on Wipro’s Sustainability Report 2011-12 in particular and on our sustainability program in general and look forward to hearing from you. it is your honest feedback that will enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program. You may write to us at any of the following contact points: Name Contact Details Wipro sustainability team sustain.report@wipro.com Mr. P.S. Narayan WIPRO LIMITED Vice President & Head Sustainability Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India Tel. +91-080-25056766 Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. R. Sridhar WIPRO LIMITED CFO & Investors’ Relations East Brunswick, Tower 2, Americas & Europe New Jersey, US Ph: +1 732-509-1516 Email: sridhar.ramasubbu@wipro.com Mr. Santosh Karagada Wipro Limited Vice President & Head HR 2 Tower Center Boulevard, Americas & Europe Suite 2200, East Brunswick, New Jersey Tel: +1-818-620-6506 Email: sontosh.karagada@wipro.com Mr. Manoj Jaiswal Wipro Limited Vice President & Corporate Treasurer Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India (Can be contacted for queries and Tel. 91 80 28440011 (Extn. 226186) clarification on financial matters) Email: manoj.jaiswal@wipro.com 117 Feedback and Communication Independent Assurance Statement Introduction The reporting boundary is as set out in the Report, i.e. covers the company’s IT Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the Management of Wipro business (which includes Software services, BPO services and IT products) only, the Limited (‘the Company’) to carry out an independent assurance engagement on the Consumer Care and lightning and Infrastructure Engineering business units, other Wipro Limited Sustainability Report 2011-12 (‘the Report’).This assurance engagement joint ventures and subsidiaries under Wipro Limited are not included and is has been conducted against the Global Reporting Initiative, 2011 Sustainability planned to be separately reported. Also during the assurance process we did not Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1(GRI G3.1) and AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance come across limitations to the scope of the assurance engagement; external Standard 2008 (AA1000AS (2008)). The verification was conducted during May 2012 to stakeholder engagement was limited to employees at sites visited and certain March 2013 for the year of activities covered in the Report, 1st April 2011 to 31st outsourced partners, as part of this assurance engagement. March 2012. Verification Methodology The intended users of this assurance statement are the management of Wipro This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the Limited and readers of this Report. The Management of the company is responsible AA1000AS (2008) and the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. for all data and information provided in the Report as well as the processes for The Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: collecting, analysing and reporting the information. DNV’s responsibility • Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality regarding this verification is to company only and in accordance with the agreed determination process; scope of work. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data • adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness as set and information provided to us is complete and true. out in the AA1000AS (2008); the reliability of the specified sustainability performance information, as required for a Type 2, moderate level assurance engagement as per Scope, boundary and limitations of Assurance AA1000 (2008), The scope of work agreed upon with Wipro Limited includes verification of the • adherence to the additional principles of Completeness and Neutrality as set out following: in DNV’s Protocol, and • The content of the Sustainability Report 2011-12, i.e. reporting of economic, • the principles and requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an application level A+. environmental, and social indicators, related to its Wipro Technologies (WT), Wipro Infotech (WI) and Wipro Business Process Outsourcing (WBPO); As part of the engagement, DNV has verified the statements and claims made in the • Evaluation of the AccountAbility principles and speciﬁed performance Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information, described below, for a Type 2, moderate level of assurance, information flow and controls. In doing so, we have: in accordance with the requirements of AA1000AS (2008) detailed below: • Reviewed the Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality > Information relating to company’s sustainability issues, responses, determination process; performance data, case studies and underlying systems for the • Veriﬁed the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and management of such information and data; assessed the robustness of the data management system, information flow and > Information relating to company’s materiality assessment and controls; stakeholder engagement processes; • Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available • Conﬁrm that the Report meets the requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an by Wipro Limited; Application Level A+, as declared by Wipro Limited. • Visited the Corporate Ofﬁce at Bangalore, Computer factory at Kotdwar, four Development centers and Business process outsourcing centers located in India 118 Independent Assurance Statement i.e. at Chennai, Greater Noida, Pune and Kolkata; Reliability: The majority of qualitative and quantitative information verified at • Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and corporate office and site were found to be accurate, however some of the data decision-makers from different divisions and functions of the company; inaccuracies identified during the site verification process were found to be • Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors Company’s sustainability related policies, as described in the Report; have been corrected; Hence in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) requirements • Performed limited stakeholder engagement especially with employees and waste for a Type 2, moderate level assurance engagement, we are of the opinion that the handlers to verify the qualitative statements made in the report; Report is generally reliable and acceptable. • Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and Specific evaluation of the information on sustainability performances: We managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report. consider the methodology and process for gathering information developed by the Wipro for its sustainability performance reporting is appropriate and the Conclusions qualitative and quantitative data included in the Report, was found to be identiWipro Sustainability Report 2011-12 provides a fair representation of the Company’s fiable and traceable; the personnel responsible was able to demonstrate the origin sustainability policies, objectives, management approach and performance during and interpretation of the data and its reliability. We also assessed the reported the reporting year. DNV also confirms that the Report meets the requirements for progress against the company’s commitments as disclosed in its previous Report GRI application level A +.We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following and observed that the Report presents a faithful description of the sustainability principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: activities and the goals achieved. Additional Parameters as per DNV’s Protocol AA1000AS (2008) principles Completeness: Report has fairly attempted to respond to sustainability performance Inclusivity: Stakeholder engagement process and outcomes are well established, based on the reporting requirements of GRI G3.1 including response to core documented and implemented across the IT Business entities; company engages indicators for the application level A for the reported boundary, in our opinion with its identified stakeholders through different modes and at frequent intervals the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. and the inputs from the stakeholder engagement has been reported with due regard Neutrality: Report presents the Company sustainability performance and related to materiality. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle issues in a transparent and balanced manner, in terms of content and tone. In our is ‘Good’. opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Materiality: The Company has a documented an effective process to determine materiality issues of significance to its IT businesses and has established Opportunities for Improvement appropriate strategies, systems and policies to manage its sustainability The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for performance. In our opinion the material issues have been appropriately improvement reported to the management of Wipro Limited and are considered for prioritised and responded to in the Report and the level at which the drawing our conclusion on the Report; however they are generally consistent with Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. the management’s objectives: Responsiveness: We consider that the Company has responded adequately to key • to disclose the sustainability performance at regular interval (quarterly) on its stakeholder concerns, through its policies and management systems and the same sustainability disclosure web site and publish the sustainability report well in time are adequately reflected in the Report. In our view, the level at which the Report i.e. 3 – 4 months from close of reporting period, so as to enable stakeholder to make adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. informed decisions well in time; 119 Independent Assurance Statement Green House Gas Verification • to strengthen the organisation wide data management system i.e. the The verification of Green House Gas Inventory (‘the GHG Inventory’) for Wipro’s (IT sustainability performance data may be captured at source at the various operating business) covering the period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012 was carried out as locations through an Information technology enabled system to further improve part of the verification and assurance of Wipro Limited Sustainability Report 2011-12 as requested by Wipro Limited. the accuracy and reliability of reported data. The intended users of this statement are the management of Wipro Limited. The DNV’s Competence and Independence Management of the company is responsible for all data and information provided DNV is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental to us, as well as the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting this information. The responsibility of Det Norske Vertitas As (DNV) regarding this and social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV states its verification is to company only and in accordance with the agreed scope of work. independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. The verification engagement is based on the assumption that the data and In 2011-12, DNV did not work with Wipro Limited on any engagements that could information provided to us is complete and true. compromise the independence or impartiality of our findings, conclusions and recommendations. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or For details related to scope of work, verification methodology, Independence and other relevant conclusions and opportunities for improvement, please refer to the data included in the Report, with the exception of this Assurance Statement. DNV Independent Assurance Statement in the Wipro Limited Sustainability Report maintains complete impartiality toward any people interviewed. DNV expressly 2011-12 and the management report issued to Wipro. DNV expressly disclaims any disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based make based on this Assurance Statement. on this verification Statement. The verification was of based on limited/moderate verification approach as per DNV VeriSustain and sample verification was carried out at 5 locations in India. On the basis of our verification methodology and scope of work agreed upon nothing For Det Norske Veritas AS, has come to our attention that would cause us not to believe that the Green House Gas assertion (of Wipro’s IT business) as below is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG data and information. Source GHG Emission (Tons of Co2 e) Vadakepatth Nandkumar Antonio Astone Process emissions and other direct emissions Project Manager, Scope 1 (Fuel & Fugitive emission; emission from 36,310 Assurance Reviewer, National Head-Sustainability & Global Sustainability Manager, waste not included) Business Excellence Services, DNV Business Assurance, Italy. 255,690 Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Det Norske Veritas AS, India. Total GHG Emission (tons of Co2 e) 292,000 Bangalore, India, 25th March 2013. For Det Norske Veritas AS Signed: Vadakepatth Nandkumar Lead Verifier National Head, Sustainability and Business Excellence Det Norske Veritas AS, India Bangalore, India. 25th March 2013. 120 Independent Assurance Statement GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS The table below is a glossary of all the acronyms used in the Wipro (Note: Acronyms suffixed with the [w] symbol indicate that they are Sustainability Report. specific to Wipro) Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference AA1000 is a series of standards from AccountAbility to help organizations become AA1000 AccountAbility Standard www.accountability.org more accountable, responsible and sustainable. AC Air Conditioning Air cooling system that provides thermal comfort in buildings, cars etc. American Depository ADR, ADS Represents ownership in shares of non-US company that trades in US financial markets. Receipt / Shares AGM Annual General Meeting An annual meeting of public companies with shareholders as required by law. All Hands Meet A business unit forum where leaders present strategy, assess progress and discuss AHM[w] plans with employees. All India Council for www.aicte-india.org/ AICTE National level Apex Advisory related to technical education. Technical Education AMI Advanced Metering Electricity metering infrastructure systems which measure, analyse and communicate Infrastructure with utility consumption devices. AMR Advanced Meter Reading Electricity metering infrastructure which is a part of the smart grid solution. APAC Asia Pacific Abbreviation for the region: Asia-Pacific and Japan. Applied Research in Intelligent Lab created in partnership between Imec-a leading research organization in ARISE Systems Engineering nano-electronics and nano-technology and Wipro ASTD American Society for A non-profit association for workplace learning and performance professionals. www.astd.org Training and Development Asian Sustainability Rating An environment, social and governance ESG benchmarking tool developed by ASR Responsible Research and CSR Asia. www.asiansr.org/ Ashoka Trust for research in NGO, based in India, working to promote environmental conservation ATREE Ecology and Environment and sustainable development. www.atree.org BEE Bureau of Energy Efficiency Statutory body under Ministry of Power, Government of India. www.bee-india.nic.in 121 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference B.Ed Bachelor of Education A basic graduate program in India for entry into the teaching profession. BFR Brominated Flame Retardants A group of chemical flame retardants used in electronics and textiles. Banking, Financial Services Commonly used abbreviation for companies representing the financial sector. BFSI and Insurance BMS Building Management Systems Technology enabled remote building infrastructure management system. Bn Billion Unit of measure A form of outsourcing that involves contracting of operations of specific business BPO Business Process Outsourcing functions or processes to a third-party service provider. BSE Bombay Stock Exchange Stock exchange based in Mumbai www.bseindia.com BU Business Unit Cost center aligned to a customer service line, technology or competency practice. CAGR Compounded Annual A term for geometric mean growth rate on an annualized basis, used to describe Growth Rate the growth rate of business results like revenues An independent not-for-profit, investor backed organization working to drive greenhouse Carbon Disclosure https://www.cdproject.net/ CDP, CDLI gas emissions reduction and sustainable water use by business and cities. CDLI is Leadership Index en-US/Pages/HomePage.aspx a disclosure leadership index designed by CDP. CEC [w] Corporate Executive Council Top executive governance body of Wipro, comprising the Chairman. Convention on the Elimination CEDAW of all forms of Discrimination Adopted in 1979 by the UN General Assembly, CEDAW is often described as www.un.org/ womenwatch/ Against Women an international bill of rights for women. daw/cedaw/ CEO Chief Executive Officer One of the highest-ranking corporate officers in charge of total management Common Effluent A unit that treats effluent waste from places like factories to reduce the harmful effects CETP Treatment Plant on environment An organic compound containing carbon, fluorine and chlorine being phased out under CFC ChloroFluoroCarbons the Montreal protocol because of its contribution to depletion of ozone layer. A type of fluorescent lamp, used for lighting purposes, requiring less power compared CFL Compact Fluorescent Lamp to traditional incandescent lamps. A corporate officer primarily responsible for managing the financial matters including CFO Chief Finance Officer planning, reporting and managing financial risks. 122 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference Corporate Human Resource A dedicated function of the human resources team in Wipro responsible for CHRD [w] Development Resource Development management and leadership skills enhancement Confederation of Indian A non-government, not-for-profit business association that works towards creating and CII Industry sustaining an environment conducive to the growth of industry in India www.cii.in Chief Information Officer An executive responsible for development, implementation and operation of a firm’s CIO information technology policy to facilitate management control over all corporate resources Central Industrial CISF A multi skilled security agency set up by the government of India. http://cisf.nic.in/ Security Force A model of process maturity for software development including a collection of CMM Capability Maturity Model prescribed activities and a way of assessing the way these processes are being www.sei.cmu.edu/cmm/ performed by an organization CO2 Carbon Dioxide One of the main greenhouse cases as per the Kyoto and Montreal protocols. COP Communication on Progress Annual disclosure to be provided by companies who are participants to the UN Global compact Code of Business Conduct and Corporation wide code of business conduct and ethics that sets the broad direction COBCE [W] Ethics and defines specific guidelines for all business transactions One of the primary elements of a computer system which carries out instructions of a CPU Central processing unit computer/software program C-SAT [w] Customer Satisfaction Commonly denotes a customer satisfaction initiative, like feedback or survey. CRO Chief Risk Officer Person responsible for enterprise risk management. Common term used to denote, primarily, voluntary initiatives by the organisation in Corporate Social Responsibility environmental and social areas-which may be (or even otherwise) to mitigate impacts CSR due to the its product, service or operations Executive level position in a company who looks after Research and development, CTO Chief Technology Officer scientific and technological initiatives for the organisation DC Data Center A dedicated facility used to house computer systems and associated components. DG Diesel Generator An equipment to generate electric energy fueled by diesel. An index created by Dow Jones and SAM to provide asset managers with reliable and DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index www.sustainability-index.com/ objective benchmarks to manage sustainability portfolios. 123 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference DNA is used, figuratively, to denote the essence of an organizations values, philosophy DNA Genetic entity and belief systems DNV Det Norske Veritas An audit organization, established in Norway in 1860’s, with worldwide operations. www.dnv.com Earth Hour is a global event organized by WWF also known as World Wildlife Fund and is held on the last Saturday of March annually, asking households and businesses to turn off Earth Hour www.earthhour.org their non-essential Electric light for one hour to raise awareness towards the need to take action on Climate change. A meeting of shareholders of a company at an irregular time where inputs are EGM Extraordinary General Meeting required before the next AGM is to be held Environment, Health and A group within organizations that takes care of workplace environment, health and EH & S Safety safety issues like preventing accidents and reducing environmental impact Educational Initiatives(EI) is works in order to ensure every child learns www.ei-india.com/ ei-www EI Educational Initiatives with understanding /index.htm End-of-life (EOL) is a term used with respect to a Product supplied to customers, indicating that the product is in the end of its useful lifetime and a vendor will no longer be Marketing, EOL End Of Life Selling, or Sustaining a particular product and may also be limiting or ending support for the product. Environment Protection EPA US regulatory authority for environment related matters and issues. www.epa.gov Agency EPS [w] Employee Perception Survey An annual survey conducted for all employees. Various ways to promote the integration of environmental variables into marketing of Extended Producer EPR products. Among others, it could be through pricing or endof-life services for products Responsibility provided to customers. (Source: Adapted from Wikipedia) A framework for risk management, involving identification of risks and opportunities ERM Enterprise Risk Management relevant to the organization's objectives, assessing likelihood and magnitude of impact, determining a response strategy, and monitoring progress Energy Star (followed by US EPA’s (Environmental Protection Agency) energy efficiency rating for ES www.energystar.gov a number) electrical appliances A State instituted insurance scheme to provide to provide social benefits to employees ESI Employees State Insurance www.esic.nic.in in certain adverse circumstances Environment, Social and ESG Governance Common acronym to include themes relevant to sustainability. 124 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference Employee Stock Option Program that offers employees option to purchase stock at certain price (normally less ESOP Purchase than the market average) Designation in the organisation function. There are multiple such positions across EVP Executive Vice President various business units e-waste Electronic Waste Waste material that comprises of electronic devices or their electronic parts. A United States federal law known primarily for two of its main provisions, one that FCPA Foreign Corrupt Practices Act addresses accounting transparency requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and another concerning bribery of foreign officials FMG [w] Facilities Management Group Team responsible for overall management of facilities and campuses for Indian locations A way to measure employees involvement in a project, typically for “Time and Material” FTE Full Time Equivalent financial model projects. FTE of 1.0 is equivalent to a full time worker. Federation of Indian Chamber A non-government, not-for-profit association of business organizations playing FICCI www.ficci.com of Commerce and Industry a leading role in policy debates in the social, economic and political spheres A term used for the category of products that are sold relatively quickly and are generally FMCG Fast Moving Consumer Goods replaced or fully used up over shorter periods like soaps, detergents and food products FY Financial year Accounting year. In India this is from 1st April to 31st March of the subsequent year. Generally Accepted The standard framework of guidelines for financial accounting used in any given GAAP jurisdiction, which includes the standards, conventions, and rules accountants follow Accounting Principles A basic measure of a country’s economic output i.e. the market value of all final goods GDP Gross Domestic Product and services made within the borders of a country in a year GHG Greenhouse gases Gases in the atmosphere like CO2, methane and nitrous oxide that cause the greenhouse www.ghgprotocol.org effect of trapping heat within the surface-troposphere system GIS [w] Green Infrastructure Services Services provided for building green infrastructure – which could range from project management, consultancy and auditing. GigaJoules One billion joules, joule being a derived unit of energy in the International System GJ of Units A network-based organization that developed the world’s most widely used sustainability GRI Global Reporting Initiative reporting framework that sets out the principles and indicators that organizations can use www.globalreporting.org to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance 125 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference Green Rating for Integrated A green building 'design evaluation system', designed by the Ministry of New and GRIHA http://grihaindia.org/ Habitat Assessment Renewable Energy, Government of India along with partner institutions. GSG [w] Global Security Group Name of the function in Wipro, responsible for Physical security. Hydrofluorocarbon family HFC of gases Part of a family of Kyoto 6 Greenhouse Gases. Human Resources HRD Development Department responsible for learning and development requirements of employees. HR Human Resources A term used to refer to how people are managed by organizations A program engagement methodology for learning in schools, adopted by HSE[w] Holistic School Engagement Wipro’s education program (WATIS). Heating, Ventilating and A system that uses ventilation air ducts installed in a building that supply conditioned HVAC Air Conditioning air to a room through outlet vents and ducts that remove air through return-air grilles Information and A term that includes technologies, both hardware and software, that provide access to ICT Communication Technologies information or means to communicate, used in specific contexts like education Identity and Access A Wipro solution to implement IDAM systems for customers IDAMin-a-Rack [w] Management (IDAM) in a Rack International Federation of IFEES works to establish effective engineering education processes of high quality IFEES Engineering Education Societies around the world to assure a global supply of well-prepared engineering graduates. www.ifees.net/ International Financial Standards, Interpretations and the Framework adopted by the International IFRS www.ifrs.com Reporting Standards Accounting Standards Board IGBC Indian Green Building Council Council to facilitate green buildings in India www.igbc.in IIL Industrial Injury Leave Leave taken due to injury at workplace or during commute. Customized “Learning” plan based on discussions of annual performance review www.epa.gov ILP [w] Individual Learning Plan for each employee INR Indian Rupee The currency of India A term that refers to creations of the mind: inventions, literary and artistic works, and IP Intellectual Property symbols, names, images, and designs used in commerce International Panel on A scientific intergovernmental body tasked with evaluating the risk of climate change www.ipcc.ch IPCC Climate Change caused by human activity 126 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference JAWS® Window screen reading software KL KiloLiter A unit of length in the metric system equal to one thousand liters. KM KiloMeter A unit of length in the metric system equal to one thousand meters. KPI Key Performance Indicator Industry terminology for a measure of performance. A common unit for measuring electricity, which is equal to the amount of energy expended KWH KiloWatt Hour (or dissipated) if work is done at a constant rate of one thousand watts for one hour A semiconductor based light source used as indicator lamps in many devices LED Light Emitting Diode increasingly being used for lighting LEED Leadership in Energy and A Green Building Rating System, developed by the U.S. Green Building Council, providing www.usgbc.org/leed/ Environmental Design a suite of standards for environmentally sustainable construction. LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gases A mixture of hydrocarbon gases used as a fuel in heating appliances and vehicles. M&A Mergers and Acquisitions Buying, selling and incorporation of different companies into the organization. A study that is part of Teleo’s research program to recognize organizations for their ability MAKE Most Admired Knowledge www.knowledgebusiness.com to leverage enterprise knowledge to deliver superior performance in the areas of innovation Enterprise and product development, operational effectiveness and excellence in products and services Department of a company that primarily engages in communicating financial and IR Investor Relations economic matters to shareholders, investors and other interested parties Program unit under the Ministry of Human Resources Development responsible for Indian Society for Technical www.isteonline.in ISTE coordinating quality improvement programs for engineering colleges and Education polytechnic institute faculty The world's largest developer and publisher of International Standards to Specify the International Standards ISO Organization requirements for state-of-the-art products, services, processes, materials and systems, www.iso.org and for good conformity assessment, managerial and organizational practice The study, design, development, implementation, support or management of IT Information Technology computer-based information systems, particularly software applications and computer hardware Information Technology Another term used for Business Process Outsourcing services i.e. outsourcing of ITES Enabled Services specific business functions or processes to third-party vendors Integrated Talent Comprehensive online portal for employees on learning, training and ITMS [w] Management System competency management 127 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference Market CAP: a measurement of the size of a business enterprise equal to the share CAP (Market and Total) Market Capitalization Total price times the number of shares outstanding of a public company Total CAP: Capitalization Market CAP including debt A women awareness forum NGO working on women empowerment and MCM Mahila Chetana Manch www.mcmngo.org child development Meter Data Management MDMS System A key component of the smart grid solution related to metering data analytics. M.Ed. Masters in Education A post graduate degree in Education Management Information Group of information management methods tied to the automation or support of human MIS Systems decision making like Decision Support Systems or Expert systems Mn Million A number equivalent of a thousand thousands (1, 000, 000) MS® Microsoft® NYSE listed software products company www.microsoft.com Ministry of Environment Ministry under the Government of India – a regulatory and policy making authority MoEF http://moef.nic.in and Forests A document describing a bilateral or multilateral agreement between parties, expressing MoU Memorandum of Understanding a convergence of will and indicating an intended common line of action MT Metric Tonnes A unit of measure in the metric system denoting 1000 Kilograms www.igbc.in Watt is a measures the rate of energy conversion. The megawatt is equal to MW Mega Watt one million (106) watts National Society For Equal NASEOH working towards developing comprehensive rehabilitation opportunities for the www.naseoh.org/ NASEOH Opportunities For the persons with disabilities so as to facilitate integration into the mainstream of the society. organizations/ Handicapped, India NASSCOM National Association of The premier trade body and the chamber of commerce of the Information Technology – Software and Service Companies Business Process Outsourcing industries in India NASDAQ Global National Association of An index instituted by NASDAQ (a US based stock exchange) is made up of companies that Securities Dealers Automated www.nasdaq.com/ Sustainability Index have taken a leadership role environmental and social parameters. Quotations-Sustainability Index The National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), located in Bangalore is part of the National Centre for Biological NCBS Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. The mandate of NCBS is fundamental research www.ncbs.res.in/ Sciences in the frontier areas of biology National Centre for Promotion NCPEDP of Employment for Disabled A non-profit voluntary organization working towards employment of disabled people www.ncpedp.org People 128 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference NGO Non Government Organization A legally constituted, non-governmental organization created by natural or legal persons with no participation or representation of any government National Informatics Centre (NIC) is a premiere S & T institution of the Government of India, NIC National Informatics Centre established in 1976, for providing e-Government / eGovernance Solutions adopting best www.nic.in/ practices, integrated services and global solutions in Government Sector. Any binary compound of oxygen and nitrogen like nitrous oxide or a mixture of NOx Oxides of Nitrogen such compounds NSE National Stock Exchange National Stock Exchange, based in India. www.nseindia.com NYSE New York Stock Exchange A stock exchange located at Wall Street, New York www.nyse.com Organization for Economic The mission of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and is to promote policies that OECD will improve the economic and social well-being of people around the world. www.oecd.org/ Cooperation and Development ODC Offshore Development Center Operation unit set up in an offshore location (like India) specific to each customer. ODS Ozone Depleting Substances Substances like chlorofluorocarbons that cause depletion of the earth’s ozone layer OHSAS Occupational Health and An international occupational health and safety management system specification intended www.ohsas-18001-occupationalSafety Assessment Series to help organizations control occupational health and safety risks health-and-safety.com/ Department in a hospital which treats patients who come for diagnosis or treatment OPD Out patient department without being admitted for overnight stay at hospital Is equal to the profit or bottomline of a company after all expenses like cost of sales, PAT Profit After Tax overheads, interest payable, one-off items and tax for a given accounting period Any general-purpose computer whose size, capabilities, and original sales price make it PC Personal Computer useful for individuals, and which is intended to be operated directly by an end user Contributions based state provision with an aim to provide a fund due to retirement, PF Provident Fund www.epfindia.com unemployment, sickness etc. Perrfluorocarbon family of PFC gases Part of a family of Kyoto 6 Greenhouse Gases PM Particulate Matter Tiny particles of solid or liquid suspended in a gas or liquid Parts Per Million A number used to denote relative proportions in measured quantities like for the proportion PPM of CO2 in atmosphere 129 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference Principles for Responsible An investor initiative in partnership with UNEP Finance Initiative and the UN Global PRI www.unpri.org Investment Compact PUE Power Usage Effectiveness A metric used to determine the energy efficiency of a data center A thermoplastic polymer which is a form of plastic generally used in plumbing, PVC PolyVinyl Chloride electric wires etc Quarterly Performance Linked A variable component of monthly pay which is paid based on business and division QPLC [w] Compensation performance of the last quarter Restructured – Accelerated Power Development A program under the aegis of the Ministry of Power, Government of India, looking at RAPDRP www.apdrp.gov.in/ Reforms Program reduction in power losses R&D Research and Development A function within an organization through which new products and new forms of old products are created through technological innovation by doing basic and/or applied research Are tradable, non-tangible energy commodities in the United States that represent proof that http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ REC Renewable Energy Certificates 1 Megawatt (MWh) of Electricity was generated from an eligible Renewable energy resource Renewable_Energy_ Certificates (Renewable Electricity). _%28United_States%29 Restriction on Hazardous A directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances like lead and RoHS Substances mercury in electrical and electronic equipment ROI Return on Investment Ratio of money gained (+) or lost (-) in relation to the amount of money invested ROW Rest of World Used in a specific to context to include regions other than India, Americas and Europe Rs Rupees ( Indian currency) TA symbol for the currency of India RSU [w] Restricted Stock Unit Stock option purchase program offered to employees with lock in period SaaS Software as a service Refers to software/IT services offered on an on-demand and pay-as-you-go basis http://teacherfoundation.org/ Safe and Sensitive Schools SAAS (SASS) project A project by TTF supported by WATIS index.php/ index.php/ safe-and-sensitiveschools.html The main enterprise resource planning software produced by SAP AG®, which is an Leading ERP package from SAP R/3® enterprise-wide information system designed to coordinate all the resources, information, www.sap.com software major SAP AG® and activities needed to complete business processes such as order fulfillment or billing Securities and Exchange board Regulatory body in India with a mandate to protect investors and regulate SEBI www.sebi.gov.in of India securities markets. 130 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference Special Economic Zones A geographical region that has economic laws that are more liberal than a country's typical SEZ economic laws intended to increase investment by foreign investors http://sezindia.nic.in SIF [w] Self Indentification Form Form for employees to share any special need (esp. for any disability). Solar PV Solar PhotoVoltaic Arrays of cells that convert solar radiation into direct current electricity Service Oriented Architecture A software/ IT implementation architecture model which incorporates a flexible set of SOA design principles A United States federal law that set new or enhanced standards for all U.S. public company SOX Sarbanes Oxley www.sarbanes-oxley.com boards, management and public accounting firms SOx Oxides of Sulphur Any binary compound of oxygen and sulphur like sulphur dioxide A unit that uses physical, chemical, and biological processes to remove contaminants from STP Sewage Treatment Plant wastewater and household sewage, both runoff (effluents) and domestic SUV Sports utility vehicle General term for a mid-sized vehicle capable with a seating capacity of 8 to 9 people T (used in conjunction Unit of measure in the metric system, equivalent to 1000 kilograms. Used in conjunction Tonnes with material) with materials like TCO2 is for Tonnes of Carbon dioxide Talent Engagement and Team which has the mandate of training, capacity building and career development of TED [w] Development employees Teacher Empowerment A set of programs for teacher classroom intervention, designed by Wipro Education (WATIS) TEP Program in collaboration with partners Technology Infrastructure TIS [w] Unit which provides technology infrastructure solutions and services to customers Services www.teacherfoundation.org/ TTF The Teacher Foundation An NGO operating in Bangalore working on teaching skills training. index.php An international organization whose stated aims are facilitating cooperation in U.N. United Nations international law, international security, economic development, social progress, www.un.org human rights, and the achieving of world peace United Nations Millennium Eight international development goals that 192 UN member states have agreed to achieve www.un.goals/millenniumgoals U.N. MDG Development Goals by the year 2015 including reducing extreme poverty, reducing child mortality rates etc UN Convention on the Rights UN convention on the rights of person with disabilities, which has country/state UNCRPD www.un.org/disabilities/ of Persons with Disabilities ratifications and signatories 131 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference A programme within UN that coordinates UN environmental activities, assists developing United Nations Environment UNEP countries in implementing environmentally sound policies and encourages sustainable Program development through sound environmental practices A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations www.unep.org UNGC United Nations Global Compact and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, www.unglobalcompact.org environment and anti-corruption US, USA United States of America UK Carbon Reduction UK CRC, CRC UK’s carbon reduction commitment program – an energy efficiency initiative Commitment USD United States Dollar The currency of United States of America VOW [w] Voice of Wipro Employee perception survey conducted at Wipro WASE is a pioneering initiative in the field of higher education in collaboration with BITS Wipro Academy of Software WASE [w] Pilani that selects the finest students from the B.Sc streams for a four year work integrated Excellence program leading to an integrated degree in engineering WARM Waste Reduction Model A model created by EPA (Environment Protection Agency, US) to track and report www.epa.gov/ GHG emissions from different waste management practices. Wipro Applying Thought In A long-term, deliberate and focused initiative by Wipro Technologies to bring about www.wiproapplyingthought WATIS [w] Schools systemic reform in school education inschools.com Wipro BPO Solutions is a leading provider of Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) focusing Wipro Business Process on the complex, voice and non-voice based segment of customer-care services. e BPO WBPO [w] Outsourcing offerings are around – customer service, technical help desk, finance and accounts outsourcing, HR and procurement outsourcing Wipro Consumer Care and Lighting, (WCCLG) a Business Unit of Wipro Limited, has a Wipro Consumer Care and profitable presence in the branded retail market of toilet soaps, hair care soaps, baby care WCCLG [w] Lighting products and lighting products. It is also a leader in institutional lighting in specified segments like software, pharma and retail WEF World Economic Forum An independent international organization committed to improving the state of the world through multi stakeholder engagements. www.weforum.org An energy management IT solution from Wipro. WEM provides an analytics based remote WEM [w] Wipro Energy Manager management solution to improve the performance of solar plants (either MW scale or distributed) through real time data collection/monitoring and predictive diagnostics. WESS [w] Wipro Energy and A division of Wipro’s Eco Energy team focused on IT for Green solutions to customers Sustainability Services 132 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference Wipro Infrastructure Engineering delivers precision-engineered hydraulic cylinders, Wipro Infrastructure components and solutions and truck hydraulics components to OEMs globally in the WIN [w] www.wiproinfra.com Engineering infrastructure and related industries. It also has entered the industrial water business division in 2008 Wipro Infotech is the leading strategic IT partner for companies across India and Middle East-offering integrated IT solutions. Wipro Infotech plans, deploys, sustains and WI [w] Wipro Infotech maintains the entire IT lifecycle through, total outsourcing, consulting services, business www.wipro.com solutions and professional services. Wipro Infotech is also leading provider of branded IT hardware like PC's and Servers in the Indian market Shared services arm of Wipro that supports many internal process in functions like HR, Wividus [w] operations, finance, administration and payroll. An umbrella program in Wipro – with the primary aim in making the workplace more WOW [w] Women Of Wipro engaging, suitable and friendly for women. A global environmental think tank working with different stakeholders to build solutions WRI World Resources Institute www.wri.org for environmental challenges Wipro Technologies, a division of Wipro Limited (NYSE:WIT) provides comprehensive research and development services, IT solutions and services, including systems WT [w] Wipro Technologies www.wipro.com integration, information systems outsourcing, package implementation, software application management, and datacenter managed services to corporations globally. 133 Glossary of Acronyms INDEX OF GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 3-5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3-5, 18-21, 30-34 45-47 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. 14 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 14-16 13,33,38-40 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 13, 33, 49, 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 14-16 149-152 Outside 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 14, Back Cover Back Cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 2.5 with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the 15 90-92 sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 70-71 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries). 15-16 33,36 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 15-17 12, 13, 33, 36, 95 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, 2.9 or ownership. 49-51 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 17,89-90 19,65-66 REPORT PARAMETERS 134 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 7 49 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 7 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 7 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 117 3.5 Process for defining report content. 9-10 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6 joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 7-8 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3.7 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 7-8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from 7-8,70 49,149-152 period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Check details for assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation Environmental 3.9 of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not and Economic to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. metrics at* Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change 71-72 of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 measurement methods applied in the report. 7-8 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 12 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 3.13 the report. 11-12 *http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm Covered fully in the report Partially Covered in the report Non Covered in the report 135 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, GOVERNANCE, AND COMMITMENTS, ENGAGEMENTE AND ENGAGEMENT Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the 4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy 18,20,23,29 73-76,79-80 or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 73-83 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and 4.3 gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or 23 73 non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 direction to the highest governance body. 21,46-48,91-93 82-83 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements and the 53-57 organization's performance (including social & environmental performance).* Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 4.6 interest are avoided. 20-21 75-76, 82-83 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the 4.7 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any 23 73 consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 4.8 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and 14,18,21,42-43,99 75-76,79 the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 9-10,18-20,25-28, 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 35,42, 50, 70 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, 4.10 20,21 79-80 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 4..11 20 by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 35 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. *Social and environmental aspects are the joint responsibility of multiple functions – it is part of the performance appraisal for core functions (like HR, Operations) and hence is indirectly related to compensation. 136 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; 114-115 4.13 * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 9 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 9-10 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 4.16 37-40 type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, 30-34 including through its reporting. ECONOMIC DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC 89-92 33-44 Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained 95 12-13 EC1 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's 19,25,30,74-75,83 EC2 activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 142-145 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 95 Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 43 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6 significant locations of operation. 99 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from EC7 the local community at significant locations of operation. 58,62 137 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 94,99,102 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including EC9 the extent of impacts. 99 ENVIRONMENTAL DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN 25-26,30-31 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.* EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.* Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 74 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 74 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 74-75 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 75 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 75 *This is not material to the service and product profile of the organisation-since 85-90% of our revenues are from IT services. We do have recycling and reuse programs for most consumables including paper – however they are not part of core product/service profile. For IT products, we will start reporting materials used from next year. 138 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 76 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 76-77 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 75-76 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected EN11 80-81 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.* Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in 80-81 EN12 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.* EN13 Habitats protected or restored.* Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN14 80-81 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.* Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 74 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 74 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 74-75 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 78 *None of our operations are adjacent to protected areas or areas with high biodiversity value 139 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 78 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 75-76 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 79 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 79 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage Not applicable of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and EN25 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's 80-81 discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN26 83-87 extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not Applicable Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 116 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of 73 the workforce.* Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 80 *5 of the 15 scope 3 categories as per new Scope 3 GHG protocol are reported. The inventorisation of other applicable scope 3 categories will be completed by 2013. 140 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 42-43 Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down* LA1 64 by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, LA2 64,65 gender, and region.* Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary LA3 50,61 or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender.* 66 Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 43 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including LA5 43 whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 50-52 health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number LA7 5 66 of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place LA8 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding 51,52 serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 43 * Details of people metrics are available at <<http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm>> 141 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 67 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the LA11 53-57 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, LA12 by gender. 53-57 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and 59-60 other indicators of diversity.** Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, LA14 43 by significant locations of operation. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR 42-43,99 Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and HR1 contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that 99-100 have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners HR2 99-100 that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken.* Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 42-43, 66 employees trained. * Prelim assessment study done in 2012. Inputs into supply chain engagement plans for 2012 and beyond. **Also see detailed breakdown of employees by age, gender and levels in the organization at the 2011-12 link at http://www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability-disclosures.htm 142 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 22 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise HR5 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant 99 (No Instances) risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective 43,99-100 abolition of child labor.* Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for HR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the 43,99-100 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.* Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or HR8 99 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.* Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Not Applicable HR9 actions taken. Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human HR10 42-43,99 rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 6 * Prelim assessment study done in 2012. Inputs into supply chain engagement plans for 2012 and beyond. 143 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through HR11 22 formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIAL: SOCIETY DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO 33-34,102 Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact SO1 102 assessments, and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 102 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 102, 110-112 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 20-21 82 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 21 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 22,99 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 114-116 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 116 related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 No instances practices and their outcomes. 144 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 116 SO8 for non-compliance with laws and regulations. SOCIAL : PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR 33,86 Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services 86-87 categories subject to such procedures.* Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No instances of PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. non-compliance Product and Service Labelling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 86-87 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No instances of PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. non compliance Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 customer satisfaction. 38 Marketing Communications 116 (We comply Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. with local and national laws) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No instances of PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. non compliance *Not material to our business. However the green computing division meets and exceeds product information requirements on Energy, Waste and Chemicals management. 145 Index of GRI Indicators Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description Reported to this report / 2011-12 Page(s) Direct Answer Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 privacy and losses of customer data.* 18-21 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 116 PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services. *Systems and processes exist for customer data – in all cases jointly agreed with customer. We are strengthening them to ensure better controls and we will report summary information from next year. 146 Index of GRI Indicators Wipro Limited Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India. Phone: +91 (80) 2844 0011, Fax: (080) 2844 0256 To know more about Wipro sustainability practice, log on to http://www.wipro.com/about-wipro/sustainability/ or http://wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability_disclosures.htm We welcome feedback, suggestions and points of view from our readers. Readers can write to sustain.report@wipro.com
