2013 United Nation Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 How is SIVECO Romania applying the 10 Principles of the United Nations Organization in 2012? SIVECO Romania – Message of the CEO HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights violations. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should support the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. 2 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and distribution of environmentallyfriendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should stand against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. How will we publicize the 10 Principles? 3 SIVECO Romania Message of the CEO 2012 was a very special year in the life of our company: we proudly celebrated 20 years since we put SIVECO on the Romanian information technology map. During these two decades, we continuously added value and developed new and exciting opportunities that translated into successful progress. The steady growth of the business was guided by our firm principles of respect and promotion of honesty and transparency in business, community care, and constant willingness to support it. As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we annually report the progress in implementing the 10 principles about human rights, working environment, and anticorruption policies. We are proud to share the results we accomplish every year and our contribution to improve society. We have a professional team with power to add value to all major projects that we develop for the benefit of communities worldwide. Our durable growth would not be possible without the stimulation of creative and innovative process of our employees and the constant investment in their training. So, we are proud to say that we now have the best team of the Romanian IT market place, one that can compete with the most formidable players in the industry. Our Report will be available on the United Nation Global Compact network, but also on our website, at www.siveco.ro. We are delighted to share with you our experience. Irina Socol, President and CEO of SIVECO Romania 4 PRINCIPLE 1 Human Rights Companies should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. COMPANY POLICY We are abiding by the internal and international legislation regarding human rights protection. The values we support directly influence our customers, employees, partners and shareholders, the very good quality of products and services provided, and our responsibility for the communities we are actively involved in. We are developing and applying internal conduct measures, addressed to the management and employees, concerning human rights, quality standards, and norms for work safety, integrity, and responsibility for the environment. These procedures are periodically updated by the Quality Assurance Department. MEASURES TAKEN IN THE PAST YEAR  We have consistently informed the employees, via internal communication procedure, about company’s activity; we have sent over 30 internal information/ newsletters.  All employees have been trained and tested on the labor protection measure and their application methods.  We have regularly scheduled fire drill practices with evacuations of the building. (see GRI Indicators HR8)  In the period of March 2012-March 2013, the following internal procedures have been updated: • Human Resource Management (management training). • Anti-Corruption Handbook the document contains a number of specific recommendations on how to avoid the risks of corruption. • Code of Ethics the document contains a set of internal procedures, values, principles, and rules of conduct. • Employee Handbook the document includes a set of rules, policies, and internal 5 procedures.  We have been recertified for 27001 standard regarding information security. This certification demonstrates that the security of our information has been addressed, implemented and properly controlled. In addition, customers, employees, trading partners and stakeholders are comforted in the knowledge that our management information and systems are secure. The certification demonstrates credibility and trust and shows that a commitment to Information Security exists at all levels throughout our organization. PRINCIPLE 2 Human Rights Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights violations. COMPANY POLICY In our company, the employees represent the most precious asset. Our exceptional human resources management is diligently working on protecting and ensuring, employees’ labor rights. Our company is ensuring that no employee is privileged or subject to discrimination because of his/her race, nationality, ethnic background, language, religion, social category, or sexual orientation. Our employees have the right to equal pay for work, to an equitable and satisfying remuneration, the right to join/affiliate trade unions, to healthcare, to social security, and social services. All our shareholders, suppliers, partners, and collaborators respect the human rights. We encourage integrity and honesty in the relationships among employees. SIVECO Romania has adhered to several global alliances of good practices in business, whose standards and ethical principles engage organizations such as United Nations Global Compact, under the aegis of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and Partnership Partnering Initiative against Corruption (PACI), under the aegis of World Economic Forum. 6 ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE PAST YEAR  In order to ensure a maximum transparency of the company’s activity, at the beginning of year 2012, we have made public to the employees and to the public opinion the financial results of previous year and the development strategy for the following year.  All employees have benefited from the annual medical checkout and from private medical insurance and have been encouraged to have the flu vaccination (see GRI indicators LA9). PRINCIPLE 3 LABOR STANDARDS Businesses should support the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. COMPANY POLICY The employees of our company have the freedom to join any trade union of their choice. All employees are free to be part of any association or non-governmental foundation. Every employee can negotiate his/her salary. In conformity with the legislative provisions, the employees of SIVECO Romania have expressed their desire to be represented for Collective Labor Contract clauses bargaining by employees chosen through the vote of at least half of their total number. This right promotes and protects employee’s interests in relation with employer, and the duration of their mandate is for two years. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR The representatives of employees have monitored employees’ rights and have promoted their interests in regards to the salary, labor conditions, labor time, and break time, as well as to the health and work security. (See GRI G3 indicators LA4, LA5, HR5) PRINCIPLE 4 LABOR STANDARDS 7 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. COMPANY POLICY Any form of forced or compulsory labor is excluded in our company. The individual labor contract include work rights such as: the regular workday of eight (8) hours, paid vacation, paid national holidays, as well as other holidays (i.e., maternity leave, vacation for special events), and periodical job-related trainings. Every employee receives more than the minimum gross wage per economy according to the job offer and to the individual CDP (Career Development Plan), assessors of salary based on each employee’s work performance, KPI (Key Performance Indicators), as evaluated by supervisors. Also, any employee is free to resign his/her position at any time, with a notice given two weeks in advance. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have encouraged the employee’s professional development plan. In 2012 we organized 272 free course sessions and internal / external certifications with a number of 1.270 participants – graduates, with a cost of 170,000 Euro (see GRI indicators LA 10, LA 11).  All employees have benefited from free meal tickets on a monthly basis. (see GRI indicators LA3)  In 2012, a year affected by the global economic recession, the employees of SIVECO Romania have still benefited from all the additional rewards due to their good performance and their years with the company. (see GRI indicators LA3)  11 students who attended the SIVECO Academy program were employed. Academia SIVECO is a complementary training program, which aims to prepare groups of students in the field of software engineering, economy, and sales of software solutions. The project aims to training valuable professionals that will develop their career within SIVECO Romania. 8  We have organized an internship program attended by 21 students, who were given the possibility to apply for the theoretical knowledge acquired during the faculty and to make use of this experience in the future. PRINCIPLE 5 LABOR STANDARDS The effective abolition of child labor COMPANY POLICY We support the abolition of child labor and any initiative whose goal is to protect children’s health and interests. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE PAST YEAR  We did not hire persons under the age of 18.  We collected 100 forms from our employees for donating 2% of their annual income tax towards 31 organizations, many of them supporting programs for helping children in need (see GRI indicator HR6). Hope for Romania's Children Foundation, Save the Children, Children's Heart Association, the Organization EMMA, Cliniclowns Romania Foundation, Foundation Smurd, Emergency Hospital Foundation, Hospice Foundation House of Hope, Future Plus Association for Sustainable Development, National Red Cross Society in Romania, Alpha Omega Foundation, Princess Margareta of Romania, Animal Protection Association, Scheherazade Foundation, Pro-Vita for born and unborn, Save the Danube Delta, Romanian Ornithological Society, St. George's Church, Parish Brebina, Estuary Foundation, Association of Applied Behavioral Therapy, My dear Bucharest Association, the Romanian Alzheimer Foundation, Chance for Life, Swedish Organization for Individual Relief, Association for early intervention in Autism, Romanian Association of Kyudo, ADOR Animal Protection Association, Association WWF Danube -Carpathian Romania, Iasi Academic Debate Club Association, The Nature – a Heritage for the Future Association, St. John Community Foundation. (See GRI indicator PR6) 9  On October 2nd, we joined the international campaign to support cancer survivor children. The campaign was initiated by the Association of Little People. Several employees were dressed in yellow, a color that symbolizes the victory against the disease. (see GRI indicator PR6)  We supported palliative care program initiated by Hope House Hospice for terminally-ill cancer patients. (see GRI indicator PR6) PRINCIPLE 6 LABOR STANDARDS The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMPANY POLICY Our company is an equal opportunity employer. In all our employment practices, including hiring, are firmly committed to equal opportunity without regard to race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, citizenship, disability, or any other basis of discrimination. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden. In our company, there is a balanced ratio of management positions, in conformity to the European Union requirements regarding elimination of stereotypes on the labor market. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  The number of female employees in management positions (top and middle management) out of the total employees has reached 28. PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. COMPANY POLICY 10 As leader of the software market, our company undertakes the responsibility towards environment, promoting good practices in this field. Our IT solutions aim to reducing costs, to the better use of materials and human resources, to diminishing the actions with negative impact on the environment. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE PAST YEAR  We have provided carpooling to all our employees, to and from the work place, in 3, 800 trips. We have thus contributed to reducing the toxic agents in the atmosphere and to ensuring a civilized and timely transportation for our employees. (see GRI indicators LA3, EN18) PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility COMPANY POLICY Our goal is to maintain a sustainable development, in regards to the economical-financial performances and to the social and environment performances. We understand that a long-term development can only be achieved with a wise strategy in which the financial and market objectives are compatible with the expectations of the main co-interested groups. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE PAST YEAR  We have implemented Environmental Management System Certification by TUV Austria, according to EN ISO 14001:2004. This standard specifies requirements for the environmental management system to enable our organization to develop and implement a policy and objectives which take into account legal requirements and other requirements to which SIVECO subscribes, and information about significant environmental aspects. (see indicators EN26) 11  We have made investments in low energy consumption devices such as computers, servers, displays, lighting, and electric appliances.  The cable network and the air-conditioning systems installed have been revised. (See GRI indicators EN 30). PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies COMPANY POLICY The main goal of our SIVECO Romania specialists is to promote „Green Economy” principles by constantly proposing ecological IT solutions. Our company’s solutions for waste management, documents and workflows management, or transport management consider the rational use of resources necessary to any organization, paper, fuel and energy, etc., as well as a recycling system. We are interested to have equipments with low energy consumption: computers, servers, displays, peripherals, lighting, electric appliances. The cable network and the airconditioning systems installed at our company’s premises allow for increasing the efficiency of the energy consumption. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE PAST YEAR  The specific materials and utilities consumption has been monitored and optimized, while losses have been reduced.  We have joined the campaign Earth Hour in March 2012 and we have turned the light off for one hour on our headquarters. This way, we have supported the international campaign “Turn off the light! With you, we’ll be a billion”, a warning signal for protecting resources.  We have collected 1,500 kg paper, 1,500 kg plastic, 8,000 kg a mix of household waste. (See indicators SR 34, 53, 56) 12 PRINCIPLE 10 FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion. COMPANY POLICY In 2006, we have joined to the Partnership against Corruption Initiative. PACI is based on a set of principles of corporate citizenship defined by the World Economic Forum in collaboration with Transparency International and the Basel Institute on Governance. Our company fights against any forms of corruption including bribery, political influence, external pressure, or extortion. All of these are clearly defined in the Anti-Corruption Manual, presented to the employees. Being part of Oracle Partner Network (“OPN”), we are obligated to comply with the Oracle Partner Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (“Code”). In addition, we comply with all other applicable laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business, wherever conducted, including those that further restrict or prohibit the provision of gifts, meals, entertainment and anything else of value to government officials or employees of privatesector companies. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have reviewed and extended the company’s anti-corruption manual.  We have participated to AmCham Corporate Governance Committee meeting taken in July 2012, and we have discussed the draft of the Anti-bribery & Anti-corruption Guidelines and the steps to a final version. (see indicators SR42)  Our Marketing&Communication Manager completed the International Anti13 Corruption Training Course, organized by Oracle, in January 2013. (see indicators SR42) Results of applying all these principles: No action of corruption, violation of human rights, discrimination, or legal action in court for non-compliance with the country’s laws have occurred. How will we publicize this information? The 10 Principles will be made available to employees, suppliers, shareholders, massmedia, as well as to the large audience on our website www.siveco.ro The annual Social Responsibility Report 2013 will indicate our commitment in support of the United Nations Global Pact. SIVECO Romania Victoria Park 73-81 Bucureşti-Ploieşti Drive, Building C4 District 1, PC 013685, Bucharest, Romania Tel: + 4021 302 3300 Fax: 021 302 3391 www.siveco.ro 14
