Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 2013 PREFACE BY THE CEO The Vaillant Group combines its sustainability activities to form a strategic programme – S.E.E.D.S. This involves setting binding, measurable targets, deriving specific measures and continuously reviewing the results obtained in relation to four fields of focus: Environment, Employees, Development & Products, and Society. All activities are Group-wide and transparent. In view of the above, our membership of the United Nations Global Compact represents a conscious step towards increased transparency and visible corporate responsibility. The initiative, founded by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, aims to strengthen the social commitment of businesses by inviting them to affirm a catalogue of basic values. The Vaillant Group is explicitly committed to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and undertakes to continue fostering and supporting them in its sphere of influence. We report annually on our progress in implementing the Global Compact in our day-to-day business in the form of a Communication on Progress. Furthermore, we will detail significant developments in the implementation of the Ten Principles in the Vaillant Group Sustainability Report. Remscheid, 22 October 2013 Dr Carsten Voigtländer, CEO ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This document’s purpose is to provide information on the Vaillant Group’s progress with respect to the implementation of the Ten Principles enshrined in the Global Compact in the day-to-day practice of our business. The action we have taken in this field is founded on our expressed corporate principles and our management systems. The reporting period for this Communication on Progress encompasses the Vaillant Group’s second year of Global Compact membership, from 24 October 2012 to 23 October 2013. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 1: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • Written approach made to Support of human rights sustainability programme written commitment to 407 suppliers, representing • Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles 80% of Vaillant Group’s the Global Compact of the Global Compact purchasing volume. By 30 Principle 2: • Supplier management • Implementation of supplier December 2012, all Non-complicity in human system (pre-selection of audits on the basis of suppliers had confirmed rights abuses suppliers, assessment of questionnaires on social that they comply with the suppliers, purchasing terms criteria Global Compact’s and conditions, contractual principles. The 2020 target conditions) has therefore already been • Vaillant Group Social achieved. The new target Accountability Policy figure has been increased to 100% recorded purchasing volume by 2020. • Approx. 300 audits conducted in the supply chain. LABOUR STANDARDS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 3: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • Written approach made to Upholding freedom of sustainability programme written commitment to 407 suppliers, representing association and recognition • Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles 80% of Vaillant Group’s of the right to collective the Global Compact of the Global Compact purchasing volume. By 30 bargaining • Supplier management • Supplier audits December 2012, all system (pre-selection of • At the main sites of the suppliers had confirmed suppliers, assessment of Vaillant Group, we are that they comply with the Principle 4: suppliers, purchasing terms bound by collective Global Compact’s Elimination of forced and and conditions) agreements. Where principles. The 2020 target compulsory labour minimum wages exist, they has therefore already been are not undercut by us in achieved. The new target remuneration. figure has been increased Principle 5: • The Group has about 70% to 100% recorded Abolition of child labour of employees covered by purchasing volume by collective bargaining 2020. agreements, in Germany • Approx. 300 audits about 80%. conducted in the supply chain. Principle 6: • Vaillant Group Spirit • In-house campaign on the • Continuous communication Elimination of discrimination  Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, campaign addressing all entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s employees integrity, passion Group-wide values • HR measures adopted • Vaillant supports the Fair towards implementation of Company initiative, which the Group values requires members to (management training, commit to treating interns employee/team workshops) fairly. • First trend survey conducted in cooperation with Great Place to Work ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 7: • Multi-site certification • Annual environmental • 6 Vaillant Group sites are Precautionary approach to pursuant to EN ISO 14001 audits part of a multi-site environmental challenges and OHSAS 18001 • Binding environmental certification, while three are • S.E.E.D.S. strategic targets to be agreed and being prepared for sustainability programme degree of target certification • Vaillant Group achievement to be • 32 system audits Environmental Policy measured conducted • Group-wide sustainability • All sustainability indicators • Site-specific standards for targets for 2020 in the to be incorporated into a reusable packaging defined Environment field of focus: central reporting tool, the • Realisation of energy 25% reduction in CO₂ Vaillant Group efficiency projects at a emissions, 20% increase in Sustainability Scorecard range of locations (e.g. energy efficiency, 20% cut • Waste reduction: Expanded Group-wide optimisation of in water consumption and use of reusable packaging standards for test centres, waste for production materials initially applied to the • Group-wide sustainability • Energy efficiency: New Vaillant Group’s Chinese targets for 2020 in the heating systems in our site in Wuxi; Development & Products buildings to be run only on comprehensive online field of focus: highly efficient condensing energy monitoring at the 80% of our sales revenues devices, CHPs and Vaillant Group’s to be generated with highly technologies based on Gelsenkirchen site, the efficient products; a 15% renewable energies. centre of expertise for reduction in greenhouse Existing systems to be renewable energies; CO2 gases emitted by our successively modernised. reporting tool for recording product portfolio; 15% • Sustainability standards to the greenhouse gas increase in material be integrated into Vaillant emissions from logistics efficiency Group processes. activities; installation of a • Process integration of • Consideration of new drinking water station environmental issues sustainability criteria within in combination with a solar the scope of the system at the Vaillant Sustainable Building Group’s Remscheid site; Guideline Group-wide communication campaign on the increased use of video conferencing to reduce the number of business trips) • Sustainability issues further incorporated into Vaillant Group process map. GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS • Improvements in key environmental indicators (see key indicators section in the current Sustainability Report) Principle 8: Promoting • Group-wide sustainability • Suppliers to provide a • Written approach made to environmental responsibility targets for 2020 in the written commitment to 407 suppliers, representing Environment field of focus: adhere to environmental 80% of Vaillant Group’s 25% reduction in CO₂ standards purchasing volume. By 30 emissions, 20% increase in • Supplier audits December 2012, all energy efficiency, 20% cut • Environmental suppliers had confirmed in water consumption and responsibility taken into that they comply with the waste account to a greater extent Global Compact’s • Group-wide sustainability when selecting suppliers principles. The 2020 target targets for 2020 in the and service providers. has therefore already been Development & Products • Sustainability standards to achieved. The new target field of focus: be incorporated into the figure has been increased 80% of our sales revenues Group Market Process to 100% recorded to be generated with highly • Group-wide internal purchasing volume by efficient products; a 15% competition for the 2020. reduction in greenhouse S.E.E.D.S. Award • Approx. 300 audits gases emitted by our • Sustainability to be a conducted in the supply product portfolio; 15% compulsory part of chain. increase in material vocational training and of • Brochure “Responsibility as efficiency Corporate Basics induction a principle”, whose purpose • Group Market Process training for new employees is to communicate our • Vaillant Group Corporate • Vaillant Group is involved commitment to Responsibility Framework in a range of initiatives and sustainability, reissued and networks whose purpose is distributed via customer to work towards forums, sales partners and responsible management industry fairs of natural resources. For • The second internal example, the company is a competition for the partner organisation of S.E.E.D.S. Award attracted German sustainability over 60 applications conference, “Deutscher detailing ideas for Nachhaltigkeitstag”, and is innovative projects in the a member of the German four fields of focus covered Association of by the S.E.E.D.S. Environmental programme. The winners GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Management (B.A.U.M. were selected by an ine.V.) and of the house panel consisting of Sustainability Leadership the company’s CEO, the Forum convened by Managing Director B.A.U.M. e.V. / Centre for Technology and a number Sustainability Management of other top managers from at Leuphana University, the Group. Lüneburg. • We have worked with • The Vaillant Group is a installers to hold workshops strategic partner of SOS on sustainable corporate Children’s Villages governance. International • Support provided to environmental community projects at a range of company locations (examples: fitting up-to-the-minute heating technology in the SOS Children’s Villages in France, Hungary and Romania; releasing hares from a breeding programme in the Czech Republic into the wild; fitting up-to-the-minute heating technology in the L’Arche community house for people with mental disabilities in Slovenia; supporting the student laboratory EnergyLab in the Gelsenkirchen Science Park; supporting PrimaKlima reforestation projects). Principle 9: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Expansion of our portfolio • In 2012, the majority – 58% Development and diffusion sustainability programme of high-efficiency products – of the Vaillant Group’s of environmentally-friendly • Vaillant Group product • Training to be provided for product sales revenues technologies strategy focusing on highinstallers were generated with highefficiency technologies, efficiency technologies and GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS synced-up systems and renewable energy systems. renewable energies • Following extensive field • Group-wide sustainability tests of the first walltargets for 2020 in the mounted fuel cell heating Development & Products system, Vaillant is now field of focus: manufacturing the 80% of our sales revenues technology in low volumes. to be generated with highly • Ongoing training on efficient products; a 15% environmentally-friendly reduction in greenhouse technologies for partner gases emitted by our installers. product portfolio; 15% • The strategic sustainability increase in material programme S.E.E.D.S. has efficiency been nominated for the • Group Market Process German Sustainability Award in the category “Germany’s most sustainable future strategies”. ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 10: • Vaillant Group Corporate • Group-wide compliance • “Train the trainer” training Action against corruption Governance Directive training in the field of sessions conducted in the • Vaillant Group anti-corruption (partially still field of anti-corruption Anti-Corruption Directive planned) (attendees from UK, FR, • Application of the Group st (1 draft version approved ES, RU, D, AU, UKR, IT by MDs) Fraud Response Directive and TUR) • Vaillant Group Fraud Response Directive • Vaillant Group Spirit • In-house campaign on the • Vaillant Group Spirit:  Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, Group-wide communication entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s campaign addressing all integrity, passion Group-wide values employees • HR measures adopted towards implementation of the Group values
