Ref. UNGC/COP/01/103 2013 Communication on Progress Participant MUE Group Published 02.March.2013 Time period March/2013 – March/2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer March 2nd, 2012 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that MUE Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dhafir Selbi Managing Director 1 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Our Group is committed to keeping and maintaining all the human rights of its employees, including the health and safety of its employees. We recognize the right of workers to work in a safe and healthy work environment. And in fulfilling this commitment, Project Management will provide and maintain a safe and healthy work environment, in accordance with industry standards and in compliance with legislative requirements, and will strive to eliminate any foreseeable hazards which may result in property damage, accidents, or personal injury/illness. Implementation All personnel, upon embarking on working with the group, are notified of their and other employees rights, are personnel are also notified, that in cases of human rights violation by colleagues, partners or management members, they are to notify the violation details by email and send it a list of provided addresses. It is a standard procedure at our group that all employees/workers are made fully aware of their rights, whether related to labor rights, or health and safety rights. It is a standard policy of this group that, upon entering into any project, an annex that protects the rights and safety of all personnel included should be signed, stipulating the all personnel rights. Safety of the personnel is one of the most important rights that must be provided to the personnel, all personnel, whether working in office premises or on project sites, must be fully aware of the safety procedures and regulations to help them work in a safe and healthy environment. The management commits to a zero tolerance human rights violation policy, all personnel at all levels are aware of the rights of other personnel. Complaints are dealt with immediately by the Managing Director, Board of Directors and Human Resources department. MUE Group is also in the process of obtaining the OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems) which will further improve the applied safety policies, the system is expected to be completed and fully functioning before April, 2013 Measurement of outcomes No violations have been recorded or reported during the last year. 2 Labour Assessment, policy and goals The Group's management is committed to making sure that each employee of this group, regardless of their position/profession, job/task, shall never be: 1. Unpaid for his/her working hours. 2. Forced to work in harsh and unsafe conditions. 3. Forced to work in spite of being ill or being unable to conduct the required work for physical reasons. 4. Forced to work extra hours without the employee's consent or without the full compensations. 5. Discriminated against in any way. Also, the group maintains a zero-tolerance policy against child labor in our client/contractor relations. Implementation The management commits to a zero tolerance labour rights violation policy, all personnel at all levels are aware of the rights of other personnel. All personnel, upon embarking on working with the group, are notified of their and other employees rights, all personnel are also notified, that in cases of violation of our labor policy by colleagues, partners or management members, they are to notify the violation details by email and send it a list of provided addresses. Complaints are dealt with immediately by the Managing Director, Board of Directors and Human Resources department. Measurement of outcomes No violations have been recorded or reported during the last year. 3 Environment Assessment, policy and goals The Group's management is committed to making sure that all employees gain environmental responsibility awareness. Implementation All personnel are required to insert the company's general email footer with their email signatures, which encourages the recipient(s) of the email to consider the environment before printing. The management encourages all personnel to help protect their environment. Personnel are always encouraged to provide suggestions about improving the means of protecting the environment, or complaints about other personnel whom are negligent to protecting their environment by email and send it a list of provided addresses. MUE Group is also in the process of obtaining the ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) which will further improve the personnel awareness of environment responsibility, the system is expected to be completed and fully functioning before April, 2013 Measurement of outcomes No violations have been recorded or reported during the last year. 4 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals All personnel are notified, that the Group's management maintains a zero tolerance policy against all forms of business corruption, whether internal or external. Any corruption proven on any employee shall result in swift and direct actions against it. Implementation All personnel are notified that they are to notify any noted/suspected corruption details by email and send it a list of provided addresses. Report/Complaints of corruption are dealt with immediately by the Managing Director, Board of Directors and Human Resources department. Measurement of outcomes The management is to discuss annually all the reported corruption cases, and study the outcomes of these reports and whether stringent actions have been taken upon proven cases or not No reports of corruption have been generated or received in the group during the last year. 5
