Theme: The central purpose driving all business actions at Tata Steel is to serve Common Good. The Company’s vision is to be a global steel industry benchmark in Value Creation and Corporate Citizenship. The route Tata Steel has chosen to achieve this vision is excellence in all spheres of impact. The Company’s excellence initiatives are aimed at improving its economic, environmental and social performance. REPORT BOUNDARY Tata Group Tata Steel Europe Tata Steel Limited NatSteel Asia Tata Steel Thailand STEEL SBU RAW MATERIAL DIVISION PROFIT CENTRES REPORT BOUNDARY STEEL WORKS, JAMSHEDPUR ORE MINES & QUARRIES AT: FERRO ALLOYS & MINERAL DIVISION Noamundi (Jharkhand), Sukinda Chromite Mines, Odisha Raw Materials: Joda (Odisha), Ferro Alloys Plant, Bamnipal, Odisha Raw Material Bedding & Blending Yards Khondbond (Odisha), Katamati (Odisha), TUBES DIVISION Coke Iron & Sinter Banspani (Odisha), Tubes Works, Jamshedpur Sinter Plants Bambebari (Odisha) Pellet Plant Gomardih (Odisha) WIRES DIVISION Coke Plants Wire Rod Mill (West), Tarapur, Maharashtra Blast Furnaces COLLIERIES Tarapur Wire Plant 1, Maharashtra West Bokaro Division, Jharkhand Tarapur Wire Plant 2, Maharashtra Steel Making Jharia Division, Jharkhand Wire Rod Unit in Tarapur LD Converters Wire Rod Unit, Indore, Maharashtra ROLLING MILLS Merchant Mill Long Products New Bar Mill Long Products Hot Strip Mill Flat Products Cold Rolling Mill Flat Products REPORT BOUNDARY Subsidiary & Associates Companies Agrico Division REPORT BOUNDARY SUPPORT SERVICES Bearing Division CRC West MARKETING & SALES OFFICES Hoogly Met Coke Secondry Products Tata Growth Shop MANAGING DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT major maintenance shutdowns to upgrade the existing facilities in the first half of the financial year and the plant will achieve production at full rated capacity of 9.7 MTPA in the last quarter of the year. Our focus is to leverage our pursuit of Excellence, one of our five core values, for Common Good. The theme Mr Hemant Nerurkar, Managing Director, Tata Steel Limited for this report “Excellence for On February 12, 2012 Tata Steel completed 100 years of steel making in India. This Common Good” captures the historic moment gave me the opportunity to reflect on the unique attribute that has sustained Tata Steel over these years. Without doubt, it has been the “Values” work and the mind-set of Tata of the Company. When setting up Tata Steel, the Founder Jamsetji Tata had Steel today. stated, “We think we started on sound and straightforward business principles…” Successive generations of the Company’s leaders have never deviated from his Performance with respect to philosophy of “conducting business in a responsible manner”, which captures the targets very essence of the ideology of sustainability. Our pursuit of excellence is reflected The completion of one century has intensified our focus on the next. We therefore in our Corporate Goals. Safety gave ourselves onerous challenges to prepare not just for our tomorrow but also remains my top priority till we for the next century of sustainability. These challenges include systematically attain the target of zero fatality. We achieved an LTIFR of 0.51 against building our capabilities and simultaneously deepening our understanding of a goal of 0.4. Our efforts must now current and potential gaps we must rapidly bridge before the next phase of our focus on meeting our target of 0.2 exponential growth, aimed at meeting India’s current growth needs. by 2017. Strategic priorities for the short/medium-term with regard to Our specific CO2 emission sustainability continued to be improved upon The Company is executing two of its largest projects, the brownfield expansion at 2.5 tCO2/tcs, while EBIDTA was being commissioned in Jamshedpur and the greenfield expansion in Odisha sustained at 34 per cent. to address the growing demand for steel in India, which is expected to touch ~ 100 MTPA in 2017 (Source: Report Of The Working Group On Steel Industry The fuel rate in 2011-12 was For The Twelfth Five Year Plan: 2012 – 2017). Our expansion projects will more marginally adverse compared to than double our total steel making capacity from 6.8 MTPA in 2012. Balance of 2010-11, as the need for balancing capacity prior to completion of the brownfield expansion project at Jamshedpur capacities required us to continue was achieved during the year by sweating our assets. While our new facilities get running select older facilities (Blast Furnaces) beyond original plans. commissioned during 2012-13 increasing our capacity, we have also planned two Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 1 These facilities are to be closed in manufacturers with bases in India. The Company’s focus remains on these markets 2012-13. Besides, some imported in India. coals turned out to be of inferior quality than expected affecting our This growth requires a structural shift in the manner in which we conduct fuel efficiency. We are taking steps our business and a review of all aspects of our performance – strategies, risks, to prevent the recurrence of such operational efficiencies, environmental benchmarks, safety, employee wellbeing, incidents in future procurements. community relations and ultimately the license to operate. While the spend on Research & The magnitude of the task, especially new product development, raw material Development continues to show security and manpower capacity and capabilities, was effectively addressed an upward trend in the long term, through our Total Quality Journey. It has transformed the way we work, from a higher spend in 2010-11 is on a result focus to the systematic pursuit of effects. We now not only have the account of pilot projects for coal confidence to set aspirational targets but more importantly have instituted beneficiation set up in Jamshedpur processes to achieve them. and Vizag during the previous year. After becoming the only steel plant outside Japan to receive the Deming Tata Steel Limited has managed Application Prize, we challenged the Deming Grand Prize (DGP) during 2011robust profitability in spite of 12, which yielded shining stories we are proud of. Experts from JUSE (Union of significant declines witnessed Japanese Scientists and Engineers) will examine the Company during 2012-13 in steel prices after the global for this prestigious award. Total Quality Management is a journey and DGP is financial squeeze and higher costs certainly a milestone, but the greater reward is already being reaped in the form on account of inflation, reinforcing of an inspired workforce, a more systemic approach to business and a deeper the message, that better operating understanding of the individual’s role in the business. performance and effective market penetration is the key to higher Our customer centric approach to product development is aimed at creating high profitability going forward. This quality products for all segments. This year, while we introduced high-end steel for has been achieved by building on automotive applications, we also launched roofing and fencing solutions for rural branded products (~30 per cent of India. Products intended to serve the rural segment reflect Tata Steel’s persistent the product portfolio), ensuring a call to make growth inclusive. larger proportion of value added steels, combined with sustained The Company’s growth plan is supported by a raw material strategy to remain cost reduction and higher labour one of the most competitive steel producers globally and people strategy to productivity. continuously improve employee productivity. Broader trends influencing Key Challenges sustainability priorities The next big step forward is to enunciate, roll out and Our growth in capacity flows from institutionalise our process of excellence, to guide Tata Steel the long-term plan to fulfil the in the manner in which it conducts day-to-day business in the current and emerging requirements years to come, within the overall Value framework. Work has of India’s rural population, the urban already commenced on several fronts to create the platform to construction sector, infrastructure meet this challenge and along with it create a next generation industry and world-class Tata Steel. 2 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited It includes leveraging the strategic planning process, mapping our environmental and social impacts and defining the way forward in all areas of sustainable growth. We have developed a Technology Roadmap, and are focused on improving our raw material security for the sustainability of our operations. Besides, we are also determining our Carbon Footprint, Water Footprint and capturing our social impact through the Human Development Index in the state of Odisha now, after it was accomplished in Jharkhand during 2010-11. We are working on a Memorandum of Understanding with the Bombay National History Society (BNHS) for a project on Tiger reserves and have invited a team from the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to help us focus on issues concerning the preservation of biodiversity. The tribal script is reintroduced to tribal youth Each of our initiatives mentioned Accelerating Common Good above is a transformational exercise for a diversified company as Tata For me the most gratifying impact of our work is the difference Tata Steel is Steel, in which, our operations making in the lives of the most underprivileged ones through its Affirmative commence with the mining of Raw Action programmes aimed at indigenous communities. Apart from the “4Es” Material and extend to the delivery – Employability, Entrepreneurship, Education and Employment Tata Steel is of end products to the consumer. according equal attention to a fifth “E” Ethnicity. Industrial growth and the Some of the items have been integration of India into a plural whole, raises the possibility of indigenous cultures captured in this report, and many being rapidly eroded. While it is good that we mainstream these communities, others will progressively be reflected we also must strive to retain in them, the pride for their unique heritage, language in the subsequent reports. and culture in order to help preserve their uniqueness. The progress initiated in Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 3 2011-12 through our “institution of centres for traditional scripts” for our indigenous languages has been extremely rewarding. Another matter of great pride is the bank transfer of wages to all contractors’ workmen to ensure that they get paid the full wages as per the wage norms agreed to by our contractors. This effort is aimed at assuring contractors' workmen of their legal rights. During the year we also launched the Suraksha Scheme to protect families of contract workmen through assured compensation in the event of a distressing fatality. Atop Mt Everest Ms Premlata Agarwal hoists the Tata Steel flag Some more commendable recent It makes me extremely proud that we are sustaining the Vision that the first achievements are – Chairman of the Company, Sir Dorabji Tata had, for the development of sports  The achievements of Mrs. in the country. He personally financed the Indian contingent that participated Premlata Agarwal, the first lady in the Paris Olympics in 1924 and previously sponsored two Indian athletes who from Jharkhand and the oldest competed in the Antwerp Olympics in 1920. Sir Dorabji Tata went on to become from India to scale Mt. Everest, the first President of the Indian Olympic Association when it was formed in 1927.  Two young people from Jharkhand, Mr Meghlal Mahato The Olympics inspire me to reiterate its motto “Citius, Altius, Fortius” – “Faster, and Ms Binita Soren and an Higher, and Stronger” which I believe has immense resonance for Tata Steel of instructor of the Tata Steel today. Adventure Foundation Mr Rajendra S Pal, recently scaled the world’s highest peak.  2012 is the year of the London Olympics in which two archers trained by Tata Steel represented Hemant M Nerurkar India; also, an employee of the Managing Director, Company had been selected Tata Steel Limited to coach the Indian Women’s Archery team. 30th October 2012 4 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited EXCELLENCE ENABLERS Tata Steel bags the ‘NDTV PROFIT BUSINESS Forbes India confers its Best Conscious Capitalist CNBC ASIA confers its LEADERSHIP AWARDS 2011’ Award on Tata Steel Limited Corporate Social Responsibility Award GOVERNANCE SYSTEM HAPPY & ENGAGED WORKFORCE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Excellence Enablers Excellence Enablers Excellence Enablers A Stakeholder Approach to Business  People Development Architecture  Mainstreaming Indigenous Labour Management Relations  Capacity and Capability Building Communities Public Policy  Employee Happiness  Mid day meal Commitments to External Initiatives  Safety Excellence Journey  Tata Parivar Scheme Tata Code of Conduct  Wellness@Workplace Programme  Inclusive Growth through Sustainable Livelihoods GROWTH DRIVEN BY EXCELLENCE  Bridging the healthcare deficit Excellence Enablers  Public-Private-Partnership to  Expansion projects prevent HIV/AIDS  Enhanced Offering  Improving Physical Infrastructure  New Product Solutions PARTNERSHIP IN THE VALUE CHAIN  Social change through Sports  Raw Material Security Excellence Enablers  Localisation of the Supplier Base  Responsible Procurement  Supporting Infrastructure  CLAP (Contractors Labour Awareness Development IMPROVEMENT AND INNOVATION Programme)  Suraksha Scheme for Contract Excellence Enablers OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Labour  Resource Conservation Excellence Enablers  Supplier Governance Mechanism  New Product Development  ECO EFFICIENCY  Value Creation for the Customer  New Process Technology  Material Eﬃciency  Customer Satisfaction  Advocating Safe Use of Products  Energy Eﬃciency  Lifecycle Assessments  Operational Excellence  Environmental Product  Water Eﬃciency Declaration  Improving Air Quality  Sustainable Mining Practices  Logistics Eﬃciency Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 5 EXCELLENCE FOR COMMON GOOD Tata Steel’s Vision : Tata Steel business objectives are a reflection of the expectations of “We aspire to be the global steel industry benchmark for value its stakeholders, its commitment creation and corporate citizenship” places equal emphasis on to the eight sustainability value creation and corporate citizenship. It makes inclusive growth indicators as a member of World a natural corollary to the Company’s corporate strategy, ensuring Steel Association (worldsteel) that a share of the benefits accruing from value creation devolves on as well as the rights of its communities where the Company operates. stakeholders. The Strategy Management System cascades the Company’s Vision into business Business Objectives objectives and further into strategies to realise it. Each strategy is supported by  To be the preferred supplier in excellence processes, monitored and reviewed by the Board and Corporate team the chosen market segments through Key Performance Measures. The adoption of this Strategy Management  To grow in size to participate Framework allows the Company to capture learnings from the past, prioritise its in the growing global / Indian actions and focus on necessary and sufficient enablers to proactively address the steel industry  To ensure better ownership of changing business environment and stakeholder expectations. captive raw materials for long term competitiveness  To hasten the speed of improvements so that cash flows match our aspirations and plans  Develop proficient and engaged employees  To improve safety, health and environmental performance  To improve the life of communities around our area of operations worldsteel Sustainability Indicators  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  Energy Intensity The state of the art H Blast Furnace is among the largest and most energy efficient in India  Material Efficiency Tata Steel’s Strategy Management System is governed by its  Environment Management System Business Planning Framework, which ensures engagement with  Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate all key stakeholder groups for inputs and feedback. The framework  Employee Training has been customised for all business verticals of the Company. The  Investments in New Products feedback of the stakeholders is captured through formal stakeholder and Processes  Economic Value and Distributed engagement mechanisms. 6 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Initiatives taken during 2011-12 in response to the aspirations of rural and urban stakeholder groups include: Rural stakeholders:  Establishment of centres to promote traditional scripts of ethnic languages Skilled manpower lead Tata Steel’s growth aspirations  Launch of Tata Steel Skill Development Society To develop happy and engaged employees:  Measurement of HDI in To enhance the capacity and capability of its people, major new initiatives during villages located on the the reporting year were the institution of a people development architecture to periphery of the Company’s improve focus on the training and development needs at all levels, along with operations in Odisha, after investments to improve employee happiness. completion of the project in Jharkhand Safety and Health of the employee:  Basic health care to improve Given the nature of steel-manufacturing operations, Tata Steel strives to provide an the health status of the injury-free workplace as well as focus on the well-being of its workforce through its community and reduce infant Safety Excellence Journey, Occupational Health initiatives and Wellness@Workplace and maternal mortality programme, all of which are interminable programmes.  Launch of a Renewable Energy Project to illuminate The implementation of Process Safety Risk Management to reduce the occurrence villages across operational of high consequence but very low frequency events and the special focus to areas reinforce Behavioural Safety Management and secure fatality potential hazard has  Significant increase in eliminated fatalities due to fall from height or asphyxiation in confined spaces, educational scholarships causes for the highest number of fatalities in steel industry in the world. Tata Steel's offered to economically and LTIFR at 0.51 is a benchmark for the Indian steel industry. socially challenged students and extension of the scheme Energy Efficiency and Emissions: to new locations Along with the rest of the global steel industry Tata Steel faces the challenge of reducing CO2 emissions and efficiently utilising finite resources. A roadmap has Urban stakeholders: been developed to reduce Tata Steel’s CO2 emissions, optimise resource utilisation  Serving the stakeholders and improve its overall ecological footprint. in Jamshedpur through assured availability of Material Efficiency: Water, Electricity and Road To ensure optimal use of resources, Research and Development for innovations in infrastructure ore and coal beneficiation, process optimisations, waste management through  Central Kitchen to provide reduce, reuse and recycle is being pursued. the mid day meal for Economic Value Distributed: ~100,000 students of Tata Steel’s social interventions address the aspirations of two key stakeholder Government schools groups, the rural communities and the urban stakeholders in Jamshedpur.  Focus on empowerment of youth and women Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 7 VALUE CREATION Tata Steel’s strategy for Growth driven by Excellence: Value Creation Tata Steel has been pursuing growth in India through brownfield and greenfield expansion projects. The brownfield expansion project at the Jamshedpur Steel focusses on four key Works will add 2.9 MTPA to its crude steel making capacity. The project will enhance total crude steel making capacity to 9.7 MTPA. Trial production and areas: testing has commenced at the Pellet Plant, I Blast Furnace, LD#3, first stream of the  Growth in size to Thin Slab Caster (TSC) and fines circuit of the Noamundi iron ore mines. All balance facilities under this project are scheduled for completion in 2012-13. participate in the growing Dhamra Port commenced commercial operations in May 2011 and Tata Steel steel industry is seeing an integrated logistics cost benefit on the cargo moved through Dhamra Port, which is expected to further increase once the Odisha project is  Enhancing value through commissioned. enhanced offerings Investments in New Products and Processes:  Ensuring raw material 2.54 MTPA of the 2.9 MTPA to be added at Jamshedpur is planned for high end Flat security Steel, while the entire 6 MTPA facility at Kalinganagar in Odisha will produce high Improving cost end automotive Flat Products. Tata Steel’s New Product Development programme led to the introduction of several new offerings during the year. competitiveness. The Company's comprehensive growth strategy also includes capacity growth through downstream expansions in the product portfolio of steel applications like tubes, packaging and high-end automotive steels. In addition to its product This growth is aimed at portfolio, the Company strong service focus and programmes for customer value fulfilling India’s growth creation are an important differentiator in the market place. needs by serving Ensuring raw material security: among others India’s The long-term strategy of securing ownership of assets and enhancing self sufficiency in raw materials, resulted in the implementation of existing raw material rural population, the projects being expedited both in India and overseas. urban construction Improving cost competitiveness: sector, infrastructure Tata Steel’s Quality Assurance systems have significantly improved product and industry and world-class service quality performance. The special improvement initiative ‘Kar Vijay Har Shikhar’ has resulted in savings of Rs. 9450 Million in 2011-12. Going forward it manufacturers with bases will create a significantly differentiated position for Tata Steel’s products in the in India marketplace and develop a market to support Tata Steel’s volume expansion in India, by focusing especially on Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs). 8 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS The steel industry is subject to risks and opportunities arising from external business environment such as regional demand supply imbalances, volatile swings in market demand and prices, more recently exacerbated by swings in input prices, rising interest rates, exchange rate volatility as well as the euro zone crisis and the global slowdown. Tata Steel’s Long Term Plan takes into account such risks and opportunities. Growth Opportunities Raw Materials Security and Price Volatility As economies grow the demand Raw material availability depends, to a large extent, on worldwide supply and for steel increases. India has been demand relationships. Tata Steel is exposed to risk of non-availability and price a net importer of steel, especially volatility of essential raw materials. the high value added end products, The existing operations are fully self-sufficient in iron ore. Around 60 per cent of and is likely to remain a net our coal requirement is imported (mainly from Australia) exposing us to risk of raw importer for some time to come. material supplies and volatility in prices mainly due to natural calamities, labour issues and port congestions. Also, for limestone Tata Steel is dependent on supplies The demand for steel in India will from Gulf countries, which are exposed to geopolitical risks. continue to grow strong given the need for infrastructure growth and The Company Raw Material Strategy proactively tracks the factors urbanisation, providing market affecting availability and prices of raw materials and plans its sourcing opportunities that warrant further strategy accordingly. Alternate supply sources are explored to reduce expansion of steel capacity. the risk exposure. Technology Risks Our 2.9 million tonne A key challenge for the Company is to ensure that its plants are equipped with expansion in Jamshedpur updated technologies in order to serve clients and secure cost competitiveness. The Company’s Technology Roadmap provides the way forward. is in the final stage of completion and is expected Continuous R&D efforts, with the support the Technology Group, are aimed at to go on stream during the advancing our position in technology for both products and processes. financial year 2012-13, taking Jamshedpur’s capacity to 9.7 million tonnes per annum. The greenfield project in Odisha is progressing and capacity is planned to increase by 6 million tonnes in two phases of 3 million tonnes each. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 9 Energy conservation and CO2 abatement initiatives are part of Tata Steel’s progress towards a green economy Manufacturing safe steel Internal Control Systems The manufacture of steel and mining involves steps that are In Tata Steel, the Corporate Audit Division potentially hazardous if not executed with due care. The continuously monitors the effectiveness of Company’s businesses are subject to laws, regulations and internal controls with the objective of providing contractual commitments relating to health, safety and the the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, environment. an independent, objective and reasonable assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness Extra efforts are taken to ensure workplace safety at all our sites of of the organisation’s risk management, control operations. Tata Steel is committed to the worldsteel goal of injury and governance processes. The division also free steel. assesses opportunities for improvement in business processes, systems and controls; Progress towards a green economy provides recommendations, designed to add value to the organisation and follows up on Tata Steel is adopting Best Available Technologies and replacing the implementation of corrective actions and multiple blast furnaces with a smaller number of high-capacity furnaces and several other measures to enhance energy efficiency improvements in business processes after review and bring about a planned improvement in CO2 emissions per by the Audit Committee and Senior Management. tonne. The Company Secretary ensures compliance It has implemented environmental management systems that are with the SEBI regulations and provisions of the certified under ISO 14001. Tata Steel’s Board of Directors review the Listing Agreement. The Group Chief Financial overall health, safety and environment performance through the Officer ensures compliance with guidelines for Safety, Health and Environment Committee. prevention of insider trading. 10 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited A CUSTOMER CENTRIC, EXCELLENCE DRIVEN ORGANISATION Part of the Tata Steel Group, Tata Steel Limited is a public limited company with its registered office at Mumbai, India. Among Asia’s first integrated steel manufacturers, it is engaged in mining of raw materials, production and rolling of steel and marketing and sales of end products. The Company was established by Jamsetji N Tata, the founder of the Tata companies and is today one of the flagship Tata companies. The Tata Group of Companies owned 31.35 per cent of Tata Steel by voting strength as of March 31, 2012. Tata Steel is a preferred supplier to India’s leading auto manufacturers Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 11 OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE: Flat Products and Long Products are its two key business verticals. The Raw Materials Division Coke, Sinter & Iron group and Rolling Mills of the two business verticals are involved in key manufacturing functions, while Shared Services is a support function for its only steel-producing unit in India, the Jamshedpur Works. Tata Steel’s crude steel production capacity of 6.8 MTPA is being increased to 9.7 MTPA through a brownﬁeld expansion project of 2.9 MTPA and a greenﬁeld project is being executed at Kalinganagar in Odisha. The Ferro Alloys and Minerals Division (FAMD) is the largest nonsteel business unit of Tata Steel. FAMD, Tubes Division and Wire Division are the larger proﬁt centres by revenue outside the Steel Works. MARKET LEADERSHIP: Tata Steel is the second largest steel producer in India, the largest supplier to the domestic automobile industry and the second largest re-bar supplier. Saleable Steel Production (Mn T) Sales (Kt) Net Realisation (Rs/t) 3.88 39124 4.0 4000 40000 3.68 3735 36375 36412 3.62 3472 3538 3.5 3500 35000 31722 3.01 3.09 30234 3.0 2.82 3000 2879 2897 30000 2697 27175 2.5 2500 25000 2.0 2000 20000 1.5 1500 15000 1.0 1000 10000 0.5 500 5000 0.0 0 0 Flats Longs Flats Longs Flats Longs 2009-10 2010-11 20011-12 2009-10 2010-11 20011-12 2009-10 2010-11 20011-12 As on March 31, 2012 the Company had a committed workforce of 35793 employees including its Proﬁt Centers and greenﬁeld projects (both Oﬃcers and Non Oﬃcers) across India, spread over its operational locations in Jamshedpur, Mines and Collieries of the Raw Material Division and various Marketing and Sales oﬃces across the country. The Company also engages contract employees for its project and utility maintenance through service contracts. After Quality Inspection Cold Rolled Coils are ready for despatch at the Steel Works 12 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited PRIMARY BUSINESS GROUPS WITH PRODUCTS AND BRANDS Business Market Segment Product Brands Long Products Distribution Reinforcement Bars Tata Tiscon Infrastructure/ Industrial Construction Tiscon CRS Tiscon 500 Tata Tiscon 500 D Automotive & Construction High Carbon Wire Rods Tata Wiron Automotive, Construction & General Engineering Low Carbon Wire Rods Flat Products Automotive Hot Rolled Products Automotive Cold Rolled Products Tata Steelium Automotive Tata Shaktee Galvanised Products Steel Roofing Galvano Ferro Alloys & Minerals Steel Manufacturing Chrome Alloys Division Carbon & Stainless Steel Manganese Alloys Stainless & Alloy Steel Chrome Concentrate Fluxes Manganese Oxide Manganese Dioxide Tubes Division Conveyance Commercial Tubes Tata Pipes Construction Structural Structura Auto, Boilers and Engineering Precision Tubes Tata Precision Tubes Wire Division Institutional Tyre Bead Wire, Spring Wire, Spoke Wire, Tata Wiron Automotive, Infrastructure,Power, Annealed LRPC, PC Wire, Cable Armour, ACSR, Card Retail Clothing Wire, Galvanised Wire, Welding Galvanised, Welding Wire TATA STEEL’S BRANDS ARE INDIA’S MOST TRUSTED NAMES Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 13 GROWING IN SIZE IN A GROWING INDUSTRY  Best-ever sales of 6.97 million tonnes, exceeding the previous best of 6.69 million tonnes  25 per cent increase in sale of branded products with total branded sales accounting for 2 million tonnes  A newly institutionalised Corporate Quality Assurance System ensured the best-ever Quality performance  Flat Products sales registered a 6 per cent increase to reach 3.74 million tonnes  Sales in the Automotive segment crossed 1 million tonnes with highest-ever Skin Panel sales of 0.06 million tonnes.  Tata Shaktee GC sheets recorded an 11 per cent increase in sales at 0.212 million  Branded products like Steelium and Galvano recorded a 7 per cent growth.  Long Products achieved a 40 per cent increase in sales of Tata TISCON at one million tonnes sales in the retail segment  Leveraging the countrywide distribution network, with tracking dealer inventory on a daily basis, led to a spurt in retail sales.  Value-selling of Cut and Bend and Coupler products from ‘Ready Build’ centres at distributor premises aided the Company’s product diﬀerentiation strategy  The Ferro Alloys and Minerals Division continued to supplement strong earnings inspite of weak international Brand outlets and exclusive showrooms for TATA SHAKTEE ensure that the demand brand promise is delivered to customers SCALE OF OPERATIONS IN 2011-12 Particulars UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Crude Steel Production Mt 6.56 6.86 7.13 Saleable Steel Sales Mt 6.44 6.69 6.97 Gross Revenue Rs Crs 27,612 32,045 37,028 Net Turnover Rs Crs 25,022 29,396 33,933 EBITDA % % 36.68 39.55 34.06 Exceptional Income/(Expenses) Rs Crs 628 648 511 Net Fixed Assets Rs Crs 16,006 18,774 29,873 Capital Employed Rs Crs 64,233 77,683 81,634 Net Worth Rs Crs 37,169 48,445 54,491 Net Debt Equity Ratio 0.61 0.49 0.41 Research & Development Expenses Rs Crs 43.86 80.57 52.98 Market Capitalization Rs Crs 56,767 59,720 45,808 Basic Earnings Per Share Rs./share 60.26 75.63 67.84 Dividend Rate % 80% 120% 120% P/E Ratio Ratio 10.50 8.20 6.93 Total Number of Employees: Numbers 34,101 34,912 35,793 14 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited CHANGES DURING THE REPORTING YEAR Tata Steel’s brownﬁeld expansion project at Jamshedpur includes setting up a 6 MTPA pellet plant, a new Blast Furnace with a capacity of 3.05 million tonnes per annum, a new LD Shop, a Thin Slab Caster and 2.4 MTPA Rolling Mill to produce Hot Rolled Coils. The expansion project Tata Steel Limited has de-leveraged to rebalance its capital structure over the previous year. It repaid ~ Rs. 3,500 crores of borrowings during the year, creating also entails augmentation headroom for future project ﬁnancings. In May 2011, Tata Steel successfully of the Noamundi and launched the second tranche of its oﬀering of Corporate Hybrid Perpetual Joda Iron Ore Mines and Securities worth Rs.775 crores. To maintain a liquidity buﬀer, the Company also the setting-up of two tied up an unsecured long term Rupee term loan facility of Rs 2,000 crores ($400 million) to be drawn over the next 10 months and to be repaid over the next ﬁve coke ovens batteries with years. Tata Steel had cash and cash equivalents of Rs. 3,947 crores as on 31st March a capacity of 0.7 million 2012. tonnes per annum each. Trial productions have begun for ﬁnes circuit of Noamundi Mines, Pellet Plant, at the I Blast Furnace and the 1st stream of LD#3 and the TSCR Mill. All balance facilities under this project are to be completed in 2012-13. Major civil and refractory work is nearing completion for Coke Oven Battery No. 10. Mechanical and electrical work is in progress. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 15 REPORT PARAMETERS Report Profile, Scope and Boundary In 2011-12 the profile, scope and boundary of the Corporate Sustainability Report has been expanded to respond as per the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. This report also includes for the ﬁrst Company and ~ 90 per cent of the social impacts of Tata Steel Limited time three of the Company’s proﬁt proﬁts of the Company. The individual standalone for the period April 1, 2011 centres, Ferro Alloys & Minerals proﬁt centres included contribute 5 to March 31, 2012. Division, Tubes Division and Wire per cent or more of the Company’s Division, in addition to the Raw revenue. This is the twelfth consecutive While compiling this report, the GRI Materials Division OMQ & Collieries, annual report; the last report was principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Steel Division Long Products and Flat published in 2010-11. Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context Products covered in the previous and Completeness have been applied. years. These account for over 99 per The report focuses on the operations, cent of total GHG emissions by the economic, environmental and Contact Person Mr Shubhenjit Chaudhuri Chief, Corporate Sustainability , Tata Steel Limited Email: shubhenjit@tatasteel.com Materiality The initiatives included as part of this Report are based where Tata Steel operates. Further, Tata Steel’s Mission on a materiality assessment on issues important to Tata states: “Consistent with the vision and values of the Steel’s stakeholders. Any omission does not imply that a Founder, Jamsetji Tata, Tata Steel strives to strengthen concern is not being addressed. India’s industrial base through the eﬀective utilisation of staﬀ and materials.” Tata Steel undertook a detailed exercise to map its Corporate Strategy and Objectives prior to the Metrics preparation of this report. Tata Steel has identiﬁed Key Performance Measures, which are globally accepted standards in areas of priority The key indicators covered in the report were shortlisted against which it measures performance. As part of its on the basis of the Tata Steel Group Vision, Mission, Values membership of worldsteel, Tata Steel adheres to the and Policies; key learning & remaining problems from worldsteel sustainability charter. In addition to adopting 2010-11; inputs from stakeholder engagements through the worldsteel methodology for CO2 emissions, in 2011surveys, feedbacks, relationships meets, etc; analysis of 12 Tata Steel adopted the worldsteel methodology for internal & external factors; and senior management views. tracking waste generation. The process of identiﬁcation of issues/strategies and prioritisation has been explained in Section 1.2 of this Vision Report. All elements of the Company’s Vision and Goals have been addressed through speciﬁc Corporate Objectives and Tata Steel’s stakeholders include its customers, investors, Corporate Strategies and are tracked through Key vendors, people, community and regulatory authorities Performance Measures. Independent Assurance GRI Index Tata Steel continues to seek independent assurance for its Refer pages 107 112 Corporate Sustainability Report. Accordingly since 2008, Tata Steel appointed Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV), as the independent assurance provider. 16 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited GOVERNANCE SYSTEM MANAGEMENT APPROACH The Board of Directors of Tata Steel Limited consider themself a trustee of its stakeholders. The Committees of the Board of Directors maintain direct oversight in various areas. The Hon’ble President of India, Smt Pratibha Devisingh Patil (left) confers the Padma Bhushan, among India’s highest civilian honours on the Vice Chairman of Tata Steel, Mr B Muthuraman (right) WORLDSTEEL EXCELLENCE ENABLERS : GRI INDICATORS:  A Stakeholder Approach to Business INDICATORS: We conduct our 4.1-4.3 / 4.4 / 4.5 / 4.7 / 4.15  Labour Management Relations / 4.8 / 4.9-4.10 / 4.14 / 4.16 / business with high 4.17 / MM4 / LA 4/ LA5 / HR 4 / ethical standards in  Public Policy HR 11/ HR9 / SO 5-SO 6 / 4.11our dealings with  Commitment to External Initia4.13 / SO 2-4 / SO8 / MM employees, customers, COMPLAINCE / EN 28 / suppliers and the tives PR8 / PR9 community.  Tata Code of Conduct Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 17 The Non Executive Chairman of the Company, also the Chairman of Tata Sons the largest shareholding organisation and board members reviewed the compliance status of the organisation on sustainability issues. The Managing Director makes a declaration at each Board Meeting regarding the compliance with provisions of various statutes after obtaining conﬁrmation from all the Committees driving sustainability units of the Company. The Safety, Health and Environment Committee of the Corporate Governance Report for the year 2011-12 (as Board (constituted in 2009) monitors and reviews the required under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements deployment of policies across Tata Steel Group. The entered into with the Stock Exchanges) is available Managing Director is a part of the ﬁve-member Board. in the Annual Report (pages 111-134). It includes The Managing Director heads a company level Steering disclosures with respect to remuneration policy for senior Committee on Climate Change. management. All senior management and oﬃcers forego 10 per cent of the annual variable pay in the event of a fatality during the year. 18 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited A STAKEHOLDER APPROACH TO BUSINESS Tata Steel identifies its stakeholders planning and risk management stakeholders for strategic based on voluntarily accepted processes systematically collect and engagement. Priority is accorded obligations and those whose analyse information on existing on the basis of Power Influence interests it must address in the and emerging stakeholders and Matrix. Engagement with these value creation process. The Company continually realign organisational stakeholder groups helps identify includes interest groups who have priorities. important issues and consequently the potential to impact its goals opportunities and risks. and aspirations and those who it It includes internal and external may in turn impact. Its strategic as well as primary and secondary The Chairman, Mr Ratan N Tata (front row/second from right) meets members of the Tata Workers’ Union Capturing stakeholder inputs Inputs from external stakeholders captured planning process engages a cross section of by the facing division/department and employees from the Corporate team to those identification of risks (including risk to across various levels of management. reputation) are integral to the planning framework. Select stakeholder inputs, which could harm Company’s reputation, are immediately taken Inputs through internal feedback that capture up with the Board including with the Chairman learnings from the past are also part of the for appropriate actions and communication to planning framework. The long term and annual stakeholders. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 19 Driving improvement through stakeholder inputs : This engagement helps identify key issues before the the World Steel industry the top management monitors stakeholders. The top management formulates the the implementation of its sustainability indicators. strategy for the Company to address sustainability issues and to achieve the Company’s Vision, Mission and policy In 2011-12, the top management proposed the revision objectives and proposes them to the Board. of the Safety target for LTIFR to 0.2 by 2017, reducing GHG intensity of GDP by 20-25 per cent from the 2005 level by As a signatory of the Sustainable Development Charter of 2020 and reducing water utilisation by half. Sustainability challenges, risks and STAKEHOLDER INPUTS INTO STRATEGY FORMULATION opportunities for the Company are identified and reviewed during the strategy planning process, formulation and business planning. The Company has developed a customised planning framework to arrive at strategies and to formulate its Annual, Short Term and Long Term Plans (LTP) . Tata Steel has a robust company level review system to ensure business continuity. In addition each Division and Department has systematic review mechanisms. The outcomes from the reviews are acted upon. Some action points flow back as learning into the planning process through the institutionalisation of the PDCA cycle. Projects taken up to address sustainability issues through this process include:  The Pellet Plant to promotes material efficiency, Rolling  Coke Dry Quenching to achieve Plans energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions,  Central Effluent Treatment plant to  Support for setting up of a Mid-Day Meal kitchen to improve the HDI in minimise waste water discharge Tata Steel’s area of operations. 20 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Stakeholder facing departments : STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MAP The Company’s top management actively engages with its stakeholders through structured processes that comprehensively cover all stakeholder groups. STAKEHOLDER GROUPS Employees: Tata Steel respects the employees’ right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. Tata Steel’s proactive approach to stakeholder engagement, open door policy, joint consultative process and mechanisms for conflict resolution has been rewarded with over eight decades of industrial harmony and the continued license to operate in the very communities it began operations over a century ago. The Company takes pride in being the employer of choice in several instances to four generations of the same family. Organisational changes are in line with the policies of the Company, agreements with the various unions and Works Standing Orders. All such changes in the status are suitably communicated/ notified to the employees either directly or through the Union within the specified time. Mr Ratan Tata meets employees at the West Bokaro collieries Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 21 A Joint Departmental Council meeting in progress Suppliers : Suppliers are seen as a valuable source of knowledge ethical practices. In 2011-12, the Supplier Relationship and resources. Regular, structured engagements with Management programme was rolled out to nine of the 43 suppliers are undertaken to encourage capacity building, Suppliers selected under the “Strategic Partner” category business resources and adoption of green supply and across various buying segments in Tata Steel. Customers including channel partners : A reduction in working capital of customers through address customer concerns captured by Customer Service a reduction in inventory by 10-15 days and non price Teams or through Customers / Distributor Meets and beneﬁt of more than Rs 40 crores for auto customers Satisfaction Surveys. was achieved in 2011-12 through speciﬁc initiatives that Investors : The Managing Director and the Group Chief Financial The interest of the minority shareholder mainly lies in Oﬃcer (GCFO) meet investors during Analyst Meets, Press receiving regular dividend income and seeing their Meets, Annual General Meetings, and Road Shows on a investments appreciate in the long term. quarterly and annual basis to share the current and future plans of the Company and respond to their concerns. Despite lower proﬁts in 2011-12, the Directors maintained Transparency through communication, especially related the dividend to shareholders at the same rate as was to return on investment, governance and future prospects paid in the previous year. In their view the dividend address shareholder concerns related to proﬁtability, was maintained because the challenges faced by the creating value for investors, strengthening the Balance Company during the reporting year now is not an Sheet and timely implementation of projects. endemic situation but a factor of economic downturn, which will recover in the coming years. 22 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Community : Tata Steel’s social strategy is revisited in response to the aspirations of the community. The progress of the plans is jointly monitored and reviewed. Funds for the implementation of the plans are part of the pre budget exercise. Greenfield Locations : At all greenﬁeld sites the Company diligently follows processes as deﬁned by law. The Company is also conscious of the promise that entry of industry brings to such locations. Its unique Resettlement and Rehabilitation Programme, Tata Parivar carries the promise of substantially improving the quality of life of the project aﬀected families. Village heads who attended the workshop with officers of Tata Steel The Corporate Social Responsibility Plan 2012 for Ores Mines & Quarries Division was envisioned with village Mankis and Mundas (village heads) and elected Panchayat members during two separate workshops in January 2012, within the overall social strategy framework of the Company. A total of 28 village heads and 21 elected Panchayat members attended the workshops. The plan envisages further improvements in access to health, education, irrigation and skill development training. Indigenous Communities : Myriad ancient tribes accounting for a higher percentage of the population than the National average inhabit the states of Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh where Tata Steel operates. Therefore they constitute a signiﬁcant part of the communities across raw material locations, particularly at West Bokaro Division and the Ore Mines & Quarries. An important thrust area is to enable primitive tribes groupsthe Birhore and the Sabar in particular to become economically self reliant by providing them livelihood opportunities. Members of the senior management and representatives across all units regularly engage with village opinion leaders, youth and women to integrate the aspirations of indigenous communities within the social strategy of the Company, as well as help them beneﬁt from greater awareness and understanding on their rights as indigenous communities. Minutes of the meetings are shared with them and joint review of the progress of projects undertaken. This consultative approach has ensured an enduring and peaceful relationship with indigenous communities. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 23 The Company’s Tubes Division in Jamshedpur, for instance, provides infrastructure support and resources to four organisations, Kalyani Welfare Trust, Chotagovindpur Club, Navjivan Welfare Society and Baridih Recreation Club to identify and deliver welfare programmes for The top management meets beneficiaries to assess the impact of Tata Steel’s community development programmes communities around Media : its establishments. The top management participates and features in both print and electronic media A team from the frequently to candidly state their opinion in the best interest of the sector in Division, constituting particular and the nation in general. It ensured information access on the sector and compliance with the disclosure obligations of listed-companies status. The senior oﬃcers visits Managing Director met members of the print and electronic media four times them regularly, during 2011-12. conducts meetings, NGOs & Institutions : monitors the activities Members of the top management not only extend material support but also volunteer their time and skills as members and oﬃce bearers of a host of and reviews progress organisations working for the social sector and society in general. These include of the projects social agencies promoted by Tata Steel and societies supported by it. This entrusted to them. association with NGOs and institutions allows access to experts, knowledge partnerships, best practices, consultancy and research opportunities. 24 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited LABOUR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS All policies, standards and strategies are undertaken in consultation with the Workers’ Unions at all locations through joint consultations. All employees of the Company have the freedom to environment are addressed through these meetings. A express their opinion freely and raise rights-based issues new HR Desk was launched in 2011-12. through forums for two-way communication, participative management and joint consultations. A special forum for women’s empowerment addresses issues related to women. Non-oﬃcers of the Company interact with the top management through the monthly MD Online and a Tata Steel’s culture of continuous improvements rests minimum of 56 Joint Departmental Council meetings entirely on the contribution of its employees through held to ensure that issues related to operational changes, their participation in initiatives under the Business Plan production, productivity, quality, safety, welfare, training, Meeting, Total Quality Management journey, Small Group etc. are addressed in a timely and eﬀective manner. Activity (SGA) including TPM Circles, Quality Circles and “MASS” teams to engage employees in improvement Free and fair elections via secret ballot are periodically activities and thereby create a vibrant work place. held across all locations for unions representing its Employees directly contribute through Suggestion workforce. The next election of the Tata Workers’ Union, Management, Joint Works Council & Joint Departmental the largest representative body, is scheduled for early Councils, Quality Board Meetings, Safety Committees, 2012-13. Communication Meetings and the like. Oﬃcers are free to express their opinion at the quarterly Deeper involement and empowerment of frontline General Dialogue. Issues, concerns and suggestions employees has also been achieved through the drill down related to career planning, compensation and growth, of Key Performance Indicators under the Total Quality training and development, infrastructure, amenities Management process. for employees and creating a safe and healthier work Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 25 PUBLIC POLICY Tata Steel participates in stakeholder consultations with Committees and Ministries both through industry associations and directly when invited to do so by the relevant planning and policymaking bodies to support short, medium and long term planning exercises where inputs are invited from each sector. These include established Governmental processes and transparent multilevel platforms aimed Probationers of the Indian Police Service visit Tata Steel’s collieries at enacting new Acts, During the pre-budget exercise for 2012-13, the Ministry of Steel specifically asked Rules and Regulations Tata Steel for its views on an increase in the import duty on steel. The Company or revisiting existing also joined Ministerial level sub committees constituted to discuss and develop India’s 12th Five Year Plan (2012-2017), including three formed by the Ministry of legislations. Steel. The Company was a member of the Working Group on Mineral Exploration and Development (Other than Coal & Lignite). It was also invited to the Working The principle consistently Group on Coal & Lignite and the Working Group on the Railway Sector. followed by Tata Steel for policy advocacy is to During 2011-12, the Company provided inputs for the new Mines Act (MMDR) and Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act (LARR) through promote common good presentations to members of the Standing Committee of the Parliament, by making the prosperity concerned Ministries and Planning Commission. of the community the purpose of its enterprise. It also participated in a review of India’s Coal Disposal Policy and its Coal Allocation It therefore does not Policy. An active participant in the formulation of the New Steel Policy (up to 2050), Tata Steel is represented in all task forces formed by the Steel Ministry. The support any single Company did not make any contribution to any political party in 2011-12. political ideology. 26 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Precautionary Approach: Alive to the fact that both raw materials critical to on the use of inferior quality raw materials. This includes the manufacture of steel, iron ore and coal, are non significantly higher utilisation of iron ore fines and renewable, Tata Steel focuses on research & development technologies to use lower grade Indian coals. Signatory to Sustainable Development Charter of worldsteel Tata Steel is a part of the World Steel Association, which represents 180 major steel producers, steel industry associations and steel research institutes from across the globe.  CO2 Data Collection and Climate Action Programme Given the strategic importance of this  Safety and Health Excellence Recognition four membership, Tata Steel is a signatory to the companies have been recognised for their excellent Sustainable Development Charter of worldsteel improvements this year and it is part of its key programmes:  Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) Study The Company reports it CO2 emissions from Jamshedpur Steel Works to worldsteel annually and is in the process of assessing the baseline for some of its divisions spread across India. Support to UNGC and GRI Reporter Tata Steel published its first GRI report in 2000-01 and is a available on www.tatasteelindia.com. Founder Member of the United Nations Global Compact. The Company’s engagement with UNGC has deepened Tata Steel has adopted Environment, Safety and further with its membership of the CEO Water Mandate. Occupational Health systems governed by ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001. The Company’s Steel Works is certified to The Company is now determining its Carbon footprint SA 8000 and ISO 14001. SA 8000 compliance has been and Water footprint as part of its engagements with extended to the Supply Chain. Sukinda Chromite Mines of the CEO Water Mandate and worldsteel through Water FAMD is certified to SA 8000. Footprint Network (WFN) and International Finance Corporation (IFC is a member of World Bank Group). Tata Steel attaches great importance to its association to the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Its Vice Information related to compliance with all country Chairman, Mr B Muthuraman is the Immediate Past specific statutory guidelines, Tata Code of Conduct and President of CII, while the Managing Director is the standards for global businesses such as the principles Chairman of its Human Resource Committee. of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is published annually and placed in the public domain in The Company is a lead member in various committees of the Company’s annual Corporate Sustainability Report. CII and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce This is the twelfth consecutive Sustainability Report of and Industry (FICCI) including Steel, Mining, Environment, the Company, which has along with all others been Infrastructure and Manufacturing Committees. assured by a Third Party. Tata Steel also publishes a UNGC ‘Communication on Progress’ document every year as It is an Executive Member of the Federation of Indian a part of its Sustainability Report. All financial and nonMineral Industries (FIMI) and the SMI (Sustainable Mining financial reports including the analyst’s meet report are Initiative). Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 27 TATA CODE OF CONDUCT As Chief Ethics Officer, the Managing Director is responsible for the deployment of the Tata Code of Conduct. A designated Ethics Counselor assists him in deploying the Tata Code of Conduct through a formal organisational structure. Designated as the Management of Business Ethics, Departmental Ethics Co-ordinators are responsible for implementation of the process. It stands on the four-pillar concepts of Leadership, Communication and Awareness; Compliance Structure; and Evaluation of Effectiveness. Various systems and processes have been developed and implemented in Tata Steel to improve the implementation of the code, namely: Gift Policy, Whistle Blower Policy, Whistle Blower Reward Policy, Vendors Whistle Blower Policy and Sexual Harassment Prevention and Guidelines. To encourage employee activism against malpractices and to protect the identity of the Whistle Blower a third party operated Whistle Blowing Line was established in 2011-12. Training and Awareness : Compliance to the Code is a condition of service for Existing employees undergo periodic refresher 100 per cent of the employees at Tata Steel as well as a programmes, including participation in a theme based prerequisite for entry and continuation as a supplier to Ethics Month. The theme for 2011-12 was “Ethics is your the Company. An integral part of all Employee Induction conscience”. Employee unions at various locations have programmes, relevant sections of the Code are placed on signed a Joint MoU with the Management on behalf of the Company’s e-procurement site and all suppliers are the workers to comply with the provisions of the Code. required to make an electronic undertaking of compliance with this Code. Evaluation of Effectiveness : An evaluation of the MBE Programme is conducted once in two years via employee and supplier perception surveys by an independent third party. The results are analysed for selfevaluation and gaps identified are used for new initiatives. Any employee can directly raise his concerns with the Ethics Counsellor/ Head Vigilance or escalate it to the level of the Board through the Chairman of the Board’s Audit Committee. Officers of Tata Steel attend a refresher programme on the Tata Code of Conduct 28 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Action for Non-Compliance to the Code Tata Steel has a zero tolerance policy TOTAL CONCERN ANALYSIS CATEGORY WISE (FY’12) towards corruption and unethical behaviour. All oﬃcers have to submit a Conﬂict of Interest declaration (COI) on the intranet and update it as and when a new COI situation emerges in their employment period. The total number of concerns raised in 2011-12 was 209 as opposed to 105 in 2010-11 and 100 in 2009-10 due to special workshops conducted to make employees aware of interpretations with respect to ethical and unethical conduct. Annual Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC) Compliance Declaration The Managing Director submits an annual TCOC employees or business partners in any act of bribery or Compliance declaration to the Chairman disclosing corruption are thoroughly investigated and punitive as the steps taken in the Company during the year. The well as preventive action is taken. Declaration regarding compliance by Board Members and Senior Management Personnel with the Code of Conduct Concerned about protection of female employees from is available in the Annual Report (page 80). Sexual Harassment in the workplace, Tata Steel has constituted a Sexual Harassment Redressal Committee. Concerns raised regarding the involvement of its LEGAL COMPLIANCES Tata Steel, including its profit centres collectively and individually, COMPLIANCE The Company received 28 communications from anticipate and address public concerns. The Company also statutory authorities pertaining to its operations proactively seeks information on issues of public concerns, covering broadly 14 issues during 2011-12. All tracks Government notifications, changes effected in developed three issues of signiﬁcance pertained to perceived economies including product related risks and concerns in order to environmental non-compliance. develop such compliance in advance. Tata Steel honours all non-disclosure/conﬁdentiality agreements with customers. No complaints were No fines were imposed during the year for non-compliance with received or recorded regarding breach of customer applicable laws or provisions. privacy and loss of customer data in 2011-12. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 29 GROWTH DRIVEN BY EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH Value Creation at Tata Steel is aimed at fostering growth through strategies that enhance profitability along with sustainability, namely optimising usage of raw material resources, improving energy efficiency and its overall ecological footprint. The Company achieved an EBITDA margin of 34 per cent in 2011-12, placing it amongst the best in the global steel industry. The benefits of the value created by it were shared through payments to the Government of Rs 9,373 crores along with investments of ~ Rs 379.71 Cr in environment management and Rs 146 crores in community development. Healthy cash generation continued to facilitate investments in growth projects at Jharkhand and Odisha, intended to enhance the Company’s steel making capacity in India and to meet the growing Indian steel demand. No financial assistance was received from the Government in 2011-12. WORLDSTEEL EXCELLENCE ENABLERS : INDICATORS: We operate our business  Expansion projects GRI INDICATORS: eﬃciently and in a  Enhanced Offering ﬁnancially sustainable EC 1 / EC 4 / EC 2 / EC 6 / MM way, to supply steel  New Product Solutions EC 9 / EC 8 products and solutions  Raw Material Security that satisfy customers’ needs and provide value to  Localisation of the Supplier Base stakeholders.  Supporting Infrastructure Development 30 The Managing Excellence Director commissions for Common Good the Coal Beneficiation Pilot Plant Tata Steel's Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 TataNew Rebar Steel Mill Limited Expansion Projects ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Tata Steel’s planned expansion Economic value generated (A) Rs Million 2,84,111 3,30,027 3,83,076 to improve proﬁtability a) Revenues [Note 1] Rs Million 2,84,111 3,30,027 3,83,076 through value added products Economic value distributed (B) Rs Million 2,42,427 2,74,515 3,32,147 and services, is supported a) Operating Costs Rs Million 1,43,115 1,45,016 1,81,649 b) Employee Wages and benefit [Note 2] Rs Million 23,615 28,375 30,473 by its culture of innovation, c) Payment to providers of Capital Rs Million 22,641 25,078 24,836 adoption of new technologies d) Payment to Government Rs Million 52,038 74,784 93,726 and processes, continuous e) Community Investments Rs Million 1,018 1,263 1,464 improvement and quality Economic value retained (A-B) Rs Million 41,684 55,511 50,929 assurance systems. Note 1: Revenue ﬁgure includes sales tax. Note 2: From FY 2010-11, Employee Compensation includes Staﬀ Welfare expenses, earlier included in Other Expenses Priority accorded to the brownﬁeld expansion of 2.9 MTPA led to the commissioning of Break up of Payments to the Government facilities in the last quarter of 2011-12. This UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 additional capacity along with the 6 MTPA Corporate Tax Rs Million 20,795 28,700 32,980 greenﬁeld project at Odisha is intended to Sales Tax Rs Million 7,995 9,579 12,793 Excise Duty Rs Million 17,358 25,058 30,723 progressively create the capability to produce Customer Duty Rs Million 881 2,018 5,023 high-end future products, shift to larger Others # Rs Million 5,009 9,429 12,209 size blast furnaces for higher productivity, Tax paid to government Rs Million 52,038 74,784 93,726 achieve better energy eﬃciency, higher waste utilisation and lower emissions. # Others include Royalty, Service Tax, etc Environmental Expenditure Particulars UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Total Environmental Expenditure Rs. Crores 197.64 304.85 379.71 At the Ground breaking ceremony for the Hot Strip Mill at the Odisha Project Pouring of concrete commences at the site of the Coke Oven Plant for the Odisha Project Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 31 Enhanced Oﬀerings: Tata Steel continued to accelerate quality and delivery and of Long Products by 10 per cent during the year. improvements and create new products & services, many Earnings from value added branded products grew to 32 of which are a ﬁrst in India. The enhanced oﬀering allowed per cent, driven by Tata Steel’s focus on new products and the Company to extend its market reach and depth in services. It retained a 40 per cent share of the high-end 2011-12. Production of Flat Products grew by 6 per cent automotive steel segment. Product Solutions: The Company continued to diﬀerentiate its oﬀerings Wire Rod customers (~ 13000 tpm) from “Acid Pickling” to retain its leadership position in the automotive, of Wire Rods led to lower costs and better environment construction & SME segments. New service initiatives in practices for the customers. The Company also test2011-12 included the Structura Studio, Shaktee Rooﬁng marketed a new-age “plasma” technology product to Solutions, Tata Tiscon Superstore and Tata Wiron Fencing provide rust proof rebars to customers. Solutions. Solutions such as “RAISE” (Responsible Architectural The ﬁrst branded zero-spangled Galvanized Plain (GP) Initiatives & Structural Engineering) initiative and steel sheets in the country Galvano, produced through ‘BuildWise’ a Home Building solution to oﬀer architectural “lead-free” coating chemistry, was introduced in 2011-12. (contemporary & eﬃcient), structural designs (safe & The Company produced and sold Fe500 (TISCON 500D) economical) and bill of material quantities to Individual rebars, which consume 15 per cent less steel by weight House Builders (IHB) on a pilot basis were added to the eﬀectively reducing greenhouse gas emission. A shift to wide range of programmes institutionalised by Tata Steel mechanical descaling by 100 per cent of its Low Carbon to engage with channel partners and end use consumers. Climate Change: Tata Steel accounts for the impact of Climate Change on skewed demand of conveyance tubes resulting in its its products and markets. For instance, Tubes Division products getting sucked out of the system. Its mitigation which is significant player in the conveyance pipes plan includes building up additional capacity through segment considers an unseasonal Monsoon as an early low cost sources of External Processing Agents to step up warning indicator for one of the risks associated with volumes/reduce volumes during seasons and off seasons. Kar Vijay Har Shikhar: The accelerated Total Quality Management initiative Kar been planned. Further, the increase in the ratio of rail Vijay Har Shikhar (KVHS), further enhanced proﬁtability despatches from 66 per cent to 67 per cent enabled Tata through beneﬁts amounting to Rs 965.8 crores. In the Steel to save approximately Rs 9 crores in 2011-12. 2012-13, an additional beneﬁt of Rs 847.7 crores has 32 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited RAW MATERIAL SECURITY Raw Materials constitute the largest share of Tata Steel’s total spend on procurement at 62.39 per cent in 2011-12. The Company’s existing operations at Jamshedpur are self-suﬃcient in Iron ore, however it is exposed for coal and limestone, which are critical for the operations. Around 60 per cent of our coal requirements are imported (mainly from Australia) exposing the Company to the risk of raw material supplies and volatility in prices mainly due to natural calamities, labour issues and port congestions. Also for limestone Tata Steel is dependent on supplies from Gulf countries, which are exposed to risk of country specific supply risks. Alternative strategies are being explored to reduce the risks. Mechanised processing of ore at Tata Steel's captive raw material unit Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 33 LOCALISATION OF THE SUPPLIER BASE To encourage the development of the local In line with Tata Steel’s Aﬃrmative Action (AA) and Corporate Social economy and meet its needs for engineering Responsibility (CSR) policies, the practices pursued by the Company products, spares and services such as rolls, included (a) support for local underprivileged communities by creating contractual provisions, (b) contracting with vendors to material handling equipment, blast furnace augment employment and employability of local underprivileged shells, refractories and the like, Tata Steel communities, like employing members of the indigenous communities has spawned profit centres, subsidiary and for various jobs, (c) reservation of identiﬁed goods and services for associate companies which have grown to be sourcing from NGOs, (d) year on year growth in business for NGOs and counted among India’s best in their respective underprivileged sections of society through Aﬃrmative Action. segments. These include Tata Growth Shop, TRF Ltd, Tayo Rolls, Jamshedpur Utilities & Services To foster inclusive growth, Tata Steel encourages local buying, Company Limited. Tata Steel’s presence has particularly from small entrepreneurs and Non Governmental made Jamshedpur the largest industrial hub in Organisations, whose revenue ﬂow beneﬁts the local community and the region. mainstreams disadvantaged communities. PURCHASES FROM LOCAL SUPPLIERS UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Purchase Category Total Local Vendor Total Local Vendor Total Local Vendor Capital Purchase Rs Crores 38.33 13.3 38.86 18.81 42.51 19.9 Spares Rs Crores 389.40 188.38 428.40 201.51 472.26 228.53 Services Rs Crores 425.41 291.16 510.35 383.07 517.00 381.65 Excluding logistics and EPAs (External Processing) ** Vendors with address in Jharkhand (supply may be from outside Jharkhand for many vendors) Stacker Reclaimers manufactured by TRF serve Tata Steel's manufacturing facilities and many other leaders in India's core sector industries 34 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT TO AID GROWTH In context of the poor infrastructure in various states, especially where Tata Steel operates, the Company supports private and government initiatives in building infrastructure. These include construction of roads, lift irrigation projects, health care infrastructure, community centres, water pipeline projects, support to local schools and colleges along with bus services for school students. Grants to Tata Steel Rural Development Society (TSRDS), Tata Relief Committee and discretionary funds at the disposal of heads of operational locations allow them to respond to specific infrastructure demands raised by the community. Adityapur Toll Bridge was built and is now managed by subsidiaries of Tata Steel The Company’s Public Private amenities benchmarked against assessed through periodic surveys Partnership for supply of safe potable the best international standards at commissioned for the purpose. water was extended to ten additional Jamshedpur as well as at all company Jamshedpur was rated second best underserved communities around managed locations. in the country based on responses Jamshedpur. The Company was able from its citizens in 2011-12. During the year in addition to operating and to achieve this goal through the This includes quality and sufficiency managing civic utilities, Tata Steel reduction of Non Revenue Water from of potable water, sanitation, power invested in electrification of new areas, 20.26 per cent in March 2011 to 4.78 availability, municipal solid waste development of parks, resurfacing per cent by February by 2012. Over management collection and disposal, of roads, extending access to piped 250 street lights were also installed in disease and vector control, roads and drinking water to ten underserved these areas. street lights. communities and focussing on public health activities across a leasehold area Tata Steel ensures access to civic The Quality of Life in Jamshedpur is of 64 square kilometres. The Company is working on the development of a Master Plan for the future development of Jamshedpur. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 35 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH Operational Excellence is embedded in the design of Tata Steel’s operating units and forms part of its ethos of serving common good. The Tata Group’s Code of Conduct (Clause 8), Climate Change Policy, Tata Steel’s Vision, Environmental Policy and the UN Global Compact Principles guide Tata Steel’s approach to operational excellence. Improvements in Key Performance Indicators for operational performance are driven through its Total Quality Management process; with objectives and strategies making excellence integral to the way business is conducted. All Tata Steel’s Mines and Collieries are certified to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Progressive Mine Closure Plans approved by the Indian Bureau of Mines are being implemented by the Company at its ore mines. The focus on safety and health ensured that in 2011-12, the Indian Bureau of Mines as well as state and Central governments appreciated the safety practices of Tata Steel’s operations and their level of emergency preparedness. Tata Steel’s responsible mining practices have ensured that its ore mines, quarries and collieries have remained operational for over a century. WORLDSTEEL EXCELLENCE ENABLERS :  Eco Efficiency INDICATORS: GRI INDICATORS:  Material Efficiency We strive to optimise the EN 1/ EN 2/ EN 3/ EN 4/ EN 5/  Energy Efficiency eco-eﬃciency of products EN 6/ EN 7/ EN 8/ EN 9/  Operational Excellence throughout their life cycle. EN 10/ EN 11/ EN 12-15/ EN  Water Efficiency 16EN 19 We promote the recovery,  Improving Air Quality reuse and recycling of  Sustainable Mining Practices steel.  Logistics Efficiency Pelletisation of iron ore fine 36 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited ECO EFFICIENCY The brownﬁeld expansion of 2.9 MTPA and 6 MTPA greenﬁeld project at Odisha is intended to progressively shift to larger size blast furnaces for higher productivity, achieve better energy eﬃciency, higher waste utilisation and lower emissions. Material: Tata Steel’s captive raw materials make it one of the most To optimise use of natural resources the thrust areas cost competitive steel producers in the world. However for Tata Steel are: the heterogeneity of their quality demands additional  Resource conservation cost in subsequent processes (steel making) to achieve  Research & Development on innovative technologies both optimal use of the resources and the desired quality and processes for Ore & Coal beneﬁciation of steel for high-end products.  Process optimization, waste management through reduce, reuse & recycle Resource and energy efficient blast furnaces set up as  Adoption of clean & best available technologies & part of the brownfield expansion at the Jamshedpur process upgradation Steel Works and greenfield capacity being created at Kalinganangar is expected to maintain its profitability The Tubes and Wires Divisions of Tata Steel who use and cost leadership even as these capacities come steel as input material focus on material eﬃciency by on-stream by ensuring the long-term sustainability improving plant yield and reduction in internal rejections. of its captive iron ore and coal mines. The Company In 2011-12 Plant Yield at the STP of Tubes Division was has adopted different strategies at different 96.26 per cent and at the Precision Tube Mill was manufacturing stages to achieve this objective. 92.17 per cent. Waste Utilisation: Technology enhancement at Tata Steel is also guided Projects in progress to improve utilisation include process by its objective of attaining 100 per cent utilisation of development for production of DRI using iron ore slime recyclable material generated within the Steel Works and processes for the production of hot metal from mine because of the high Iron (Fe) content of the waste and the and steel plant wastes through development of low shaft potential to eﬀectively utilise the wastes to meet its goal furnace technology. of preserving natural resources. Examples of initiatives taken by Tata Steel to conserve Tata Steel has entered into a Joint Venture to natural resource through use of the waste generated create Himalaya Steel Mill Services to stack include use of iron ore slime for making cold bonded and process steel making slag for value added briquettes as an alternative to lump ore addition in LD furnace, iron ore nuggets from iron ore slime by Rotary applications like aggregates for road making and Hearth Furnace (RHF) and LD slag utilization in paving ballasts for rail. The Pilot Project is underway. blocks. The ore-binding programme at Noamundi This will eliminate the need for using slag for focuses on higher recovery of water for reuse and faster landfills. settlement of slime. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 37 Energy: REDUCTION IN DEPENDENCE ON One of two top corporate objectives for the Jamshedpur Steel Works is energy FOSSIL FUELS (%) eﬃciency to reduce CO2 emissions. Energy conservation at the Jamshedpur Steel 100 97 Work is also one of the pillars to remain cost competitive as energy costs accounted 93 90 for 55 per cent of Works costs in 2011-12 against 51 per cent in 2010-11. 80 A major strategy for reduction in specific energy consumption and 70 CO2 abatement is continuous adoption of energy efficient processes. Coal 60 53 Gas 50 47 Measures aimed at energy conservation and conservation of fossil fuels led to reduced dependence on boiler coal from 97 per cent in 1997-98 to less than three 40 per cent in 2011-12, while heat input from by-product gas rose to 93 per cent in 30 2011-12. 20 10 7 This eﬀort was rewarded with the National Energy Conservation Award 2011-1st 3.4 0 Prize, conferred on the Company by the Ministry of Power, Government of India. 1996-97 1996-97 2002-03 2011-12 2002-03 2011-12 CO2 Abatement: Emissions are an area of critical concern for the global steel industry because steel manufacture inadvertently produces Carbon Dioxide (CO2) since energy needs are met from carbonaceous fossil fuels. The Company’s commitment to the mitigation The overall environment Tata Steel’s major of Climate Change is reﬂected in the inclusion performance, including manufacturing sites and of this goal in its Environmental Policy and mitigating and controlling raw material locations have its initiatives to reduce energy consumption, environmental impacts, implemented environmental especially from conventional fossil fuels. It is subject to continuous management systems has set a baseline, developed action plans and detailed scrutiny by certiﬁed to ISO 14001. and is benchmarking with other global steel the Board of Directors Its units adhere to the manufacturers to continuously enhance of the Company, with Quality, Environment and substitution of fuels through low carbon the Board providing Occupational Health & options. Adoption of Clean & Best Available direction on operational Safety (QEHSM) policies Technologies, an increase in waste energy excellence. The Safety, and management systems. recovery (TRT & CDQ) and improvement in Health and Environment Reviews and audits are the utilisation of by-product fuels are part of Sub Committee focusses conducted at ﬁxed intervals its on-going 2.9 MTPA brownﬁeld expansion on environmental to achieve continual programme. performance. improvement. 38 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited MATERIAL EFFICIENCY Conservation of resources through planned mining, beneﬁciation and blending is an on-going process at Tata Steel. In 2011-12 technology interventions for the beneﬁciation of iron ore and batch-wise processing with improvements in separation eﬃciencies at the coal mines were pursued to improve material eﬃciency and the sustainability of raw material sources. Advanced techniques to extract valuable components such TREND IN REDUCTION IN COKE RATE OVER THE YEARS as iron and carbon by reusing most of the residual materials through Sinter Plants, Steel Making (LD shops or BOS) and coke ovens have replaced use of primary raw materials, while also reducing overall CO2 emissions at the Steel Works. A signiﬁcant step forward in the conservation of virgin material in 2011-12 was the commissioning of the Pellet Plant to consume iron ﬁnes. Over 6 MTPA of ﬁnes generated during mining is expected to be consumed. Raw Material Consumption (Tata Steel Limited) Material UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Coal Tonnes 1,119,944 1,199,247 1,114,522 Coke Tonnes 3,422,334 3,565,464 3,814,984 Ferro Manganese Tonnes 21,799 23,836 24,553 Iron Ore Tonnes 11,181,574 11,737,116 12,188,702 Limestone and Dolomite Tonnes 2,225,440 2,392,355 2,446,397 Spelter, sulphur and other materials Tonnes 1,172,425 1,115,813 1,325,378 Zinc and Zinc Alloys Tonnes 22,842 21,231 22,479 Benefits of Kar Vijay Har Shikhar (Accelerated Improvement programme)  Improvements in clean coal throughput at the Washeries  Reduction in Slag Fe percentages during steel making  Improving the yield to reduce hot metal and scrap consumption  Reduction in lime consumption  Debottlenecking of the value chain Pellet stock at the Steel Works Optimising use of associated process materials To optimise use of associated process materials, Project ACE a New and improved lubricants with better life collaborative eﬀort involving all Raw Material locations of Tata Steel were identiﬁed as well as a new ﬁltration system was launched in 2011-12. The large fragmented spend base of the tested to increase the life of the lubricants. The Division was rationalised on the basis of commonality in end application ACE team also worked on initiatives to improve and supplier it was sourced from. The objective was to improve the life the life of tyres in the mines through robust tyre and lifetime costs of materials such as lubricants and tyres. maintenance and review practices. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 39 REDUCE, REUSE AND RECYCLE Indurating Machine Major enablers for The most voluminous material, about 50 per cent of the total solid waste generated, as a result of steel making is Blast Furnace Slag. A holistic approach to greater utilisation of its use through improvements in the quality of raw materials, their utilisation and slag generated during adoption of better process technology has led to > 90 per cent utilization of Blast steel making include Furnace Slag through its downstream application in Cement making. adoption of cast house About 3.8 million tonnes of Slag was generated at the Blast slag granulation facilities Furnace and steel melting shops during 2011-12 most of which at Blast Furnaces to was used for Cement making. 1.3 MTPA of steel making slag generated was further processed in the Metal Recovery Plant to potentially reach 100 per achieve better utilisation. cent online granulation, a Metal Recovery Plant for The Metal Recovery Plant separates metallic components from slag and segregates recovered metallic components into various sizes. Metallic fines are used in the LD Slag (steel making Sinter Plants. Steel below 500 mm and more than 20 mm size fractions is re-melted slag) processing, Raw for in-house steel making, while part of the steel that is above 6mm but below Material Bedding and 20 mm is used in the Blast Furnaces as substitute for Sinter. Non-metallic fines are used partly at the Sinter Plant as a substitute for lime, conserving another natural Blending plants to resource. Scrap is not purchased from outside. prepare feed material for Sinter Plant for utilisation Beneficiation of iron ore to reduce gangue material in the charge along with washing of Coal has reduced ash content in the Coke used for iron and steel of waste materials and making. use of BOD Plant Sludge, Oil Sludge and Waste While Specific Solid Waste Utilisation at Jamshedpur Steel Works increased from 473 kg/tcs in 2010-11 to 477 kg/tcs in 2011-12, percentage Solid Waste utilisation Activated Carbon in Coke dropped from 78 per cent in 2010-11 to 75 per cent in 2011-12 primarily due to Making. higher generation of waste as a result of an increase in crude steel production. 40 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Organic Waste Convertor System developed for Steel Works During 2011-12 an Organic Waste Convertor System was set up at the Steel Works to contribute to a safe and clean environment. Organic waste generated by 16 canteens within the Steel Works is treated biomechanically in the Organic Waste Convertor machine to produce 400 Kg of mature compost per shift. The matured compost prepared by the Organic Waste Convertor System is utilised for in-house gardening. Packaging Materials Minimal or no packaging is required for steel products. Dunnage used to transport its products is reused multiple times for transporting products Careful management of hazardous waste TOTAL WASTE GENERATED In 2011-12 the worldsteel methodology for calculation of waste generation was adopted. Material Location UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Reject Coal Jharia Tonnes 126,145 140,314 147,832 Reject Coal West Bokaro Tonnes 196,220 226,247 251,455 Non-Hazardous Waste Generation 6 sites Tonnes 69,062,376 64,870,316 68,112,225 Hazardous Waste Generation 1 site Tonnes 1,315 1,614 1,284 Used Batteries 4 sites Nos. 4,397 4,382 5,856 Used Oil 6 sites KL 455 558 707 Overburden 3 divisions m3 27,990,506 26,174,336 27,360,362 * Tailings are disposed off to brick kiln manufacturer and partly institutionalised customer operating power plant Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 41 ENERGY EFFICIENCY Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvement As part of its brownfield expansion the Company has from hot coke was implemented in 2011-12. focussed on processes and technologies that reduce Conservation efforts ensured that Specific Power energy consumption. Coke Dry Quenching at Coke Oven Consumption at the Steel Works continued to decline Battery Nos.5, 6 & 7 to generate steam using waste heat from 356 Kwh/tss in 2010-11 to 351 Kwh/tss. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption Particulars Location UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Petro-Fuel (LDO, HSD / Diesel, Petrol) 9 sites KL 65,995 68,474 72,779 LPG 4 sites Tonnes 1,883 3,168 3,478 Furnace Oil 4 sites Tonnes 11,432 13,844 13,151 Specific Energy Consumption 1 Steel Works Gcal/tcs 6.125 6.006 6.088 Electricity 9 sites GWh 432.6 451.2 470.1 The energy efficient processes adopted in the last three years at the Jamshedpur Steel Works and the benefits that have accrued are as follows: Unit Energy Efficient Process adopted Energy Conserved 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Blast Furnaces Waste Heat Recovery to reduce use of coal as fuel 196,179 Gcal/year 195,074 Gcal/year 190,886 Gcal/year Hot Strip Mill Regenerative burners for Lean Gas ~9,600 Gcal/year ~25,600 Gcal/year ~99,200 Gcal/ over FY09 over FY09 year over FY09 Coke Oven Coke Dry Quenching (CDQ) to reduce moisture 152,035 Tonnes and lower coke requirement with steam of process steam generation from sensible heat recovery generated Commissioned in November 2011 94,262 Gcal conserved during 2011-12 Steel Works Switch over to Torpedo Ladles for Hot Metal transfer 36,332 Gcal/year 37,942 Gcal/year 39,476 Gcal/year Torpedo ladle cars ensure energy efficient transfer of hot metal 42 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Under the accelerated TQM initiative, Kar Vijay Har Shikhar, greater focus was placed on energy efficiency, primarily to reduce fuel and power consumption. Some of the major on-going projects to reduce energy intensity are: The reporting year culminated with the improvement project Kar Vijay Har Shikhar marking 100 successful weeks. Manufacturing Unit Energy Efficient Process Status of projects and Energy Conservation Potential Pellet Plant Lower coke requirement by providing The Pellet Plant was commissioned in November 2011 and is currently under rampa higher proportion of agglomerate up. It is run on by-product gases from the Blast Furnace, CO Gas and Coal Tar. 17 kg/ thm reduction of fuel rate is expected to be achieved in Iron Making due to various initiatives, this one being the key leading to a reduction in energy consumption by 1,000,000 Gcal/year during future operations at the 9.7 MTPA level. I Blast Furnace Stoves Waste Heat Recovery Expected level @ 125,000 Gcal/year Regular energy audits along with capacity building, advocacy and improvement in the HR structure form part of the eﬀort to improve internal focus. PLANT SPECIFIC IMPROVEMENTS Coke Ovens The energy conservation potential of CDQ is estimated at 403,000 Gcal/year through generation of 650,000 tonnes/year of process steam. After the process was implemented during the year, 152,035 tonnes of process steam was generated from waste heat resulting in energy savings of 94,262 Gcal during 2011-12. Hot Strip Mill Reheating Furnace No.3, with regenerative burners, at Hot Strip Mill uses lean gas, i.e. Blast Furnace gas for reheating the slab. This has improved the eﬃciency of the Furnace leading to a fuel saving of > 5 per cent. Finishing Mills Finishing Mills at Jamshedpur Works reduced fuel consumption through monitoring & operational control. Three Mills achieved their best ever fuel rate. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 43 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Processes and technologies to reduce its electricity TRT for generation of power from pressure energy. consumption include the first LCI (Load Commutated Inverter) drive in a Sinter Plant in Sinter Plant No.3. The Coal Mines at Jharia generate 50 per cent of their Thereafter variable speed drives were installed in major power needs at the 10 MW Fluidised Bed Power Plant high capacity motors Blast Furnace Electric Blowers, I D from coal rejects generated at the washeries, allowing Fans in LD Shops, I D Fan in Boilers, Combustion Air Fans in the Division to continuously reduce indirect energy Hot Strip Mill, Primary Descaler Pump in the Hot Strip Mill consumption. besides smaller applications. Tata Steel has also adopted PLANT SPECIFIC IMPROVEMENTS Blast Furnaces Blast Furnaces Recovery of pressure energy from Blast the new 'I' Blast Furnace. Once complete the three TRTs Furnace top gas enabled the Company to generate will generate more than 250 GWh of electrical energy electrical power@ 2.4 MW in 2011-12 from two operating per annum and achieve an offset of more than 225,000 TRTs. The third TRT of 14 MW capacity will be installed at tonnes of CO2 per annum. Power generated by TRTs at Jamshedpur Steel Works during last the three years and corresponding quantity of energy conserved at an upstream power plant with heat rate @ 2,800 kcal/kwh. Energy Conserved 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 12.53 MW 16.01 MW 11.98 MW Top Gas Pressure Recovery Turbines (TRTs) to improve energy efficiency through waste energy recovery 109,729,779 kWH 140,284,421 kWh 105,240,425 kWh 307,243 Gcal/year 392,796 Gcal/year 294,673 Gcal/ye Power House No.5 An innovation allowing Low Pressure steam to energise the PRDS resulted in an additional 3 MW of electricity being generated through steam. Two Finishing Mills at Jamshedpur Works achieved their best specific power consumption during 2011-12 The Company is striving to reduce purchased coal & coke Finishing Mill Unit Previous Best consumption to achieve dual benefit of cost & energy reduction. 2011-12 Value Year Reduction of coke reduces indirect energy consumption at its Merchant Mill KWh/t 60.95 61.62 2009-10 upstream raw materials facilities. New Bar Mill KWh/t 97.85 102.26 2010-11 MAJOR PROJECTS TO REDUCE INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION ARE : Energy Efficient Process Manufacturing Unit Status of projects and Energy Conservation Potential TRT I Blast Furnace, Steel Works Expected to generate 14MW electricity Coromax basex Electrostatic Sinter Plant 3, Steel Works Plant commissioned in January 2012 in phase-1 and phase-2 is to be completed Precipitators by October 2012. Thereafter the savings will be assessed-expected @ 320 KW. The Ferro Alloys & Minerals Division of the Company is actively used during interactions requiring Company brought about a reduction in plant idle running, employees from multiple locations to participate. Use of increasing Plant Availability and improving Specific two wheelers was restricted within the Steel Works with Energy Consumption. Tata Steel has implemented green bus services now available to employees of both Tata procurement practices and is proactively greening its Steel and its contractors. supply chain. Tele-presence and video conferencing 44 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited EMISSION ABATEMENT Energy efficient burners at the Indurating Machine of the Pellet Plant run on by-product gases from the Blast Furnace, CO Gas and Coal Tar Measures for environment protection at Tata Tata Steel revised its emission performance target during Steel include adopting Best Available Technology 2009-10 to be consistent with the World Steel Association and designing pollution control infrastructure to (worldsteel) scope for reporting. Its corporate goal is achieve discharge and emissions within statutory to reduce CO2 emissions per tonne of crude steel (tcs) limits. produced. DIRECT AND INDIRECT GAS EMISSIONS Specific Generation (tCO2/tcs) Absolute Quantity (tonnes) Parameter 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Scope 1 2.37 2.31 2.27 1,55,88,792 1,58,04,004 1,62,83,052 Scope 2 0.11 0.10 0.11 7,31,559 6,81,602 7,89,126 Scope 3 0.02 0.11 0.12 1,13,121 7,44,194 7,46,793 The Jamshedpur Steel Works achieved the best ever direct year. Total CO2 emission (Scope-1, 2 & 3) for Jamshedpur CO2 emission intensity (under Scope-1 of worldsteel Steel Works at 2.499 tCO2/tcs in 2011-12 surpassed the methodology) in 2011-12 @ 2.27 tCO2/tcs that is 1.6 per lowest ever achieved i.e. 2.504 tCO2/tcs in 2009-10 and cent lower than 2.31 tCO2/tcs achieved in the previous 2.513 tCO2/tcs achieved in 2010-11. ROADMAP TO REDUCE CO2 EMISSIONS Tata Steel’s products are part of the solution to climate recycling at end of life. The roadmap for reducing CO2 change as steel has inherent environmental advantages emissions intensity through reduction of speciﬁc energy by being durable, adaptable, reusable and recyclable. CO2 consumption developed by the Company places critical emissions in steel production are oﬀset by reductions emphasis on greater eﬃciency in processes and adoption in emissions through the lifecycle of steel products, of technologies including fuel switch. achieved through eﬀective product design and through Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 45 Manufacturing Unit Technology / Practice adopted Estimated CO2 emission abated (tonnes of CO2 or tCO2) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Hot Strip Mill Regenerative burners for Lean Gas (savings ~9,600 tCO2 ~25,600 tCO2 ~99,200 tCO2 estimated over FY091 performance level) Blast Furnaces Waste Heat Recovery from hot flue gases of 92,683 tCO2 92,161 tCO2 90,182 tCO2 stoves to reduce fossil fuel consumption Blast Furnaces Top gas pressure Recovery Turbines (TRTs) 12.53 MW 16.01 MW 11.98 MW to improve energy efficiency through waste 55,273 tCO2 70,664 tCO2 53,012 tCO2 energy recovery Coke Ovens After use of dry coke in Iron making 152,035 29,695 tCO2 tonnes of process steam was generated through offset Under implementation Waste heat recovery of heat from hot flue 98,677 tCO2 gases in stoves Steel Works, Jamshedpur Use of Torpedo Ladles for Hot Metal Transfer 7,819 tCO2 8,165 tCO2 8,495 tCO2 Power House 5 Innovative solution at PRDS using spare steam ~ 10,880 tonnes of CO2 was abated during 2011-12 for power generation 1. @ 3.2 MTPA production level – actual production has been higher resulting in higher savings. CO2 emission intensity of Tata Steel’s products is expected to reduce by 5 per cent over the next two years and 10 per cent over next five years. DIVERSE NATURE OF MEASURES ADOPTED FOR CO2 ABATEMENT Technology / Practice being adopted Location of installation Current status and CO2 abatement potential Lower coke requirement by providing a higher Pellet Plant, Steel Works Commissioned in Nov 2011 and currently under ramp-up; it proportion of agglomerate in Iron Making uses by-product fuels (gases & tar) only. Potential abatement expected ≈ 500,000 tCO2/year at rated capacity. Coromax based Electrostatic Precipitators Sinter Plant 3, Steel Works Phase-1 of the Plant commissioned in January 2012 and Phase-2 is to be completed by October 2012. Savings shall be assessed thereafter. Potential abatement expected ≈ 1,413 tCO2/year through offset. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Tata Steel has proactively reduced Ozone Depleting Substances to touch 0.20 kg/TR in 2011-12. Sanctioned schemes are being implemented to achieve a switch over to R22. In most operating locations, such as at West Bokaro and Sukinda, 100 per cent switch over to R22 has been achieved. 46 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited WATER EFFICIENCY Tata Steel draws water required for industrial use from surface water sources, primarily perennial rivers and streams. Jamshedpur Steel Works has achieved an 18 per cent reduction in specific water consumption over a ten-year span from 7.1 m3/tcs in 2002-03 to 5.83 m3/tcs in 2011-12. Parameter UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Specific Water Consumption in the Steel Works m3/tcs 5.58 6.04 5.83 A captive reservoir with a capacity at the Mines comprises mine water, beneficiation plants. Closed water of 34.224 million m3, covering a especially water reused for purposes cycles at these plants capture and catchment area of 92.6 kms, is the such as dust suppression, makerecycle back the water. In addition, standby source for the Steel Works at up water for beneficiation and Slime Dams at the Ore Mines and Jamshedpur. Ground water abstraction maintenance of the fleet of vehicles. Quarries separated 1,575,317 m3 of in Jamshedpur is actively discouraged. water and recycled it back for use. The largest users of water in the raw A significant part of the water used material units are the iron ore and coal WATER WITHDRAWAL AND DISCHARGE Particulars Location UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Total Water Withdrawal 2 sites m3 9,184,826 10,160,603 9,182,042 Total Volume Recycled Water 2 sites m3 3,474,369 4,441,310 6,104,129 Effluent Quantity 4 sites m3 0 0 0 Actions being taken to limit water consumption:  Deployment of 3R (recover, recycle and reuse) for wastewater streams  Chemical treatment to reduce cooling tower blowdown  Installation of close water circuit systems for new and upgraded units  Diverting storm water drains to cooling ponds by taking advantage of the natural topography  Rain Water Harvesting system at the raw material locations and major buildings in Jamshedpur  Toilets provided with auto-flushing with movement sensors in major buildings with trials on water-free urinals  Installation of flow metres at key locations for monitoring and review  Surveillance for identification of leakage and corrective action State of the art Waste Water Treatment plants at Jamshedpur Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 47 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water During the course of the expansion project, phased commissioning and ramp up of production units, the demand for makeup water in Steel Works at Jamshedpur has increased over previous years. Initiatives to harvest rainwater and to recycle treated wastewater are being pursued to offset the temporary increase and to ensure no critical impact of increased capacity on water sources. About 47 per cent of the water withdrawn by the Steel Works is discharged back into the river after treatment. Water recycled and reused Steel manufacturing requires relatively large volumes of water most of which is used for non-contact cooling (ICW) and is therefore primarily reused. Wastewater recovery at the Steel Works rose by over 30 per cent to 4.3 MGD in 2011-12 against 3.3 MGD in 2010-11. Water management plans are being rolled out at all raw material Recovery of water at the raw material beneficiation plant locations. They include dewatering plants and controls, to mitigate the impact of water use and discharge. Closed water cycles at coal beneficiation plants capture all effluent water and recycle it back to the processing plant instead of it being discharged. Dewatering plants at the ore mines capture water from mine tailings. The Slime Dam at Noamundi Iron Ore Mine The total capacity of the slime dams at the Ore Mines & Quarries is 34.56 million tonnes. An additional capacity of 10 MT is being created at Noamundi and 36 MT at Joda. The decanted water from the zero discharged slime dam is completely recycled back to the beneficiation plant. The installation of India’s first tailing dewatering plant at West Bokaro has nullified the need for a tailing pond and eliminated water loss due to evaporation. 48 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Protecting our water sources The sanctity of rivers and other water sources Mine water from Coal Mines at Jharia and West Bokaro is always the first priority for Tata Steel, which is treated at the water treatment plants. Garland drains and toe walls with settling pits along overburden discharges only treated effluents from its dumps prevent run-off water or sediments from industrial units and treated domestic sewage from flowing directly into natural streams. Check Dams townships. Therefore, all locations have Sewage across the lease areas of the Ore Mines & Quarries, Treatment Plants with adequate capacities to treat including four across Balijhor Nullah at Noamundi and the entire sewage. All units within the Steel Works another four at Joda East arrest run-off water. The deare provided with wastewater treatment plants. siltation of these check dams is done regularly. Wastewater from various processes are treated with the best available physio-chemical methods During the current reporting year and recycled in the process. Wastewater from the Rainwater Harvesting structures coke plant is treated biologically where organic constructed at Noamundi created pollutants are oxidised and decomposed by microthe capacity to harvest 125,000 cubic organisms. metres of rainwater. The Company abstracts fresh water downstream from the point of discharge of eﬄuent water. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 49 IMPROVING AMBIENT AIR QUALITY Reduction in dust emission In addition better combustion control was established through multiple initiatives including automation in facilities such as Blast Furnace Stoves, Coke Ovens, Sinter is one of top two corporate Plants, Lime Kilns and Finishing Mills, along with adoption of better process and objectives for environmental operational control over raw material blends. Maximum availability of air pollution performance. To improve control equipment and commissioning of the energy efficient Electrostatic Precipitator with higher dust capture capabilities compared to the earlier Ambient Air Quality, air conventional technology significantly improved Specific Stack Dust Emission pollution control equipment at the Steel Works. Covered conveyors for raw materials are progressively being designed to meet particulate commissioned at the Steel Works to further improve air quality. Specific dust emission reduced by 0.5 kg/tcs in the reporting year. emission of < 30 mg/m3 is being installed at all operating REDUCTION IN DUST EMISSIONS AT THE STEEL WORKS Parameter UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 and new units. Specific Stack Dust Emission kg/tcs 0.86 0.84 0.79 Dust suppression equipment at the Steel Works has improved overall air quality 50 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited SUSTAINABLE MINING PRACTICES Tata Steel seeks to actively promote and enhance the decades been devoted to optimum resource utilisation, wellbeing of socially disadvantaged and indigenous ore beneﬁciation and optimisation of raw materials usage. communities in its areas of operation in consonance with The Company has played a pioneering role in the mining the mandate of its Founder, Jamsetji Tata who considered industry in India. Initiatives taken in 2011-12 to meet these communities to be the very purpose of enterprise. An objectives include setting up a Pellet Plant to consume integrated steel producer with backward linkages for its raw ﬁnes generated from the mines, environment eﬃciency materials, Tata Steel extracts raw materials from its mines, improvement through TRT facility in Blast Furnaces, CDQ only to the extent required for its own consumption. The for Coke plant etc. Research & Development has led to revenues of the Company and payments to the Government the development of a special beneﬁciation process for reﬂect the value of resources used. Coal which signiﬁcantly improved yield of coal from the collieries. This is under commercialisation and is expected While India does not participate in the Extractive Industries to signiﬁcantly increase Mine Yield. Total expenditure on Transparency Initiative, Tata Steel has proactively pursued Research & Development at Rs 52.98 crores stood at 0.16 per responsible mining practices for over a century. It has for cent of Total Turnover. Mining leases held by Tata Steel originated between It makes available compliance reports as per statutory 1910 and 1925. The Company’s Ore Mines & Quarries, guidelines for mining locations currently covered under Ferro Manganese Mines and Collieries lie in the states such requirements. Mining operations at the Noamundi Iron of Jharkhand and Odisha in India. Though all Tata Steel’s Ore Mine are restricted within 370.92 hectare of the forest operations lie beyond the requisite 10 kilometres radius of area for which the Company has obtained forest clearance. the buﬀer zone for forests and protected areas, the Company Here, no mining is above the ground water table nor has any is alive to the fact that extraction of raw materials has the water source been obstructed. A garland drain of 600 cum potential to impact the environment. was constructed during the year. While operating its mines Tata Steel has adopted best practices to prevent, Afforestation Programmes are or otherwise minimise, mitigate and remediate harmful effects of mining designed. Presently the mined operations. out area of Hill 4 at Noamundi is being backfilled with subgrade Planned scientific mining ensures that the thrust on continual improvement material. in environmental performance is maintained. Biological Reclamation Plans are drawn for each mine, based on available mined out/barren area/dump A Bio-diversity study to enumerate and, as per approved Environmental Management Plans, Mining Plans and/ ﬂoral species around Tata Steel’s or Review Schemes of Mining. To achieve the reclamation targets, Annual Noamundi Iron mine was conducted in 2012 along with the LAND OWNED AND DISTURBED Environmental Impact Assessment Particulars Locations UoM 2011-12 of the mine for its expansion project. Lease area 3 sites Hectare 1,859 The species diversity index within Forest /Protected area 2 sites Hectare 1,284 the mine lease and in the buﬀer Non-forest area 3 sites Hectare 575 zone around the mine was found to Amount of land disturbed 2 divisions Hectare 3291.139 be -1.089 and 0.965, respectively. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 51 BIODIVERSITY OFFSETS Hills 1 and 2 at Tata Steel’s Ore Mines & Quarries were 12, for example about 28,500 additional saplings were aﬀorested in 1982-83. The trees today have an average planted at Noamundi Iron Mine and 12,000 plants and girth of 2-2.5 feet. A total area of 363.765 hectares within 15,000 grass tufts along roads, vacant places and inactive the lease area has been aﬀorested till 2011-12 with density dump slopes at Katamati Iron Ore Mine. maintained at the rate of 5255 plants per hectare. In 2011Reforested hills at Tata Steel’s raw material unit Sir Dorabji Tata Botanical Park at Noamundi, spread The Company’s aﬀorestation activities, botanical parks over 45 acres of mined out land, is a model for at mining locations and the Tata Steel Zoological Park at mined out land reclamation. The park supports Jamshedpur aim to protect and restore the natural habitat the development of herbal and medicinal plants, of local species, including butterﬂies and local species of provides saplings for aﬀorestation activities and has plants and fruit trees. The Rare Plant Park at Noamundi resuscitated species on the verge of extinction such is the only park of its kind in the state. Spread over an as Basak, Sarpagandha, Bari katai, Chitrak, etc. area of 1,720 square metre it helps create awareness on rare plant species and the need to conserve biodiversity. The vast and verdant Sir Dorabji Tata Park at Jharia, Demonstration Plantation Plots have been developed once a goaf or mined out area, has been reclaimed by as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Environment & developing a park and growing local varieties of fruit trees. Forests at the Chromite Mines at Sukinda. 52 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited MANAGING IMPACTS ON BIODIVERSITY AND ECO SYSTEMS A special study has been initiated to arrive at the optimum In 2011-12 Tata Steel invited a team from the International soil amendments required in aﬀorestation. Twelve Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to visit its diﬀerent species were studied for their rates of growth locations. It is part of a comprehensive Company-wide under varied simulated soil conditions. The treatment eﬀort to develop policies, strategies and action plans regime includes soil, soil and cow dung, soil and slime, soil for managing biodiversity. The report of the IUCN team and chemical fertilisers, soil and compost organic manure, will form the basis for future action. The drafting of a etc. in diﬀerent combinations and ratios. The outcome Memorandum of Understanding with the Bombay Natural of this study is helping establish the species-speciﬁc soil History Society, among the oldest nature conservation amendment required while planting these saplings for organisation in India, is in an advanced stage. The aﬀorestation activities undertake across the Company’s agreement will result in research on tiger reserves. mines. Fully committed to bearing pollution abatement costs to serve common good, Tata Steel has for example, reclaimed the site of a Muck Dump to create a park. Its environment management programme aims at continuously greening all locations and afforesting mines, besides conducting specific environmental assessment studies. ARTISANAL AND SMALL SCALE MINING Artisanal and small-scale mining Illegal mining around its mining. To prevent such activities around its collieries mining locations is a risk that Tata Steel is constantly alive the Company offers to meet fuel needs for community to. Its Safety Excellence Programme, security procedures activities and special occasions. Almost all its employees and community based safety awareness initiatives are are drawn from the local community hence a benefit aimed at educating the communities against such offered by the Company is allocation of a fixed quantity of activities and preventing them from occurring. coal on a regular basis. Among the actions taken in 201112 was the installation of solar powered lights to prevent The Company proactively reaches out to the community miscreants from entering its facilities during possible to apprise them of the dangers of artisanal and small-scale blackouts. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 53 EFFICIENCY IN LOGISTICS The Logistics Network of Tata Steel encompasses in-bound raw materials, intra-works material movement, out-bound logistics and Jamshedpur town logistics. All in-bound raw materials from Tata Steel’s Ore Mines & Quarries, collieries as well as imported material from the ports arrive by rail. Wagons with iron ore roll out of the Joda (East) Iron Ore Mine Consumption clusters accounting for 80 per cent of the Its strategy of maximising movement by rail led to an demand and at an average lead distance to serve of increase in rail despatches from 66 per cent to 67 per cent 1700 kms are served by outbound logistics. Tata Steel has in 2011-12, saving 3770 tonnes of CO2 emissions. implemented various strategies, including established a network of 20 stockyards across India, which serve as hubs Customer Services Division, responsible for Outbound in the consumption clusters. Logistics moved 4,34,000 TPA of finished steel goods by rail to from the Steel Works to a stockyard beyond Tata Steel’s focus on CO2 emission due to Jamshedpur to limit vehicular movement within the additional transportation on the Secondary city. This switch to movement by rail has reduced Tata Route resulted in a drop in the average monthly Steel’s carbon footprint by 365 tonnes of CO2. fuel consumption and CO2 emissions from 200910 to 2011-12. For intra-works material movement, over 35 high capacity trailers (33T) were deployed during 2011-12 leading to a REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSION THROUGH LOGISTICS reduction of 360 low capacity vehicles annually and a drop by 10 tonnes of CO2. 54 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited HAPPY & ENGAGED WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH A principle aim of Tata Steel’s Human Resource Policy is to “enrich the quality of life of its employees, develop their potential and maximise their productivity”. The current reporting year saw the Company commit signiﬁcant eﬀorts and achieve tremendous gains on all three fronts. Winners of the Prime Minister’s Shram Awards a National honour that recognises outstanding contributions made by workmen WORLDSTEEL EXCELLENCE ENABLERS : GRI INDICATORS: INDICATORS:  People Development Architecture LA 12 / LA10 / LA11 / LA3 / We foster the wellLA 2 / LA 14/ LA15 / MM (ILO  Capacity and Capability Building being of employees Convention) / LA6 / LA 9 / and provide a safe  Employee Happiness MM / LA 7 / LA 8 / LA 13 / LA14 / EC7 and healthy working  Safety Excellence Journey environment.  Wellness@Workplace Programme Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 55 Maximising productivity: Tata Steel’s Vision for growth an balance requirements from the available external talent pool. The resultant increase in capacity by 45 per cent of gap created by deploying people from existing units to the technologically its Steel Works rests on the excellence, advanced 2.9 MTPA units required the Company to give itself the target of capacity and capability of its people. In upskilling over 1000 workers in the last two years. tandem with its plans for commissioning technologically advanced facilities to 19324 11532 4937 support growth, the Company deployed a strategy to build the capacity of its 18898 11512 4502 people. The strategy is aimed at raising employee productivity through right manning and right skilling to world-class 18346 11568 4526 levels. The shortage of technical talent and lack of availability of desired skills in eastern India, prompted Tata Steel to pursue the strategy of skilling and training its own people so as to maximize 3843 17949 14001 deployment to new units from existing 2011-12 units and only subsequently source its 2843 18271 13798 2010-11 1728 19137 13575 2009-10 Gender Diversity Trend 2011-12 Less than 30 30 50 Above 50 Grand Total Female 149 241 44 434 Officers Male 1006 2642 892 4540 Sub Total 1155 2883 936 4974 Female 130 573 584 1287 Non-Officers Male 2558 14493 12481 29532 Sub Total 2688 15066 13065 30819 Female 279 814 628 1721 Total Male 3564 17135 13373 34072 Grand Total 3843 17949 14001 35793 Developing their potential: To meet this goal and its future requirements a People junior management, frontline managers and workers. Development Architecture was created to focus on Special attention was accorded to the technical training and development needs at all levels, including top functions such as the Technology Group and Research & management, senior management, middle management, Development professionals. 56 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Enriching the quality of life: Based on an Employee Happiness Survey conducted The Company became the first in the in 2010, during the reporting year the Company also invested in improving assets including housing, hospitals, country to introduce a special benefit canteen facilities and other amenities. The initiatives scheme for Contract employees resulted in a significant and satisfying rise in employee happiness in the Survey conducted in 2012. entitled “Suraksha”(protection). A climate of mutual trust: Guided by the Company’s Safety Principles & processes. Occupational Health Policy of ensuring “continual improvement in our S & OH performance” improvements In 2012, Tata Steel topped the list of India’s 50 mostin health and safety continued to be recorded through admired companies in a survey compiled by Fortune India the adoption of best practices, technologies and and global management consultancy Hay Group. Tata Steel topped the list of India’s 50 most admired companies compiled by business magazine Fortune and global management consultancy Hay Group. Why We Won the Best Conscious Capitalist Award from Forbes India: For operating with a higher organisational purpose partners, investors, the community and the environment. beyond just maximising profits. For aligning the interests For successfully balancing doing well with doing good. of multiple stakeholders — customers, employees, Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 57 PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT ARCHITECTURE Based on its People Need identiﬁcation exercises were undertaken for all levels and delivery systems coupled with the six People Development processes. Development Architecture and requirements of excellence enabling mechanisms such as Total Quality Management Developing Technical Expert (TQM), Tata Steel TQM Education & Training Officers’ Development Employee Learning & has established six Directed learning (Fresh & experienced Development (Technology Group, R&D) processes, namely (Sponsored higher Oﬃcers’ Development, (All workers) employees / all workers) education Employee Learning and Development, Leadership Development, TQM Education & Training, Officers Development People development for business continuity is managed in Tata Steel through Directed Learning (Study its patented EDGE (‘Ensuring Development & Growth of Employees’) initiative for Leave) and Developing Officers. This includes a Talent Review system for identification of competencies for Technical Experts. 100 per cent of its executives for current and potential positions. Gaps identified are then bridged through Learning and Development programmes so that right skills, competency and values prepare its people to perform even more efficiently and meaningfully. The overall learning and development needs of the officers is addressed through a well established 70:20:10 framework, which ensures holistic learning where 70 per cent of the development happens through on the job assignments, 20 per cent through coaching & mentoring and 10 per cent through classroom training. New programmes aligned to stated managerial competencies were developed in the last two years and Management Development programmes incorporating Tata Values integrated with them. 58 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Well known speakers were invited Gandhi, Management of Change or theme-based such as: “Does Ethics to address the employees through Sustainability Challenges, Options have a Boundary ?” the programme “Window on the and Trends. World “ on subjects such as Corporate Succession Planning was introduced Sustainability, Outlook of Global The learning and development team for middle management. Further, HR Steel Industry, Ethical Leadership instituted “The Round Table” in 2011policies are being reviewed to take and Values in management practices 12. Aligned to the contemporary need into account the employee spread in based on the ideology of Mahatma for informal learning, its sessions are different locations. Employee Learning & Development For workers and supervisions, the unskilled workers in 2011approach of “man to position 4Q model is followed for need 12 the Company adopted a mapping” was introduced, identification accompanied by new approach to Training based on the existing skill gaps Training Need Surveys for job clusters & Development. While it and requirements specified by and identification of Job specific continued with the more internal customers. customer requirements. Based on the generic “man to level / cluster gap between the desired skill level and mapping” approach in its These right skilling initiatives the existing skill level of employees, existing units, the urgent need ensured that the Company training needs are met through Cluster Training, Positional Training and Right to meet specific job related skills achieved its goal of reducing Skilling. for the new 2.9 MTPA units led the number of unskilled to a radical shift in the approach employees by 50 per cent over To reskill and retrain its for manning them. The new the base of 2009-10. Leadership Development A systematic process was adopted strength for top management, talent pool of leaders for spearheading for tracking talent demand, selection leading to an increase in the ratio its growth plans a Global Leadership based on the needs of the job and of leadership positions being filled Development programme has been a real time view of the talent bench through internal sources. To create a initiated. The Company has established processes to appoint officers for the CEDEP programme at INSEAD and leadership programmes at Tata Management Training Centre as well as for Executive Coaching of individuals. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 59 Developing Technical Experts: The technological capability of the Company is being strengthened through tie-ups with premier educational institutes like IITs and XLRI for programmes aimed at technical learning. Directed Learning: The Directed Learning Policy motivates oﬃcers to take on easy access to learning and permit participants to beneﬁt higher professional education, which may be fully or partly from world-class faculty stationed in India or abroad. The sponsored. The need for ﬂexibility in learning approaches Company’s Knowledge Management portals as well as both in the ‘mode’ of learning or the ‘time’ factor is met the Training Center’s websites, which can be accessed by through ‘e learning modules’. ‘Live’ Digital workshops oﬀer employees at all times, oﬀer theme based learning. 60 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited CAPACITY AND CAPABILITY BUILDING Training needs to ensure the successful EMPLOYEE TRAINING BY CATEGORY 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 commissioning, faster ramp up and Total number of employees 34440 34912 35078 subsequent operation of new units under Total number of Officers trained 3038 3992 4129 the 2.9 MTPA expansion project led to a Total number of Non Officers trained 5975 8345 10249 spurt in the training hours per year per Percentage of employees trained 26% 35% 41% employee. Training (hours per employee per year) 22 25 35 Capability Building: The process of training unskilled employees and as a formal induction programme, interaction with the redeploying them in newer facilities after familiarising senior management, on-the-job training to familiarise them with the equipment, processes and technology them with processes, TQM training and safety training allowed them to adapt to a new work environment. were completed prior to their placement in the new units. Special emphasis was placed on orienting employees To culturally integrate new employees, initiatives such towards the Tata values and Tata Code of Conduct. Improvement in Skill Mix: The significant upward trend in the number of is also being designed, while programmes for women programmes led to a perceptible rise in officers and executives such as ‘Empowering Women Managers to non-officers trained. Capability and Capacity building Succeed’ and ‘Counselling’ are planned. were given priority across all functions, thereby building expertise in functional and managerial areas. As a result, REDUCTION IN UNSKILLED WORKERS FROM 12 % TO the skill mix of Tata Steel’s employees has improved 6 % OF THE WORKFORCE 792 company wide, particularly at the Steel Works. Employee productivity has seen a spurt with a rise in the number of 6% officers and non-officers trained. The Company intends to horizontally deploy and 94% continually improve its recruitment processes for 1491 future projects given the challenges it faces. 12% 13102 as on 01.04.2012 88% Tata Steel’s special focus on women through developmental programmes continued with ‘Pehchan’ an skilled introductory programme for new women employees in unskilled the Non Officer category being introduced in 2011-12. A 11190 Computer Literacy programme for all women non-officers as on 01.04.2010 l d b b Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 61 EMPLOYEE HAPPINESS The goal of being an RISE IN EMPLOYEE HAPPINESS SCORES Areas of Response UoM 2010 2012 employer of choice Housing % 74 83 is articulated in Hospital % 67 76 Canteen % 68 84 Tata Steel’s Human Amenities % 74 84 Resource Policy. Employee Benefits It encourages its Committees comprising representatives of the Union and Management jointly monitor benefits available to all employees, which include financial benefit plans, employees to prioritise insurance, medical and sickness benefits, disability coverage, higher education and sabbaticals, maternity leave, Family Benefit Scheme, Tisco Employees’ Pension between work and a Scheme (TEPS), Holiday Homes, Tata Steel Executive Holiday Plan (TEHP) and Early Separation Scheme (ESS). satisfying, enriching Clauses of SA 8000 apply to all locations of the Company and its suppliers. Its Steel life providing Works and Sukinda Ferro Chrome Mines are formally certified to the standard. sufficient space for All female employees who took maternity leave during 2011-12 opted to return to wellness, leisure, work and reoccupied comparable positions. family and personal Remuneration based on responsibility and performance development. The Company firmly believes that in the For the same work or work of similar quest for maintaining a high performance nature male and female employees are culture, calibration of performance and paid equal remuneration, by linking merit is important. This is supported remuneration to responsibility and by a compensation structure, which performance. is comparable to the market so as to attract and retain the best talent. A Bonus for non-officers is in agreement salary correction for all the officers was with the Workers’ Union linked to undertaken during the year. productivity, cost and absenteeism. Drop in attrition While the results of such initiatives are visible over a period of time, as an immediate indicator, these measures resulted in the enhancement of the Company’s retention rate by one per cent, with the rate of turnover at less than 10 per cent ATTRITION TREND Attrition Trend by Gender 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Male 3.03 % 4.42 % 3.44 % Gyms dot the steel city to encourage work life Female 5.07 % 5.14 % 3.95 % balance Grand Total 3.19 % 4.48 % 3.49 % 62 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY Safety of employees, Company’s operations as diverse as mining, including contractors’ and current expansion metals and construction employees is given programme brings industries to the utmost importance. The together unique Safety Company’s operations. integrated nature of the challenges from industries Occupational Health & Safety Structure Occupational Health & Safety is driven jointly promote the effective by Occupational Health Services as at Tata Steel through the combined functioning of bipartite forums and well as recommends corrective and involvement and commitment statutory committees to achieve Zero preventive actions. of Management and Union Fatality and reduce Lost Time Injury representatives. Frequency (LTIF). The joint committee A member of the Company’s top on Occupational Health monitors the management heads each of these The Management and the Union effectiveness of the initiatives taken Committees. SAFETY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Tata Steel Group SHE Committee  Policy Making & Review Committee Policy Implementation & Review Committees Apex Safety Council Divisional Implementation Committees (DIC) Chairman : MD Tata Steel (for each Division) Chairman : Respective VPs Members : Union oﬃce bearers & All VPs Members : Union Committee Members & Management   Apex Safety Sub Committees (8) Area Implementation Committees (AIC) Chairman : One VP for each Committee (for each department) Members : Union Committee Members & Chairman : Department Chiefs Management Members : Union Committee Members & Management  Safety Excellence Journey Meeting Safety Implementation Committees (SIC) Chairman : MD Tata Steel Chairman : Sectional Head Members : All VPs   Support Functions  Safety & Ergonomics Department  External Consultants  Government Agencies & Institutions Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 63 Employee Health Index Standard Operating Procedures revisited In 2011-12 special emphasis was The Company provides the necessary environment for a safe and healthy placed on employee health through workplace through a voluntary Health and Safety Agreement with Tata Workers’ the adoption of a health index. Union. Significant improvements in the health status were achieved with To enhance Safety practices at the Steel Works, Mines and Collieries and project the initiative being driven by the sites, in 2011-12 Standard Operating Procedures were developed and encoded, as top management. To mitigate part of Tata Steel’s interminable Safety Excellence Journey. The SOPs describe the the possible impact of HIV/ AIDS approach to be adopted for jobs such as side bolting in collieries, positive isolation on its industrial workforce and and the like. the community, 1500 awareness programmes were conducted by PSTA and Daily Management the Company’s Core Groups AIDS, Tata Steel has achieved a significant reduction in fatalities related to the contractors’ touching over 100,000 beneficiaries. employees by working on fatality causes and eliminating a number of them. A significant reduction in Loss Time Injury Rate has also been achieved despite the Periodical Medical Examination increased number of contractors’ employees inside the Steel Works. of employees (departmental PSTA techniques were used to improve safety performance while Daily and contractual) are conducted Management has sustained them. as per prescribed norms of Mines Rule, 1955. The initial and Safety Guidelines for New Facilities In 2011-12 the Apex Process Safety Sub-Committee issued guidelines covering new periodical examination includes facilities (projects) and those that have been modernised. These guidelines have blood haematology, blood incorporated learning obtained from existing review systems. pressure, detailed cardiovascular Safety considerations during the construction of its 2.9 MTPA expansion project, assessment, neurological installation of facilities and commissioning of equipment were addressed through examination etc. All chest the Company’s Behaviour Safety Management Initiative aimed at achieving zero fatality at the construction site. radiographs are being classified for detection of pneumoconiosis, Behaviour Safety Management initiative diagnosis and documentation This initiative includes a Six Step Contractors Safety Management System. The made in accordance to ILO Pre Start-up Safety Review (PSSR) system under Process Safety Risk Management resulted in equipment being energized and a risk free, smooth start-up of facilities classifications. under the 2.9 MTPA project. 64 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Displays at the Safety Training Centre demonstrate use of safety equipment SAFETY PERFORMANCE Tata Steel has set the target of 0.2 LTIFR with Zero fatality 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Fatality 4 8 7 by 2017. Its Safety Principles Tata Steel Limited LTIFR 0.56 0.44 0.51 and Occupational Health (Note: Lost time injury is an injury when a person does not join back duty in his next scheduled shift Policy guide it in ensuring and Injury Frequency Rate is number of injury per million man hours worked). zero harm to the people it works with. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 65 WELLNESS@WORKPLACE PROGRAMME The Wellness@Workplace programme was rolled out across locations in 2011-12. It helps monitor the health of all individual employees and suggests ways to improve their overall quality of life. Health checkups are an integral part of the Wellness@Workplace Programme Since 2011-12 the effectiveness of Special focus has been accorded to the health report analysis of women. the Programme is being monitored health status of women in Tata Steel. through a carefully developed Health In the reporting year female officers, The objectives of the Index. Along with Health Cards being non-officers, contractors’ employees, programme are improving as well as spouses of employees issued to all employees, a Weight the health status of working were covered through seminars on Reduction Campaign was launched. women, early identification and “Improving health status of working As a result a substantial reduction in management of health issues women”. A special “Working Women’s life-style related diseases like Diabetes, amongst working women, Health Improvement Project” for Hypertension, High Cholesterol women was launched in November intervention in common etc. and Anaemia among women 2011 and management of Anaemia diseases like Anaemia, lifestyle employees was seen. was accorded priority, based on the related diseases and job stress. An Industrial Hygiene Study minimised workplace hazards and has helped developed control measures including a Comprehensive Stress Management Programme. Individual business units have also developed programmes such as a monthly nutrition and lifestyle health training programme -“Hamara Manch”conducted through Awareness on basic health care practices is the Wellness@Workplace programme. created through posters in areas such as Canteens 66 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND AWARENESS To increase the reach of its awareness programmes, While the emphasis is on prevention through AIDS information on HIV/AIDS is part of all components of awareness, care and support is also an important Health programmes and projects of Tata Steel’s Corporate Sustainability Services in the districts of East and West component of the Company’s initiatives. Counseling Singhbhum, Saraikela Kharsawan, including the mines and and medicines free of cost at the Company’s Tata Main collieries. Hospital (TMH) are provided to all HIV+ employees and their dependents. Sneh Kendra a “Single Window” In 2011-12, workplace interventions beneﬁtted approximately 926 regular as well as contract labour. health delivery concept provided care and support to Community outreach programmes beneﬁtted ~ 15,000 389 PLWHA from the community along with treatment migrants, 44,000 adolescents under the Reproductive and of Opportunistic Infections, counselling, group support Sexual Health projects and 68,000 truckers through the and life skills training for family members of PLWHA. Truckers Intervention Project in partnership with JSACS. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER Tata Steel recognises and values the diﬀerences in policies and practices are administered in a manner that employee backgrounds and skills and promotes equal ensure all decisions relating to recruitment, promotion, access to employment and supply opportunities without compensation and any other forms of reward and discriminating on the basis of race, caste, religion, colour, recognition are based entirely on merit. ancestry, marital status, sex, age or nationality. Its employee AFFIRMATIVE ACTION All Tata Steel’s locations have a higher percentage than the national average of indigenous tribes and communities. Under its Affirmative Action Policy, positive discrimination was therefore exercised in recruitments to fill new positions created by the Company’s expansion programme. To progressively increase the number of local persons, in the recent recruitment of 671 workmen, 33 per cent (227) of those recruited are from indigenous tribes or socially backward 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 classes. As a result the percentage of employees covered by Affirmative Action initiatives in the Company went up from 15.7 per cent to 16.1 per cent. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 67 PARTNERSHIPS IN THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT APPROACH Tata Steel respects and protects human rights both within and outside the workplace through the application of frameworks such as SA8000 and the United Nations Global Compact, which are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO Conventions. Tata Steel’s commitment to human rights is reflected in the Managing Director’s declarations through the Tata Steel Group’s Responsible Procurement Policy as well as the Human Resource Policy and Affirmative Action Policy of Tata Steel Limited. The Managing Director and Corporate team is direct involvement in ensuring transparency and fairness in Procurement systems with a Whistle Blower Policy and a Third Party Helpline available to all stakeholders. Tata Steel’s community engagement mechanisms are continuously reviewed with the aim of fostering socio-economic empowerment and ensuring a life of dignity for those they impact. A founder signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Tata Steel supports Principles One and Two of the UNGC, which are derived from the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). All contractors labour working at Tata Steel To strengthen and reinforce the objective must undergo Safety training and be provided of its Social Accountability and Responsible personal protection equipment Procurement Policy, 91 of Tata Steel’s suppliers underwent a Supplier Social Compliance Audit in 2011-12 based on the SA 8000 Social Standard and Environment Management systems. WORLDSTEEL EXCELLENCE ENABLERS : INDICATORS:  Responsible Procurement We engage our  CLAP (Contractors Labour Awareness GRI INDICATORS: stakeholders and Programme) HR 1-2 / HR 5 / HR 6 / independent third HR 7 / HR 10 / PR 5/ parties in constructive  Suraksha Scheme for Contract Labour dialogue to help fulfil our  Supplier Governance Mechanism sustainable development  Value Creation for the Customer commitments.  Customer Satisfaction 68 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Fundamental Rights and monitored for compliance and subject Policy explains how each constituent Investment and Procurement: to continuous improvement through organisation will work with suppliers The Company believes that an independent third-party verification to ensure that their supply chains embedding respect for the human for compliance to SA 8000 standards share the Tata values. All suppliers are rights of stakeholders across its and to safeguard fundamental political required to demonstrate compliance operations is central to creating a and economic freedoms of the to five principle blocks namely, positive impact for its employees, individual. Health & Safety, Fair Business Practice, supply chain and the community. Environment Protection, Human Rights Therefore its business conduct Non-discrimination and Local Community Development. is consistent with all applicable As per Clause 4 of the Tata Code of laws, provisions and spirit of the Conduct Tata Steel provides equal Suraksha Scheme For Constitution of India governing human opportunities to all its employees and Contract Labour and fundamental rights. all qualified applicants for employment In 2011-12 Tata Steel became the without distinction of any kind such as first company in India to establish a Integrating Human Rights in race, caste, religion, colour, ancestry, scheme for the benefit of contract business management marital status, gender, age, nationality, employees. Tata Steel's Works attained SA8000 ethnic origin, different ability or sexual certification in 2005 (and was reorientation. To ensure diversity in its In the event of death/permanent certified in 2007 and 2010) to this workforce, Tata Steel exercises positive total disablement/partial permanent standard. The Sukinda unit is the discrimination in favour of socially disablement resulting in loss of earning first mine to be SA8000 certified. All disadvantaged communities, provided capacity of 50 per cent or more of the Tata Steel’s operational locations are potential employees fulfill its meritcontract labour due to an accident on required to comply by the nine clauses based criteria. duty, the Suraksha Scheme assures of SA 8000. All supply chain partners the contract labour or the family a life must provide a self-declaration on Responsible Procurement of dignity. Applicable to all locations compliance to SA 8000 standards and Responsible Procurement is an of Tata Steel Limited, it covers all participate in the audits. important element in delivering contract workers. The beneficiary gets Tata Steel’s Vision. The Tata Steel a monthly pension till the notional age Its systems and processes are Group’s Responsible Procurement of 60 years of the contract employee. Our Responsible Procurement Policy has the following principles • Health & Safety – we expect our suppliers to adopt management practices in respect of Health & Safety, which provide a high level of safeguarding for their workers. • Fair Business Practices – the Tata Code of Conduct outlines the ethical standards and fair business practices by which Tata Steel conducts business and we expect our suppliers to adopt similar principles. • Environmental Protection – we expect suppliers to maintain effective policies, processes and procedures to manage their environmental impact. • Human Rights – we expect our suppliers to develop and implement policies and procedures to ensure all human rights in their business and to encourage their suppliers to do likewise. • Local Community Development – we expect our suppliers to contribute to the social, economic and institutional development of the communities in which they operate. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 69 SUPPLIER GOVERNANCE MECHANISM Low levels of literacy and inadequate awareness of legal and human rights is a concern in the areas where Tata Steel operates. Tata Steel has therefore adopted the SA8000 auditable framework, including construction projects at its brownfield and greenfield locations, for awareness-raising and improving working conditions with special emphasis on not engaging child or forced labour; ensuring safety and occupational health; strengthening statutory compliances pertaining to payment of wages and working hours, and creating a humane work environment. Tata Steel’s primary criteria for new mechanisms such as vendor providers. Of them 141 were awarded vendor selection and continued meets, training on SA8000, surveys, high value contracts in excess of Rs registration is consent on compliance continuing dialogues and third party 25 lakhs during the year. Of these with Tata Steel’s “SA 8000 Check audits place emphasis on human 91 organisations were neither List” through submission of a selfrights and social compliances. governmental agencies nor Tata declaration. Tier-2 service providers companies. The Company focussed i.e. sub-contractors of the Company’s Providers of services to Tata Steel on them while auditing the risk principal service providers are deploy manpower at the Company’s posed due to possible human rights also required to submit these selfoperating locations. 900 of Tata violations. declarations. Multiple engagement Steel’s 2400 suppliers are service A workshop in progress to assess the effectiveness of Safety communication Positive Indicators of is effective in resolving reported premium rates Audit Report disputes and in ensuring on time • Significant partners are aware of • All vendors are committed to payment of minimum wage, PF, ESI the legal rights and duties under prevention of child labour contribution, leave and bonus labour legislation and a majority of • Effective control is in place for • All contract employees receive them maintain records, registers as pre-medical (pre-employment) minimum wage stipulated by per legal requirement checkup the Government, which is paid • Some significant partners are • Functioning of the Contractor Cell via bank transfer along with their aware of the legal requirement weekly off. Overtime is also paid at specific to environment as well 70 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited CLAP (Contractors Labour abuse of this protection also warrants outsourcing of the IT infrastructure Awareness Programme) disciplinary action. for a period of five years. The contract Awareness is integral to safeguarding signed with IBM requires it to address rights. Hence Tata Steel has developed ProCare for resolving disputes Affirmative Action. Nine persons a special programme aimed at A dedicated call centre takes care recruited by IBM for the contract meet empowering contractors’ employees of issues /problems raised by the the AA criteria. with information on Safety & Health, vendors. On receiving complaints via telephone or e-mail a complaint At the same time, M/s Nalco and Tata Code of Conduct, the duties of number (ticket number) is generated GE have committed to employ > 75 the contractor and basic work related and is sent to the vendor through per cent from the AA community training. e-mail. at the CO2 injection facility at LD 1 & 2. The Company also encourages Vendor Whistle Blowing Affirmative Action Initiatives local buying and runs assistance Protection Policy Declaration of underprivileged programmes for small entrepreneurs Tata Steel has articulated a Vendor workforce is a mandatory field in and Non-Governmental Organisations Whistle Blowing Protection Policy the Vendor registration application (NGOs) whose revenue flows benefit and has constituted a Vendor Whistle to award preference to those who disadvantaged communities. Blower Protection Committee. It invites provide employment to communities Protected Disclosures in writing i.e. in covered by the Company’s Affirmative In 2011-12, the Company’s ink or electronically which are factual Action Policy. purchases from Affirmative Action (not speculative) in nature so as to (AA) organisations amounted to ensure a clear understanding of the In establishing Strategic Outsourcing Rs 17 crores and another Rs 23 issues raised by the Whistle Blower. partnerships with global suppliers crores of supplies was sourced from As a policy the Company condemns accounting for a high annual spend organisations where a majority discrimination, harassment, and services critical to operations of the employees belonged to victimization or any other unfair Tata Steel chooses those aligned AA communities. No incidents of practice being adopted against the to its Affirmative Action policy. For discrimination were reported in Whistle Blowers. As a safeguard, any instance, IBM has been identified for 2011-12. Health & Safety Initiatives For External Processing Agents To effectively serve its customers Tata Steel’s Tubes and Wires Divisions appoint External Processing Agents (EPAs). The agreement with the EPAs requires them to comply with the clauses of SA 8000 clauses as well as Safety Excellence standards. One representative of the EPA is Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 71 invited to attend the monthly review monthly meeting of the AIC. Key Performance Indicators monitored meeting of the Area Implementation during the visits include incidents Committee (AIC) to enhance Safety professionals of the Division visit related to First Aid, Lost Time Injury, awareness and improve compliance. the premises of the EPAs as per preNear Miss, other incidents, number of Every EPA is required to send the determined plans to conduct Safety & safety observations, Safety Training monthly MIS reports on Safety, which Health audits and subsequently report (in mandays) and number of safety is reviewed by the Executive-intheir findings to the EIC and the EPA meetings. Charge (EIC) of the Division during the for remedial action. OBSERVATIONS OF SAFETY PROFESSIONALS VISITING EPAS OF TUBES DIVISION Good points Concerns Actions Suggested Rest shed for truck crew Poor House keeping at maintenance room Need segregation & orderly arrangement of material Provision for utilising natural Hard to access at dispatch area Needs space between stack to illumination & ventilation in roof shed ensure safe access Integral billing process Two feet wide gap between rung of ladder & Landing platform required platform of crane gantry chances of fall from height. Tackle in use for balance lifting Side railing of crane maintenance platform Repairing required damaged Dunnage system between stack Vendor Satisfaction Survey A Vendor Satisfaction Survey is conducted every two years to obtain feedback from significant vendors/ suppliers. Based on the key concern and issues raised by the suppliers, remedial actions are initiated. The next survey is due in 2012-13. Customer Services Department conducts Moving Steel a partners meet aimed at achieving world class transportation services 72 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited VALUE CREATION FOR CUSTOMERS Tata Steel believes in providing additional benefits beyond their basic needs to its select set of customers. “Value Creation for Customers” encompasses building mutually advantageous partnerships that Tata Steel receives Toyota's Regional Contribution Award 2012 create real benefits Tata Steel has established unique customers in the areas of Automotive by addressing needs processes and customised approaches and Construction Business and thereby in seeking new routes to markets and sustain its market leadership in focused captured through connecting with customers for mutual market segments. value creation. ‘Capturing customer verbal inputs from New value propositions are being needs’ is pivotal to its value creation customers and onapproach. Tata Steel’s processes created for small and medium undergo improvement through specific consumers (SMEs) through the site observations. approaches such as Customer Value “Emerging Corporate Value Management (CVM), Retail Value Management” programme, launched Value created can be at the end of 2010-11. The initiative Management (RVM), Solutions for Sales focuses on value discovery and tangible (reduces the and Value Management for Hot Rolled development of business models. Products (VMHR), which was introduced total cost of ownership in 2011-12. The drive to continuously improve for the customer) and/ Initiatives like CVM, CST, Vendor products and services is facilitated through Customer Engagement or intangible (provides Managed Inventory (VMI) and EVI Platforms, which include Product benefit select OE customers while Application Groups (PAG), Customer convenience to PDVM initiatives focus on the SME Service Teams (CST), Customer customer segment. The key business customers). objective is to create value for Satisfaction Surveys (CSS) and Annual Meets. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 73 Improving customer engagement: Tata Steel is the first steel company in India to develop a In 2011-12, a Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) partnership ‘Distribution Strategy’, a move that has differentiated it programme to guarantee availability to Low Carbon Wire from other players in the market. An Automotive Strategy Rod (LCWR) and Tubes (OE) customers ensured 100 per has also been framed, which encapsulates a productcent availability at low inventory for customers through service strategy for the Indian Automotive customers, a frequent replenishment based on consumption. focus segment for the Company. Customer Service Teams: Individual Customer Service Teams (CSTs) cater to Auto Active participation of customers, especially auto OE customers, large construction companies & WR Rod OE component manufacturers, has led to the indigenisation customers to strengthen relationships and create value for of these products and localisation benefits for auto majors customers. CSTs comprise experts from across functions. by anticipating their needs. Product Application Groups: To fully support the needs of its customers, Tata Steel sector teams offer individual customers a single dedicated has aligned its sales and marketing teams with targeted account team to ensure they have optimum access to steel end-use markets, creating market sector teams with the Company’s extensive product range and technical, both production and supply chain activities. The market logistical and R&D resources. Lifecycle Assessments: LCAs are also extensively used to advise customers at the make cars lighter and more fuel efficient, while its specially design stage on the sustainability of downstream products designed construction products are integral to delivering made from steel. This approach has led to energyenergy-efficient buildings and achieving a reduction in efficiency products within end-user markets. For example, steel consumption by weight. the Company’s range of advanced high-strength steels Met promotes efficiency and transparency as a way of life 74 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited TANGIBLE VALUE CREATION Cost Down-Weight Reduction Tata Steel enabled a key customer to eﬀect a 10 per cent reduction in vehicle through its “Cost down – Weight reduction approach”, a ﬁrst by an Indian steel company. The focus of the study was mainly the vehicle frame, the front and the rear body parts as these mostly used steel components. FLOW CHART OF THE COST DOWN-WEIGHT REDUCTION PROGRAMME: A B Idea C Ideas D Feedback to E Support to Customer Data Generation evaluation and customer and customer for acceptance Collection with experts prioritisation their acceptance implementation A P C D Step A Step B Step C Step D Step E Material grade Details of Technical evaluation Sharing of ideas and its Technical Support in Drawings manufacturing process Use of alternate material evaluation further analysis for Blank dimensions Discussion on Ease of implementation Customer acceptance validation Manufacturing process application and Cost workings depending on their Material supplies for Component assembly importance of analysis trials. Cost details component Commercial supplies Manufacturing process Relevant data was analysed as well as the manufacturing process studied to ensure the feasibility of ideas. Computer Aided Engineering and Forming Limit Diagrams were used for a feasibility study. After analysis, rationalization in use of material was suggested leading to a cost lower than the current material. Given the volume of this particular vehicle being manufactured per year, it translates into a reduction in steel consumption by 10.5 KT per year. In addition light weighting of the vehicle will contribute to lower CO2 emission during vehicle use. The process has been shared with other automakers for horizontal deployment, who have shown a keen interest in this new initiative. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 75 VALUE-IN-USE PROGRAMME The Marketing & Sales Team of Flat their capability as service partners to offer better products and services and realise Products Division has launched the full value potential of the product. “Value-in-Use”, a cross-company, cross-functional initiative. This Process Flow chart of “Value-in-Use” programme programme focusses on key Discussion with Service Interest generation Work Plan with Phase 1 customers of Galvano to provide partner meeting with customer Customer better value for small and (1) (2) (3) fragmented customers in the SME Map Customer's Generate Ideas for each Evaluate ideas and finalize Segment, being served through the Phase 2 processes Collect data process of the Customer's ideas for implementation (4) value chain (5) (6) distribution route. Sign-off with customer and Value Sharing with Horizontal deployment By improving awareness on product Phase 3 implement ideas Customer and review of common ideas across (7) mechanism (8) segments/customers (9) features and benefits, it enhances Demonstrating savings in rebars Tata Steel’s programmes train personnel of distributors, dealers and Customer Service Engineers (CSE) to guide retail mass consumers on the correct usage of its products. Lack of availability of trained civil engineers in Indian towns jeopardizes the optimum usage of rebar and also leads to poor construction practices. Tata Steel has deployed CSEs across its retail channel to help its consumers realize the true potential of the rebar they are purchasing, including savings in steel. In 2011-12 CSEs took the designs of customers using Fe415 grade re-bars and converted them into the Fe500 grade to demonstrate the value proposition available to customers through savings in steel by weight from the Fe500 grade compared to the Fe415 grade. 76 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Capturing the Voice of the Customer Capturing customer needs is the key to the value creation approach. Tata Steel has diﬀerent listening & learning posts to capture the voice and needs of the customers. After compilation of these inputs, analysis and prioritisation is undertaken to capture product/ service gap issues and new product/ service ideas. MEASURING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Satisfaction Surveys are conducted by Tata Steel for all branded and non-branded products among its OE customers/ distributors / dealers across India. These annual surveys rate Tata Steel as a preferred supplier with respect to competition. Leveraging feedback to deliver enhanced value Based on feedback from customers ‘Steelovation’ a unique initiative targeted at creating value for Key Account Customers of the Galvano and Steelium brands was customised in 2011-12 to their specific needs. It addresses wastage due to the problems during welding, resulting in wastage, quality issues and a less than perfect finish. In response to the needs of the customers, the diameters of all Tata TISCON rebars are now embossed on them for easy traceability at the construction site and to reduce inadvertent misuse of rebars by bar-benders, optimising steel use of customers. Through the customer feedback programme “Rishtey”, the sales team and the operations personnel are able to interface with customers so that corrective actions are taken by the plant to improve customer satisfaction as well as the quality of product and services in the Tubes Division. Unique offerings based on consumer needs introduced for the first time in India during 201112 include RAISE, ‘TISCON Ready-Build’, TISCON All customer segments show a preference for Tata Steel’s products as indicated by the Super Links, ‘BuildWise’ and Roof Junction. Customer Satisfaction Survey conducted in 2012 Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 77 VALUE CREATION FOR RURAL CUSTOMERS Shop in shop for Tata Wiron Project NEST ROOF JUNCTION AMRIT from Tata Pipes Certified masons hired by certified A complete value solution for the rural To bridge the gap in quality dealers completed 25 pilot Roof customers (farmers) was introduced offerings for complete, Junction projects – or the installation with a sub brand of Tata Pipes – Amrit comfortable and clean of a complete steel roofing solution being envisioned in 2011-12. An using Tata Shaktee in 2011-12. elaborate market study on different housing available to the Approximately 70 masons and 40 ground water levels and bore well relatively less affluent rural dealers have been trained as partners requirements was done. The sub brand consumers, accounting for to execute Roof Junction projects. is targeted at the bore well segment and aims at providing good quality nearly 35 per cent of the TATA WIRON Fencing and durable bore well pipes to bridge India’s population, Tata Solutions the current gap in the market. Tubes Steel is commercializing Tata Steel’s Wires Division launched a Division is now offering “best in class Fencing Solutions initiative in 2011-12 pipes” addressing a key need of the its housing solution offer, to fill the gap for good quality, durable customer for stronger thread and christened ‘Nest’. The fencing in rural areas and small towns. straightness. Company completed pilot Channel partners erected about 160 barbed wire and chain link fences Small and Medium Enterprise constructions across the across the country against customer Customers country in 2011-12. orders. Tata Steel launched the “Emerging 78 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Corporate Value Management” legally protected through copyright expert speak, panel discussions, programme to provide new value and any illegal use by other products employee recognition programmes propositions to SME customers. For or services is appropriately dealt and safety awareness campaigns to instance its Cut & Bend solution, with to protect brand promise. them. design support and couplers has An integral part of the process of provided significant value to the developing marketing communication Marketing Communication customer. The Company is therefore is authentication of information and programmes • Learning, Interaction, Networking, appointing new Project Distributors approval by the Company’s legal Knowledge Sharing (LINKS), (PD) to enhance its reach of Small and team. During the year no incidents of • Solution for Sales initiative through Medium Enterprise (SME) customers. non-compliance with regulations and Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) voluntary codes concerning marketing for High Carbon Wire Rod (HCWR) ACE+ (R) Service Centres communications were reported. and Low Carbon Wire Rod (LCWR) Small and medium customers who customers are not retail outlet buyers but Responsible Architectural • Steelium Pathsala repeat buyers of Tata Steel’s products Initiatives & Structural • GalvaKnow to build technical such as steel sheets are serviced Engineering (RAISE) capabilities of the distributors’ sales through 23 service centres. These In 2011-12 the Company’s Long force and service centre employees centres are audited and developed Products Division launched RAISE a of B2B distributors through a trademarked process called structured initiative promoted with • BuildWise for influencer ACE+(R). The process has improved INSDAG to engage with architects management • Knowledge sharing initiatives for the efficiency of small third party and structural engineers across India. the Cold Rolled & Galvanised Plain cutters who have adopted better The programme aims at driving customers safety, health, environment and work responsible construction practices. • Retail Identity Programme procedures based on the annual audit in India for dissemination of by Tata Steel. Wired2Win comprehensive knowledge to retail Introduced in 2011-12 for wire rod consumers on product information, Product Labelling customers, it offers knowledge sharing knowledge of applications and The Tata logo and product brands are sessions, plant visits, customer meets, pricing Tata Steel's Flat Products Division hosted Everlasting Spirit of our Parivaar to bring together its dealers with experts in the business Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 79 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH The Founder, Jamsetji Tata had wished to make the community the very purpose of the Company’s existence. Therefore today Tata Steel’s Vision places equal emphasis on value creation and corporate citizenship making inclusive growth an integral part of its corporate strategy. The Company’s objective is to impact a million lives in the areas where it operates. EXCELLENCE ENABLERS : WORLDSTEEL  Mainstreaming Indigenous Communities INDICATORS: GRI INDICATORS:  Mid day meal We promote values and SO 1/ SO 9/ SO 10/ MM  Tata Parivar Scheme Inclusive Growth through initiatives that show COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT  Sustainable Livelihoods respect for the people / MM SOCIAL INCLUSION / and communities  Bridging the healthcare deficit MM 5 / HR 9 / HR 11 associated with our  Public-Private-Partnership to prevent HIV/AIDS business.  Improving Physical Infrastructure  Social change through Sports A tribal lady from Tata Steel's project area in Chhattisgarh A beneficiary admires the solar light installed at Bamnipal in Odisha 80 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited WHERE WE WORK To achieve this goal, the Company has communities, assists him. JHARKHAND adopted a multi-pronged approach that Jamshedpur Noamundi differentiates between urban needs, rural Urban Jamshedpur along with the rural Jamadoba imperatives for growth, concerns with hinterland around the city, Tata Steel’s mines West Bokaro respect to resettlement and the need and collieries, operational units under profit ODISHA to safeguard the interest of indigenous centres, communities around Greenfield Joda communities. The Managing Director of the Project sites and indigenous communities Kalinganagar Company is the Chairman of social agencies across its operational areas are served by Gopalpur responsible for actualizing Tata Steel’s disparate organisations constituting experts Bamnipal Sukinda corporate objective. The Company’s Corporate with extensive knowledge of each micro CHHATTISGARH Services team, tasked with managing these segment. Lohandiguda extremely diverse but critical services for the A Social Strategy aimed at Inclusive Growth Tata Steel continually revisits it social strategy to align of resources and compliance to goals articulated in the it to the developmental needs of the disadvantaged Annual Business Plan. An intensive relook at its social and indigenous communities. Last realigned in 2011 strategy prompted Tata Steel to increase its allocation for key elements of Tata Steel’s social strategy include social initiatives to Rs 146 crores in 2011-12 from Rs 126.28 sustainable livelihoods, access to healthcare, education crores in 2010-11. and empowerment. The Company seeks to promote tribal languages and culture as well as safeguard the unique In 2011-12, the Tata Steel Skill Development Society was identity of primitive and indigenous tribes. Six such formed in response to the urgent need to improve the centres were launched in 2011-12. employability potential of youth. Regular reviews at various levels assess optimal utilisation ACTUALISING TATA STEEL’S SOCIAL STRATEGY Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 81 During the year, the Company’s focus over three consecutive years, now has Cultural Society (TCS) is collaborating on impacting lives led to the roll-out the potential of harvesting 125000 with community based organisations of an ambitious renewable energy cubic metres of water, and is poised to (CBOs) to open new centres to project to illuminate villages through trigger a water revolution in the area. impart knowledge and to promote solar lights. 224 villages experienced the traditional scripts of the ethnic social and economic change as a To prevent the unique heritage of languages such as the Ol Chiki script of result of this initiative. The Company’s tribes indigenous to Jharkhand, the Santhali language or the Warang Ore Mines and Quarries (OMQ), which particularly their languages, from Kshiti script of the Ho language. created rainwater harvesting projects becoming extinct, Tata Steel’s Tribal Community Engagement processes The aim of the Company is to improve change. programmes and subsequently the quality of life of the communities engages with the community to seek it serves across all its locations by It creates capacity within the partnership in project implementation catalysing economic and social community through training and shared value creation. Formal linkages with the Community across locations Each of the Company’s units and profit sustainable livelihoods, healthcare, local parliamentarians, legislators, centres have formal mechanisms, such employment, employability training councillors, village heads, Panchayati as the Tata Steel Rural Development and empowerment, along with the Raj Institution members and directly Society at all out locations, to environment protection, safety and with members of the community reach out to the community management of business ethics. through its programmes and projects. through formal programmes on These include consultations with Mapping expectations Development programme are designed in line with stakeholders’ expectations, which are mapped by external agencies as well as through internal evaluations. Subsequently, projects are planned in consultation with the community. Measuring Impacts The effectiveness of various It was calculated for 112 villages in in Odisha and Jharkhand in 2012-2013. interventions is measured by the the state of Jharkhand during 2011success rate of the programmes, both 12. In 51 villages the HDI was better To capture the satisfaction levels of tangible as well as intangible. In 2011than the state average, while in as communities in urban areas, the eQ 12, the Company adopted the Human many as 33 villages the HDI was index was adopted. Further to improve Development Index (HDI) a globally better than the national average. This HDI and the eQ™ Index, strategies accepted composite index of income, outcome is significant in light of the for both rural and urban areas were life expectancy and education as a fact that Jharkhand is among the least aligned to include sustainable measure to assess the holistic impact developed states of the country. As a livelihoods, health, education, water, of its interventions in rural areas across process ahead, a similar exercise will power and roads as focus areas. the states of Jharkhand and Odisha. be carried out in all other villages both 82 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited MAINSTREAMING INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES Scheduled tribes, some of the country’s most marginalised sections of society, constitute 26.30 per cent of the population in Jharkhand and 22.13 per cent in Odisha, states where Tata Steel has a prominent presence. The Company’s Tribal Cultural Society, established in 1993, works towards mainstreaming the tribal communities. Focus Areas • Preservation and promotion of the ethnic identity of The purpose of the Tribal Culture Centre at Jamshedpur is to preserve and promote tribal culture and heritage indigenous to where Tata Steel operates indigenous tribes Representatives across all its units regularly engage with village opinion leaders, • Promotion of education youth and women to integrate the aspirations of indigenous communities within • Creation of an empowered the social strategy of the Company. This consultative approach, precluding the society need for a formal agreement, has ensured an enduring and peaceful relationship • Employability of with indigenous communities. This has given Tata Steel the continued social license economically weaker sections to operate in these communities. through skill development Tribal languages: • Improvements in the health The launch of 15 centres for tribal languages in Jamshedpur in 2011-12 led to more status of marginalised than 900 youth being reintroduced to their Santhali and Ho scripts. families Tribal Sport: An important thrust area is Three traditional tribal sports Chhur, Bahu-Chor and Kati – were revived through to enable the primitive tribal tribal sports tournaments organised during the year. The annual Kati Sports groupsthe Birhore and the Tournament attracted more than 800 players. Sabar in particular to become Access to Education: economically self reliant by Inclusion of tribal children into mainstream education received a tremendous fillip providing them livelihood with 100 girls being enrolled in schools, which supported this initiative by Tata opportunities. Steel. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 83 MID DAY MEAL TO FOSTER THE SCHOOL GOING HABIT The mid day meal scheme of the Government schools in and around Tata Steel identified ISKCON Food Government of India was introduced Jamshedpur The aim is to enhance Relief Foundation as the most suitable to attract children to school and enrolment, retention, attendance and service provider given that it has ISO reduce the dropout rate. Subsequently simultaneously improve nutritional 9000 and HACCP (Hazard Analysis and because of its positive impact the levels among children. Critical Control Point) certifications. Supreme Court directed all states for its early implementation. In the first phase, 301 schools in Expected long -term outcomes: the East Singhbhum district and • Increasing enrollment Tata Steel stepped in to support the 82 Schools in Seraikela –Kharswan • Promoting school participation Government of Jharkhand by setting district accounting for a total of 65,000 • Facilitating the healthy growth of up a central kitchen to provide midchildren will be served. children day meals to ~100,000 students in • Fostering social equality The Central Kitchen established by Tata Steel where the mid day meal is made for ~ 100,000 school children 84 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited TATA STEEL PARIVAR A UNIQUE RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROGRAMME To safeguard the fundamental rights of displaced families, including indigenous communities, while implementing greenfield projects at Kalinganagar and Gopalpur in the state of Odisha, the Company has created a unique Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) programme Tata Steel Parivar. The Company is conscious of the promise that entry of industry brings to greenfield locations. Therefore, to provide long-term support for displaced families Tata Steel has exceeded requirements under the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy of the Government of Odisha. Benefits beyond the entitlements stipulated in the Government policy include: a) Facilitating resettlements through free accommodation in transit homes close to their existing villages to maintain continuity, free transportation of household goods and a welcome package for each household with free monthly groceries. b) Rehabilitation assistance via additional land compensation, maintenance allowance, additional house building Awareness on the opportunities and benefits available is created among beneficiaries allowance, rehabilitation infrastructure, medical services, Through Tata Parivar cards, issued to all members of displaced families training and development, improvements in their quality of life is tracked. The Company is also striving supplementary allowance, to meet the Millennium Development Goals in 21 villages, 14 of which are education and infrastructure. directly project impacted. Resettlement: c) Grievance redressal system constituting an internal To ensure minimum disruption and displacement of people at Gopalpur in grievance cell and third party Odisha, only three villages Patrapur, Badapur and Sindhigaon were relocated grievance redressal group. entirely for the proposed plant site and rehabilitated in separate geographical areas within well-planned colonies complete with all urban civic amenities. The Company has also The sociocultural identity of the communities and a sense of continuity with extended all its community their old village have been preserved with the structure of the “Sahi” (hamlets) development programmes to being maintained. the displaced families. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 85 Youth undergo employability training at classes run by Tata Steel Livelihood development: All project aﬀected families primarily subsisted on Therefore where possible the Company has attempted to farming or village based occupation such as cattle rearing safeguard sections of pre-existing villages and farms while and animal husbandry prior to the entry of Tata Steel. planning the layout of its plant. Boosting the local economy: The Company is developing model townships at Trijanga, policy of local procurement and imparts employment Sansailo and Gobarghati, close to its Greenﬁeld project training to wards of displaced as well as project-aﬀected site at Kalinganagar in Odisha to boost the local economy. families. It provides support to local entrepreneurs based on its Employment and Employability training: 304 students were trained till 2011-12, with another technology have joined its construction partner Punj 190 students currently undergoing pre-employment Lloyd Company for further on-site training. training while a third batch of trainees has been enrolled for vocational training. Twenty-nine members of Tata About 600 families have been employed in various Steel Parivar from Kalinganagar, who trained in welding construction sites as semi-skilled and unskilled workers. 86 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited INCLUSIVE GROWTH THROUGH SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS Poverty alleviation AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT programmes for the rural The System of Rice Intensification (SRI) method of population aim at: paddy cultivation was piloted in 125 acres of land in • Improvements in crop 10 villages positively impacting 250 farmers. The yield productivity of SRI cultivation in the demonstrated plots was more • An increase in the area than two tonnes per acre. under second and third crops through irrigation and wasteland development • Skill based training for the youth to allow them to benefit from existing and emerging opportunities and • Enterprise development Paddy cultivation under SRI to improve yield at the community-level GROWTH IN ACERAGE WASTELAND MADE ARABLE UNDER through Self Help Groups UNDER 2ND AND 3RD CROP NATIONAL HORTICULTURE MISSION (SHGs). SHGs gifted equipment to allow them to set up micro enterprises 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 87 Small pumps enhance the area under irrigation around the Noamundi Iron MIne Focus on Marginal Farmers in Noamundi Gaps and challenges Farmer training: Interventions by Tata Steel Tata Steel focuses on improving Through both village based and With public investment in the economic condition of the classroom training at the Kolebira agriculture virtually absent, Tata marginal farmers by creating the Training Centre of TSRDS, along Steel has stepped in to provide necessary basic infrastructure with continuous inputs by the basic irrigation amenities and required for enhancing and TSRDS ﬁeld staﬀ to the farmers, develop Rainwater Harvesting sustaining improvements in about 700 acres of farmland has structures. Farmers are agricultural productivity, a been covered under the Kharif continuously motivated to utilise primary source of livelihood crops beneﬁtting around 400 the existing water bodies through for the community in this farmers and their household from small irrigation pumps. The area. The principal challenges an earlier coverage of around 250 creation of these water structures in improving the economic acres. and use of other irrigation aids has condition of marginal farmers are enhanced the irrigation potential lack of knowledge on improved of the area and cropping intensity. agricultural practices and emerging technology, dependence on mono crops, the inability of the farmers to forge cooperatives aimed at utilising existing water resources and almost no access to agriculture extension services connecting on-going research with the beneﬁciaries. Improved methods of cultivation are shared with farmers 88 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited EMPLOYABILITY In-house training for site safety supervision, along with employability programmes EMPHASIS ON EMPLOYABILITY PROGRAMMES LEADS TO FOUR FOLD INCREASE IN YOUTH in collaboration with PARFI (Pan-IIT Alumni Reach For India), NTTF (Nettur Technical TRAINED Training Foundation), and TBSS (Tata Business Support Services) led to about 2800 job seekers being trained in various vocational trades. Of them 1074 youths or 38 per cent are from the SC/ST communities. A total of 833 youths or 29 per cent have already been gainfully employed. No. of youth trained In 2011-12, the Site Supervisor Training programme initiated by Urban Services was rolled out to Company’s out locations at Sukinda and Noamundi. A new skill development programme to develop construction skills was initiated in 2011-12 with the L&T Academy at Kolkata. Of the 98 youths who completed the training during the year, 76.5 per cent of the total youth trained were hired by L&T at its construction sites across the country. 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT OVER TWO FOLD INCREASE IN SELF HELP GROUPS Self-Help Groups (SHGs) have emerged as an extremely TO BOOST ECONOMIC SELF RELIANCE successful mechanism for Tata Steel to enlarge the scope for women from socially and economically marginalised communities to participate in family decision-making and gain access to grassroot democratic institutions while also boosting their economic self-reliance. The Company empowers SHG members through capacity building programmes with the aim of eﬀecting change through their collective strength. 727 women’s SHGs supported by it are operating successfully, beneﬁtting 9089 female members. Of these, 35 SHGs have been linked to entrepreneurship development, empowering its members. The initiative raised the average income of every member to around Rs.10600 per annum in 2011-12. 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 89 EDUCATION Tata Steel’s focus on improving access All operational locations of the of Sijua, West Bokaro, Jamadoba and to quality education, especially for Company provide administrative Noamundi. More than 40 schools the girl child is promoted though and managerial support along with participate in the Tata Steel Education interventions such as scholarships material resources to schools in their Excellence Programme. Plans are for meritorious students who are areas. For instance its Wires Division now on the anvil to set up residential economically and socially challenged, supports Tarapur Vidya Mandir, while schools in Jharkhand and Odisha in adult literacy classes, centres for early Tata DAV Schools cater to the children 2012-13. child education, camp schools for girls and coaching classes for high school SHARP RISE IN NUMBER OF SCHOLARSHIPS DRIVE FOR ADULT LITERACY DOUBLES AWARDED NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES IMPACTED students. Education scholarships were provided to nearly 2000 meritorious students from marginalised communities. 5600 adults became functionally literate through its Adult Literacy Programme. More than 100 school dropouts, all girls, from underprivileged families returned to mainstream schools after attending a nine-month bridge course at a camp school. 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Coaching classes have improved the success rate of high school students 90 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited BRIDGING THE HEALTH CARE DEFICIT Tata Steel provides preventive, promotive and curative health care services through Company’s hospitals in Jamshedpur, Noamundi, Joda, Jharia, West Bokaro and Sukinda, nine dispensaries in Jamshedpur, public health services, mobile medical vans and health care providers to almost three million people across the states of Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. BASIC HEALTH CARE: In 2011-12, a total of 2,90,000 people in three states received basic health care through the Company’s mobile medical units. Tata Steel’s focus on the health of the mother and child led to the immunisation of 12,700 infants and ante-natal checkups for 11,600 expectant mothers. SPECIALITY CARE: Tata Steel's health care covers the entire spectrum from basic health care to speciality services CONTINUOUS RISE IN IMMUNISATION TREND REACH OF PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES CONTINUES TO BE ENLARGED 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Tata Main Hospital (TMH), the 890-bed hospital provides were significantly enhanced and a state of the art Intensive specialised indoor and outdoor care to the community in Care Unit added. Jamshedpur and caters to the advanced medical needs of the entire Kolhan region of Jharkhand, comprising the East The Company provided a grant of Rs 5 crore for a nursing Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan school at Jamshedpur to improve health care services districts. Over 13,00,000 outdoor and 57000 indoor patients further. Effective health services reached the doorstep of were treated in 2011-12. impoverished tribal villagers in Bamebari and the adjoining areas under Joda block in Keonjhar district of Odisha, with To bridge the demand-supply gap between services the introduction of a new Ambulance Van equipped with during the year the capabilities of the departments at TMH, emergency kits, equipment for diagnostic tests, medicines, including availability of advanced equipment and doctors, etc. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 91 PROJECT MANSI Maternal and Newborn Survival Initiative Project To reduce maternal and child mortality on Public-Private Partnership (PPP) for Education, Action and Research), and morbidity in Seraikela block approach being piloted in 167 villages Gadchiroli, Maharashtra. of Seraikela-Kharsawan district in in Seraikela-Kharsawan district of Jharkhand, a project based strategy Jharkhand. American India Foundation The project is being implemented under MANSI (Maternal and Newborn is the funding agency for MANSI in collaboration with Department of Survival Initiative) was adopted in project while technical guidance is Health & Family Welfare, Government 2009. MANSI is a unique project based being provided by SEARCH (Society of Jharkhand. THRUST AREAS OF MANSI: 1) Reduce the mortality of newborns (up to 28 days of 2) Promote Home Based Newborn care through Sahiyas age) to reduce infant mortality as they constitute more (village level volunteer under National Rural Health than two-thirds of total infant deaths; Mission in Jharkhand) to check newborn deaths Significant Achievements under Project MANSI: Over the last two years, the focused received ante-natal check-ups and IFA deliveries at home has decreased from intervention has brought a turnaround tablets 41.5% to 23.6%) as far as maternal and newborn health More and more pregnant women are Infant Mortality Rate has come down care is concerned: being brought to government health from 62 to 36 in the project area. Nearly 90% of pregnant women have facility for institutional delivery (% of Grassroots health care workers are trained to provide health care to the mother and child 92 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited PUBLIC–PRIVATE–PARTNERSHIP TO PREVENT HIV/AIDS Tata Steel recognized the importance of HIV/AIDS interventions among high-risk groups where it operates as early as in 1994 and voluntarily took on the responsibility for the districts of East and West Singhbhum. The scope of this effort now extends to the districts of Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, SaraikelaKharswan and Ranchi in the state of Jharkhand. Building Awareness: Tracking Incidence: Hospice for HIV Positive Patients: In 2011-12 a special HIV/AIDS awareness Tata Steel uses a Health A 20-bed Hospice at Gopalpur in Odisha run campaign launched by Tata Steel Rural Information Management by Tata Steel has treated about a thousand Development Society in collaboration with System (HIMS) to collect HIV/ HIV positive cases. Condom Promotion Jharkhand State AIDS Control Society (JSACS) AIDS statistics from identified & Distribution is an on-going activity covered a population of ~100,000 in 854 health care institutions, to achieve Behaviour Change for safer villages and Urban Bustee Areas. Training which is submitted to Civil practices. Managerial and resource support of Government care providers, including Surgeon (ES)’s office. It beneﬁt members of the Jamshedpur 117 personnel from Government Medical indicated 200 HIV Positive Network of Positive People of JSACS. Colleges & ICTC staff, was undertaken. cases for 2011-12. Awareness drives are extremely effective in preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS Caring for People Living with AIDS: 1305 patient-visits were attended to SANKALP Mahila Samiti comprising A PPTCT programme is oﬀered to in 2011-12. Speciﬁc beneﬁts extended Women Living with HIV/AIDS. They pregnant women living with HIV/AIDS during the year included nutritional run two canteens in the Oﬃce at Tata Main Hospital in partnership supplement for 15 infected infants, premises of Tata Steel’s Corporate with Sneh Kendra. Jamshedpur Blood children, adults and lactating mothers, Sustainability Services. The purpose is Bank provides HIV-free quality blood economic support for education of to provide economic rehabilitation and and free blood supply for PLWHA 26 infected and aﬀected children sustainability. persons. and formation of Self Help Group – Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 93 Targetting High Risk Groups: Tata Steel’s Transport Parks situated an aggressive health care initiative of being infected by communicable at Dimna and Burmamines have 700 aimed at the clinical management of diseases. Monthly health checkups heavy vehicles transiting through sexually transmitted infections and and awareness camps were a regular them everyday. The Company’s behaviour change communication feature at the Transport Parks in Customer Services Division launched among drivers as they are at high risk 2011-12. Project RISHTA (Regional Initiatives for Safe Sexual Health by Today’s Adolescents) With the objective to improve the sexual and reproductive health and well-being of adolescents, more than 35,000 adolescents have been covered in the project area through home visits, individual and group counseling, health fair etc. Street plays help villagers understand the mode of transmission of AIDS and preventive measures to be adopted CURATIVE SERVICES : Curative services extended to the community restored vision in 3000 cataract patients, cured 400 patients of Tuberculosis and ensured treatment for 1500 leprosy patients. Channel partners of TISCON (TISCON Parivar) contributed Rs 7 million in 2011-12 to Tata Medical Centre, Kolkata exclusively for the treatment of underprivileged children. Distributors and dealers of Tata Steel have agreed to contribute a fixed sum/ tonne of their sales over the next three years. 94 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited IMPROVING PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE Compost Plant set up by JUSCO JUSCO and Urban Services added 40.5 Jamshedpur Utilities kms of roads at a cost of Rs 2028 lakhs, and Services Company ~1000 consumers were given access to safe, piped water. Continuous (JUSCO) is the urban civic reductions in Non Revenue Water amenities provider across losses to 17 per cent allowed the the leasehold area of the Company to reach out to ten Company in Jamshedpur. additional underserved areas under a PPP initiative with the Bagan Area Its civic services cover 1.6 Vikas Samity. million residents. Urban Services reviews and Solar energy changes rural proposes the development lives Tata Steel has initiated a drive to of infrastructure in the Solar light set up in West Bokaro brighten lives in remote villages by non-leasehold areas using renewable sources of energy Odisha. Regular maintenance of the of Jamshedpur with like solar energy. Under this ambitious installed lights is entrusted to select representatives of civil initiative, in 2011-12 over 700 solar members from the village community streetlights were installed benefitting through Urja Samitees (Energy society. 224 villages in Jharkhand and Committees). Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 95 Waste plastic mixed with bitumen to build roads keep the city clean of plastics as well as strengthens its roads Assured access to water school in the country. The residential Water harvesting structures and infrastructure to augment school imparts education to poor tribal access to potable water for communities living in rural and peri-urban areas resulted in 241 hand tube wells and students from different parts of the state 15 deep bore wells in Jamshedpur and the Company’s of Odisha. out-locations. In 2011-12, the ground water table was recharged with the capacity to harvest water touching To enable school children from different 125000 cubic metres in the Ore Mines & Quarries and two pilot rooftop rainwater harvesting structures were initiated hamlets around its Ore Mines & Quarries in peri-urban Jamshedpur. to travel safely and comfortably to school everyday, in 2011-12 Tata Steel New Educational Infrastructure constructed a five to six kilometre road Tata Steel began construction of a library connecting the villages to the school. It at the Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences subsequently introduced a bus service for (KISS) in Bhubaneswar, the largest tribal them as well. Alleviating the impact of natural calamities In 2011-12, Tata Relief Committee handed over 144 homes, a school and a community centre in a model village at Mannur for flood victims in the state of Karnataka. 96 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited SOCIAL CHANGE THROUGH SPORTS Sports and Adventure Sports are leveraged by the Company to empower local youth, strengthen its relationship with the community and provide alternative avenues for employment. Development of “Golden Hopes” in Sports is a national priority for Tata Steel India. In 2011-12, Ms Deepika Kumari and the programme, 73 boys, all under During 2011-12, cadets from Tata Mr Jayanta Talukdar – cadets of 10 years of age, were selected for an Steel’s three sports academies the Tata Archery Academy – were entire year of training at TFA. – Tata Football Academy, Tata selected to represent India at the Archery Academy and Tata Athletics 2012 London Olympics, while After Ms Premlata Aggarwal’s Academy, four sport feeder centres Ms Purnima Mahato has been at the Company’s raw materials successful expedition to Mt Everest, nominated Coach of the Indian and greenfield locations along the Company lent its support to her Archery Team. with 14 non residential training ‘Seven Summits’ expedition. She has centres won a total of 101 medals, scaled three of the toughest summits During the year, Tata Football including 40 Gold, 31 Silver and 30 and is geared up for the remaining Academy launched a grassrootsBronze medals at various national four. It also sponsored the training training programme to train potential and international events. 21 trainees of two rural youths – Binita Soren (a from sports training centres and footballers by identifying them between the ages of eight to ten tribal girl) and Meghlal Mahato for academies run by Tata Steel were years and then providing ten years their planned onslaught of Mount recruited by public and private sector or 10,000 hours of training. Under Everest. organisations. Rural youth benefit from training at a Feeder Centre at an out location Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 97 IMPROVEMENT AND INNOVATION MANAGEMENT APPROACH A customer centric organization, Tata Steel consistently strives to develop new safe and environmentally friendly products to meet the growing needs of India’s rural population, the urban construction and small and medium enterprise sector, infrastructure industry and worldclass manufacturers with bases in India, who use steel as an input material in their products. Therefore while being the best in class, its products are safe as well as resource and energy efficient. The Company’s offerings meet the needs of the automotive, construction and infrastructure segments which demand global standards for quality, safety and environment. WORLDSTEEL EXCELLENCE ENABLERS : INDICATORS:  Resource Conservation GRI INDICATORS: We strive to optimise  New Product Development the ecoeﬃciency of MM 11/ PR 1/ PR 2/ PR 3/ products throughout their  New Process Technology PR 4 / EN 26 life cycle. We promote  Advocating Safe Use of Products the recovery, reuse and  Lifecycle Assessments recycling of steel.  Environmental Product Declaration 98 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Resource Conservation: Tata Steel’s Technology Roadmap, released in 2011-12, is product applications and emerging technologies, besides aimed at ensuring that product designs are safe, resource identifying gaps and opportunities based on the present eﬃcient and deploy eco-friendly technology. A result of and future needs. It shows the way forward for technology a consultative process the Roadmap provides a longadvancement by pursuing both innovative improvements term view on aspects such as emerging market trends, and path breaking technologies. New Product Development: Opportunities for improvements in environmental and products introduced in 2011-12 include (a) Low Carbon sustainability performance are identiﬁed through a robust Wire Rods (LCWR), (b) C-Mn 440 grade Cold Rolled Sheets, Total Quality Management programme, which spans the (c) Galvano in the Galvanised Plain (GP) market and (d) entire value chain. Tata Steel’s New Product Development Fe500, Fe600 Rebars with varying Yield Strengths. Micro (NPD) process, knowledge sharing and customer Alloyed rebars, which are rust proof and have better UTS/ engagement initiatives are a product of the Company’s YS ratio, were tested for the construction sector. strategic goals as well as inputs received from customers on emerging needs and future product applications. Large diameter black structural tubes for the infrastructural segment, ﬁre resistant structural sections, The introduction of premium branded products with environment friendly Chrome free Thin Organic Coated improved chemistry and physical attributes, through NPD, galvanized pipes for plumbing applications and had a positive economic and environmental impact both Galvanised structural components for upcoming Solar direct and indirect on the market. Examples of responsible energy projects in India are on the anvil. Lifecycle Assessments: Tata Steel takes a holistic approach from cradle to since steel is 100 per cent recyclable. Comprehensive grave in assessing the impact of its products, including analyses of environmental impacts associated with the sustainable mining practices, resource beneﬁciation for safety of products, processes and resource utilization are greater blast furnace productivity and end-of-life scenarios obtained through Life Cycle Assessments (LCA). Environmental Product Declaration: The LCA projects undertaken in the last decade Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) for Tata Steel’s have greatly improved resource utilisation and the rebars, providing relevant environmental information environmental performance of the Company. An LCA along the product’s value chain. project initiated in 2011-12 is aimed at developing an Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 99 RESOURCE CONSERVATION Tata Steel’s R&D eﬀorts focus on breakthrough technologies and raw material beneﬁciation to extract reductions in raw material use, energy and water requirements besides greenhouse gas emissions. Progress is continuously tracked and compared with global industry standards or benchmarks for resource eﬃciency and costs. Year on year adoption of new production technologies, such as the Thin Slab Caster and Rolling Mill as well as the Continuous Annealing and Processing Line, is aimed at delivering products with energy eﬃcient end applications. Tata Steel’s focus on conserving natural resources spans the entire value chain from raw material to end-use and disposal. In 2011-12 the Company replaced its Fe415 grade rebars with the Fe500 grade rebar. The Fe500 grade with a higher tensile strength of 500MPa is 17 per cent stronger with respect to Fe415 grade rebars. This translates to a potential savings in cost of house construction due to reduction in usage of steel for the same plan and conservation of critical natural resource for future generations. Test marketing of high strength Fe600 rebars for construction of high-rises is underway. Fe600 will also help construction majors reduce specific consumption of steel. The 6mm diameter size TMT Fe500 rebar has replaced the 8mm rebar in applications where only the minimum reinforcement criterion needs to be met. The benefits are lower consumption of steel by weight, a reduction in the use of ore along with lower waste generation and a reduction in CO2 emission @ 2.5 tCO2/ton of crude steel. 100 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Tata Steel’s products are used for applications ranging from vehicles, construction, engineering equipment, packaging and much more. The health and safety considerations of products strongly influence all lifecycle stages particularly during Research & Development, New Research and Development initiatives benefit Tata Steel's entire value chain Product Development initiatives, Low Carbon Wire Rods: Manufacturing and Production. An example of a unique shift brought about in 2011-12 due to a proactive Tata Code of Conduct (Clause 8 & interest in health and safety considerations is the product innovation for Low Carbon Wire Rods (LCWR) enabling customers to change from Acid Pickling to Clause 9) provides the framework mechanical descaling reducing health and safety hazards for their employees and to ensure product safety for simultaneously reducing costs. the customer. Tata Steel’s A change in rolling parameters to make non-sticky, thick and flaky scales on its reinforcement bars (rebars) are wire rods, which can be removed by mechanical descaling, led to 100 per cent of certified by CARES, UK for Product its LCWR customers switching from “Acid Pickling” of wire rods before wire drawing to “Mechanical De-scaling”. The health risks posed by the acid to the employees at conformity thereby guaranteeing the customer premises and the need for disposal of the environmentally hazardous that the product quality matches acid sludge have been eliminated. customer needs. Cut and Bend Solutions: Downstream solutions to improve safe use of products include ready-made stirrups sold under the brand name ‘TISCON SUPERLINKS’. A good quality stirrup not only creates a sound structure for safer and durable homes but also eliminates the need to cut and bend rebars at the customers’ premises. Now the Company is developing a new-age “plasma” technology product to provide rust proof rebars to consumers. Minimising oil levels: Rust Preventive oil on steel products evaporate during welding. Process technology developed by Tata Steel has controlled oiling which minimises the oil levels and safeguards users. Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 101 NEW PROCESS TECHNOLOGY Tata Steel was recognised by the Department of Controller General of Patents for the highest number of patents granted for the period 2007 to 2011 to a private sector company Lead Free Coating: Development of a lead free coating chemistry using a ‘lead-free’ Zinc Bath. The product therefore for Tata Steel’s Zero Spangled Galvanised Plain stands out not only due to its unmatched surface ﬁnish, Sheets Galvano ensures that the ﬁrst branded quality and mechanical properties but also compliance to zero-spangled GP sheet in India is produced ROHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) guidelines. Ecologically friendly Chrome Concentrate: Chrome concentrate is made from beneﬁciating low treatment of Chrome Concentrate to make it hexavalent grade Chrome Ore that enriches the chromium content chrome free (Cr+6 free) is a pioneering eﬀort in in the product. Tata Steel’s endeavour to produce environment protection. Tata Steel holds two patents for ecologically friendly products by herbal and chemical the herbal treatment of ore. Organic Coating for Sheets: After having eliminated Hexavalent Chromium in its galvanised sheets with Trivalent Chromium, Research & Development is focussing on Thin Organic coating to eliminate Chromium a carcinogenic material altogether from Galvanised sheets. Recovery of Excess Zinc: At the Confederation of India Industry (CII) Environmental Tube galvanizing which recovers excess zinc from the Best Practices Award Competition Tata Steel’s Tubes bore of the tubes, reducing use of the substance. The Division won the “Most Innovative Environment Project” award is an aﬃrmation of Tata Steel commitment to safe, for the installation of an automatic air wiping system in green products. 102 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited ADVOCATING SAFE USE OF PRODUCTS Tata Steel takes its role as a supplier seriously with regard to information on health, safety and environment down the supply chain. Though labeling is not required provided for an application. compliance in the matters of customer for steel products, Tata Steel fulfills health and safety were reported its responsibilities for providing Product Application Groups during 2011-12. information on its products to (PAGs) of the Long & Flat Products customers through cross-functional Divisions, along with Sales Team Steel used for Tube making complies product teams who interface with a also communicate proper use and with RoHS guidelines. On demand diverse range of end-users including disposal of the products to Tata Steel’s steel samples are checked at OEMs, architects, homeowners, customers, as well as help them realise independent third party laboratories masons, etc. The Company provides maximum benefits from its product and certificates for the same are issued detailed Test Certificates whenever & services. Complaints/ Feedbacks to the customer. required by customers to validate raised on Product Safety by Customers that the right quality product is being are monitored. No incidents of nonLabeling of products provides comprehensive information and ensures appropriate use of the products Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 103 LIFECYCLE ASSESSMENTS TO PROVIDE EPD FOR REBARS Tata Steel undertakes Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies which yield information on environmental impact factors like natural resource depletion, global warming, acidification, eutrophication, ozone depletion, human toxicity, etc. LCAs help identify opportunities for improving the environmental performance of the system under consideration and assist strategic planning, new product development, marketing, reusing or recycling and disposal. Lifecycle Assessment data in accordance with the ISO verifiable and accurate information that is not misleading 14040 series of standards also forms the basis of an has the potential to stimulate continuous market-driven Environmental Product Declarations (EPD), intended environmental improvement. for use in business-to-business and also business-toconsumer communications. As part of its policy to proactively deal with climate change Tata Steel is identifying and assessing the An EPD can assist purchasers and users to make informed environmental impacts associated with its reinforcement comparisons between products. The overall goal of bars (rebars). An accurate understanding will allow environmental labels and declarations is to encourage the Company to align product development with its improvement in environmental performance by Environmental Policy and provide fact-based information encouraging the demand for and supply of products that on the environmental impact of its products. reduces stress on the environment. Communication of EPD development project for rebars The project for EPD development of rebars considers all the environmental aspects in the entire lifecycle of Rebars comprising processes from raw material acquisition, production, use phase and the end of life recycling. Lifecycle of the Rebar 104 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction so developed as per application information, as required for Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been level A of the GRI 3.1 guidelines a moderate level assurance commissioned by the Management and GRI ‘Mining and Metal Sector engagement; of Tata Steel Limited (‘Tata Steel’ Supplement ( MMSS) ; • The principles and requirements of or ‘the Company’) to carry out an • Review of the policies, initiatives, the GRI G3.1 for an application level assurance engagement on Tata Steel’s practices and performance described A+. Sustainability Report 2011-12 (‘the in the Report as well as references • As part of the engagement, DNV has Report’) in its printed format, against made in the Report to Tata Steel’s challenged the sustainability-related the Global Reporting Initiative 2011 105th Annual Report (2011-12); statements and claims made in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines • Review of the Report against the Report and assessed the robustness Version 3.1 (GRI G3.1) and the DNV requirements of VeriSustain with a of the underlying data management Protocol for Verification of Sustainability moderate level of assurance and: system, information flow and Reporting (VeriSustain)1. o Information relating to controls. In doing so, we have: company’s sustainability issues, • Examined and reviewed DNV is a global provider of sustainability responses, performance data, documents, data and other services, with qualified environmental case studies and underlying information made available by and social assurance specialists systems for the management Tata Steel; working in over 100 countries. DNV of such information and data as • Visited the Tata Tubes, was not involved in the preparation presented in the Report; Jamshedpur, Tata Steel of any statements or data included in o Information relating to Jamshedpur Steel Works, the Report except for this Assurance company’s materiality Sukinda Mines, Marketing and Statement. DNV maintains complete assessment and stakeholder Sales Office (FPPC & LPPC), Tata impartiality towards any people engagement processes; Centre, Kolkata and Wires division interviewed. DNV expressly disclaims • Confirm that the report meets the at Tarapore, Mumbai for the any liability or co-responsibility for any GRI G3.1 Application Level A+, as purpose of verifying qualitative decision a person or entity would make declared by the Company. and quantitative information based on this Assurance Statement. presented in this Report; The reporting boundary is as set out in • Conducted interviews with top/ The intended users of this assurance the Report and during the assurance senior management and key statement are the readers of Tata Steel’s process we did not come across representatives and managers Sustainability Report 2011-12. The limitations to the scope of the assurance in various offices, manufacturing Management of Tata Steel is responsible engagement. The verification was units, project sites and at the for all information provided in the Report conducted during October 2012 for the head office, including data as well as the processes for collecting, activities covered in the Report for the owners, decision-makers and risk analyzing and reporting the information. period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012. managers from different divisions DNV’s responsibility regarding this and functions of the Company; verification is to the Company only and Verification Methodology • Reviewed the Company’s in accordance with the agreed scope This assurance engagement was approach to stakeholder of work. The assurance engagement planned and carried out in accordance engagement and its materiality is based on the assumption that the with the DNV Protocol for Verification of determination process; data and information provided to us is Sustainability Reporting . The report has • Performed sample-based complete and true. been evaluated against the following reviews of the mechanisms for criteria: implementing the Company’s Scope of Assurance • Adherence to the principles of sustainability related policies, as The scope of work agreed upon with Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Materiality, described in the Report; the Company includes verification of the Responsiveness, Completeness • Performed sample-based checks following: and Neutrality as set out in DNV’s of the processes for generating, • Review of Tata Steel's Corporate Protocol; the reliability of the gathering and managing the Sustainability Report for 2011-12 specified sustainability performance quantitative data and qualitative Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 105 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT information included in the and interpretation of the data. We Completeness: Acceptable. The Report Report; also assessed the reported progress gives a detailed description of the • Reviewed the process of against the company’s commitments limitations in scope and. boundary The acquiring information and as disclosed in its previous Report and boundary has been expanded to Ferro economic data from the financial observed that the Report presents a Alloys & Mineral Division, Tubes Division data presented in the Company’s fair description of the sustainability and Wire Division for the first time in Annual Report 2011-12 activities and the goals achieved. We this Report . The Company may consider have evaluated the Report’s adherence increasing the scope and boundary to Opportunities for Improvement to the following principles on a scale bring in it’s Subsidiaries and Associates The following is an excerpt from of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Companies ( Refer page 2 of the Report) the observations and opportunities Improvement’: which are significant, considering for improvement reported to the the nature of Tata Steel’s operational Management of Tata steel and Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Good. The activities. are considered for drawing our Company had engaged themselves in conclusion on the report; however, dialogue with selected stakeholders Neutrality: Good. The Company has they are generally consistent with the during the year through different reported sustainability related issues in Management’s objectives: channels. The material issues emerging a balanced manner, in terms of content • Materiality determination may be from the stakeholder engagement were and tone. Challenges and limitations are adopted as a full-scale companywide collected, prioritised and the results presented together with commitments process to bring out specific key to future improvements. are reflected in the Report. Reference material issues in sustainability is made to the issue-based stakeholder context. In our opinion, and based on the scope engagement process under this Report. • It would be worthwhile if the of this assurance engagement, Tata company could come out with a Steel’s Sustainability Report 2011-12 Materiality: Acceptable The process formal policy & practice on impact of provides a fair representation of the developed internally captures key climate change on its business across Company’s sustainability policies, sustainability issues. The completeness the verticals objectives, management approach and of materiality assessment process may • As a best practice, the environmental performance during the reporting year. need to be focused further to bring expenditure accounting may DNV also confirms that the Report meets out sustainability issues with short and, follow IFAC (International Guidance the requirements for GRI application medium term impacts. Document on Environmental level A+. Management Accounting) • Implementing a systematic process Responsiveness: Good. The Company For Det Norske Veritas AS, for data management and its has adequately responded to quality assurance procedure will stakeholder concerns through its policies further help improve the reliability and management systems, and this is Prasun Kundu of sustainability performance reflected in the Report. Lead Verifier monitoring and reporting process Det Norske Veritas AS, India. Reliability: Acceptable. We have Conclusions evaluated the reliability of specified We consider the methodology and sustainability performance information process for gathering information and found it to be acceptable. The developed by the Company for its Company has developed its own data Antonio Astone sustainability performance reporting management system for capturing and Reviewer to be appropriate. The qualitative and reporting its sustainability performance. Global Manager, Corporate quantitative data included in the Report Although no systematic errors have Responsibility Services was found to be reliable, identifiable been detected, DNV has identified Det Norske Veritas AS, Italy. and traceable; the personnel responsible some manual discrepancies which have were able to demonstrate the origin subsequently been corrected. Kolkata, India, 20 December 2012 106 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited G3.1 Content Index Application Level A+ STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I Description Page UNGC CoP 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Managing Director’s Statement F/DA 1-4 Statement of continuing support 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities F/DA 5-10 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization F/DA Cover/ 11 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services F/DA 13 2.3 Operational structure F/DA IFC/ 12 2.4 Location of headquarters F/DA 12 2.5 Countries where the organization operates F/DA IFC/12 2.6 Nature of ownership F/DA 12/ AR 2.7 Markets served F/DA 14/ AR 2.8 Scale of the organization F/DA 14 2.9 Significant changes F/DA 15 2.10 Awards received F/DA IBC 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period F/DA 16 3.2 Date of most recent previous report F/DA 16 3.3 Reporting cycle F/DA 16 3.4 Contact point for questions F/DA 16 3.5 Process for defining report content F/DA 16 3.6 Boundary of the report F/DA 16 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary F/DA 16 3.8 Basis for reporting F/DA 16 3.9 Data measurement techniques F/DA 16 3.10 Re-statements of information with explanations F/DA 16 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods F/DA 16 3.12 GRI Content Index F/DA 16 3.13 External assurance F/DA 16 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 1-10 4.1 Governance structure of the organization F/DA 17 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Board is also an executive officer F/DA 18 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive Board members F/DA 18 / AR 4.4 Mechanisms for providing recommendations F/DA 19 4.5 Board Compensation F/DA 18 4.6 Preventing conflicts of interest F/DA 29 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the Board F/DA 18 4.8 Mission, values, code of conduct and policies F/DA 20 4.9 Procedures for Board oversight F/DA 18/ 20 4.10 Evaluation of performance F/DA 18 / 20 4.11 Precautionary approach or principle F/DA 27 7 4.12 Commitment to externally initiatives F/DA 27 4.13 Memberships in associations F/DA 27 Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 107 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I Description Page UNGC CoP 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups F/DA 21 4.15 Stakeholders identification and selection F/DA 19 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement F/DA 21 4.17 Key concerns raised through stakeholder engagement F/DA 21 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II ECONOMIC Management Approach F/DA 30 1, 4, 6, 7 Economic performance F/DA 30 EITI Statement F/DA 51 Market presence F/DA 34 Commentary added to include proportion of local workforce as well as local Management F/DA 60 Indirect economic impacts F/DA 35 ENVIRONMENT Management Approach F/DA 36 7, 8, 9 Materials F/DA 37 Energy F/DA 38 Water F/DA 47 Biodiversity F/DA 37/ 51 Emissions, effluents and waste F/DA 38 Products and services F/DA 37 Compliance F/DA 37 Transport F/DA 54 Overall F/DA 36 LABOUR Management Approach F/DA 55 1, 3, 6 Employment F/DA 12/ 56 Labour/management relations F/DA 25 Occupational health and safety F/DA 57 Training and education F/DA 56 Diversity and equal opportunity F/DA 57 HUMAN RIGHTS Management Approach F/DA 67 1-6 Investment and procurement practices F/DA 67-68 Non-discrimination F/DA 67-68 Freedom of association and collective bargaining F/DA 67-68 Child labour F/DA 67-68 Forced and compulsory labour F/DA 67-68 Security practices F/DA 67-68 Indigenous rights F/DA 67-68 SOCIAL Management Approach F/DA 80-82 10 Community F/DA 80-82 Corruption F/DA 28 Public Policy F/DA 25 Anti-competitive behavior F/DA 73 Compliance F/DA 73 108 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Description Page UNGC CoP PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Management Approach F/DA 73-74 1-8 Customer health and safety F/DA 73-74 Product and service labeling F/DA 73-74 Marketing communications F/DA 73-74 Customer privacy F/DA 73-74 Compliance F/DA 73-74 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III Economic Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed F/DA 31 EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change F/DA 32/ 45 7 EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations F/DA 64 EC4 Financial assistance from the government F/DA 31 Market presence EC5 Standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 64 1 EC6 Spend on locally-based suppliers F/DA 34 MM Proportion of local workforce/ Management F/DA 33 EC7 Procedures for local hiring F/DA 60 6 Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments F/DA 35 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts F/DA 35 Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume F/DA 39 8 EN2 Recycled input materials F/DA 40/ 41 8, 9 MM Definition of Scrap F/DA 40 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption F/DA 42 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption F/DA 42 8 EN5 Energy saved due to improvements F/DA 42 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives for energy-efficient products and services F/DA 74 8, 9 EN7 Reductions in indirect energy consumption F/DA 43 8, 9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal F/DA 47 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected F/DA 48 8 EN10 Water recycled and reused F/DA 48 8, 9 Biodiversity EN11 Land owned, leased in or adjacent to protected areas F/DA 51 8 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas F/DA 51 8 Resettlement and closure activities/ biodiversity impacts F/DA 52-53 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. F/DA 52 8 MM 1 Amount of land distributed or rehabilitated F/DA 51 8 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity F/DA 53 8 MM 2 Biodiversity management plans F/DA 51 8 EN15 IUCN Red List species/national conservation list species affected by operations F/DA 53 8 Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 109 Environment Description Page UNGC CoP Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions F/DA 45 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions F/DA 45 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions F/DA 45 7, 8, 9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances F/DA 46 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and air emissions F/DA 50 8 EN21 Total water discharge F/DA 48 8 EN22 Total weight of waste F/DA 41 8 MM 3 Overburden/rock/ tailings/sludges F/DA 41 8 EN23 Number and volume of significant spills 8 EN24 Management of waste deemed hazardous under the Basel Convention Not Material EN25 Biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats F/DA 50 8 Products and services EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services F/DA 101-102 7, 8, 9 EN27 Packaging materials F/DA 41 8, 9 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines F/DA 29 8 Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products F/DA 54 8 Overall EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments F/DA 31 7, 8, 9 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment F/DA 12 / 56 MM Policies and practices applied to contractors F/DA 68 LA2 Employee turnover F/DA 62 6 LA3 Benefits for full-time employees not provided to part-time employees F/DA 62 LA 15 Return to work and retention rates F/DA 62 Labor/management relations LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements F/DA 25 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes F/DA 21 3 Occupational health and safety MM Application of ILO Convention 176 F/DA 64 1 LA6 Representation of workforce in formal joint management-worker committees F/DA 63 1 MM 4 Strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week F/DA 21 1 LA7 Safety Performance F/DA Page 65 1 MM Description of fatal accidents F/DA Supplemen1 tary Data LA8 Risk-control programmes for serious diseases F/DA 66 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements F/DA 65 1 Training and education LA10 Employee training F/DA 61 LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning F/DA 61 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. F/DA 58 -60 110 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited Description Page UNGC CoP Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies F/DA 56 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women F/DA 62 1, 6 Social: Human Rights Diversity and equal opportunity HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses F/DA 69 1-6 HR2 Screening of suppliers on human rights and actions taken F/DA 69 1-6 HR3 Employee training on human rights F/DA 28 1-6 Non-discrimination HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken F/DA 29/70 1, 2, 6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations where right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at F/DA 21 1, 2, 3 significant risk MM Commentary on how freedom of association policy is implemented F/DA 21 1, 2, 3 MM 5 Operations adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories F/DA 82 1, 2 Child Labour HR6 Significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures taken F/DA 69 1, 2, 5 Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour F/DA 69 1, 2, 4 Security practices HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects of human rights F/DA 61 1, 2 Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken F/DA 24 1, 2 Assessment HR 10 Operations subject to human rights reviews F/DA 69 1-6 Remediation HR 11 Grievances about human rights filed/addressed/resolved F/DA 29 / 70 1-6 Social: Society Community SO1 Assessing and managing the impacts of operations F/DA 79 MM Social Inclusion and Indigenous communities F/DA 80 MM Relevance of Community Engagement processes F/DA 81 MM Commentary for further compilation F/DA 81 MM 6 Disputes relating to land use and customary rights F/DA 84 MM 7 Grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes F/DA 84 MM 8 Sites with artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) F/DA 95 MM 9 Sites where resettlements took place F/DA 84 MM 10 Operations with closure plans F/DA 51-52 Corruption SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption F/DA 28 10 SO3 Training on anti-corruption policies F/DA 28 10 SO4 Response to incidents of corruption F/DA 29 10 Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 111 Description Page UNGC CoP Public policy SO5 Public policy F/DA 25-26 1 10 SO6 Contributions to political parties/ politicians/ institutions F/DA 25-26 10 Social: Society Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior F/DA 29 Compliance SO8 Fines / number of non-monetary sanctions F/DA 29 MM Judgments related to health, safety and labour laws F/DA 29 Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety MM 11 Programs and progress relating to material stewardship F/DA 100 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed F/DA 101 1 PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations/ voluntary codes F/DA 29/101 1 Product and service labeling PR3 Product and service information required by procedures F/DA 103-104 8 PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and F/DA 103-104 8 voluntary code 75-78 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction F/DA 76 Marketing communications PR6 Adherence to codes on marketing communications F/DA 78 PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations F/DA 78 Customer privacy PR8 Complaints on breaches of customer privacy F/DA 29 1 Compliance PR9 Fines for non-compliance F/DA 29 Independent Assurance Statement 105-106 KEY AR: Annual Report F/DA: Fully Reported/ Direct Answer UNGCCoP: United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 112 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited GLOSSARY Abbreviation/Terms Explanation A AA : Aﬃrmative Action ABP : Annual Business Plan AIDS Acquired Immune Deﬁciency Syndrome AHSS : Advanced high strength steels Apprentices : Persons who have undergone a 3 year technical training course in speciﬁc skills or trades e.g. ﬁtter, electrician, machinist etc. at institutes after passing high school. Ash : Impurities consisting of silica, iron, alumina, and other incombustible matter that are contained in coal. Ash increases the weight of coal, adds to the cost of handling. Ash content is measured as a percent by weight of coal on an as received or as dry (moisture-free) basis. B BM : Benchmark in India BO&S : Business Objectives & Strategies Brown-field : expansion within existing manufacturing plant area. Expansion Capacity BF : Blast Furnace BSE : Bombay Stock Exchange BF-BOF : Blast Furnace Basic Oxygen Furnace (Steel Making) C CAPL : Continuous annealing and processing line CC : Clean Coal CCPM : Critical Chain Project Management CDQ : Coke Dry Quenching CHRO : Chief Human Resources Oﬃcer Clean Coal : Final product after beneﬁciation of Raw Coal. Cluster training : Training imparted to employees so that can acquire skills to perform a group / cluster of jobs Co. : Company CO2 : Carbon dioxide Coke : A hard lumpy form of coal after heating at very high temperature to release moisture and volatile matter Coking Coal : A type of coal used for making Coke CP&IR : Corporate Planning & Industrial Research CQA : Corporate Quality Assurance CRM : Cold Rolling Mill CS : Challenging Strategies CSD : Customer Service Department CSI : Coke, Sinter & Iron CSI : Customer Satisfaction Index CSR : Corporate Social Responsibility CSS : Corporate Sustainability Services CST : Customer Service Team CVM : Customer Value Management Captive reserves : Tata Steel's own raw materials mines (both Iron Ore and Coal) CGL : Continuous Galvanizing Line Chosen segments : Intended Market Segment (Automotive, Re-bar etc.) Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 113 C Coal Beneficiation : Process of Cleaning the raw coal coming from mother earth and making ready for next process. CVR : Customer Visit Report D DAP : Deming Application Prize DM : Daily Management DTQMP : Description of TQM Practices DGP : Deming Grand Prize E E&P : Engineering and Projects EBIDTA : Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization EPA : External Processing Agent eQ Index : Trademark of AC Nielsen (independent survey agency) Measurement index : Corporate General DTQMP 2012 EVA : Economic Value Addition EVI : Early vendor involvement EHI : Employee Happiness Index EIC : Executive In Charge ERP : Enterprise Resource Planning ESI : Employee Satisfaction Index F Fe : Iron Fig. : Figure FP : Flat Products FY or fy : Financial Year (Starts with 1st April of one year and ends with 31st March of next year) G GHG emission : Green House Gas emission GI : Galvanized (Zinc Coated Steel Sheets) GM : General Manager GMR : Global Mineral Resources Green Field : New Expansion Projects in locations where there was no industry earlier. H High End Product : High tensile strength, high surface quality skin panel, high ductility re-bars etc. HR : Human Resources HDI : Human Development Index -Is a composite index that measures a country’s, district /province or village level average achievements in three basic aspects of human development HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus High Tensile : Tensile Strength greater than 500 MPa HM : Hot Metal Highly skilled : Highly skilled work means work which calls for a degree of perfection and full competence in performance of certain task, acquired through extensive technical or professional training or practical work experience for long years and also required of a worker to assume full responsibility for the judgment or decision HRC : Hot Rolled Coil 114 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited I IF : Interstitial Free IF-HS : Interstitial Free High Strength Steel IFRF : ISKON Food relief foundation IMR : Infant Mortality Rate: No. of infant deaths within 1 year of age for 1000 live births ILO : International Labour Organization IR : Industrial Relations J Jharia : Coal Mine – under RM Division JWQC : Joint Works Quality Council Jigging Process : Process of Separating iron ore ﬁnes by density diﬀerentiation. K KM : Knowledge Management KPI : Key Performance Indicator. KPI and KPM are used in the same context KPM : Key Performance Measure, KPM and KPI are used in the same context KPO : Kalinganagar Orissa Project KT : 1000 Tonne KVHS : Kar Vijay Har Shikhar one Hindi word and its meaning is conquering all peaks kg/tcs Kg/ : tonne crude steel KPI : Key Performance Indicators KRA : Key Resulting Areas L LD : Linz Donawitz LD#1, LD#2, LD#3 : Name of Steel Making Facility LD3 & TSCR : LD3 and Thin Slab Casting & Rolling LP : Long Products L&L : Listening and Learning LTIFR : Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate. Any injury at work site that makes a person to remain away from duty for more than 48 hours is counted as loss time case. LTP : Long Term Plan M M&S : Marketing and Sales Manning Staﬃng or providing manpower as per requirement. MASS : Manthan ab Shop Floor Se a copy right process in Knowledge Management to horizontally deploy the organizational knowledge through involvement of shop ﬂoor employees. MD : Managing Director MOU : Memorandum of Understanding MT, mt : Million Tons mtpa or MTPA : Metric Ton Per Annum MM : Merchant Mill Mm : Millimeters MoEF : Ministry of Environment & Forest MW : Mega Watt Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 115 N NBM : New Bar Mill NPD : New Product development NIT : National Institute of Technology O OE / QEM : Original Equipment Manufacturer OHI : Occupational Health Index OMQ : Ore Mines and Quarries, a group of captive iron ore mines of Tata Steel. P PAG : Product Application Group PPP : Public Private Partnership Profit Centre : Autonomous Division of Tata Steel with independent Corp. Functions and department. They have their own Profit & Loss Account. PDCA : Plan-Do-Check-Act PM : Policy Management PSRM : Process Safety & Risk managementA systematic approach to address the hazard having potential to create multiple fatality and sever PSTA : Problem Solving & Task Achieving Q QM : Quality Management QA : Quality Assurance R RMHS : Raw Materials Handling System RMSG : Raw Materials Strategy Group ROIC : Return on Invested Capital RRT : Reliable Replenishment Time R&D : Research & Development Ref. : Reference RM or RMD : Raw Materials, a division of Tata Steel which supplies coal and iron ore to Jamshedpur works for steel making. RWH : Regional Warehouse RVM : Retail Value Management S SGA : Small Group Activity Skilled : Skilled work is one which involves skill or competence acquired through experience on the job or through training as an apprentice in a technical or vocational institute and performance which calls for initiative and judgment SOP : Standard Operating Procedure SS : Shared Services SVM : Supplier Value Management Slabs : Input for Hot Rolling, Steel Casted into a material stock of length 6 11 meter, width 9001550 mm, and thickness 210 mm SME : Small & Medium Enterprises SNTI : Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute SS : Shared Services 116 Excellence for Common Good Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Tata Steel Limited T TBEM : Tata Business Excellence Model Tics, tics : Tons Crude Steel TG : Technology Group TMDC : Tata Management Development Center TOC : Theory of Constraints TQM : Total Quality Management TRT : Top Gas Recovery Turbine TSCR : Thin Slab Casting and Rolling TSL : Tata Steel Limited Toss : tonnes of saleable steel TOP : Total Operating Performance Tph : tonne per hour TPM : Total Productive Maintenance TQM : Total Quality Management U Ultimate tensile : The maximum load which a material can withstand before necking in while stretching strength UOM or UoM : Unit of measurement : Up skilling Skill training imparted to employees so that they can perform jobs that need skills of one level higher than their current job. V VIU : (Value in use) Concept to decide on the clean coal ash based on crude steel cost model. Clean coal is taken for the year, which gives minimum steel cost. VMI : Vendor Managed Inventory VP : Vice President VOC : Voice of Customer W West Bokaro Coal : under RM Division Mine WHR : Waste Heat Recovery WRM : Wire Rod Mill WSS : Works Saleable Steel Y Yield : Output of process divided by Input to the process. Yr : Year Yrs : Years YS : Yield Strength (measure of mechanical properties) OTHERS 4Q : 4 Quadrant 9.7 mtpa : Brown-field expansion project at Jamshedpur Works for increasing capacity by 2.9mtpa (from 6.8 mtpa) Tata Steel Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 Excellence for Common Good 117 KEY AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Customer/Brands/Reach Industry/Institutional Bodies Government of India Toyota’s Regional Contribution World’s Most Ethical Companies 2012 Best Integrated Steel Plant in India Award 2012 (Ethisphere Institute USA) for two consecutive years PM’s Consumer Superbrand for “TATA Sustainability Prize CII 2011 Trophy in 2008-09 and Certificate of TISCON” Global Top10 “Most Admired Company” Excellence in 2009-10 (awarded in Best Supplier Award ESAB in FORTUNE 500 (The first-ever Indian 2011-12) company) Prime Minister’s Shram Awards conferred on 25 employees (individuals) Highest number of patents granted Media / Society for the period of FY07 to FY11 Business Leadership Award in the ‘Metal Category’ NDTV Profit 2011 Business in the category of Indian owned Leadership Awards Private Companies by the Dept. ‘Best Sports Advertisement’ and ‘Best Corporate Involvement in Sports’ NDTV’s of Controller General of Patents ‘Marks for Sports’ campaign 2012 Designs and Trademark in 2011
