Contents 002 Corporate Motto / Management Rationale 003 Top Management Message 005 Kyocera Group Management Roots 007 Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy 011 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education 015 Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 024 Corporate Governance 026 Risk Management and Compliance 032 Supply Chain Management 035 Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels 041 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 049 Cultivating Human Assets 052 Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Social Contribution Activities 061 Assistance with Academic Advancement and Research 064 Support for Culture and the Arts 066 International Exchange and Collaboration 069 Local Community Activities Environmental Activities 078 Kyocera Group Environmental Management 084 Green Management 096 Green Products 116 Green Factories 135 Green Communication 141 Editorial Policy 142 ISO9001 Certification Status 143 ISO14001 Certification Status 145 OHSAS 18001 Certification Status 146 GRI and ISO26000 Comparison Tables 1 Corporate Corporate Motto Motto / Management / Management RationaleRationale Corporate Corporate Motto Motto / Management Rationale Corporate Motto“Respect the Divine and Love People” “Respect the Divine and Love People” Management Rationale Management Rationale To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind. To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind. Management Philosophy Management Philosophy To coexist harmoniously with our society, our global community and nature. Harmonious coexistence is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we work to create a world of prosperity and harmony. To coexist harmoniously with our society, our global community and nature. Harmonious coexistence is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we work to create a world of prosperity and harmony. Methods of Management 1. To earn of Methods fairManagement profit through harmonious business practices that result in products that satisfy our customers — providing quality products at lower prices, realized through ongoing R&D and sincere service. 1. To earn fair profit through harmonious business practices that result in products that satisfy our customers — 2. To manage our company as if we were a family, hearts bound together devoid of antagonism, helping each providing quality products at lower prices, realized through ongoing R&D and sincere service. other with a mutual sense of gratitude and appreciation. 2. To manage our company as if we were a family, hearts bound together devoid of antagonism, helping each other with a mutual sense of gratitude and appreciation. The human race is facing a turning-point in history. In politics, business and other areas of society, the old order no longer seems to function well. A new framework and way of The human race is facing a turning-point in history. In politics, business and other areas thinking are being sought. of society, the old order no longer seems to function well. A new framework and way of thinking are being sought. This new way of thinking is a philosophy that enables all living things on earth to survive and thrive — the spirit of “Living Together.” This new way of thinking is a philosophy that enables all living things on earth to survive and thrive — the spirit of “Living Together.” Most important for a business enterprise fulfilling its public responsibility is building mutually supportive relationships in order for society — including businesses — to Most important for a business enterprise fulfilling its public responsibility is building continue their existence. It is vital that business management is based on the spirit of mutually supportive relationships in order for society — including businesses — to Living Together for mutual development to occur. continue their existence. It is vital that business management is based on the spirit of Living Together for mutual development to occur. Kyocera was founded in 1959 as a specialized maker of fine ceramic components. Building on this technology, we committed to multilateral development and grew into a Kyocera was founded in 1959 as a specialized maker of fine ceramic components. comprehensive manufacturer involved in all stages of production, right up to finished Building on this technology, we committed to multilateral development and grew into a equipment. Kyocera's growth has not simply been a matter of creating new value comprehensive manufacturer involved in all stages of production, right up to finished through technology and goods. It has also been about following the same path as equipment. Kyocera's growth has not simply been a matter of creating new value society and people, based on the bonds of human minds. Our approach to Living through technology and goods. It has also been about following the same path as Together will remain unchanged. society and people, based on the bonds of human minds. Our approach to Living Together will remain unchanged. Kyocera seeks to join the hearts and minds of people, and to share the joys of life. Based on the spirit of Living Together, we strive to create a prosperous future for all. Kyocera seeks to join the hearts and minds of people, and to share the joys of life. Based on the spirit of Living Together, we strive to create a prosperous future for all. 2 Top Management Message Top Management Message Correct application of the concept, “Do what is right as a human being” At the heart of Kyocera Group management is the corporate philosophy known as the Kyocera Philosophy, which emphasizes the importance of fair business based on ethical, moral and social standards that people should uphold throughout life. Ultimately, it comes down to one criterion for making decisions: “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” To realize our corporate philosophy, Kyocera developed a unique management control method known as the Amoeba Management System. With this system in place, Kyocera promotes a management method in which all employees can participate. Furthermore, Kyocera believes in highly transparent corporate activity with timely disclosure of information to customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business associates, and all other stakeholders. For the Kyocera Group, CSR is tantamount to the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy — the heart of Kyocera Group management. We believe practice of the Kyocera Philosophy builds mutual trust with stakeholders, and contributes to sustainable growth for the Kyocera Group, as well as the overall development of society. We will continue to engage in corporate management through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Addressing social issues through business operations The Kyocera Group is primarily engaging in business development in two areas that we see as growing markets. One is the information and communications market. This market is expected to see increased global use of smartphones and higher-speed networks. The other market is the environment and energy market, which is being spurred by a rising awareness of global environmental protection. The information and communications market not only requires quality and safety, but user-friendliness is also essential for product development. Products must be accessible and satisfactory to people of all ages, regardless of gender or disability. For example, the Kyocera Group has developed a smartphone with a unique feature that uses sound and vibrations to transmit the voice of the other person through the display screen. This enables users to hear easily in train stations and other noisy environments. Mobile handsets designed specifically for the needs of children and elderly people are also being commercialized. The Kyocera Group is committed to meeting the needs of society and developing products that satisfy a wide range of customers. In the environment and energy market, we are applying our strengths in energy creation technologies — including solar power and solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) — as well as wireless communication technology. Based on these strengths, we have begun marketing original Kyocera Home Energy Management Systems (HEMS) which link solar modules, SOFCs and storage batteries with the commercial power grid to further raise the efficiency of energy management. Meanwhile, utility-scale mega-solar power plants require solar modules featuring high quality and long-term reliability. By providing such modules and by advancing its solar power generation business in diverse ways, Kyocera is further promoting the spread of renewable energy use. The Kyocera Group will continue to address social issues 3 through business, and thereby contribute to development of a sustainable society. The information and communications market not only requires quality and safety, but user-friendliness is also essential for product development. Products must be accessible and satisfactory to people of all ages, regardless of gender or disability. For example, the Kyocera Group has developed a smartphone with a unique feature that uses sound and vibrations to transmit the voice of the other person through the display screen. This enables users to hear easily in train stations and other noisy environments. Mobile handsets designed specifically for the needs of children and elderly people are also being commercialized. The Kyocera Group is committed to meeting the needs of society and developing products that satisfy a wide range of customers. In the environment and energy market, we are applying our strengths in energy creation technologies — including solar power and solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) — as well as wireless communication technology. Based on these strengths, we have begun marketing original Kyocera Home Energy Management Systems (HEMS) which link solar modules, SOFCs and storage batteries with the commercial power grid to further raise the efficiency of energy management. Meanwhile, utility-scale mega-solar power plants require solar modules featuring high quality and long-term reliability. By providing such modules and by advancing its solar power generation business in diverse ways, Kyocera is further promoting the spread of renewable energy use. The Kyocera Group will continue to address social issues through business, and thereby contribute to development of a sustainable society. Accelerating the global development of our business The Kyocera Group must further strengthen its management foundation and accelerate the global development of its business. These are necessary goals in order to compete globally and maintain high growth. Therefore, we continue to work on further cost reduction as well as the streamlining and capacity expansion of existing production bases. At the same time, we are promoting measures such as the establishment of new production bases in Vietnam and elsewhere, and reexamining ways of procuring materials. Moreover, the Kyocera Group strives to undertake business activities rooted deeply in local communities. In addition to abiding by the laws and regulations of individual countries, the Kyocera Group places great importance on respecting the diversity of local practices and cultures. The Kyocera Group participates in the United Nations Global Compact, a global platform for supporting fundamental principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We remain dedicated to earning yet greater trust from our stakeholders. Your understanding of the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities is greatly appreciated, and we welcome your opinions. 4 Kyocera Group Management Roots Kyocera Group Management Roots Company members around the time of foundation The origin of Kyocera Group management is the Kyocera Philosophy, a philosophy for work and life based on the real-life experiences and empirical rules of Kazuo Inamori, founder and chairman emeritus of Kyocera Corporation. With “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its most essential criterion, the Kyocera Philosophy expounds the significance of commitment to fair management and operation in compliance with the most fundamental human ethics, moral values and social norms. | What is the Kyocera Philosophy? | Origin of the Kyocera Philosophy | Basic Ideas of the Kyocera Philosophy | What is the Kyocera Philosophy? The Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group is: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” The “material and intellectual growth” that we aim for includes the pursuit of economic stability, and entails the pursuit of mental riches as a human being, in the shape of life with purpose and job satisfaction through self-fulfillment in the workplace. Additionally, the steady refinement of our technology allows us to provide the world with wonderful products one after another, and thereby contribute to the advancement of science and technology. At the same time, by steadily raising profits as a company we aim to contribute to the improvement of common welfare, through increased tax payments and other means. The guidelines for action in pursuing the Management Rationale are set out in the Kyocera Philosophy. As a state of mind for leading wonderful lives, we are striving day by day to practice the Kyocera Philosophy. Origin of the Kyocera Philosophy In 1959, with the generous support of the people around them, company founder Kazuo Inamori and seven other colleagues established Kyoto Ceramic Co., Ltd. (now Kyocera Corporation). Starting with a meager amount of capital, the company had no imposing office building or elaborate machinery in the beginning. All it had were fellow colleagues who shared the joys and sorrows and formed a close bond as members of one big family. Inamori then decided to base the management of the company on this bond of human minds. This is because he believed that while human minds are extremely changeable, they are also most dependable once the minds are bonded by strong trust. Later, Inamori encountered many difficulties in managing Kyocera, but he overcame them each time believing in the strong bond of human minds. Kyocera Philosophy was thus born as he debated his life and work. Basic Ideas of the Kyocera Philosophy 5 The Kyocera Group believes that decisions should always be made through reason and based on the idea of believed that while human minds are extremely changeable, they are also most dependable once the minds are bonded by strong trust. Later, Inamori encountered many difficulties in managing Kyocera, but he overcame them each time believing in the strong bond of human minds. Kyocera Philosophy was thus born as he debated his life and work. Basic Ideas of the Kyocera Philosophy The Kyocera Group believes that decisions should always be made through reason and based on the idea of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as the basic criteria to achieve compliance with public morals. The criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” is based on the fundamental ethical and moral values of the natural goodness of human beings: “Don’t be greedy,” “Don’t cheat people,” “Don’t lie,” and “Be honest” are teachings we all received from our parents as a child and represent the most basic principles of humankind. We believe that when making decisions and taking action in daily life, we should resort to the criterion of “What is universally right as a human being” and not the criterion of “What best suits our own convenience.” Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook A copy of the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook is distributed to each employee at Kyocera. Employees use various opportunities to apply the principles in the Pocketbook, and to independently learn and practice the Kyocera Philosophy. In April 2011, we published the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II, which summarizes additional important points of the Philosophy. The updated Pocketbook is being progressively translated into multiple languages to aid penetration of the Kyocera Philosophy in bases overseas. Kyocera Founder Kazuo Inamori “Philosophy Keywords” 6 Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy For the Kyocera Group to realize the management rationale, the understanding correct For Kyocera Groupand application to realize of the Kyocera the management rationale, Philosophy correct are essential. understanding andThis applies of application Amoeba thetoKyocera also Management; Philosophy areKyocera essential. Management This appliesand alsoAccounting to Amoeba Principles; The Management; Kyocera Twelve Management Principles; and Accounting The Spirit of Manufacturing; Principles; and Kyocera The Twelve Employee’s Management Action Guideline. Principles; The Spirit of All are based onand Manufacturing; theKyocera KyoceraEmployee’s Philosophy.Action Guideline. All are based on the Kyocera Philosophy. Correct understanding and application are essential for future Correctgrowth and development, understanding to sustain and application the dreams are essential forof future growthand employees, andfordevelopment, the Kyocera to Group to continue sustain the dreams as aof corporate group employees, and forthatthe contributes Kyocera Group to continue asofa to the development society. The corporate Kyocera group Group provides that contributes to thethese booklets of development to employees, society. Theand endeavors Kyocera raise understanding Grouptoprovides these booklets andto permeation of the principles contained employees, and endeavors to raise understanding and therein. permeation of the principles contained therein. | Amoeba Management | Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles | The Twelve Kyocera Management |Principles | Kyocera Spirit Amoeba Management of Manufacturing | Kyocera Management | Kyocera Employee's and Accounting Action Guideline Principles | | The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles | Kyocera Spirit of Manufacturing | Kyocera Employee's Action Guideline | Amoeba Management Amoeba Management The Kyocera Group uses its own business administration method called the Amoeba Management System, which The is specifically Group developed Kyocera uses its own realize the to business corporate philosophy administration of the the method called Kyocera Amoeba Group. Under thisSystem, system, the Management company which organization is specifically is dividedtointo developed small realize thegroups called corporate amoebas,ofwhich philosophy operateGroup. the Kyocera on a selfsupporting basis. the Under this system, We believe that employees’ enhanced sense of participation in management and motivation company organization is divided into small groups called amoebas, which operate on a selfsupporting basis. We engendered by Amoeba Management constitutesenhanced believe that employees’ the sourcesenseof theofKyocera Group’s participation strength. Theand in management small group system motivation also serves engendered to by Amoeba clarify the responsibilities Management constitutes the of each source member of the of the group, Kyocera secure Group’s transparency strength. The small groupdetail, in every systemand enable also a to serves thorough clarify thecheck of efficiency. responsibilities of each member of the group, secure transparency in every detail, and enable a thorough check of efficiency. The Objectives of Amoeba Management The Objectives of Amoeba Management 1. Establish a market-oriented divisional accounting system 2. Establish 1. Foster personnel with a sense a market-oriented of management divisional accounting system 2. Realizepersonnel 3. Foster management with by all a sense of management 3. Realize management by all Kyocera Founder Kazuo Inamori “About Amoeba Management” Kyocera Founder Kazuo Inamori “About Amoeba Management” Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Accounting is integral to the management of a company as it plays the key role as the compass that leads a company to isthe Accounting destination. integral to the When handling management a companymatters, ofaccounting it isthe as it plays key roletoastrace important them backthat the compass to their leads a essence and company take to the appropriate destination. measures When handling according accounting to our primaryit criterion matters, is importantof “What is the to trace right them thing back to do as a to their human being?” essence and take Kyocera considers appropriate the ideal measures state ofto according accounting our primary be one inofwhich “Whatthe to criterion facts is the right shown arething do they to as as a are, and recognizes the importance of fair and transparent management. human being?” Kyocera considers the ideal state of accounting to be one in which the facts are shown as they are, and recognizes the importance of fair and transparent management. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles is a set of practical accounting principles designed to give a correct understanding Management of Kyocera and realities ofPrinciples theAccounting the company is a and the set of directions practical to be taken. accounting In the designed Kyocera Group, principles to giveeach a employee correct is encouraged understanding to understand of the realities of the and thewith become familiar andcompany the Kyocera directions Management to be taken. and Accounting In the Kyocera Group, each Principles, employee isand to act in accordance encouraged to understand withand these principles. become believe Wewith familiar this becomes the Kyocera a sound and foundation Management not only Accounting for fair accounting Principles, and to act activities, but alsowith in accordance for the these long-term development principles. We believe company.a sound foundation not only the becomes ofthis for fair accounting activities, but also for the long-term development of the company. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Pocketbook Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Pocketbook 7 Introduction: Adhere to Fundamental Rules and Principles Kyocera recognizes theand and Management Accounting Principles is a set ofmanagement. practical accounting principles designed to give a correct understanding of the realities of the company and the directions to be taken. In the Kyocera Group, each Kyocera Management employee is encouraged and understandPrinciples toAccounting and become is afamiliar with the accounting set of practical principles designed Kyocera Management to give a and Accounting correct understanding of the realities of the company and the Principles, and to act in accordance with these principles. We believe this becomes a sound foundation not each directions to be taken. In the Kyocera Group, only employee is encouraged for fair accounting to understand activities, but also forand become familiar the long-term with theofKyocera development Management and Accounting the company. Principles, and to act in accordance with these principles. We believe this becomes a sound foundation not only for fair accounting activities, but also for the long-term development of the company. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Pocketbook Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Pocketbook Introduction: Adhere to Fundamental Rules and Principles I. The I. Principle of The Principle of One-to-One One-to-One Correspondence Correspondence Introduction: II. II. The Principle of Double-Checking The Principle Adhere of to Fundamental Rules and Principles Double-Checking III. The III. The Principle Principle of of Perfectionism Perfectionism IV. IV. The Principle of The Principle of Muscular Muscular Management Management V. V. The Principle of The Principle of Profitability Profitability Improvement Improvement VI. The Principle VI. The Principle of Cash-Basis Management of Cash-Basis Management VII.The Principle VII.The Principle of of Transparent Transparent Management Management Kyocera Founder Kyocera Founder Kazuo Inamori “About Kazuo Inamori “About Accounting Accounting Principles” Principles” The Twelve The Twelve Kyocera Kyocera Management Management Principles Principles The The Twelve Management Principles Kyocera Management Twelve Kyocera Principles areare fundamental management rules. fundamental management rules. InIn other other words, words, they they do do not not change, regardless of any changes occurring in the business environment or change, regardless of any changes occurring in the business environment or conditions. They are the starting conditions. They are the starting point point of of universal universal management, management, and represent the and represent the tenets tenets ofof our our management. management. 1. Clearly 1. Clearly statestate the purpose and the purpose and mission mission of of your your business. business. 2. Set specific 2. Set specific goals. goals. 3. Keep 3. Keep a passionate desire a passionate desire in in your your hearts. hearts. 4. Strive 4. harder than Strive harder than anyone anyone else.else. 5. Maximize 5. Maximize revenues revenues and and minimize minimize expenses. expenses. 6. Pricing is management. 6. Pricing is management. 7. Success 7. Success is is determined determined by by willpower. willpower. 8. Possess a fighting 8. Possess a fighting spirit. spirit. 9. 9. Face challenge with every challenge Face every with courage. courage. 10.Always be 10.Always be creative creative in in your your work. work. 11.Be kind and 11.Be kind and sincere. sincere. 12.Always be 12.Always be cheerful cheerful and and positive. positive. Kyocera Spirit Kyocera Spirit of of Manufacturing Manufacturing Since its Since foundation, Kyocera its foundation, Kyocera has has provided provided thethe world world with with diverse diverse products. products. Understanding Understanding Kyocera’s Kyocera’s attitude attitude toward manufacturing begins with the recognition that the principles, toward manufacturing begins with the recognition that the principles, “Do what is right as a human being,” “Do what is right as a human being,” “Making sharp “Making products” and sharp products” “Listening to and “Listening what the to what product has the product to say” say” are has to among crucial are among crucial elements elements in in the the Kyocera Philosophy. This attitude has been inherited by employees involved Kyocera Philosophy. This attitude has been inherited by employees involved in manufacturing on the production in manufacturing on the production floor, floor, and and hashas become become the the driving driving force force behind behind Kyocera’s Kyocera’s development. development. For the For the Kyocera Kyocera Group Group to to sustain sustain development development in the future, in the future, we must ensure we must ensure that our “manufacturing that our “manufacturing spirit” spirit” in in each production production floor each is clearly floor is clearly transmitted transmitted to to the next generation. the next generation. The “Kyocera Spirit The “Kyocera Spirit of of Manufacturing” Manufacturing” summarizes the summarizes the action action principles principles and and action guidelines to action guidelines to be be followed the production on the followed on production floor. floor. Kyocera Kyocera Spirit Spirit of of Manufacturing Manufacturing Pocketbook Pocketbook 1. The 1. The essence essence of of manufacturing manufacturing 2. Aim 2. Aim forfor the ideal in the ideal in manufacturing manufacturing 3. Maintain 3. Maintain strong profit awareness strong profit awareness 8 4. Adhere to 4. Adhere to the Workfloor Principle the Workfloor Principle 5. Aim 5. Aim forfor the ideal state the ideal state of of production production facilities facilities “Making Kyocera Philosophy. This attitude has been inherited by employees involved in manufacturing Kyocera Philosophy. This attitude has been inherited by employees involved in manufacturing on the production on the production floor, and floor, and has has become become the the driving driving force force behind behind Kyocera’s Kyocera’s development. development. For For the the Kyocera Kyocera GroupGroup to to sustain sustain development development in the future, in the future, we must ensure we must ensure that our “manufacturing that our “manufacturing spirit” spirit” in in each production each floor is is clearly production floor transmitted to to the clearly transmitted next generation. generation. The the next “Kyocera Spirit The “Kyocera Spirit of of Manufacturing” Manufacturing” summarizes summarizes the the action action principles principles and and action guidelines to action guidelines to be be followed the production on the followed on production floor. floor. Kyocera Spirit Kyocera Spirit ofof Manufacturing Manufacturing Pocketbook Pocketbook 1. The 1. The essence essence of of manufacturing manufacturing 2. Aim for the ideal 2. Aim for the ideal in in manufacturing manufacturing 3. Maintain 3. Maintain strong strong profit profit awareness awareness 4. Adhere to 4. Adhere to the Workfloor Principle the Workfloor Principle 5. Aim 5. Aim for for the ideal state the ideal state ofof production production facilities facilities 6. Respect laws and 6. Respect laws and rules rules 7. 7. Refine Refine spirit spirit and and skills skills 8. The 8. The spirit spirit ofof manufacturing manufacturing Kyocera Employee's Action Guideline To ensure that the Kyocera Philosophy is reflected in diverse aspects of corporate activity, we have established the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline, which is a fundamental code of conduct for the day-to-day business activities of Kyocera Group employees. In the midst of rapid globalization, sensible action and attitudes firmly based on a universal philosophy and transparent rules are keenly required of enterprises and businesspeople. In the Kyocera Group, “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” is always the basis of decision-making. All matters are decided in accordance with this fundamental principle. The Kyocera Group respects the nature of every individual, complies with legal requirements and is keenly aware of social responsibilities. All corporate activities are undertaken with the aim of achieving “coexistence with society, the world and nature.” Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline Pocketbook 1. Basic Attitude 2. Working Attitude 3. Spirited and Motivating Workplace 4. Community Activities 5. Relationship with Clients and External Organizations 6. Legal Compliance 7. Handling of Information 8. Behavior in Foreign Countries 9. Global Environmental Protection Activities Excerpts from the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline Pocketbook Respect for Human Rights Kyocera Group employees maintain the fundamental stance of respect for basic human rights. This stance is at the heart of every activity, regardless of circumstances. All people must be esteemed as irreplaceable individuals. Discrimination against people on the basis of race, creed, gender, or for other unwarranted reasons is not tolerated. Since its early days, Kyocera has maintained fairness, justice and good faith as the fundamental criteria for decision-making in all actions. Therefore, we strive for better human relations with an altruistic mind and consideration toward all other people, based on mutual9 respect for human rights. Compliance with Laws 5. Relationship with Clients and External Organizations 6. Legal Compliance 7. Handling of Information 8. Behavior in Foreign Countries 9. Global Environmental Protection Activities Excerpts from the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline Pocketbook Respect for Human Rights Kyocera Group employees maintain the fundamental stance of respect for basic human rights. This stance is at the heart of every activity, regardless of circumstances. All people must be esteemed as irreplaceable individuals. Discrimination against people on the basis of race, creed, gender, or for other unwarranted reasons is not tolerated. Since its early days, Kyocera has maintained fairness, justice and good faith as the fundamental criteria for decision-making in all actions. Therefore, we strive for better human relations with an altruistic mind and consideration toward all other people, based on mutual respect for human rights. Compliance with Laws Kyocera abides by legal requirements, and engages in corporate activities with a firm ethical perspective based on the Kyocera Philosophy. “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” is the criterion for making decisions. This wholesome ethical viewpoint is based on the law and other social norms. Employees must never deliberately engage in or contribute to wrongful deeds for any reason, in business matters or otherwise. Furthermore, to avoid accidental or unknowing violation of the law, we endeavor day by day to acquire knowledge of the laws relating to business affairs and to daily life. We strive to act with healthy social common sense and a sense of justice. Corporate Social Responsibility Through its business activities, Kyocera strives not only to provide a stable life to employees, but also to fulfill its social responsibilities by pursuing adequate profits and returning them to society via tax payments and dividends to shareholders. At the same time, the company contributes to society through a variety of activities, including the promotion of environmental protection activities and the provision of support to social and cultural activities. We ask all employees to engage diligently in the company’s business with a full awareness that they are part of Kyocera, a company committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities, and to combine their active efforts to achieve the lofty goal of contributing to society by increasing profits and developing the company. Awareness as an Employee A company is a collective entity made up of the consciousness of all employees who work there. Each employee holds certain thoughts as he or she undertakes their work. The way of thinking and attitudes of all employees combine to become the corporate culture and climate, ultimately crystallizing in corporate performance. Employees are asked to ascertain clearly the direction in which the company is heading, and the company goals. Based on that awareness, employees should attain a correct understanding of their role. Then, devote themselves on a daily basis to attaining a sense of responsibility, good faith, diligence, justice, fairness and other aspects of wonderful human nature, as explained in the Kyocera Philosophy. As individual employees grow, Kyocera, the sum total of individual growth, remains a company that is increasingly trusted and respected by society and customers. 10 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Advancing Since foundation of the Kyocera company, Kyocera Philosophy has practiced management Education based on the Kyocera Philosophy. The Kyocera Philosophy is the driving force behind Kyocera’s development and thus it is essential that the Philosophy continues Since foundation of thetocompany, be passedKyoceraon correctly to employees. has practiced management based on the Kyocera Philosophy. The Kyocera Philosophy is the driving force behind Kyocera’s development and thus it is essential that the Topics Philosophy continues to be passed FY2013 onGoals correctly to employees. FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Expand training on the Conducted training based Establish an All-Company Topics KyoceraFY2013 PhilosophyGoals on the FY2013 Kyocera Results Philosophy FY2014 Philosophy Goals to Committee Pocketbook Expand trainingII to onall the Pocketbook Conducted training II for allbased heighten awareness Establish an All-Company and employees Kyocera Philosophy employees, including on the Kyocera Philosophy partpermeation of the Philosophy Committee to Kyocera Present lectures Pocketbook (20 in II to all timers Pocketbook II for all Philosophy heighten awareness and total) on “The Spirit of employees Presented 13 employees, lecturespartincluding on Conduct Philosophy permeation of the Kyocera Manufacturing” Present lectures/ (20 Conduct in “The timers Spirit of education Philosophy adapted for training using total) on “The Spiritthe Kyocera of Manufacturing” Presented at various 13 lectures on circumstances Conduct Philosophy in individual Spirit of Manufacturing Manufacturing” / Conduct bases “The Spirit of divisions and education Groupfor adapted Pocketbook training using the Kyocera Conducted Philosophy Manufacturing” at various companies circumstances in individual Advancing Implement Spirit education of Manufacturing education at the Kyocera bases Enhance and divisions training Groupprograms Kyocera Pocketbook employees programs for Display Corp. Conducted Group Philosophy aimed at companies application of the Philosophy Advancing Implement educationGroup new to the Kyocera Prepared training education at the Kyocera materials Philosophy Enhance training programs Education Kyocera Prepare training programs for employees material in Thai and other Display Corp. Group Conduct aimed at ongoing application training of the Philosophy archives for overseas languages, and conducted relating to the Kyocera new to the Kyocera Group Prepared training materials Philosophy Education Philosophy Pocketbook training training material Prepare Thai and training Philosophy in other for midConduct ongoing trainingII Implement archives forfresh overseastraining on level and general languages, and conducted Continue presenting relating to the Kyocera Amoeba training Management employees training for midPhilosophy lectures on Pocketbook “The Spirit ofII Philosophy Implement fresh training on Implemented level and general training on Manufacturing” Continue presenting Amoeba Management Amoeba employees Management for lectures on “The Spirit of senior management, Implemented training midon Manufacturing” level employees Amoeba Management for and generalmanagement, senior employees midlevel employees and | Philosophy Education Rationale | Philosophy Education System general | Enhance Philosophy Education Programs | employees Philosophy | Philosophy Education Education Rationale Rationale | Philosophy Education System | Enhance Philosophy Education Programs | ThePhilosophy Kyocera Group cultivates highly Education Rationale capable human resources who acquire the Kyocera Philosophy and contribute to the advancement and development of humankind and society, while pursuing the global development of Kyocera The Kyocera Group and the cultivates happiness highly capableofhuman all employees resources through who acquireearnesttheefforts and aPhilosophy focus on creativity. Kyocera and contribute to the advancement and development of humankind and society, while pursuing the global development of Kyocera and the happiness of all employees through earnest efforts and a focus on creativity. Philosophy Education System To Philosophy achieve permeation of the Kyocera Education System Philosophy among all employees in the Kyocera Group, education bases are being established in the U.S.A., Europe, Asia-Pacific region and China. Periodic and systematic Philosophy To achieveispermeation education being conducted for employees of the Kyocera Philosophy amongfrom at all levels, top management all employees in the Kyocera Group,In to part-timers. FY2013,bases education are being established in the U.S.A., Europe, Asia-Pacific region and China. Periodic and systematic in employees* attended courses 60,831 times in Japan; and 26,143 times outside Japan. Additionally, FY2014 Philosophy we are establishing an All-Company Philosophy Committee to heighten awareness education is being conducted for employees at all levels, from top management to part-timers. In FY2013, and permeation of the Kyocera employees* attendedthroughout Philosophy the Kyocera courses 60,831 Japan;Meanwhile, times inGroup. and 26,143Philosophy times outside Japan.will education be adapted Additionally, in to suit FY2014 circumstances in individual divisions and Group companies. we are establishing an All-Company Philosophy Committee to heighten awareness and permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy * Results refer throughout to training conductedthe by Kyocera the Kyocera Group. Meanwhile, Division. Philosophy education will be adapted to suit Training circumstances in individual divisions and Group companies. * Results refer to training conducted by the Kyocera Training Division. Enhance Philosophy Education Programs Conduct Enhance training on the Kyocera Philosophy Education Philosophy Programs Pocketbook II Repeated opportunity to study the Kyocera Philosophy 11 is considered Conduct training on the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II Repeated opportunity to study the Kyocera Philosophy is considered we are establishing an All-Company Philosophy Committee to heighten awareness and permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy throughout the Kyocera Group. Meanwhile, Philosophy education will be adapted to suit circumstances in individual divisions and Group companies. * Results refer to training conducted by the Kyocera Training Division. Enhance Philosophy Education Programs Conduct training on the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II Repeated vital opportunity for permeation of to thestudy the Kyocera Philosophy, Philosophy and to is considered enable each employee to acquire knowledge from experience as well as apply it in daily life. vital for permeation of the Philosophy, and to enable each employee Philosophy education is therefore being conducted regularly for all to acquire knowledge from experience as well as apply it in daily life. employees, including part-timers. Philosophy education is therefore being conducted regularly for all employees, including part-timers. In FY2012, training based on the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II (issued in April 2011) commenced for directors and senior In FY2012, training based on the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II management. The goal is to achieve correct understanding and (issued in April 2011) commenced for directors and senior support implementation of the topics in the Pocketbook. To broaden management. The goal is to achieve correct understanding and permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy, in FY2013 training was support implementation of the topics in the Pocketbook. To broaden expanded to all employees, part-timers included. permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy, in FY2013 training was Training session on the Kyocera Philosophy expanded to all employees, part-timers included. Pocketbook II Training session on the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II Lectures on “The Spirit of Manufacturing” Lectures on Lectures Spirit of “The Spirit on “The of Manufacturing” Manufacturing” are being held to ensure: (a) the Spirit of Manufacturing is traditionally handed down at Lectures on “The Spirit of Manufacturing” are being held to ensure: workplaces; and (b) the ideal attitude and spirit of people responsible (a) the Spirit of Manufacturing is traditionally handed down at for production are being passed on correctly to the next generation. workplaces; and (b) the ideal attitude and spirit of people responsible In FY2013, 13 lectures on “The Spirit of Manufacturing” were for production are being passed on correctly to the next generation. presented for managers and people in charge at production In FY2013, 13 lectures on “The Spirit of Manufacturing” were departments in various plants and offices. Spirit of Manufacturing presented for managers and people in charge at production lectures are being continued in FY2014. Meanwhile, the lectures are departments in various plants and offices. Spirit of Manufacturing being edited into video training materials, for study sessions at lectures are being continued in FY2014. Meanwhile, the lectures are individual workplaces. being edited into video training materials, for study sessions at individual workplaces. Lecture on “The Spirit of Manufacturing” Lecture on “The Spirit of Manufacturing” Expansion of Philosophy Education in China Expansion For the Kyoceraof Philosophy Group in China,Education in China training for regular Philosophy employees at all levels is being conducted to support understanding For the Kyocera Group in China, regular Philosophy training for and permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy. Training on “The Twelve employees at all levels is being conducted to support understanding Management Principles” and “Kyocera Management and Accounting and permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy. Training on “The Twelve Principles” — both based on the Kyocera Philosophy — is being Management Principles” and “Kyocera Management and Accounting implemented for senior management and mid-level employees. The Principles” — both based on the Kyocera Philosophy — is being objective is to enable each person to acquire the awareness and implemented for senior management and mid-level employees. The attitude needed as a manager. objective is to enable each person to acquire the awareness and attitude needed as a manager. Additionally, Chinese translations of the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook, Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Additionally, Chinese translations of the Kyocera Philosophy General employee training (China) Pocketbook, and the Morals and Manners Pocketbook have been Pocketbook, Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles distributed to employees. These are being used during reading General employee training (China) Pocketbook, and the Morals and Manners Pocketbook have been sessions at morning meetings for the further permeation of the distributed to employees. These are being used during reading Kyocera Philosophy. sessions at morning meetings for the further permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy. 12 Reading in turn during the morning meeting (China) presented for managers and people in charge at production departments in various plants and offices. Spirit of Manufacturing lectures are being continued in FY2014. Meanwhile, the lectures are being edited into video training materials, for study sessions at individual workplaces. Lecture on “The Spirit of Manufacturing” Expansion of Philosophy Education in China For the Kyocera Group in China, regular Philosophy training for employees at all levels is being conducted to support understanding and permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy. Training on “The Twelve Management Principles” and “Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles” — both based on the Kyocera Philosophy — is being implemented for senior management and mid-level employees. The objective is to enable each person to acquire the awareness and attitude needed as a manager. Additionally, Chinese translations of the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook, Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles General employee training (China) Pocketbook, and the Morals and Manners Pocketbook have been distributed to employees. These are being used during reading sessions at morning meetings for the further permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy. Reading in turn during the morning meeting (China) Kyocera Group Philosophy Essay andon Kyocera calls reviewed, theemployees authors of to submit essays Kyoceraare selected Group Philosophy awarded the Essays. The goal is to deepen understanding and raise awareness Honorary Chairman’s Prize, Chairman’s Prize or President’s Prize. of the need for implementation Furthermore, prizewinners give of the Kyocera Philosophy, presentations by linking on their essays, and it to personal experience. Essays submitted by employees outstanding essays are compiled into a collection which is shared are reviewed, with other and the authors of selected essays are awarded the employees. Honorary Chairman’s Prize, Chairman’s Prize or President’s Prize. Furthermore, prizewinners give presentations on their essays, and outstanding essays are compiled into a collection which is shared with other employees. Essay presentation (China) Implementing Philosophy Education in Various Languages In FY2012 we established the Asia Management Research Institute Essay presentation (China) at Kyocera Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd in Singapore. The institute is an education Implementingbase for Vietnam, India Philosophy and otherincountries Education the AsiaVariousinLanguages Pacific region with great development potential. To advance In FY2012 we permeation Kyocera the established of the Asia Management Philosophy, Research study materials Institute are being at Kyocera prepared justPacific Asia not Pte. Ltd in English, but in Singapore. The institute multiple languages is an including education base Vietnamese andfor Vietnam, Thai. India we In FY2013, andcommenced other countries in theforAsiatraining midPacific level region and withemployees great development general potential. using teaching To advance materials in the Thai permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy, study materials are being language. prepared not just in English, but in multiple languages including Vietnamese and Thai. In FY2013, we commenced training for midGeneral employee training (Thailand) level and general employees using teaching materials in the Thai language. 13 Philosophy Education for Employees Newly Admitted to the Kyocera Group Essay presentation (China) Implementing Philosophy Education in Various Languages In FY2012 we established the Asia Management Research Institute at Kyocera Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd in Singapore. The institute is an education base for Vietnam, India and other countries in the AsiaPacific region with great development potential. To advance permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy, study materials are being prepared not just in English, but in multiple languages including Vietnamese and Thai. In FY2013, we commenced training for midlevel and general employees using teaching materials in the Thai language. General employee training (Thailand) Philosophy Education for Employees Newly Admitted to the Kyocera Group Understanding of the Kyocera Philosophy is considered essential for efficient work performance by employees newly admitted to the Kyocera Group. Philosophy training was conducted for employees of the Kyocera Display Corp. Group (formerly Optrex Corp.), which became a subsidiary in February 2012. At Kyocera Display (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd in China, training used introductory teaching materials giving an introduction to the company and easily followed explanations of the Kyocera Management Rationale and Corporate Motto, the structure of the Kyocera Philosophy, and other matters. Training on The Twelve Management Principles and Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles was also conducted for Group discussion (China) workplace leaders. 14 KyoceraGroup Kyocera GroupCorporate Corporate Social Social Responsibility Responsibility (CSR) (CSR) Kyocera Group The Kyocera Philosophy is theCorporate heart of management Social in the Kyocera Group. We are engaged (CSR) Responsibility in organizational CSR activities based on the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy, and building mutual trust with people who have The Kyocera interests in thePhilosophy company.is the heart of management in the Kyocera Group. We are engaged in organizational CSR activities based on the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy, and building mutual trust with people who have interests in the company. Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Topics Enhance communication FY2013 Goals Held FY2013 CSR Economic Results/ Continue FY2014 Goals CSR presenting with local stakeholders Social / Environmental Economic / Social / Enhance Enhance communication Held CSR Economic Report Meetings at 16/ Continue Environmental ReportCSR presenting Communication with local stakeholders Social / Environmental Economic / Social / Enhance Kyocera Group bases in Meetings with Stakeholders Report Meetings byat 16 Environmental Report Communication Japan (attended 515 Kyocera people) Group bases in Meetings with Stakeholders Japan (attended by 515 people) | CSR Activities Based on the Kyocera Philosophy | Participation in International Initiatives, etc. | Enhance Communication with all Stakeholders | | CSR Activities Based on the Kyocera Philosophy | Participation in International Initiatives, etc. | Enhance Communication with all Stakeholders | CSR Activities Based on the Kyocera Philosophy CSRafter Shortly Activities Based its founding, on the Kyocera Kyocera adopted Philosophy its management rationale: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of Shortly society after its founding, Management and humankind.” Kyocera adopted its management is based rationale: on the Kyocera “To provide which opportunities Philosophy, uses the concept for the material “What is the and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement right thing to do as a human being?” as its decision-making criterion. This also forms the basis for the Kyocera of society Group’sandCSR humankind.” activities. Management is based on the Kyocera Philosophy, which uses the concept “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its decision-making criterion. This also forms the basis for the Kyocera Group’s Through CSR activities. of the Kyocera Philosophy, we work to find solutions to corporate citizenship issues, implementation build relationships of mutual trust with our stakeholders, and aim for the sustained development of the Kyocera Group. Atimplementation Through the same time,ofwe the KyoceratoPhilosophy, endeavor wethe contribute to work to finddevelopment solutions to of healthy society. citizenship issues, corporate build relationships of mutual trust with our stakeholders, and aim for the sustained development of the Kyocera Group. At the same time, we endeavor to contribute to the healthy development of society. Goals and Results of CSR Activities Goals and Results of CSR Activities Participation in International Initiatives 15 Participation in International Initiatives Goals and Results of CSR Activities The Kyocera Group is promoting globalization of CSR activities. This is being undertaken through ongoing Participation in International Initiatives improvements based on the international standard ISO26000, relating to social responsibility. Furthermore, the roup is promoting globalization The Kyocera Group of is CSR activities. promoting This is being globalization undertaken of CSR activities.through This isongoing being undertaken through ongoing Kyocera Group concurs with and participates in the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of human based on the improvements international The Kyocera standard Group basedison ISO26000, promoting relatingstandard to social globalization the international of CSRresponsibility. activities. ISO26000, Furthermore, This relating the socialundertaken istobeing through responsibility. ongoing the Furthermore, rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. concurs withKyocera and participates improvements Groupbased in the concurs onUN theGlobal with Compact’s international and participates Ten standard in thePrinciples ISO26000, UN Global the areas inrelating Compact’s human ofTen to social in theFurthermore, responsibility. Principles the areas of human nvironment and anti-corruption. Kyocera rights, Group labor, concurs with environment andand participates in the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of human anti-corruption. rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. ISO26000 Issued ISO26000 by the International Organization for Standardization in November 2010, ISO26000 is an ISO26000 international guidance standard concerning social responsibility. This standard is divided into seven core International Organization for Standardization in November 2010, ISO26000 is an Issued by the International Organization for Standardization in November 2010, ISO26000 is an subjects that should be considered in implementation of CSR activities (organizational governance, human guidance standard Issuedconcerning by theguidance international social responsibility. International Organization standard Thisfor standard concerning is divided in Standardization social responsibility. into seven November This core 2010,isISO26000 standard is an divided into seven core rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement should be considered international subjects implementation inthat guidance should bestandard of CSRconcerning activities considered (organizational governance, social responsibility. in implementation of CSR This standard activities human is divided (organizational into seven human core governance, and development). practices, the environment, subjects rights, thatfair labor operating should practices, bethe practices, considered environment, consumer in issues, of implementation fair operating community CSR activities practices, involvement consumer (organizational governance, issues, community human involvement ment). rights, and labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement development). ISO26000 Reference Table and development). Reference Table ISO26000 Reference Table ISO26000 Reference Table The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact ciples of the UN The Global The United Compact Nations 10 Principles of theCompact Global UN Global voluntary undertaking to build a global framework around 10 is a Compact The 10 principles Principles of the relating to protection UN ofGlobal humanCompact rights, eradication of unfair labour practices, environmental ations Global Compact is a voluntary undertaking to build a global framework around 10 The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary undertaking to build a global framework around 10 responses, and prevention of corruption. By participating in the Compact and practicing accountable and ating to protectionTheofUnited human principles rights,toeradication Nations relating Global protectionCompact of human is alabour unfair of rights,practices, voluntary undertaking eradication environmental to build of unfair a global labour framework practices, around 10 environmental creative leadership, individual corporations and organizations function as responsible members of society, nd prevention ofresponses, corruption. principles By participating relating and to protection prevention ofincorruption. thehuman of Compact anderadication rights, By practicing participating in accountable of unfair the Compactlabourand andpractices, environmental practicing accountable and and aim to achieve sustainable growth. ership, individual corporations responses, creative andand leadership, organizations prevention individual functionBy of corruption. corporations asandresponsible participating organizationsmembers in thefunction Compact of society, as and practicing responsible accountable members and of society, chieve sustainable growth. creative leadership, individual and aim to achieve sustainable growth. corporations and organizations function as responsible members of society, Human Rights and aim to achieve sustainable growth. 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. ts Human Rights 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. s should support and Human 1: Rightsthe respect Businesses protection should supportofand respect theproclaimed internationally protection of human rights. proclaimed human rights. internationally s should make sure1: Businesses 2: they are not complicit should support make insure human andthey rights respect abuses. the are not protection complicit inof internationally human proclaimed human rights. rights abuses. Labour 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Labour recognition of the right to collective bargaining. s should uphold3: the Labour freedom ofshould Businesses association upholdand the the effective freedom of association and the effective 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory n of the right to collective 3: recognition Businesses bargaining. should of uphold the right the freedom to collective of association and the effective bargaining. labour. s should uphold4:the elimination recognition Businesses of theallright forms of should upholdto of forced collective the and compulsory bargaining. elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 4: Businesses labour. should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of s should uphold5:the effective abolition labour. Businesses should upholdof childthe labour. effective abolition of child labour. employment and occupation. s should uphold6: 5:the eliminationshould Businesses of discrimination effective uphold the elimination ofof discrimination in respectabolition of child labour. in respect of nt and occupation.6: employment Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of and occupation. Environment employment and occupation. 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental t Environment challenges. s should support aBusinesses precautionary Environment 7: approach should support to aenvironmental precautionary approach to environmental 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental s. 7: challenges. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental responsibility. s should undertake initiatives to challenges. 8: Businesses promote should environmental greaterinitiatives undertake to promote greater environmental 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally lity. 8: responsibility. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental friendly technologies. s should encourage the development 9: responsibility. Businesses and diffusion should encourage environmentally theofdevelopment and diffusion of environmentally chnologies. 9: friendly Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally technologies. Anti-Corruption friendly technologies. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. tion Anti-Corruption against es should work Anti-Corruption 10: corruption Businesses in allwork should its forms, against including corruptionextortion and in all its bribery. forms, including extortion and bribery. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Enhance Communication with all Stakeholders Communication with all Enhance Stakeholders with all Stakeholders Communication CSR Economic, Enhance Communication Social and Environmental Report Meetings with all Stakeholders ic, Social andCSR CSR Environmental Economic, Economic, Report Social Social andand Meetings Environmental Environmental ReportReport Meetings Meetings have CSR Economic, Social and Environmental Report 16 Meetings been held by the Kyocera Group (Japan) each year since FY2005. , Social and Environmental CSR Economic, Report SocialMeetings have and Environmental Report Meetings have Their purpose is to raise the level of mutual communication with local e Kyocera Group CSR (Japan) been held by each Economic, year and theSocial Kyocera since Group FY2005. Environmental (Japan) each Report yearMeetings have since FY2005. friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Enhance Communication with all Stakeholders CSR Economic, Social and Environmental Report Meetings CSR Economic, Social and Environmental Report Meetings have representatives, business associates, nearby companies and other been held by thebusiness Kyocera Group (Japan) eachcompanies year sinceand FY2005. people from the communityassociates, representatives, nearby to attend meetings where we provide other Their purpose people from the to raise theto is community level of mutual attend meetings communication where we with local provide participants with reports on the economic, social and environmental communitieswith participants — important reports on stakeholders the economic, for the Kyocera Group. activities of the Kyocera Group as a whole social and ofand the environmental local facilities; activities along withofexchanging the Kyoceraviews Group as the with a whole and of the participants facilities; local measures. on CSR Factories along with and offices invite exchanging views local with residents, the government participants on CSR measures. In FY2013, 515 people took part at 16 bases in Japan. representatives, In FY2013, 515 people businesstookassociates, part at 16 nearby bases in Japan. and other companies people from the community to attend meetings where we provide participants with reports on the economic, social and environmental activities of the Kyocera Group as a whole and of the local facilities; along with exchanging views with the participants on CSR measures. In FY2013, 515 people took part at 16 bases in Japan. Shiga Yasu Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Questions from Participants Kyocera SLCfrom Questions Participants Technologies Corp., Kyoto Ayabe Plant Kyocera SLC Technologies Corp., Kyoto Ayabe Plant Q. Cases of mental disorders have been increasing in recent years, and a growing Shiga number of young Yasu Plant people Q. are Cases of mental unable disorders to continue longhave been increasing in employment years, recentWhat due tointhese. is and youraview growing number on mental of young people health? are unable to continue long in employment due to these. What is your view on mental health? A. Maintaining dialogue with employees and consideration of other matters on a day-by-day basis are vital Questions A. Maintaining from Participants dialogue for preventing mental with illness.employees We are alsoand consideration examining ways of other matters of raising on a day-by-day employee motivation.basis are vital Kyocera SLC Technologies for preventing mental illness. Corp., We are alsoAyabe Kyoto examiningPlantways of raising employee motivation. Kyocera of mental Q. CasesCrystal disorders Device have been Hokkaido Corp. increasing in recent years, and a growing number of young people Kyocera Crystal are unable Device Hokkaido to continue Corp. long in employment due to these. What is your view on mental health? Q. What steps are you taking regarding BCP? Q. What steps are you taking regarding BCP? A. Maintaining dialogue with employees and consideration of other matters on a day-by-day basis are vital A. The Kyocera Crystal Device Corp. Group is preparing countermeasures primarily for tsunamis and A. for The preventing earthquakes. mentalDevice Kyocera Crystal Basically, illness.Corp.We are we are working also is Group examining towardpreparing enabling ways of raising employee countermeasures production at two motivation. or morefor primarily tsunamis bases. and Additionally, we earthquakes. are building a Basically, network with are working toward we administrations and enabling enhancing production at two or communication more bases. Additionally, we systems. Kyocera Crystal are building Device Hokkaido a network Corp. with administrations and enhancing communication systems. Q. What steps are you taking regarding BCP? Special Award Presented in the Corporate Philanthropy Awards Special A. The Award KyoceraPresented Crystal Device in the Corporate Corp. Philanthropy Group is preparing Awards primarily for tsunamis and countermeasures The Shiga Gamo Plant earthquakes. and Shiga Basically, we are Yohkaichi working Plant toward received enabling the Special at two or more bases. Additionally, we production The Shiga Regional Gamo CooperationPlant and Award, Shiga part Yohkaichi Plant of the 10th Corporate received the SpecialAwards Philanthropy are building a network with administrations and enhancing communication systems. sponsored by the public service organization the Japan Philanthropic Awards Regional Cooperation Award, part of the 10th Corporate Philanthropy sponsored Association.byThe public service theawards commend organization corporations the undertaking Japan Philanthropic social Association. Special contribution The Award awards Presented activities commend in the Corporate through effective corporations undertaking Philanthropy use of management socialAwards resources. They contribution were activities established in 2003 with effective through the objectiveuse of of management highlighting suchresources. They activities as The Shiga Gamo in Plant and Shiga YohkaichiofPlant receivedsuch the Special corporate activity models for the 21st century. The Special Award was as were established 2003 with the objective highlighting activities Regional Cooperation Award, part of the 10th Corporate Philanthropy Award wasAwards corporate presented activity to both models forpromotion the plants for 21st century. of CSR The Special activities in cooperation with sponsored presented by the public to both plants service organization the Japan Philanthropic local administrations overformanypromotion years. of CSR activities in cooperation with Association. The awards local administrations overcommend many years. corporations undertaking social contribution activities through effective use of management resources. They were established in 2003 with the objective of highlighting such activities as corporate activity models for the 21st century. The Special Award was presented to both plants for promotion of CSR activities in cooperation with local administrations over many years. Presentation ceremony Presentation ceremony CSR-DIW Contribution Award CSR-DIW Contribution Award The Ministry of Industry, Department of Industrial Works17 (DIW) in Thailand has The Ministry of Industry, Department of Industrial presented Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd (KCDT) Works (DIW)with in Thailand the CSR-has presented Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) DIW Contribution Award. The award was established to promote CSRCo., Ltd (KCDT) with the CSRPresentation ceremony Kyocera Crystal Device Hokkaido Corp. Q. What steps are you taking regarding BCP? A. The Kyocera Crystal Device Corp. Group is preparing countermeasures primarily for tsunamis and earthquakes. Basically, we are working toward enabling production at two or more bases. Additionally, we are building a network with administrations and enhancing communication systems. Special Award Presented in the Corporate Philanthropy Awards The Shiga Gamo Plant and Shiga Yohkaichi Plant received the Special Regional Cooperation Award, part of the 10th Corporate Philanthropy Awards sponsored by the public service organization the Japan Philanthropic Association. The awards commend corporations undertaking social contribution activities through effective use of management resources. They were established in 2003 with the objective of highlighting such activities as corporate activity models for the 21st century. The Special Award was presented to both plants for promotion of CSR activities in cooperation with local administrations over many years. Presentation ceremony CSR-DIW Contribution Award The Ministry of Industry, Department of Industrial Works (DIW) in Thailand has presented Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd (KCDT) with the CSRDIW Contribution Award. The award was established to promote CSR undertakings by corporations operating in Thailand and to raise international competitiveness. KCDT was commended for environmental protection, contribution to society and other strong CSR activities. CSR-DIW Contribution Award trophy 18 Goals and Results of CSR Activities Goals and Results of CSR Activities Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Expand training on the Conducted training based Establish an All-Company Kyocera Philosophy on the Kyocera Philosophy Philosophy Committee to Pocketbook II to all Pocketbook II for all heighten awareness and employees employees, including partpermeation of the Kyocera Present lectures (20 in timers Philosophy total) on “The Spirit of Presented 13 lectures on Conduct Philosophy Manufacturing” / Conduct “The Spirit of education adapted for training using the Kyocera Manufacturing” at various circumstances in individual Spirit of Manufacturing bases divisions and Group Pocketbook Conducted Philosophy companies Advancing Implement education education at the Kyocera Enhance training programs Kyocera programs for employees Display Corp. Group aimed at application of the Philosophy new to the Kyocera Group Prepared training materials Philosophy Education Prepare training material in Thai and other Conduct ongoing training archives for overseas languages, and conducted relating to the Kyocera training Philosophy training for midPhilosophy Pocketbook II Implement fresh training on level and general Continue presenting Amoeba Management employees lectures on “The Spirit of Implemented training on Manufacturing” Amoeba Management for senior management, midlevel employees and general employees Enhance communication Held CSR Economic / Continue presenting CSR with local stakeholders Social / Environmental Economic / Social / Enhance Report Meetings at 16 Environmental Report Communication Kyocera Group bases in Meetings with Stakeholders Japan (attended by 515 people) Enhance corporate Sustained corporate Enhance corporate governance and internal governance and internal governance and internal control systems control systems in control systems Sustain Corporate Expand internal control accordance with policy Implement internal control Governance and system audits Implemented internal system audits based on Internal Control control system audits risk approach Systems focused on companies newly added to the Kyocera Group Raise efficiency of office Conducted office audits of Expand legislative audits of legislative legislative compliance at compliance audits to compliance 48 Kyocera Group bases overseas Group Maintain the Independent Began legislation audits at companies Auditor Certification overseas Group Introduce e-learning, and Examination for legislation companies continue the Independent audits Continued the Independent Auditor Certification Expand security trade Auditor Certification Examination control to Group Examination (155 people Construct a global companies passed; now 822 auditors comprehensive Security Implement e-learning in total) Trade Control system relating to protection of Established and activated Continue providing epersonal information an STC (Security Trade learning relating to Control) Committee for the protection of personal Thorough Legal Kyocera 19 Group in Japan information Compliance Examined the state of security trade control at control systems control systems in control systems Sustain Corporate Expand internal control accordance with policy Implement internal control Governance and system audits Implemented internal system audits based on Internal Control control system audits risk approach Systems focused on companies newly added to the Kyocera Group Raise efficiency of office Conducted office audits of Expand legislative audits of legislative legislative compliance at compliance audits to compliance 48 Kyocera Group bases overseas Group Maintain the Independent Began legislation audits at companies Auditor Certification overseas Group Introduce e-learning, and Examination for legislation companies continue the Independent audits Continued the Independent Auditor Certification Expand security trade Auditor Certification Examination control to Group Examination (155 people Construct a global companies passed; now 822 auditors comprehensive Security Implement e-learning in total) Trade Control system relating to protection of Established and activated Continue providing epersonal information an STC (Security Trade learning relating to Control) Committee for the protection of personal Thorough Legal Kyocera Group in Japan information Compliance Examined the state of security trade control at overseas Group companies Implemented e-learning relating to protection of personal information (Basic Version / Practical Application Version) Conducted lectures on prevention of insider trading, for new employees and newly promoted employees Implement education and Conducted education and Continue education and training on BCP training based on the training related to BCP Expand BCP to Group prepared BCP Expand BCP to overseas companies Deployed BCP focused on Group companies Establish an integrated production bases Strengthen BCP measures audit system throughout throughout the Kyocera relating to supply chains Strengthen Risk the Kyocera Group in Group in Japan Establish internal audit Management Japan Established an integrated systems for the Kyocera Strengthen security of the audit system throughout Group in China and e-mail system the Kyocera Group in Southeast Asia Japan Implement security Strengthened security of diagnoses of servers the e-mail system accessible from outside the company Expand supplier seminars Held supplier seminars in Continue holding supplier held outside Japan Japan, China and Korea seminars Build a control system for Held briefings for domestic Survey overseas business conflict minerals business associates on associates on their use of Strengthen Supply measures for conflict conflict minerals Chain minerals Management Surveyed domestic business associates on their use of conflict minerals Improve CS* Index with Held Kyocera CS Hold Kyocera CS Advance Measures training in quality Improvement 20 Committee Improvement Committee for Raising Quality meetings & improved CS meetings and further and Customer Index (18% improvement improve CS Index (24% auditManagement system Japan system throughout auditthroughout throughout the Kyocera throughout Established the Kyocera relating to an integrated supply relating auditsystems supply tochains chains for the Kyocera throughout the K system throughout the Kyocera engthen Risk Risk the Kyocera Group in Group Strengthen in Group in security Japan in Group the of Japan audit Establish Strengthen throughout system EstablishRisk audit internal internal Group audit inGroup the Kyocera Chinainand Group in Japan nt nagement Japan Japan e-mail systemEstablished Established an integrated the Management systems Group Kyocera an integrated for thein systems for the Kyocera Kyocera Japan Southeast Asia Established an i Strengthen Strengthen security of the ofaudit security the system system throughout auditthroughout Japan Group in GroupChina in and China andImplement Strengthen security security of the audit system thr e-mail system e-mail system the Kyocera Group in Group the Kyocera Strengthened in Southeast security Asia ofAsia Southeast e-mail system of servers diagnoses the Kyocera Gro Japan Japan the e-mail Implement system Implement security security accessible from outside Japan StrengthenedStrengthened security of securitydiagnoses of diagnoses of serversof servers the company Strengthened se the e-mailthe e-mail system system accessible from outside accessible from outside the e-mail syste Expand supplier seminars Held supplier seminars in Continue holding supplier the company the company held outside Japan Japan, China and Korea seminars Expand supplier BuildHeld supplier seminars Expand seminars supplier a controlHeld seminars supplier system in HeldContinue for seminars in briefings holding Continue for domestic holding supplier Expand supplier Survey supplier overseas businessHeld supplier se seminars heldJapan outside Japan held outside Japan, conflict China Japan, minerals and ChinaKorea seminars Korea andbusiness seminars associates on held associates outside Japan on their use of Japan, China an Strengthen Supply systemHeld controlfor Build asystem Build a control Held briefings for domestic for briefings Surveyfor for measures domestic Survey overseas business conflictoverseas business Buildconflict a control system for minerals Held briefings fo Chain conflict minerals conflict minerals businessbusiness associates on minerals associates associates on on their use associates of use their onconflict of minerals business associ Supply engthen Supply Management Strengthen Supply measuresmeasures for conflict for conflict conflictdomestic minerals conflict minerals Surveyed measures for co ain Chain minerals minerals business associates on minerals nt nagement Management SurveyedSurveyed domesticdomestic their use of conflict Surveyed dome businessbusiness associates associates on minerals on business associ their use their of conflict use of conflict their use of conf Improve CS* Index with Held Kyocera CS Hold Kyocera CS minerals minerals minerals Advance Measures training in quality Improvement Committee Improvement Committee Improve CS* for RaisingIndex Improve CS* Quality Index with with Held Kyocera CS Held Kyocera Hold Kyocera CS meetings Hold Kyocera & improved CS CS Improve CS meetings CS* Index with and further Held Kyocera C easures training vance Measures and intraining qualityin quality Customer Improvement Improvement Committee Committee Index Improvement Advance Measures (18% improvement Committee Improvement Committee training in quality CS Index (24% Improvement C improve Raising QualitySatisfaction Levels Quality & improved meetingsmeetings CS fromfor & improved meetings CS Raising FY2012) and meetings further Quality and further improvement from meetings & impr er d Customer Index (18% Index (18% improvement improvement improve and CS improve Customer IndexCS (24% (24% IndexFY2013) Index (18% imp Levels Levels tisfaction from FY2012)from FY2012) improvement Satisfaction from improvement Levels from from FY2012) Establish measures Implemented awarenessContinue awarenessFY2013) FY2013) relating to raising raising activities relating to raising activities relating to EstablishEstablish measuresmeasures Implemented ofImplemented awareness humanawarenessrightsawarenesshuman Continue rightsContinue and laborawarenessawarenessEstablish human rights and labor Implemented aw measures raisingto raising relating torelating relating torelating raising activities raising activities during to activities raising raising morning activities relating meetings, torelating relating during to to raising morning meetings, raising activities awareness human rights human rights of humanofrights awareness human laborandthrough andrights laborhuman human rights announcements, andrights labor awarenesslabor ofannouncements, andthrough human rights human rights an Advance Measures during morning morning meetings, during meetings, during reading from meetings, during morning in turn morning the meetings, reading in turn from the during morning Relating to Human through announcements, through announcements, through Kyocera through announcements, announcements, Employee’s Kyocera Employee’s through announ vance Measures easures Rights turn from reading inreading the from in turn Actionreading the Advance in reading Guideline, from turnetc. Measures in turnthe from the Guideline, etc. Action reading in turn f lating to Human Human Employee’s Kyocera Kyocera Employee’s Kyoceralegislation Kyocera Employee’s HumanEmployee’s Relating Conducted to Continue legislation auditsKyocera Employ hts Action Guideline, etc. Action Guideline, auditsAction etc.Rights Actionthe Guideline, to ascertain etc. Guideline, etc. to ascertain the state of Action Guideline Conducted legislation Conducted stateContinue legislation Continue of compliancelegislation with legislation audits with laws auditscompliance Conducted legis ascertain audits to audits the to ascertain thetorelating ascertain laws the state the to ascertain human of state of to human rights audits to ascerta relating state of compliance state of compliancewith rights compliance with and labor with lawswith laws compliance and labor state of complia laws relating humanto humanrelating torelating lawstorelating humantorights human rights laws relating to Continue recruitment of Recruited 8 foreign Expand measures for rights andrights laborand labor and laborand labor rights and labor new foreign graduates graduates from abroad and supporting a work-life ContinueContinue recruitmentrecruitment of fromof abroad, Recruited Recruited 8 foreign and active8 foreign Expand foreign measures Expand students based for measures in Continue for recruitment of balance Recruited 8 fore new foreign hiring foreign graduates newgraduates of foreign graduates students graduates from abroad fromand Japan. abroad supporting andProvided a Japanese work-life supporting Develop work-life a new awareness-raising foreign graduates graduates from and studying active abroad, from and from abroad, foreign active in Japan foreign students students based in based languagein training, balance balance regular fromactivities abroad, and to promote active the foreign students Promote foreign students hiring ofstudents hiring of foreign Japan. understanding Japan. Provided Provided Japanese of interviews, Develop Japanese etc. to helpawareness-raising awareness-raising Develop hiringcareers of women of foreign studentsin the Japan. Provided measures supporting a foreign recruits become workplace work-life balance familiar with the company. Provided information on systems relating to Promote Respect marriage, pregnancy, for Diversity and childbirth, child-rearing and Balance of Work other matters, in internal and Life bulletins, and on the internal Web site Held seminars for section managers on steps to take when subordinates seek consultation relating to child-rearing Held information exchange meetings for employees involved in child-rearing Expand the student base The goal was to raise the Planning and deployment for the English Learning lowest levels of ability and efforts to learn the high Cultivate Human Program 21achievement of a aid language skills Assets minimum score of 600 points on the ToEIC managers on steps to take when subordinates seek consultation relating to child-rearing Held information exchange meetings for employees involved in child-rearing Expand the student base The goal was to raise the Planning and deployment for the English Learning lowest levels of ability and efforts to learn the high Cultivate Human Program aid achievement of a language skills Assets minimum score of 600 points on the ToEIC English test Reduce work-related Reduced work-related Reduce work-related injuries injuries injuries Japan: Reduce rate by Japan: Reduced rate by Japan: Reduce rate by 75% compared with 51% compared with 33% compared with FY2011 FY2011 FY2013 Overseas: Reduce rate by Overseas: Reduced rate Overseas: Reduce rate by 75% compared with by 45% compared with 15% compared with FY2011 FY2011 FY2013 Safety training revision for Implemented training using Strengthen earthquake managers and supervisors the Safety & Disaster countermeasures Build support systems for Prevention Handbook Improve work environment overseas Group Applied “Point and Call! Revise action plan for new companies seals to draw attention to influenza pandemics Prepare guide on hazardous areas Raise 5S levels with legislation relating to safety Ascertained circumstances targets set independently and disaster prevention at overseas bases and Revise training content Strengthen Raise lowest levels of 5S provided guidance as and instruction methods; Management evaluation in workplaces needed conduct mental health Relating to Safety Prepared a Safety and education, VDT operator and Health / Fire Disaster Prevention education and employee and Disaster Legislation Handbook and health guidance Prevention strengthened control systems Revised the Contingency Planning Manual 5S minimum average evaluation points Kyocera Corporation: 89 points (improved 1% from FY2012) Domestic Group: 86 points (improved 8% from FY2012) Overseas Group: 80 points (no change from FY2012) Held seminars on mental health Aggregate reduction of Factor 1.01 (Goals To promote activities for greenhouse gas emission accomplished one year accomplishing FY2021 Achievement of [low-carbon society early) Factor 3. Environment contribution factor] Vision 2020 (FY2014 Factor 1 accomplished) Creation of new “Kyocera Certification of Kyocera Creation of new Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Promotion of Products” Products Products (goal: 8 products) Environmental Application of Kyocera’s Certification of Kyocera Application of Kyocera’s Consciousness in Green Supplier System Green Suppliers (number Green Supplier System Products of22 certified companies: 667 suppliers) Reduction of greenhouse Reduction of greenhouse In all production sites, 1% Held seminars on mental health Aggregate reduction of Factor 1.01 (Goals To promote activities for greenhouse gas emission accomplished one year accomplishing FY2021 Achievement of [low-carbon society early) Factor 3. Environment contribution factor] Vision 2020 (FY2014 Factor 1 accomplished) Creation of new “Kyocera Certification of Kyocera Creation of new Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Promotion of Products” Products Products (goal: 8 products) Environmental Application of Kyocera’s Certification of Kyocera Application of Kyocera’s Consciousness in Green Supplier System Green Suppliers (number Green Supplier System Products of certified companies: 667 suppliers) Reduction of greenhouse Reduction of greenhouse In all production sites, 1% gas emission, total energy gas emissions per net or more improvement rate consumption, water sales (up 10.5% from per net sales from FY2013 consumption and industrial FY2012) will be achieved in terms of waste discharge per net Reduction of total energy greenhouse gas Promotion of sales consumption per net sales emissions, energy Environmental (down 5.8% from FY2012) consumption, water Consciousness at Reduction of water consumption and waste Plants and Offices consumption per net sales discharge. (down 6.9% from FY2012) Reduction of industrial waste discharge per net sales (down 10.8% from FY2012) Expand Kyocera Group Eco-Lessons provided at Continuous “Eco-Lesson” program 203 elementary schools. implementation of Kyocera Promote Kyocera’s Forestation activities Group Eco-Lessons. forestation activities. started from Kyocera Promotion of Kyocera’s Headquarters. forestation activities Environmental Participation in Communication environmental events with Local hosted by local Communities governments. Fukushima Tanagura Plant received the Award for Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming. 23 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance With With the the Kyocera Philosophy as Kyocera Philosophy as its its foundation, foundation, the the Kyocera Kyocera Group Group upholds upholds equity fairness, faces and fairness, equity and faces all all situations with situations with courage and conscience, courage and conscience, and and sustains highly transparent sustains highly transparent systems systems of of corporate corporate governance governance and and internal control. internal control. Topics Topics FY2013 FY2013 GoalsGoals FY2013 FY2013 Results Results FY2014 Goals FY2014 Goals Enhance corporate Enhance corporate Sustained corporate Sustained corporate Enhance corporate corporate Enhance governance and governance internal and internal governance and governance and internal internal governance and governance internal and internal control systems control systems control systems control systems in in control systems control systems Sustain Sustain Corporate Corporate Expand internal control internal control accordance with with policy policy internal control Implement internal control Governance and Expand accordance Implement Governance and audits system audits Implemented internalinternal system audits based on audits based on Internal Control system Implemented system Internal Control control system system audits audits risk approach approach Systems control risk Systems focused on on companies companies focused newly added newly added to to the the Kyocera Kyocera GroupGroup Corporate Governance || Corporate Governance and and Internal Internal Control Control Systems Internal Control Systems || Internal Control Audits Audits of of the the Kyocera Kyocera Group Group || Corporate Governance and Internal Control Systems The The purpose corporate governance of corporate purpose of governance and and internal control in internal control in the the Kyocera Kyocera GroupGroup isis to to maintain maintain management management soundness and transparency, and to achieve fair and efficient soundness and transparency, and to achieve fair and efficient management, through which we aim management, through which we aim to to realize realize the the Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group. To establish a sound corporate Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group. To establish a sound corporate culture, the Kyocera Group culture, the Kyocera Group implements the implements following measures measures through the following through thethe practice practice of the Kyocera of the Kyocera Philosophy. Philosophy. Zoom Zoom Corporate Governance System 1. 1. Directors shall accommodate Directors shall accommodate requests requests forfor reports reports by corporate auditors. by corporate auditors. 2. 2. Internal audit departments shall provide regular reports to Internal audit departments shall provide regular reports to corporate auditors corporate auditors on the state on the of internal state of internal audits. audits. 3. Establishment 3. Establishment of of the the Kyocera Kyocera Board Board of Corporate Auditors of Corporate Auditors Reporting Reporting System System to to enable enable employees, employees, suppliers, suppliers, customers and other individuals or organizations associated with the Kyocera Group to report directly customers and other individuals or organizations associated with the Kyocera Group to report directly to to the the Board. Board. 4. 4. Corporate have the auditors have Corporate auditors the authority authority to attend important to attend important meetings meetings and and to to inspect inspect important important conference conference minutes, documents, minutes, contracts, etc. etc. Corporate documents, contracts, auditors may Corporate auditors call for for meetings may call with representative meetings with representative directors directors to to 24 exchange opinions exchange concerning management management of opinions concerning the Kyocera of the Kyocera GroupGroup in in general. general. Zoom Corporate Governance System 1. Directors shall accommodate requests for reports by corporate auditors. 2. Internal audit departments shall provide regular reports to corporate auditors on the state of internal audits. 3. Establishment of the Kyocera Board of Corporate Auditors Reporting System to enable employees, suppliers, customers and other individuals or organizations associated with the Kyocera Group to report directly to the Board. 4. Corporate auditors have the authority to attend important meetings and to inspect important conference minutes, documents, contracts, etc. Corporate auditors may call for meetings with representative directors to exchange opinions concerning management of the Kyocera Group in general. Internal Internal Control Control System System 1. 1. Establishment Establishment of of the the Kyocera Kyocera Disclosure Disclosure Committee Committee as as aa means means for for making making timely timely and and appropriate appropriate disclosure disclosure of management of management information outside the information outside the company. company. 2. Establishment 2. Establishment of of a Management Division, Risk Management a Risk Division, as of the part of as part the Kyocera Group’s risk Kyocera Group’s risk management management system. system. 3. Establishment of 3. Establishment an Employee of an Employee Consultation Center as Hot-Line Center Consultation Hot-Line as part part of the Kyocera of the Group’s internal Kyocera Group’s internal complaint system, where employees can report violations of laws, company regulations or other matters. complaint system, where employees can report violations of laws, company regulations or other matters. 4. Introduction of an Executive Officer System to clearly delegate authority and related responsibilities; and 4. Introduction of an Executive Officer System to clearly delegate authority and related responsibilities; and construction construction of of an an effective and efficient effective and efficient business business execution execution system. system. Internal Internal Control Control Audits Audits of of the the Kyocera Kyocera Group Group As Kyocera As Kyocera is listed on is listed the New New York on the Stock Exchange, Exchange, the York Stock company is the company subject to to Section is subject 404 of Section 404 of the the SarbanesSarbanesOxley Act. Oxley Section 404 404 requires Act. Section business operators operators to requires business construct and and maintain to construct internal control maintain internal control systems systems relating relating to to fiscal reporting. Section 404 assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems through internal fiscal reporting. Section 404 assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems through internal audits based audits based on internal on internal control control evaluation evaluation criteria. criteria. 25 Risk Management and Compliance Risk Management and Compliance The Kyocera Philosophy places “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as the decision-making criterion for all corporate matters. This most fundamental guide for action is shared by all employees. The Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline has been prepared based on the Kyocera Philosophy, and forms the foundation of compliance. Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Raise efficiency of office Conducted office audits of Expand legislative audits of legislative legislative compliance at compliance audits to compliance 48 Kyocera Group bases overseas Group Maintain the Independent Began legislation audits at companies Auditor Certification overseas Group Introduce e-learning, and Examination for legislation companies continue the Independent audits Continued the Independent Auditor Certification Expand security trade Auditor Certification Examination control to Group Examination (155 people Construct a global companies passed; now 822 auditors comprehensive Security Implement e-learning in total) Trade Control system relating to protection of Established and activated Continue providing epersonal information an STC (Security Trade learning relating to Control) Committee for the protection of personal Thorough Legal Kyocera Group in Japan information Compliance Examined the state of security trade control at overseas Group companies Implemented e-learning relating to protection of personal information (Basic Version / Practical Application Version) Conducted lectures on prevention of insider trading, for new employees and newly promoted employees Implement education and Conducted education and Continue education and training on BCP training based on the training related to BCP Expand BCP to Group prepared BCP Expand BCP to overseas companies Deployed BCP focused on Group companies Establish an integrated production bases Strengthen BCP measures audit system throughout throughout the Kyocera relating to supply chains Strengthen Risk the Kyocera Group in Group in Japan Establish internal audit Management Japan Established an integrated systems for the Kyocera Strengthen security of the audit system throughout Group in China and e-mail system the Kyocera Group in Southeast Asia Japan Implement security Strengthened security of diagnoses of servers the e-mail system accessible from outside the company | Building a Compliance System | Thorough Legal Compliance | Business Continuity Planning (BCP) | Information Security Measures | Building a Compliance System 26 Amid global development of business, the Kyocera Group is exposed to increasingly diverse domestic and Japan Implement security Strengthened security of diagnoses of servers the e-mail system accessible from outside the company | Building a Compliance System | Thorough Legal Compliance | Business Continuity Planning (BCP) | Information Security Measures | Building a Compliance System Amid global development of business, the Kyocera Group is exposed to increasingly diverse domestic and overseas risks stemming from political, economic and social changes. The Kyocera Group is therefore engaging in various activities that make up a compliance system for providing appropriate responses to risks. Measures include implementation of legislative compliance audits, development of security trade control, and establishment of an employee consultation hot-line center (internal reporting system) Thorough Legal Compliance To support thorough compliance with legislation in the Kyocera Group, the Compliance Division notifies relevant divisions of enactment of new legislation and legislative amendments. Ongoing guidance on various laws is provided by relevant divisions responsible for compliance. Additionally, the Legal Audit Department regularly conducts legislation audits. By these means, the Kyocera Group is strengthening its compliance system. Measures for Fair and Free Competition The Kyocera Group complies with anti-monopoly laws and related legislation, and we are working to promote fair and free competition. For example, guidelines on compliance with anti-monopoly legislation were prepared and are already being used in employee training in Group companies in Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe. Furthermore, in February 2013 we issued the Kyocera Group Global Anti-Monopoly Legislation Compliance Manual for use throughout the Kyocera Group. The manual has been distributed to employees in Japan and overseas. In conducting employee training using the manual we are aiming for thorough awareness. Kyocera Group Global AntiMonopoly Legislation Compliance Manual Security Trade Control System The Kyocera Group complies with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other regulations relating to international security. In addition, the Kyocera Group is establishing a system for heightening security trade control. The purpose is to prevent the outflow of components for weapons of mass destruction and arms, or products and technology that could be used for their production and development. In FY2013, we set up the Domestic Group Company STC (Security Trade Control) Committee to achieve thorough legal compliance with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act in addition to other export-related laws, by Group companies in Japan. Kyocera is now working to establish a global comprehensive Security Trade Control system that includes Group companies outside Japan. Appropriate Information Disclosure The Kyocera Group complies with regulations relating to the disclosure of information. The Group endeavors to provide appropriate information without falsehoods or expressions that invite misunderstanding, in accordance with social moral principles. Additionally, display of product labels and operating instructions, catalogs, sales promotion documents, advertisements and other materials by Kyocera is in line with the company standard as set out in our Public Document Verification Guidelines. 27 We are building a check system for verification by the Quality Assurance, Legal, Intellectual Property and Corporate Communications divisions. control. The purpose is to prevent the outflow of components for weapons of mass destruction and arms, or products and technology that could be used for their production and development. In FY2013, we set up the Domestic Group Company STC (Security Trade Control) Committee to achieve thorough legal compliance with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act in addition to other export-related laws, by Group companies in Japan. Kyocera is now working to establish a global comprehensive Security Trade Control system that includes Group companies outside Japan. Appropriate Information Disclosure The Kyocera Group complies with regulations relating to the disclosure of information. The Group endeavors to provide appropriate information without falsehoods or expressions that invite misunderstanding, in accordance with social moral principles. Additionally, display of product labels and operating instructions, catalogs, sales promotion documents, advertisements and other materials by Kyocera is in line with the company standard as set out in our Public Document Verification Guidelines. We are building a check system for verification by the Quality Assurance, Legal, Intellectual Property and Corporate Communications divisions. Protection of Personal Information The Kyocera Group recognizes personal information as an important part of privacy and, as a responsible social citizen, does everything possible to safeguard such information. We have established the Kyocera Basic Policy on Personal Information Protection and built a control system. Personal information data is handled within strict requirements and training is conducted accordingly. The Kyocera Group is thereby attaining the highest possible security. In FY2013, e-learning was introduced to aid self-development study. A basic course on personal information was prepared for all employees, and a practical course has been prepared for employees who are entrusted with actually handling personal information. Measures for Prevention of Bribery and Corruption For the Kyocera Group, the basis of dealings with business associates is to always be fair and just, and to approach all manner of transactions in the spirit of fair play with the correct attitude as a human being. The Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline prohibits the excessive exchange of gifts, the provision and receipt of excessive entertainment, and other corrupt activities. The Guideline also forbids activities that depart from customary business practice. Measures for Prevention of Insider Trading Targeting prevention of insider trading, the Kyocera Group has prepared a control system and is aiming for full awareness by employees. Kyocera has set “Insider Trading Prevention Regulations,” and is strengthening the internal information control system as well as regulations on trading of shares by employees. Additionally, an Insider Trading Prevention Handbook has been prepared and is distributed to all employees to ensure knowledge of the details of regulations. Strict control over internal information was maintained in FY2013. Lectures on insider trading prevention were included in training for new and newly promoted employees. Kyocera also raised awareness by informing employees of stock trading prohibition periods and other matters during morning meetings. Measures for Exclusion of Antisocial Groups The Kyocera Group policies on corporate governance and internal control include prevention of involvement in management activities by antisocial groups and prevention of damage by such groups. The basis of measures for exclusion of illegal activities is that “all companies are united in confronting illegal activities with determination.” Meanwhile, the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline clearly specifies “a decisive attitude based on the law” in dealing with illegal activities. The Kyocera Group is taking thorough steps to prevent such activities. Protection of Intellectual Property Rights The basic policy of the Kyocera Group is to safeguard the yields of research and development by the Group as intellectual property rights, and to respect the intellectual property rights of others. We assign liaison officers responsible for intellectual properties to main offices and plants. Their role is to smooth the processes of obtaining intellectual property rights, maintaining control of rights and negotiating licenses for intellectual property rights. The Kyocera Group is undertaking activities relating to intellectual property in close cooperation with the relevant businesses. Approach Example 28 Measures for Dealing with Counterfeit Products The basic policy of the Kyocera Group is tothe safeguard yields ofrights theproperty research and development by theofficers Group as responsible intellectual for The basic policy intellectual of the property properties Kyocera rights, and to Group to respect main is to offices safeguard the and intellectual plants. Their yields ofrights theproperty research role is to smooth the and development of others. processes We assign liaison of Group by theofficers as obtaining intellectual intellectual property responsible property for intellectual rights, maintaining and to respect rights, properties to main control intellectual the offices of rights and plants. and propertyTheir negotiating rights of is others. role licenses for We assign to smooth intellectual the processes of property liaison officers rights. Theintellectual responsible obtaining Kyocera Group for intellectual is undertaking properties property activities to main rights, maintaining offices relating andof control to intellectual plants. rights Their roleproperty is to smooth and negotiating in close licenses cooperation processes thefor with of intellectual the property relevant obtaining rights. businesses. Theintellectual Kyocera Groupproperty rights, maintaining is undertaking activities control of rights relating to intellectual in close for propertylicenses and negotiating intellectual cooperation property with the rights. The relevant Kyocera Group is undertaking activities relating to intellectual property in close cooperation with the businesses. relevant businesses. Approach Example Approach MeasuresExample for Dealing with Counterfeit Products Approach Example TheMeasures for Dealing Kyocera Document with Counterfeit Solutions Inc. Group is Products implementing Measures diverse measuresfor Dealing in various with Counterfeit countries of the The Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Group is implementing Products world to protect customers The Kyocera diverse from the Document measures harm caused Solutions in various by countries counterfeit Group Inc. of products, is implementing the world and to to protect enable diverse product customersmeasures theinwith fromuse peace various harm countries caused mind. of by ofVendors the world counterfeit selling to protect products, and to counterfeit customers enable products fromuse the with product are warned caused harmpeace and of by asked to counterfeit mind. pledge Vendorsproducts, they and selling will no to longer handle enable product counterfeit them. They use with products are requested peace ofand are warned mind. asked to destroy Vendors to pledge stocks selling andno they will reveal longer the counterfeit names handleproducts them.of their are They suppliers. warned andBy are requested these asked toand pledge to destroy other means they stocks andno will Kyocera reveal Document handle longer the them. names Solutions endeavors Theysuppliers. are requested of their to to destroy By these prevent and other growth stocks and meansin circulation of counterfeit reveal theDocument Kyocera names theirproducts. suppliers. ofSolutions By Group The endeavors these is also and to prevent otherusing means growth in hologram seals Kyocera Document circulation to distinguish Solutions of counterfeit between endeavors products. genuine The Groupto preventand fake using in is alsogrowth Product with hologram seal attached products, circulationmaking hologram of counterfeit seals to determine easy products. toitdistinguish Thewhether between Group isaand genuine product also using fake is Product with hologram seal attached authentic. products, seals toitdistinguish hologram making easy to determine genuineaand betweenwhether fake is product Product with hologram seal attached products, making it easy to determine whether a product is authentic. KYOCERA Document Solutions Intellectual Property Protection authentic. KYOCERA Document Solutions Intellectual Property Protection KYOCERA Document Solutions Intellectual Property Protection Establishment of Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center (Internal Reporting System) Establishment of Employee Kyocera Group employees Consultation can consult the Employee Hot-Line Consultation (InternalCenter Center Hot-Line Reporting System) on diverse issues. Establishment of Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center (Internal Reporting System) Kyocera Group employees can consult the Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center on diverse issues. Employees Kyocera Group seek advicecan can employees andconsult consultthe diverse matters onEmployee of doubt, Consultation and report Hot-Line actions Center that are on diverse or may be in issues. violation of laws and internal regulations relating to human rights, labor, safety and health, environment, fair business practices, etc. Measures for protection of individual privacy are clarified, and employees can consult the Hot-Line Center directly by telephone, e-mail or other means. Details of the consultation are investigated and ascertained in cooperation with the relevant divisions. This is followed by corrective action and preventive measures against recurrence. At Kyocera, consultations were undertaken on 30 matters in FY2013, and steps toward resolution were taken in each case. Legal Audit System As part of construction of a compliance system for the Kyocera Group, legislation audits are conducted at all Kyocera Group bases in Japan to ascertain the state of legal compliance. The legal audits consist of independent legislation self-auditing conducted annually by divisions, and regular office legislation audits undertaken by the Audit Division. From FY2013, we are also examining legislative compliance systems at overseas Group companies. Furthermore, in FY2011 Kyocera introduced an Independent Auditor Certification System as a means of raising the accuracy of legislation self-audits. The Certification System is a combination of classroom lectures, tests, exercises and practical examinations. A further 155 Explanation of legal audit planning people were certified in FY2013, raising the total number of qualified (Kagoshima Kokubu Plant) personnel to 822. The Independent Auditor Certification System will now be progressively introduced in Group companies throughout Japan. Business Continuity Planning (BCP) In addition to ongoing activities aimed at prevention or mitigation of disasters, the Kyocera Group is strengthening measures for continuation of business activities to enable continued supply of products and services to customers. In FY2013, Kyocera took step-by-step action in each region based on earthquake potential. This included fastening down crucial equipment, procurement of materials needed for repairs, and securing alternative means of production. Regarding procurement of important raw materials and parts, we are evaluating substitutes and advancing procurement from29 multiple suppliers. Based on prepared BCPs, Kyocera has also begun training exercises to ensure the safety of people and to secure a steady path from prevention of secondary disasters to restoration of business activity. In addition to continuation of BCP training, these activities self-audits. The Certification System is a combination of classroom lectures, tests, exercises and practical examinations. A further 155 Explanation of legal audit planning people were certified in FY2013, raising the total number of qualified (Kagoshima Kokubu Plant) personnel to 822. The Independent Auditor Certification System will now be progressively introduced in Group companies throughout Japan. Business Continuity Planning (BCP) In addition to ongoing activities aimed at prevention or mitigation of disasters, the Kyocera Group is strengthening measures for continuation of business activities to enable continued supply of products and services to customers. In FY2013, Kyocera took step-by-step action in each region based on earthquake potential. This included fastening down crucial equipment, procurement of materials needed for repairs, and securing alternative means of production. Regarding procurement of important raw materials and parts, we are evaluating substitutes and advancing procurement from multiple suppliers. Based on prepared BCPs, Kyocera has also begun training exercises to ensure the safety of people and to secure a steady path from prevention of secondary disasters to restoration of business activity. In addition to continuation of BCP training, these activities are being expanded throughout the Kyocera Group. BCP measures for supply chains are being strengthened in cooperation with business associates. Overall, we are reinforcing the business continuity system to prevent stoppages in production activity in the event of a disaster. Information Security Measures Concerning information assets handled by employees and other parties, the Kyocera Group is clarifying basic matters that must be complied with and constructing a management system. The Group is thereby focusing on effective and efficient use of information assets. Preparation of Electronic Information Security Management Policy & Regulations With thorough protection of information assets as the objective, we are setting Electronic Information Security Management Policy for the entire Group and related management regulations. Based on the policy and regulations, all companies in the Kyocera Group are preparing specific company regulations to be observed in their respective companies. In response to the recent rapid advances in IT technology, Kyocera prepared the “Smart Device Management Regulations” in FY2013. These regulations cover smartphones, tablet terminals and other devices used for business purposes. The regulations will be reviewed periodically for ongoing enhancement of information security measures. Electronic Information Security Management System An Electronic Information Security Executive Committee with Kyocera’s president as committee chair has been 30 has also begun training exercises to ensure the safety of people and to secure a steady path from prevention of secondary disasters to restoration of business activity. In addition to continuation of BCP training, these activities are being expanded throughout the Kyocera Group. BCP measures for supply chains are being strengthened in cooperation with business associates. Overall, we are reinforcing the business continuity system to prevent stoppages in production activity in the event of a disaster. Information Security Measures Concerning information assets handled by employees and other parties, the Kyocera Group is clarifying basic matters that must be complied with and constructing a management system. The Group is thereby focusing on effective and efficient use of information assets. Preparation of Electronic Information Security Management Policy & Regulations With thorough protection of information assets as the objective, we are setting Electronic Information Security Management Policy for the entire Group and related management regulations. Based on the policy and regulations, all companies in the Kyocera Group are preparing specific company regulations to be observed in their respective companies. In response to the recent rapid advances in IT technology, Kyocera prepared the “Smart Device Management Regulations” in FY2013. These regulations cover smartphones, tablet terminals and other devices used for business purposes. The regulations will be reviewed periodically for ongoing enhancement of information security measures. Electronic Information Security Management System An Electronic Information Security Executive Committee with Kyocera’s president as committee chair has been established for the Kyocera Group. The committee implements regular information security training, internal audits and other procedures to ensure employees have thorough knowledge of technological countermeasures and security policy. In Kyocera, education on information security is conducted as part of training for employees newly admitted to the company. Additionally, ongoing training and awareness activities relating to information security are conducted for all employees. Kyocera is thus promoting measures for maintaining the security awareness of each employee at a high level. Meanwhile, to further strengthen security management in the Kyocera Group in Japan, in FY2013 we set up an integrated audit system within the Group and began monitoring the state of implementation of compliance regulations. Internal audits will be maintained, and in FY2014 the scope will be expanded with establishment of internal audit systems in China and Southeast Asia. Furthermore, security diagnoses of servers accessible from outside the company will be implemented at any time. 31 Supply Chain Management Kyocera regards business associates as “valued partners” and places great importance on joint growth and Supply Supply Supply Chain ChainManagement mutual improvement. For instance, by receiving active suggestions for improvements from business associates, Chain Management Management both parties can apply knowledge and insight toward enhancing the quality, environment, delivery time and cost of a product Kyocera or service. regards business associates as “valued partners” and places great importance on joint growth and Kyocera regards business associates as “valued partners” and places great importance on joint growth and mutual improvement. For instance, by receiving active suggestions for improvements from business associates, mutual improvement. For instance, by receiving active suggestions for improvements from business associates, both parties Topics can apply knowledge FY2013andGoals insight toward enhancing FY2013 the Results FY2014time quality, environment, delivery and cost Goals both parties can apply knowledge and insight toward enhancing the quality, environment, delivery time and cost of a product or service. of a product or service. Expand supplier seminars Held supplier seminars in Continue holding supplier held outside Japan Japan, China and Korea seminars Topics Build FY2013 a control Goals system for Held FY2013 briefings Results for domestic SurveyFY2014 Goals overseas business Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals conflict minerals Expand supplier seminars business Held associates supplier seminars on in associatesholding on their Continue use of supplier Strengthen Supply Expand supplier seminars Held supplier seminars in Continue holding supplier held outside Japan measures Japan, Chinafor conflict and Korea conflict seminars minerals Chain held outside Japan Japan, China and Korea seminars Build a control system for minerals Held briefings for domestic Survey overseas business Management Build a control system for Held briefings for domestic Survey overseas business conflict minerals Surveyedassociates business domestic on associates on their use of Strengthen Supply conflict minerals business associates business associates on associates on their use of Strengthen Supply measures for conflicton conflict minerals Chain measures their use offor conflict conflict conflict minerals Chain minerals Management minerals minerals domestic Management Surveyed Surveyed domestic business associates on business associates on | Construct Partnerships with Business Associates | Compliance their use ofwithconflict the Subcontract Act | Measures on Conflict their use of conflict Minerals | minerals minerals Construct | Construct Partnerships Partnerships Associates | Associates with Business with Business Compliance with the Subcontract Act | Measures on Conflict | Construct Partnerships with Business Associates | Compliance with the Subcontract Act | Measures on Conflict Minerals | Minerals | For our business associates, procurement departments are windows the company. intoConstruct We must constantly Partnerships with be wary of the Business buyer’s logic, or Associates theConstruct logic of a partyPartnerships with Business in a stronger position. Associates To consistently engage in fair purchasing activities, we have adopted the following For our business associates, procurement departments are windows rationale: For our business “Purchasing peopleassociates, aremust procurement representatives departments the ofwary company, so windows are always into the company. We constantly be of the buyer’s logic, beor into the fair and company. We must constantly be wary of the buyer’s logic, or the logicupright. of a partyPurchasing in a strongerpeople must become position. a reliable To consistently and engage in the logic of valuable a party division a stronger byinmaking position. To consistently engageand in fair purchasing activities, weconscious have adopted efforts thank others thetofollowing rationale: fair humblypurchasing reflect activities, our own we have adopted the following rationale: “Purchasing people arebehaviors.” representatives of the company, so always be “Purchasing people are representatives of the company, so always be fair and upright. Purchasing people must become a reliable and fair and upright. Purchasing people must become a reliable and valuable division by making conscious efforts to thank others and valuable division by making conscious efforts to thank others and humbly reflect our Furthermore, own behaviors.” humbly reflecttoour deepen understanding of Kyocera’s basic approach to business transactions, we actively visit own behaviors.” suppliers and use various opportunities for communication. In this way, we are building partnerships based on mutual trust. Furthermore, to deepen understanding of Kyocera’s basic approach to business transactions, we actively visit Furthermore, to deepen understanding of Kyocera’s basic approach to business transactions, we actively visit Supplier suppliers and Selection Policy use various opportunities for communication. In this way, we are building partnerships based on suppliers and use various opportunities for communication. In this way, we are building partnerships based on mutual trust. mutual trust. Kyocera has set a Supplier Selection Policy. When a prospective new supplier seeks to conduct business with Kyocera, that supplier is asked to provide a report giving a general overview of the company, and to complete a Supplier Selection Policy Supplier questionnaire Selection Policy about environment-related activities. The supplier is assessed and then selected or turned down based on these materials and various Kyocera has set a Supplier Selection Policy. When findings as established in the a prospective newSupplier seeks toPolicy. Selection supplier Similarly, conduct business with Kyocera established has set a suppliersSupplier Selection Policy. When a prospective new supplier seeks to conduct business with Kyocera, that supplierare periodically is asked surveyed, to provide a report assessed giving aand reviewed. general overview of the company, and to complete a Kyocera, that supplier is asked to provide a report giving a general overview of the company, and to complete a questionnaire about environment-related activities. The supplier is assessed and then selected or turned down questionnaire about environment-related activities. The supplier is assessed and then selected or turned down based on these materials and various findings as established in the Supplier Selection Policy. Similarly, based ! Whether the materials on these fundamental various of andthinking findings as established Group is in the Kyocera the Supplier Selection Policy. Similarly, understood. established suppliers are periodically surveyed, assessed and reviewed. established suppliers are periodically surveyed, assessed and reviewed. ! Whether the thinking of the business operator and the management rationale of the prospective supplier are acceptable to Kyocera. ! Whether the fundamental company aims thinking of themanagement to improve Kyocera Group is understood. ability, technological strength and manufacturing ! Whether the fundamental thinking of the Kyocera Group is understood. ability; and ! Whether thinkingbusiness thewhether management of the business operator is appropriate and the management in terms of scale and stablerationale and finances the prospective supplier ! Whether the thinking of the business operator and the management rationale of the prospective supplier (e.g.: VA*1 / VE*2 proposal are acceptable to Kyocera. strength) . are acceptable to Kyocera. ! Whether the company aims such areas excelstoinimprove as quality,ability, management price,technological service response, delivery time,strength etc. and manufacturing ! Whether the company aims to improve management ability, technological strength and manufacturing (e.g.: ISO9000 ability; series and whether or equivalent business quality management management is appropriatesystems; and stable lead-time of scale activity). in termsreduction and finances ability; and whether business management is appropriate and stable in terms of scale and finances ! (e.g.: WhetherVA*1 the/ VE*2 companyproposal strength) is seriously . involved in global environmental conservation activity (e.g.: VA*1 / VE*2 proposal strength) . (e.g.: ISOthe ! Whether 14001 certification). company excels in such areas as quality, price, delivery time, service response, etc. ! Whether the company excels in such areas as quality, price, delivery time, service response, etc. (e.g.: ISO9000 series or equivalent quality management systems; lead-time reduction activity). (e.g.: Analysis *1Value ISO9000 series or equivalent quality management systems; lead-time reduction activity). ! Whether *2Value the company is seriously involved in global environmental conservation activity Engineering ! Whether the company is seriously involved in global environmental conservation activity (e.g.: ISO 14001 certification). (e.g.: ISO 14001 certification). Holding Supplier Seminars 32 *1Value Analysis *1Value Analysis Each year, business associates are invited to supplier seminars at *2Value Engineering Holding Supplier Seminars *2Value Engineering Each year, business associates are invited to supplier seminars at Kyocera. Holding The purpose Supplier is to give suppliers a better understanding of Seminars the Management Direction, business policies and other facets of the Each Kyocerayear, business Group, and toassociates are invited ask for further to supplier seminars at cooperation. Kyocera. The purpose is to give suppliers a better understanding of In Management theFY2013, Direction, supplier seminars business were heldpolicies in Japan other facets and (Shiga of the and Kyoto), Kyocera and in Chinaand also Group, ask forSome andtoKorea. further628cooperation. representatives of 432 companies took part. In FY2013, supplier seminars were held in Japan (Shiga and Kyoto), and also During the in supplier China and Korea. social gathering 628 representatives Some held of 432 were in March 2013, awards companiestotook presented part. eight companies for their particular cooperation in such Supplier seminar (Kyoto) areas as quality, price and delivery over a year of business During the supplier social gathering held in March 2013, awards were transactions. presented to eight companies for their particular cooperation in such Supplier seminar (Kyoto) areas as Chain Supply quality,CSR price Questionnaire and delivery over a year of business transactions. Kyocera sends copies of the Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidebook to business associates. Our goal is to gain theirChain Supply understanding of Kyocera’s thinking on CSR and to ask for cooperation in furthering our CSR activities. CSR Questionnaire Additionally, new business associates are asked to complete a Supply Chain CSR Questionnaire based on the Kyocera sends guidebook. copies Using of the Supply Chain the questionnaire, we try CSR Promotion to ascertain current statetoofbusiness the Guidebook their CSR measuresOur associates. is to goal to relating gain their human understanding rights, labor, safety of and health,thinking Kyocera’s on CSR environment, fairand to ask for operating practices, ethicsinand cooperation furthering our CSR activities. other areas. Additionally, new business associates are asked to complete a Supply Chain CSR Questionnaire based on the guidebook. In FY2013, Using 76% oftheourquestionnaire, we try toassessed ascertainthemselves business associates the currentasstate of their “Highly CSR measures Satisfactory” relating to or “Satisfactory.” human rights, labor, safety and health, environment, fair operating practices, ethics and Kyocera will continue promoting activities to encourage active implementation of CSR measures by business other areas. associates. In FY2013, 76% of our business associates assessed themselves as “Highly Satisfactory” or “Satisfactory.” Kyocera will continue promoting activities to encourage active implementation of CSR measures by business associates. Supply chain CSR survey results Supply chain CSR survey results Compliance with the Subcontract Act To achieve thorough compliance with the Subcontract Act, Kyocera continually implements internal training Compliance relating to subcontractwithtransactions, for peopleAct the Subcontract and business divisions involved in procurement. We have also established a system for application and control, to be followed in day-to-day business affairs. Meanwhile, To achieve thorough procurement compliance departments and audit the Subcontract withdepartments Act, Kyocera are working continually to ensure thoroughimplements compliance internal training by conducting relating to periodic subcontract transactions, for people and business divisions involved in procurement. We have also audits. established a system for application and control, to be followed in day-to-day business affairs. Meanwhile, procurement departments and audit departments are working to ensure thorough compliance by conducting periodic audits. Measures on Conflict Minerals In the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries, conflict minerals may serve as funding sources for Measures militia groupson Conflicthuman committing Minerals rights abuses. Kyocera policy is not to purchase conflict minerals, or materials and products using metals made from conflict minerals. 33 In the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries, conflict minerals may serve as funding sources for militia groups committing human rights abuses. Kyocera policy is not to purchase conflict minerals, or materials and products using metals made from conflict minerals. relating to subcontract transactions, for people and business divisions involved in procurement. We have also established a system for application and control, to be followed in day-to-day business affairs. Meanwhile, procurement departments and audit departments are working to ensure thorough compliance by conducting periodic audits. Measures on Conflict Minerals In the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries, conflict minerals may serve as funding sources for militia groups committing human rights abuses. Kyocera policy is not to purchase conflict minerals, or materials and products using metals made from conflict minerals. In August 2012, following announcement of detailed regulations relating to the conflict minerals provision in the U.S.A. financial regulatory reform bill, the Kyocera Group (in Japan) decided on the essential points of an internal survey and endeavored to attain thorough awareness of the provision content. In January 2013, briefings were held for 658 business associates (companies in Japan) of the Kyocera Group (in Japan). The survey commenced in February. Next, the Kyocera Group will conduct surveys of business associates outside Japan. Responses returned by business associates are being analyzed, and subsequent measures will be considered. Case Example Approach by Overseas Group Company As the leading supplier of tantalum capacitors, AVX Corporation, a consolidated subsidiary of Kyocera in the United States, has continued its efforts to keep conflict minerals out of the supply chain. AVX Corporation announced that as of December 1, 2011 all its current tantalum powder and wire suppliers were fully compliant with the independently-audited Conflict-Free Smelter Program (CFS). AVX will continue to exclusively use tantalum powder and wire from conflict-free compliant smelters in accordance with the principles of the Dodd-Frank legislation and current Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines. 34 Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfactionto Approaches Levels Raising Quality and Customer Approaches Satisfaction Levels to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels Thorough application of the “Customer-First” Principle is a top priority of the Kyocera Group — we are constantly Thorough working toapplication of theproduct further enhance “Customer-First” quality, and provideiscustomers Principle a top priority ofproducts with and Group the Kyocera —that services we are bring constantly working to further enhance product quality, and provide customers with products and services complete satisfaction and enjoyment. By these means, the Kyocera Group is striving to earn trust and contribute that bring complete to society.satisfaction and enjoyment. By these means, the Kyocera Group is striving to earn trust and contribute to society. Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Improve CS* Index with Held Kyocera CS Hold Kyocera CS Advance Measures ImproveinCS* training Index with quality Held Kyocera Committee Improvement CS Hold Kyocera Committee Improvement CS Advance for Raising Measures Quality training in quality Improvement meetings Committee & improved CS Improvement meetings and Committee further for andRaising Customer Quality meetings Index (18% & improved improvement CS meetingsCS improve and further Index (24% and Customer Satisfaction Levels IndexFY2012) from (18% improvement improve CS Index improvement from (24% Satisfaction Levels from FY2012) improvement from FY2013) FY2013) * CS: Customer Satisfaction * CS: Customer Satisfaction | Approaches to Quality Improvement | Approaches to Raising Customer Satisfaction Levels | | Approaches to Quality Improvement | Approaches to Raising Customer Satisfaction Levels | Approaches to Quality Improvement Approaches to Quality Improvement Kyocera Quality Policy Kyocera Quality Policy 1. Kyocera places top priority on our environmental management and product safety systems. 1. 2. Kyocera Kyocera places providestop priority on products andour environmental services management to our customers and product that exceed safety systems. their expectations by putting them 2. Kyocera first. provides products and services to our customers that exceed their expectations by putting them first. 3. Kyocera aims to be a world leader in quality by doing every job right the first time. 3. Kyocera aims to be a world leader in quality by doing every job right the first time. The Kyocera Group has established the Kyocera Quality Policy to achieve production of quality goods that fully The satisfyKyocera Group has our customers’ established needs. the Kyocera We develop our businesses achieve on thetobasis Quality Policy production of this Quality Policy, andgoods of quality aim tothat fully always satisfy that isneeds. our customers’ be an enterprise worthyWe develop of trust our businesses throughout the world. to this the basis of onMoreover, Quality provide Policy, leveland a high aim to always of satisfaction to be an enterprise that is worthy of trust throughout the world. Moreover, to provide a high our customers, Kyocera is doing everything possible to ensure observance and correct application of the rules, level of satisfaction to our customers, Kyocera starting at the planning stages. is doing everything possible to ensure observance and correct application of the rules, starting at the planning stages. Quality Management System Quality Management System To realize the Kyocera Quality Policy, we are taking the following three measures to strengthen and improve the To realize Quality the KyoceraSystem: Management Quality Policy, we are taking the following three measures to strengthen and improve the Quality Management System: !Ongoing improvement of the Quality Management System in accordance with ISO9001 and other standards !Ongoing !Set quality improvement of the targets in each Qualitydivision business based System Management with ISO9001 in accordanceDirection on the Management and other and Quality standards Policy, then !Set quality prepare plans and in targets each business implement based ontothe divisionactivities improvement Management targets Direction and Quality Policy, then reach prepare !Use plansCS Kyocera implement improvement andImprovement Committee activities reach targets activitiestotoadvance measures for prevention of quality problems and !Use Kyocera CS prevention of recurrenceImprovement Committee activities to advance measures for prevention of quality problems and prevention of recurrence ISO9001 Certification Status (pdf/115KB) ISO9001 Certification Status (pdf/115KB) Kyocera CS Improvement Committee Kyocera CS Improvement Committee Chaired by Kyocera’s president, the Kyocera CS Improvement Chaired Committee Kyocera’s by has president,ofthe representatives Kyocera each CS Improvement business division in the Committee has representatives of each Kyocera Group (Japan) serving as committee members. business divisionThein the Kyocera Group (Japan) serving as committee Committee meets once a month to advance improvement of the CSmembers. The Committee Index in each meets business advance a month toSpecific once segment. improvement actions include the of the CS sharing Index of in each business on qualitysegment. information among divisions, actions include Specific prevention the sharing of quality of information problems beforeon they quality among occur, anddivisions, prevention prevention of quality of recurrence. problems before they occur, and prevention of recurrence. 35 prepare plans and implement improvement activities to reach targets !Use Kyocera CS Improvement Committee activities to advance measures for prevention of quality problems and prevention of recurrence ISO9001 Certification Status (pdf/115KB) Kyocera CS Improvement Committee Chaired by Kyocera’s president, the Kyocera CS Improvement Committee has representatives of each business division in the Kyocera Group (Japan) serving as committee members. The Committee meets once a month to advance improvement of the CS Index in each business segment. Specific actions include the sharing of information on quality among divisions, prevention of quality problems before they occur, and prevention of recurrence. Kyocera Product Safety Policy Kyocera Kyocera Product Product Safety Policy Safety Policy 1. Kyocera is fully acquainted with the latest information related to product liability and product safety. 2. Kyocera maintains an industry-leading standard of product safety. 1. Kyocera 1. Kyocera Kyocera systematically 3. fully acquainted is fully is acquainted with the with practices the latest product information latestsafety information related related to in accordance product towith product liability liability and manuals. product safety. and product safety. 2. Kyocera maintains an industry-leading standard 2. Kyocera maintains an industry-leading standard of product safety. of product safety. 3. Kyocera 3. Kyocera systematically systematically practices product safety practices product safety in in accordance accordance withwith manuals. manuals. Safety is the utmost priority for all products made or sold by Kyocera. Regardless of form or function, they must not endanger a person’s life or well-being, nor inflict damage on property. From this perspective, Kyocera has set aSafety Product Safety is is the the utmost Safety utmost priority Policy, priority for in additionall products for all products made or or sold madePolicy. to its Quality sold by Kyocera. Regardless by Kyocera. Regardless of form or of form they must function, they or function, must not not endanger a person’s life or well-being, nor inflict damage on property. From this perspective, Kyocera has Kyoceraendanger a establishedperson’s Productlife or well-being, Safety System nor inflict Guidelines damage as a on property. concrete code From of this action perspective, at all levels Kyocera of corporatehas set set a Product a activity. Product Safety Policy, Safety Additionally, Policy, in addition in addition to the Guidelines forits to Quality Product QualitySafety its Policy. Policy.Labeling serve as supplementary guidelines for Kyocera Kyocera established understanding established Product international Product Safety Safety System standards relatingGuidelines System as a as to safety labels. Guidelines code of concrete code a concrete action at of action at all all levels levels ofof corporate corporate activity. Additionally, the Guidelines for Product Safety Labeling serve as supplementary guidelines for activity. Additionally, the Guidelines for Product Safety Labeling serve as supplementary guidelines for understanding understanding Information standards Appropriateinternational international relating to Disclosurerelating standards to safety safety labels. labels. ResponseAppropriate Information to Accidents InformationInvolving Appropriate Disclosure DisclosureProducts Kyocera Response has clarified emergency contactProducts numbers for response in the case of a serious accident involving our Response to to Accidents Accidents Involving Involving Products company’s products. The system enables immediate notification of reports from customers. At the same time, Kyocera the Consumer Kyocera has clarified has clarified emergency Affairs Agency emergency contact is promptly contact advised numbersoffor numbers any for response matters,in response the inand case case of of a theinformation a serious serious accident is disclosed accident involving through our relevant involving our company’s Web sites and company’s products. The other media. products. system enables immediate notification of reports from customers. The system enables immediate notification of reports from customers. At the same time, At the same time, the the Consumer Consumer Affairs Agency is Affairs Agency is promptly promptly advised advised of of any any matters, matters, and and information information is is disclosed disclosed through through relevant relevant Web sites and other Web sites and other media. media. Approaches to Raising Customer Satisfaction Levels ActionApproaches by the Customer Approaches to Raising to Raising Customer Support Customer CenterSatisfaction Satisfaction Levels Levels The ActionKyocerathe Group operatesSupport a Customer Support Center (Call Center) to handle mainly matters concerning Action by by the Customer Customer Support Center Center products for general consumers. By responding earnestly, correctly and promptly to customer inquiries, The The Kyocera Kyocera Group consultations, operates complaints Group operatesand a Customer other a issues,Support Customer the Kyocera Support Center Center (Call Group Center) (Call aims to raise Center) to handle to mainly the level handle mainly matters matters concerning of customer satisfaction. concerning products for general consumers. By responding earnestly, correctly and products for general consumers. By responding earnestly, correctly and promptly to customer inquiries, promptly to customer inquiries, consultations, Valuable complaints information consultations, complaints and other and and inquiries other issues, received issues, from the the Kyocera Kyocera Group Group aims our customers aims to raise to are promptly the the level level to raise reported of customer of top management customer satisfaction. and satisfaction. shared among the relevant business segments. The information received is used to improve the quality of our Valuable products Valuableand services.and information information received from inquiries received and inquiries from our our customers customers are are promptly promptly reported reported to management and top management to top and shared shared among the relevant business segments. The information received is used to improve the among the relevant business segments. The information received is used to improve the quality quality of of our our products Kyocera productsreceived and and services. 34,262 inquiries in FY2013. services. Kyocera Kyocera received Safeguarding received 34,262 inquiries 34,262 Customer Personal inquiries in FY2013. in Information FY2013. In the Kyocera Group, the personal information of customers is as a rule obtained directly from customers, upon Safeguarding Customer Safeguarding Customer PersonalPersonal Information agreement with the customers, and only after clarification Information 36of the purpose for which it would be used is provided. In the Kyocera Group, the personal information of customers is Kyocera Group, the the personal information In Personal information stored by the Kyocera Group of customers is handled as a as a rule rule obtained appropriately is obtained directly in accordance from directly with fromstrict controlsupon customers, customers, upon agreement agreement with the customers, and only after clarification of the purpose for which it would be used is provided. based on with the the customers, Electronic Information and only after Security clarification Management of the Policy purpose and for associatedwhich it would regulations. be used is provided. Valuable information and inquiries received from our customers are promptly reported to top management and shared among the relevant business segments. The information received is used to improve the quality of our products and services. Kyocera received 34,262 inquiries in FY2013. Safeguarding Customer Personal Information In the Kyocera Group, the personal information of customers is as a rule obtained directly from customers, upon agreement with the customers, and only after clarification of the purpose for which it would be used is provided. Personal information stored by the Kyocera Group is handled appropriately in accordance with strict controls based on the Electronic Information Security Management Policy and associated regulations. Efforts of Universal Design Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. manufactures printers, multifunctional products (MFPs) disabilities and other and senior products citizens. Throughout theuser-friendly that are development people withfrom forprocesses, product planning disabilities and design and senior manufacturing to Throughout citizens. the and sales, we processes, conduct from development research product planning andimprovement on product for increasedand design to manufacturing sales, based usability on we conduct perspectives of diverse research on product customers,for improvement including people increased with based usability on and disabilities senior citizens. perspectives of For example, diverse developers customers, including peoplevarious undertake practicaland with disabilities experience senior citizens. verification and For example, tests with the undertake developers realizing purpose ofvarious greater practical experienceconvenience functional and tests and verification design. betterwith Such measures the purpose include of realizing putting on greater heavy kits convenience functional that assume the andphysical constraints better design. Such certain measureselderly people include face,on putting and heavy kits thatthe operating products assume while constrained the physical constraints a wheelchair. to certain elderly people face, and operating the products while constrained to a wheelchair. Universal Design (KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc.) Universal Design (KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc.) Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels (Example) Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels (Example) 37 Satisfaction Levels (Example) | Fraunhofer Institute Tests Confirm PID Resistance of Kyocera Solar Modules | Commencement of Storage Battery System and HEMS Installation Seminars | Implementing Practical Skills Training | Smart Sonic Receiver® Earns “Best of What’s New Award” from Popular Science Magazine | MEW-type End Mills Win JCMTA Award | ECOSYS Printer Wins German Design Award | Latest Ceramic Knife Wins Award for First Time in U.S. Design Contest | Technology Award Received from Japanese Society for Biomaterials | Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels (Example) Fraunhofer Institute Tests Confirm PID Resistance of Kyocera Solar Modules In Potential Induced Degradation (PID) resistance tests conducted by the Fraunhofer Institute’s Center for Silicon Photovoltaics, Kyocera solar modules were shown to have zero power output degradation. The Center subjected solar modules produced by 13 companies to an original high voltage load test. Module surfaces were covered with aluminum foil, and the modules were then exposed to 50°C, relative humidity 50% and high voltage of 1000V for 48 hours. The Center announced that of the 13 companies’ products tested, only modules by four companies showed zero power output decline. Kyocera will continue to strive for high quality and high reliability. Commencement of Storage Battery System and HEMS Installation Seminars Kyocera Solar Corporation (KSC) began holding Storage Battery System and HEMS* Installation Seminars in July 2012 to train technicians in the practical installation of such systems. During seminars conducted in July at six locations in Japan, lectures focused on system outlines, installation methods and points to note in installation. KSC will continue working to enhance installation quality through active cooperation with technicians. * HEMS: Home Energy Management System Installation seminar Implementing Practical Skills Training From FY2013, Kyocera Communication Systems Co., Ltd (KCCS) has been expanding practical training to include people in partner enterprises operating wireless base stations and other sites. The objective is to raise the level of engineering skills while also preventing worksite accidents and errors. During a three-day training session held in January 2013, 20 people from KCCS, KCCS Mobile Engineering Co., Ltd and seven partner enterprises learned about antenna adjustment, cable installation methods, and other matters. KCCS continues to provide ongoing training to develop human resources and raise the level of engineering know-how. A practical training session Smart Sonic Receiver® Earns “Best of What’s New Award” from Popular Science Magazine A ceramic piezoelectric actuator developed by Kyocera transmits clear voice quality to the user directly through vibrations in the handset’s display screen, eliminating the need for a traditional speaker. This new technology is called the Smart Sonic Receiver®, and it was selected for the “2012 Best of What’s New Awards (Gadget Category)” presented by the science and technology magazine, Popular Science. The magazine was first 38 antenna adjustment, cable installation methods, and other matters. KCCS continues to provide ongoing training to develop human resources and raise the level of engineering know-how. A practical training session Smart Sonic Receiver® Earns “Best of What’s New Award” from Popular Science Magazine A ceramic piezoelectric actuator developed by Kyocera transmits clear voice quality to the user directly through vibrations in the handset’s display screen, eliminating the need for a traditional speaker. This new technology is called the Smart Sonic Receiver®, and it was selected for the “2012 Best of What’s New Awards (Gadget Category)” presented by the science and technology magazine, Popular Science. The magazine was first published in 1872 in the U.S.A., and it now boasts a circulation of about 1.3 million. Editors and contributing writers select 100 innovative new products and technologies from thousands of products and technologies gathered from around the world. Smart Sonic Receiver® was highly evaluated for comfort, convenience and high sound clarity compared with traditional mobile phone speakers. URBANO – by au (Japan) DIGNO® R – by SoftBank (Japan) Torque – by Sprint (U.S.A.) Hydro XTRM – by U.S. Cellular (U.S.A.) A smartphone equipped with the Smart Sonic Receiver® (2013 model) MEW-type End Mills Win JCMTA Award MEW-type milling cutters, a new generation of end mills developed by Kyocera, won the Technological Achievement Award in the 2012 JCMTA (Japan Cemented Carbide Tool Manufacturers Association) Awards. The JCMTA Awards were established in 1978 to acknowledge exceptional technological development and improvements in the carbide tool industry. The award-winning MEW end mill was commercialized for its potential to raise the levels of material technology, application technology, production technology and other areas. Kyocera’s reception of the award was based on the high assessment of the MEW’s capacity to achieve stable and highly efficient end mill processing, in addition to its outstanding economical MEW-type end mill and two-faced, fourperformance. Kyocera has now received the Technological cornered chips Achievement Award for five consecutive years. ECOSYS Printer Wins German Design Award The monochrome printer ECOSYS FS-4300DN Series, produced by Kyocera Document Solutions, Inc., won the iF Product Design39 Award 2013 (Office & Business Category) sponsored by iF International Forum Design GmbH in Hanover, Germany. Industrial products are and other areas. Kyocera’s reception of the award was based on the high assessment of the MEW’s capacity to achieve stable and highly efficient end mill processing, in addition to its outstanding economical MEW-type end mill and two-faced, fourperformance. Kyocera has now received the Technological cornered chips Achievement Award for five consecutive years. ECOSYS Printer Wins German Design Award The monochrome printer ECOSYS FS-4300DN Series, produced by Kyocera Document Solutions, Inc., won the iF Product Design Award 2013 (Office & Business Category) sponsored by iF International Forum Design GmbH in Hanover, Germany. Industrial products are submitted from all over the world and assessed for design, function, operability and other features of quality, as well as environmental friendliness. The international award has been presented for outstanding products over more than half a century. This printer series was acclaimed for its original design, high functionality and environmental friendliness. ECOSYS FS-4300DN Series Latest Ceramic Knife Wins Award for First Time in U.S. Design Contest The new ceramic knife sold in overseas markets, the LTD-160, won for the first time an award in the “Cutlery & Cutting Tool” category of the 2013 Housewares Design Awards. The design contest commends new products in staple household wares which feature outstanding design. This is the 10th year of the awards. The design of the award-winning ceramic knife LTD-160 centered on an image of the traditional Japanese kitchen knife. The design focuses on ergonomics and was highly evaluated for the ease of use of the handle, as well as other aspects. Award-winning ceramic knife LTD-160 Technology Award Received from Japanese Society for Biomaterials Kyocera Medical Corporation was awarded the Technology Award by the Japanese Society for Biomaterials for the MPC polymer technology used in the company’s artificial hip joint product, “Aquala® Liner.” MPC polymers have the same molecular structure as human cell membranes, and this technology has enabled the world’s first successful graft polymerization to create a sliding surface for artificial joints. The Society highly assessed the technology for “development of long-life artificial hip joints based on a new biomaterial design.” Awards ceremony 40 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Respect for Human Rights and Diversity The Kyocera Group has established and is taking action based on the following personnel vision: “To work continually on appropriate operation and improvement of various personnel measures. To create a workplace environment in which all employees can take pride in the company and feel that their work is worthwhile, while sharing both hardships and joys. To thereby contribute to achieving the Management Rationale.” Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Establish measures Implemented awarenessContinue awarenessrelating to raising raising activities relating to raising activities relating to awareness of human rights human rights and labor human rights and labor during morning meetings, during morning meetings, through announcements, through announcements, Advance Measures reading in turn from the reading in turn from the Relating to Human Kyocera Employee’s Kyocera Employee’s Rights Action Guideline, etc. Action Guideline, etc. Conducted legislation Continue legislation audits audits to ascertain the to ascertain the state of state of compliance with compliance with laws laws relating to human relating to human rights rights and labor and labor Continue recruitment of Recruited 8 foreign Expand measures for new foreign graduates graduates from abroad and supporting a work-life from abroad, and active foreign students based in balance hiring of foreign students Japan. Provided Japanese Develop awareness-raising studying in Japan language training, regular activities to promote the Promote understanding of interviews, etc. to help careers of women in the measures supporting a foreign recruits become workplace work-life balance familiar with the company. Provided information on systems relating to Promote Respect marriage, pregnancy, for Diversity and childbirth, child-rearing and Balance of Work other matters, in internal and Life bulletins, and on the internal Web site Held seminars for section managers on steps to take when subordinates seek consultation relating to child-rearing Held information exchange meetings for employees involved in child-rearing | Respect for Human Rights | Respect for Diversity / Balance of Work and Life | Approaches to Stimulating Communication | Respect for Human Rights Aside from compliance with the laws of individual countries, the Kyocera Group implements measures in accordance with the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Human Rights Convention by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and other international conventions. In 2011, the Kyocera Group formally joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global platform setting out 10 fundamental principles relating to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As stated in these international conventions, the Kyocera Group explicitly prohibits the use of forced labor and child labor, as well as 41 discriminatory treatment on the basis of gender, age, beliefs, nationality, physical features, etc. The Kyocera Group is also working to prevent power harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace. Held information exchange meetings for employees involved in child-rearing | Respect for Human Rights | Respect for Diversity / Balance of Work and Life | Approaches to Stimulating Communication | Respect for Human Rights Aside from compliance with the laws of individual countries, the Kyocera Group implements measures in accordance with the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Human Rights Convention by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and other international conventions. In 2011, the Kyocera Group formally joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global platform setting out 10 fundamental principles relating to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As stated in these international conventions, the Kyocera Group explicitly prohibits the use of forced labor and child labor, as well as In addition, thetreatment discriminatory Kyocera Groupon the endeavors basis of gender, age, beliefs, views nationality, to exchange physical features, and share information etc. The Kyocera with employees through Group is also working to prevent power harassment and sexual harassment in the organizations such as labor unions and workplace associations. The Kyocera Group promotes development of a workplace. In addition, addition, the comfortable In the workKyocera environment Kyocera Group endeavors Group that endeavors to fosters to exchange views motivation. exchange views andand share share information information with with employees through employees through organizations such organizations such as labor unions as labor and workplace workplace associations. unions and associations. The Kyocera Group The Kyocera promotes development Group promotes development of of a a comfortable Measures work Relatingenvironment to Human that fosters Rights comfortable work environment that fosters motivation. motivation. and Labor To raise employee awareness Measures concerning human rights and labor, time at morning meetings in Kyocera is set Measures Relating Relating to Rights and Human Rights to Human and Labor Labor aside for announcements on matters requiring compliance in the workplace. Reading in turn about related issues from To raise To raise employee the employee Kyocera Employee’s awarenessAction awareness concerning Guideline, concerning human human rights which rights and labor, time distributed is and labor, time atemployees, to allat morning meetings morning meetings is also an in Kyocera Kyocera in is set is set ongoing activity. aside for announcements Additionally, the Human on matters Resources requiring Department compliance conducts in the workplace. independent checks Reading for contravention aside for announcements on matters requiring compliance in the workplace. Reading in turn about related issues in turn about of related laws in issues dayfrom the from to-day Kyocera business Kyoceraaffairs, the Employee’s Employee’s Action while the Legal Action Guideline, which is which Audit Department Guideline, is distributed distributed to all all employees, to regularly implements legislation employees, is is also also an an ongoing compliance ongoing activity. audits. By activity. Additionally, these and other Additionally, the Human Resources Human Kyocera the means, Resources Department is striving conducts for thorough Department conducts independent compliance. checks for contravention independent checks for contravention of laws in day-of laws in dayto-day business to-day affairs, while while the business affairs, Legal Audit Audit Department the Legal regularly implements Department regularly implements legislation compliance audits. legislation compliance audits. ByBy these and these other means, means, Kyocera and other Kyocera isis striving striving for for thorough thorough compliance. compliance. One Approach Measures for Human Rights in Supply Chain Management One Approach One Approach In the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries, conflict minerals may serve as funding Measures Measures for Human for groups Humancommitting Rights in Rights Supply Supply inhuman Chain Chain Management Management sources for militia rights abuses. Kyocera’s policy is not to purchase conflict In the the Democratic minerals In Democratic Republic or materials, of Congo products, Republic of Congo etc. which and neighboring and neighboring countries, use metals derived countries,fromconflict conflict conflict minerals minerals. minerals mayWe may serve serve as funding conduct as funding surveys of sources business for militia associates groups on committing the matter of human conflict rights abuses. minerals. Kyocera’s policy is sources for militia groups committing human rights abuses. Kyocera’s policy is not to purchase conflict not to purchase conflict minerals minerals or products, etc. materials, products, or materials, etc. which which use metals derived use metals derived from from conflict conflict minerals. minerals. We We conduct conduct surveys surveys of of business associates Measures on on Conflict the matter Minerals of conflict business associates on the matter of conflict minerals. minerals. Measures Measures on on Conflict Conflict Minerals Minerals Respect for Diversity / Balance of Work and Life Respect Adapting Respect to for Diversity // Balance Diversity Globalization for Balance of Work and of Work and Life Life Since Kyocera’s first overseas office was established in 1968 (U.S.A.), localization has been the basic principle Adapting to Adapting to Globalization Globalization of recruitment. The Kyocera Group has always tried to appoint local employees to management positions. In Since Kyocera’s Since Kyocera, we hirefirst Kyocera’s andoverseas first office train people overseas who office was wascanestablished in 1968 (U.S.A.), in 1968 take responsibility established for globallocalization (U.S.A.), deploymenthas localization in the has been beenfuture. Fromprinciple the basic the basic that principle of recruitment. perspective, of recruitment. The FY2013 in The Kyocera Group we also Kyocera Group has hired has always graduates tried always tried to directly appoint from universities to appoint local employees local employees to management and graduate schools in to management China. In positions. positions. In Kyocera, we Additionally, Kyocera, we Kyocera hire and will traincontinue hire and train people who people who can take take to recruit can responsibility students who come responsibility forfrom for global abroad global deployment deployment ininthe the to studyin future. From Japan. future. that From that perspective, in perspective, FY2013 we in FY2013 we also also hired hired graduates directly from graduates directly from universities universities and and graduate graduate schools schools in in China. China. Additionally, Kyocera will continue to recruit students who come from abroad Additionally, Kyocera will continue to recruit students who come from abroad to study in Japan. to study in Japan. 42 minerals or materials, products, etc. which use metals derived from conflict minerals. We conduct surveys of business associates on the matter of conflict minerals. Measures on Conflict Minerals Respect for Diversity / Balance of Work and Life Adapting to Globalization Since Kyocera’s first overseas office was established in 1968 (U.S.A.), localization has been the basic principle of recruitment. The Kyocera Group has always tried to appoint local employees to management positions. In Kyocera, we hire and train people who can take responsibility for global deployment in the future. From that perspective, in FY2013 we also hired graduates directly from universities and graduate schools in China. Additionally, Kyocera will continue to recruit students who come from abroad to study in Japan. Promoting the Careers of Women in the Workplace Kyocera has established a Women’s Activity Promotion Committee with female employees taking the lead in developing activities. The objective is to build a workplace climate in which female employees increasingly put their abilities to the best use. Specifically, training is implemented to reform the awareness of each female employee, and exchange meetings are held with women employed by other companies. Additionally, section managers undergo training to support the cultivation of female employees. Information useful in raising awareness is distributed regularly. With these and other approaches, Kyocera is working to promote the active involvement of women throughout the workplace. In FY2013, seminars were held to train section managers to provide appropriate responses when they are approached by subordinates seeking advice on the use of systems relating to child-rearing. Details of the seminars were posted on the internal Web site. Kyocera also participates in running the Women’s Networking Forum, an organization jointly sponsored by corporations in the Kansai region of Japan to promote involvement by women. Kyocera actively promotes involvement of women within the company and in society. 43 In FY2013, seminars were held to train section managers to provide appropriate responses when they are approached by subordinates seeking advice on the use of systems relating to child-rearing. Details of the seminars were posted on the internal Web site. Kyocera also participates in running the Women’s Networking Forum, an organization jointly sponsored by corporations in the Kansai region of Japan to promote involvement by women. Kyocera actively promotes involvement of women within the company and in society. Women’s activity promotion system Main activities of the Women’s Activity Promotion Committee Goals Activities Opinion exchange meetings for female employees Provide opportunities for employees to gain confidence in the workplace by constructing an Exchange meetings with women of other companies internal network of female employees and through Discussion meetings of section managers concerning exchange of opinions. women in their groups Hold exchange meetings for working mothers Provide opportunity to draw images of the future and Lectures by female managers of other companies raise motivation for work Career design training for female employees Provide opportunity for section managers to acquire Seminars for section managers to promote women’s and learn the appropriate mindset and responses activities needed to make better use of women’s abilities Promote awareness reform and understanding Distribute awareness-raising information through the throughout the workplace internal bulletin, Web site, etc. Employing People with Disabilities Kyocera actively promotes an environment that supports the employment of people with disabilities and also makes it easier for them to work. Each employee is assigned to a workplace upon consideration of aptitude, the nature of the work, and other matters. In line with revision of the legislated hiring ratio in April 2013, Kyocera is developing an action plan to achieve the required ratio. All companies in the Kyocera Group are becoming even more united in actively providing employment opportunities for people with disabilities. 44 Measures for Child-Rearing and Nursing Care To support the balance of work and home life, Kyocera is introducing a child-rearing leave system. In FY2013, 138 employees used the system. Additionally, a family nursing care leave system that surpasses legal requirements enables employees to take a maximum of one year off work to nurse family members. Meanwhile, a shortened workday system is available for pregnant employees and employees raising children, through the third year of elementary school. In FY2013, 136 people used the system. Furthermore, Kyocera provides a daycare subsidy system with an annual subsidy of up to ¥200,000 yen per child. The system is available for use when the employee would normally have needed to take time off work to take a child to or from nursery school, or on school holidays, etc. Name of System Designated by Law Kyocera Corporation Standard To starting date of elementary To end of elementary school year Shortened Workday System school 3 Family Nursing Care Leave 3 months 1 year System Approaches to Stimulating Communication 45 Holding Company Events & After-Work Social Gatherings (“Compa”) Approaches to Stimulating Communication Holding Company Events & After-Work Social Gatherings (“Compa”) In the Kyocera Group, we believe there is a need for relationships of mutual trust between employees — they type of trust that might be found in families. Company-sponsored events and “compa” are considered vital means of building such trust. Kyocera Group “compa” are not simply social gatherings, they are opportunities for interaction aimed at strengthening mutual understanding on reaching specific objectives. This understanding can be attained, for example, by deepening discussion on work-related issues, and by participants declaring their goals. Companysponsored events and “compa” are good opportunities for communicating with directors and managerial employees, as well as people from other divisions with whom there is little day-to-day interaction. Such interaction offers the chance to build mutual acquaintance, to deepen friendship and strengthen bonds. Approach to Labor-Management Relations At Kyocera, great emphasis is put on building relationships based on trust and heart-to-heart bonds among employees. Labormanagement relations at Kyocera go beyond the generally accepted idea of harmony between management and labor. At Kyocera, the basis of the relationship is “coaxial labor and management,” where perspectives are shared on the same level. We carry out sports meets, summer festivals and many other kinds of events that stimulate and sustain such relations through unity. In Europe, the U.S.A., China and other countries, Kyocera continues to maintain appropriate labor relations via thorough laborSports festival (China) management consultation, in accordance with labor laws of individual countries. Labor and management on the same axis is the key for successful labor relations. Maintaining this stance will help to resolve problems in the workplace and keep the company on the path of sustainable development. One Approach Regulations Review Project The Regulations Review Project, undertaken jointly by labor and management, was launched in 2005. Employees’ needs and lifestyles become diversified along with changes in the social climate. Labor and management are therefore working together on checking systems and standards, to ensure they are always appropriate, fair and impartial. Labor and Management Exchange Conference Meetings of labor and management representatives are held each month in Kyocera plants and offices. The purpose of the meetings is to verify working conditions for employees and the workplace environment, and to actively exchange views on matters needing improvement, among other issues. Kyocera Group Sports Festival ( All-Sports ) “All-Sports” is co-sponsored by labor and management in the Kyocera Group to heighten cohesion and relationships of mutual trust throughout the Group via games and victory celebrations. During the 33rd All-Sports meet held in 2012, 34 teams that won preliminary tournaments at Kyocera plants, offices and domestic Kyocera Group companies engaged in 46 heated competition. A Tohoku Select Team was also formed in order to support reconstruction of In Europe, the U.S.A., China and other countries, Kyocera continues to maintain appropriate labor relations via thorough laborSports festival (China) management consultation, in accordance with labor laws of individual countries. Labor and management on the same axis is the key for successful labor relations. Maintaining this stance will help to resolve problems in the workplace and keep the company on the path of sustainable development. One Approach Regulations Review Project The Regulations Review Project, undertaken jointly by labor and management, was launched in 2005. Employees’ needs and lifestyles become diversified along with changes in the social climate. Labor and management are therefore working together on checking systems and standards, to ensure they are always appropriate, fair and impartial. Labor and Management Exchange Conference Meetings of labor and management representatives are held each month in Kyocera plants and offices. The purpose of the meetings is to verify working conditions for employees and the workplace environment, and to actively exchange views on matters needing improvement, among other issues. Kyocera Group Sports Festival ( All-Sports ) “All-Sports” is co-sponsored by labor and management in the Kyocera Group to heighten cohesion and relationships of mutual trust throughout the Group via games and victory celebrations. During the 33rd All-Sports meet held in 2012, 34 teams that won preliminary tournaments at Kyocera plants, offices and domestic Kyocera Group companies engaged in heated competition. A Tohoku Select Team was also formed in order to support reconstruction of the tsunami-hit Tohoku region. Measures for Raising Workplace Vitality Kyocera regularly conducts an awareness survey of all employees. The survey focuses on the level of satisfaction with work and the workplace environment, the management situation, the sense of trust in the company, and suggestions for improvements, etc. Responses from each organizational unit are analyzed, enabling diagnosis of “vitality level” in each workplace. In 2012, the survey was expanded to include Group 47 in 2012, 34 teams that won preliminary tournaments at Kyocera plants, offices and domestic Kyocera Group companies engaged in heated competition. A Tohoku Select Team was also formed in order to support reconstruction of the tsunami-hit Tohoku region. Measures for Raising Workplace Vitality Kyocera regularly conducts an awareness survey of all employees. The survey focuses on the level of satisfaction with work and the workplace environment, the management situation, the sense of trust in the company, and suggestions for improvements, etc. Responses from each organizational unit are analyzed, enabling diagnosis of “vitality level” in each workplace. In 2012, the survey was expanded to include Group companies in Japan. Results of analyses are compiled into a reference index. The index is then used in improvement activities centered on workplace leaders to achieve higher vitality levels in each workplace. 2012 workplace vitality diagnosis results (Kyocera Group in Japan) 48 Cultivating Cultivating Human HumanAssets Assets Cultivating Human Assets Kyocera regards human resources as human “assets” and supports activities enabling employees to raise Kyocera awareness regards humandevelopment of personal resources asand their “assets” human and in contribution supports activities enabling employees to raise the workplace. awareness of personal development and their contribution in the workplace. In particular, as personal development can be achieved to a great extent through work, Kyocera is striving to In particular, create as personal a workplace development environment can beeach that enables achieved to a great employee extent to work throughand cheerfully work, energetically, striving Kyocera is and draws to out create a workplace environment natural talents to the maximum extent. that enables each employee to work cheerfully and energetically, and draws out natural talents to the maximum extent. | Development of Human “Assets” | Measures Supporting English Language Learning | Supporting Engineer |Skills Development Enhancement of Human | “Assets” | Measures Supporting English Language Learning | Supporting Engineer Skills Enhancement | Development of Human Assets Development of Human “Assets” Kyocera aims to realize simultaneous personal growth of employees along with corporate development by matchingaims Kyocera to realize the ideas simultaneous and ambitions personal growth of employees their work along of employees regarding with with the corporate of thedevelopment needs company. by matching the ideas and ambitions of employees regarding their work with the needs of the company. One-to-One Guidance System (Supporting Growth of New Employees) One-to-One Guidance System (Supporting Growth of New Employees) A coach is assigned to each new employee. Based on personalized development plans, the coach gives fineA coach tuned is assigned guidance to each through new employee. communication with Based on personalized each person. The Human Resourcesplans, development the coach Department gives followfineconducts tuned guidance through communication up interviews in the second year of employment. with each person. The Human Resources Department conducts followup interviews in the second year of employment. STEP (Support Training and Education at the Workplace) STEP (Support Training and Education at the Workplace) STEP is a program for supporting the step-by-step development of young employees. All employees within one STEP to five is a program years for supporting of employment at Kyocera take part in development the step-by-step of youngprovides STEP. The program employees. All employees periodic opportunities for one within to five years of employment at Kyocera take part in STEP. The program provides periodic communication between supervisor and subordinate. This allows subordinates to express their views and opportunities for communication thoughts to theirbetween supervisor supervisors, and subordinate. while supervisors This listen to allows their opinions express carefully.toSharing subordinates their views thoughts andmanner in this thoughts to their supervisors, while supervisors listen to builds workplace unity and supports the growth of young employees. their opinions carefully. Sharing thoughts in this manner builds workplace unity and supports the growth of young employees. Skill Development Support System for Engineers Skill Development Support System for Engineers 49 This system supports engineers as they independently strive to enhance their skills as engineers. Specifically, This system supports engineers as they independently strive to enhance their skills as engineers. Specifically, STEP (Support Training and Education at the Workplace) STEP is a program for supporting the step-by-step development of young employees. All employees within one to five years of employment at Kyocera take part in STEP. The program provides periodic opportunities for communication between supervisor and subordinate. This allows subordinates to express their views and thoughts to their supervisors, while supervisors listen to their opinions carefully. Sharing thoughts in this manner builds workplace unity and supports the growth of young employees. Skill Development Support System for Engineers This system supports engineers as they independently strive to enhance their skills as engineers. Specifically, the system clarifies the ideal state of an engineer for each job category and grade, while giving a quantitative grasp of the skills needed to get there (specific job requirements and levels). This system leads to improved engineering capability for the organization as a whole. Challenge System (Supervisor–Subordinate Interview System) Once a year, each employee shares work targets with a supervisor in an interview aimed at setting direction for skills development. With a clear understanding of his or her functions, each employee can concentrate independently on their work and skill development. Supervisors, by heeding subordinate feedback, endeavor to improve the ability of the organization to reach goals and succeed in business. Internal Placement Application System When divisions anticipate the need for an addition of personnel for new operations, expansion of operations, or other purposes, the company can reassign employees as necessary at an early stage. This system enables employees throughout the company to apply for placement in different divisions. Employees can accept the challenges of the diverse business fields of the Kyocera Group in accordance with their aspirations. The aim is to offer positions with heightened activity to talented people who have drive and ambition. Overseas Training Systems Kyocera has an Overseas Short-Term Training System and an Overseas Graduate School Study System. The objective of these systems is to cultivate human resources who can function on the global stage. The systems were established in 1984, and 226 people have been sent abroad for study since then. Kyocera is promoting cultivation of employees with improved language skills, the ability to obtain up-to-date knowledge and technology that can only be acquired abroad, as well as enhanced international awareness. Measures Supporting English Language Learning Kyocera is promoting measures that support English language learning by employees in Japan, to nurture human resources able to bear responsibility for global development of business. In FY2013 we continued to provide English learning support primarily for junior 50 employees in their 20s. The goal was to raise the lowest levels of ability and aid achievement of a minimum score of 600 points on the cultivation of employees with improved language skills, the ability to obtain up-to-date knowledge and technology that can only be acquired abroad, as well as enhanced international awareness. Measures Supporting English Language Learning Kyocera is promoting measures that support English language learning by employees in Japan, to nurture human resources able to bear responsibility for global development of business. In FY2013 we continued to provide English learning support primarily for junior employees in their 20s. The goal was to raise the lowest levels of ability and aid achievement of a minimum score of 600 points on the TOIEC English test. English classes on business documentation and presentation methods were also conducted as steps for cultivating global engineers. Supporting Engineer Skills Enhancement At Kyocera, basic technical training is conducted in the first year after joining the company to help new employees acquire basic knowledge and fundamental engineering skills. Specialized technical training is also provided particularly for young engineers. Additionally, engineering departments conduct mid-level engineer training with the objective of strengthening management capability. Kyocera thus supports the enhancement of engineer skills. 51 Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Provision of a safe and healthy work environment is a vital requirement for achieving the material and intellectual growth of employees, as set out in the Management Rationale. To achieve this goal, the Kyocera Group actively promotes safety and health alongside fire and disaster prevention activities, while concentrating on building a corporate climate on the concept of “Safety First.” Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Reduce work-related Reduced work-related Reduce work-related injuries injuries injuries Japan: Reduce rate by Japan: Reduced rate by Japan: Reduce rate by 75% compared with 51% compared with 33% compared with FY2011 FY2011 FY2013 Overseas: Reduce rate by Overseas: Reduced rate Overseas: Reduce rate by 75% compared with by 45% compared with 15% compared with FY2011 FY2011 FY2013 Safety training revision for Implemented training using Strengthen earthquake managers and supervisors the Safety & Disaster countermeasures Build support systems for Prevention Handbook Improve work environment overseas Group Applied “Point and Call” Revise action plan for new companies seals to draw attention to influenza pandemics Prepare guide on hazardous areas Raise 5S levels with legislation relating to safety Ascertained circumstances targets set independently and disaster prevention at overseas bases and Revise training content Strengthen Raise lowest levels of 5S provided guidance as and instruction methods; Management evaluation in workplaces needed conduct mental health Relating to Safety Prepared a Safety and education, VDT operator and Health / Fire Disaster Prevention education and employee and Disaster Legislation Handbook and health guidance Prevention strengthened control systems Revised the Contingency Planning Manual 5S minimum average evaluation points Kyocera Corporation: 89 points (improved 1% from FY2012) Domestic Group: 86 points (improved 8% from FY2012) Overseas Group: 80 points (no change from FY2012) Held seminars on mental health | Occupational Health & Safety Policy | Approaches to Occupational Safety and Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention | Approaches to Promotion of Health | Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities | Occupational Health & Safety Policy The Kyocera Group aims to build an accident-free and disaster-free workplace environment where everyone can work safely and with peace of mind. Based on the policy below, the Kyocera Group is promoting occupational health and safety activities with participation of all employees, for prevention of injuries and illnesses. 52 1. To maintain and improve the level of employee safety and health, the Kyocera Group abides by and endeavors to improve management of relevant national laws and regulations, by-laws of regions in which Overseas Group: 80 points (no change from FY2012) (no change from FY2012) Held seminars on mental Held seminars on mental health health | Occupational Health & Safety Policy | Approaches to Occupational Safety and Health / Fire and Disaster | Occupational Health & Safety Policy | Approaches to Occupational Safety and Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention | Approaches to Promotion of Health | Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities | Prevention | Approaches to Promotion of Health | Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities | Occupational Health & Safety Policy Occupational Health & Safety Policy The Kyocera Group aims to build an accident-free and disaster-free workplace environment where everyone can The Kyocera Group aims to build an accident-free and disaster-free workplace environment where everyone can work safely and with peace of mind. Based on the policy below, the Kyocera Group is promoting occupational work safely and with peace of mind. Based on the policy below, the Kyocera Group is promoting occupational health and safety activities with participation of all employees, for prevention of injuries and illnesses. health and safety activities with participation of all employees, for prevention of injuries and illnesses. 1. To maintain and improve the level of employee safety and health, the Kyocera Group abides by and 1. To maintain and improve the level of employee safety and health, the Kyocera Group abides by and endeavors to improve management of relevant national laws and regulations, by-laws of regions in which endeavors to improve management of relevant national laws and regulations, by-laws of regions in which facilities are located, and other requirements agreed to by the Kyocera Group as an organization. facilities are located, and other requirements agreed to by the Kyocera Group as an organization. 2. The Kyocera Group establishes organizations to effectively promote occupational health and safety activities, and clarifies the functions and responsibilities of those organizations. At the same time, all employees continue to receive necessary and sufficient education and training needed for operation of an Occupational Health & Safety Management System. 3. The Kyocera Group is building and implementing an Occupational Health & Safety Management System, and continually aims to raise the level of occupational health and safety. 4. The Kyocera Group is building a risk assessment system to assess risks and determine administrative measures for dealing with problem areas that may emerge in an accident or disaster. We set occupational health and safety targets. All related matters including this policy are regularly reviewed and continually improved to help prevent accidents and disasters. 5. The Kyocera Group is strengthening mental health care through activities for advancing the mental health of employees. 6. The Kyocera Group actively participates and cooperates in governmental and local society activities relating to occupational health and safety. Approaches to Occupational Safety and Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention The Kyocera Group introduced OHSAS18001 to advance activities in occupational health and safety as well as fire and disaster prevention. The Group is conducting risk assessment and preparing promotion plans to reduce or eliminate accidents and disasters. In FY2013, among various measures, we began putting up “Point and Call” stickers to draw attention to hazardous areas, and conducted training using a Safety & Disaster Prevention Handbook. By these and other means we endeavored to minimize work-related injuries. OHSAS18001 Certification Status (pdf/115KB) Examples Signs Draw Attention to Hazardous Areas In the Kyocera Group (in Japan), hazardous areas are marked using “Point and Call” seals (Caution! Risk of entanglement). These may be areas frequently highlighted by KYK (Kiken Yochi Katsudo = Risk Perception Activities), areas where inattention may result in major disaster, areas prone to human error, and other hazardous places where confirmation of maximum safety is needed. The goal is to reduce work-related injuries around machinery and facilities by pointing to and vocalizing the hazard without fail before work begins. 53 fire and disaster prevention. The Group is conducting risk assessment and preparing promotion plans to reduce or eliminate accidents and disasters. In FY2013, among various measures, we began putting up “Point and Call” stickers to draw attention to hazardous areas, and conducted training using a Safety & Disaster Prevention Handbook. By these and other means we endeavored to minimize work-related injuries. OHSAS18001 Certification Status (pdf/115KB) Examples Signs Draw Attention to Hazardous Areas In the Kyocera Group (in Japan), hazardous areas are marked using “Point and Call” seals (Caution! Risk of entanglement). These may be areas frequently highlighted by KYK (Kiken Yochi Katsudo = Risk Perception Activities), areas where inattention may result in major disaster, areas prone to human error, and other hazardous places where confirmation of maximum safety is needed. The goal is to reduce work-related injuries around machinery and facilities by pointing to and vocalizing the hazard without fail before work begins. Equipment with “Point and Call” seal attached “Point and Call” seal Conducting Employee Education Using a Safety and Disaster Prevention Handbook A Safety also and Disaster supports prevention Prevention Handbook, of work-related itemizing the basics injury. of safety, is distributed to employees in plants and offices throughout the Kyocera Group (Japan). The goal is to raise the level of safety awareness of each employee, and thereby reduce the incidence of work-related injury resulting from unreasonable and careless actions. Employee education using the handbook also supports prevention of work-related injury. Employee education using the handbook also supports prevention of work-related injury. Safety Classes In FY2013, the Shiga Gamo Plant and the Shiga Yohkaichi Plant began holding safety classes to raise awareness of the need for full attention to safety in work procedures. The classes present Employee education using the handbook simulated experience of how employees can become caught up in or otherwise injured by machinery and equipment, and Safety Classes reconfirm the dangers lurking in work practices when safety is In FY2013, the Shiga Gamo Plant and the Shiga Yohkaichi Plant disregarded. began holding safety classes to raise awareness of the need for full attention to safety in work procedures. The classes present Employee education using the handbook simulated experience of how employees can become caught up in or otherwise injured by machinery and equipment, and Safety Classes Simulated experience of machine work reconfirm the dangers lurking in work practices when safety is In FY2013, the Shiga Gamo Plant and the Shiga Yohkaichi Plant disregarded. began holding to Approach Raising safety classesSafety to raise awareness in Awareness of China the need for At Dongguan Shilong Kyocera Co., Ltd. (China), safety present full attention to safety in work procedures. The classes training simulated for experience workplace leaders of how (unit employees leaders can become / FY2013: 54 caught up 15 sessions, in or otherwise attended by 434injured by preparation people), machinery and equipment, of safety and and disaster Simulated experience of machine work reconfirm the prevention dangers lurking pamphlets, in work KYK (risk practices perception when safety activities) is and other Employee education using the handbook Safety Classes In FY2013, the Shiga Gamo Plant and the Shiga Yohkaichi Plant began holding safety classes to raise awareness of the need for full attention to safety in work procedures. The classes present simulated experience of how employees can become caught up in or otherwise injured by machinery and equipment, and reconfirm the dangers lurking in work practices when safety is disregarded. Simulated experience of machine work Approach to Raising Safety Awareness in China At Dongguan Shilong Kyocera Co., Ltd. (China), safety training for workplace leaders (unit leaders / FY2013: 15 sessions, attended by 434 people), preparation of safety and disaster prevention pamphlets, KYK (risk perception activities) and other activities are being implemented to raise employee awareness of safety. Additionally, Safety Committee members tour workplaces twice each month. If problems are discovered, improvement measures are to be implemented within one month. By continuing to raise employee awareness of safety and improving the workplace environment, we aim to build a workplace environment that is free of accidents and disasters. Safety training for workplace leaders KYK (Kiken Yochi Katsudo = Risk Perception Activities) Commendation from the Kyoto Labor Bureau Kyocera SLC Technologies Corp.’s Kyoto Ayabe Plant received the “Kyoto Labor Bureau Chief’s Safety & Health Incentive Commendation.” The commendation was awarded in recognition of results of worker safety and health measures implemented as part of the Labor Bureau’s Kyoto Safety & Health Rally. Upon inspection by the Labor Standards Inspection Office, diverse 55 activities are being implemented to raise employee awareness of safety. Additionally, Safety Committee members tour workplaces twice each month. If problems are discovered, improvement measures are to be implemented within one month. By continuing to raise employee awareness of safety and improving KYK (Kiken Yochi Katsudo = Risk the workplace environment, we aim to build a workplace Perception Activities) environment inspection by the is bythat free Standards Labor of accidents and disasters. Inspection Office, diverse diverse inspection the Labor Standards Inspection Office, Safety training for workplace leaders Commendation measures including inspection including measures by the Labor from benchmarks benchmarks the Kyoto Standards and and LaborOffice, improvements improvements Inspection Bureau relating relating diverseto to safety and safety health at and health the plant at the plant were evaluated as were evaluated as outstanding. We We Kyocera SLC measures Technologies including benchmarks andKyoto Corp.’s Ayabeoutstanding. improvements Plant received relating to will will continue with active promotion of activities to raise employee the continue “Kyoto and Labor safety health at the promotion with Bureau active Chief’s plant were of Safetyactivities & Health evaluated as raise Incentiveemployee to outstanding. We awareness of awareness of safety safety and and health. health. Commendation.” will continue with The active commendation was awarded promotion of activities to raisein recognition employee of results ofofworker awareness safetysafety and health measures implemented as and health. part of the Labor Bureau’s Kyoto Safety & Health Rally. Upon inspection by the Labor Standards Inspection Office, diverse measures including benchmarks and improvements relating to safety and health at the plant were evaluated as outstanding. We will continue with active promotion of activities to raise employee awareness of safety and health. Commendation and and plaque plaque Commendation KYK (Kiken Yochi Katsudo Commendation = Risk and plaque Perception Activities) Kyocera Group Kyocera Group (Japan) (Japan) SafetySafety Record Record Commendation Kyocera In FY2013, Group the rate(Japan) fromSafety of absence thefrom Kyoto Record due to Bureau workLabor work-related injuries in the Kyocera Group (Japan) was 0.12% In FY2013, the rate of absence from work due to work-related injuries in the Kyocera Group (Japan) was 0.12% Corporation: (Kyocera Corporation: state The state 0.09%).Corp.’s of safety safety the Kyocera inPlant Kyocera Group stands stands up well compared very well up very compared withwith FY2013,SLC In Kyocera (Kyocera Technologies the rate 0.09%). of absence The from workKyoto of dueAyabe in the to work-related received Group injuries in the Kyocera Group (Japan) was 0.12% safety records the “Kyoto for manufacturing Labor manufacturing Bureau Chief’s businesses Safety and electrical Health & safety electrical machinery and manufacturing businesses. equipment manufacturing and equipment businesses. safety (Kyocera records for Corporation: 0.09%). Thebusinesses state of and inIncentive machinery the Kyocera Group stands up very well compared with Commendation.” The commendation was awarded in recognition Commendation and plaque safety records for manufacturing businesses and electrical machinery and equipment manufacturing businesses. The The Kyocera Group results ofGroup of Kyocera strives safetyto workerstrives prevent toand healthwork-related prevent work-related measures implemented injuries, firesas injuries, fires and explosions. and explosions. With application of With application Safety the Safety of the and and Disaster part Prevention of the Labor Disaster Bureau’s Prevention Handbook, Kyoto Handbook, Point-and-Call Safety Point-and-Call seals Rally.and & Health injuries, seals and Upon other other diverse measures, we are building a The Kyocera Kyocera Group Group strives (Japan) to prevent Safety work-related Record fires anddiverse measures, explosions. With application of thea Safety we are building workplace inspection workplace environment by the environment Labor in Standards in which which employees employees can Office, work in Inspection can work indiverse safety and safety peace of with peace and with mind. of mind. and Disaster Prevention Handbook, Point-and-Call seals and other diverse measures, we are building a In FY2013,environment workplace in whichfrom the rate of absence work due employees can in safetyinjuries work-related towork and within peace the Kyocera of mind.Group (Japan) was 0.12% (Kyocera Corporation: 0.09%). The state of safety in the Kyocera Group stands up very well compared with safety records for manufacturing businesses and electrical machinery and equipment manufacturing businesses. The Kyocera Group strives to prevent work-related injuries, fires and explosions. With application of the Safety and Disaster Prevention Handbook, Point-and-Call seals and other diverse measures, we are building a workplace environment in which employees can work in safety and with peace of mind. Revision of Revision of the Contingency Planning the Contingency Manual Planning Manual Revision The Kyocera of Group the Contingency is preparing aPlanning Contingency Manual Planning Manual for use if a disaster causes damage in the The Kyocera Group is preparing a Contingency Planning Manual for use if a disaster causes damage in the Group. The Group. purpose of The purpose the manual manual is of the to minimize minimize injury is to injury to people and to people property damage and property damage in the Kyocera in the Kyocera Group, to to The Kyocera Group is preparing a Contingency Planning Manual for use if a disaster causes damage inGroup, the achieve business achieve recovery as business recovery quickly as as quickly possible, and as possible, and to contribute to to contribute local communities, to local communities, etc. Building on etc. Building on the the Group. The purpose of the manual is to minimize injury to people and property damage in the Kyocera Group, to experience of experience the Great Great East of the Japan Earthquake, in East Japan 2012 we in 2012 revised provisions we revised provisions on measures for on measures disasters for disasters achieve business recovery as quicklyEarthquake, as possible, and to contribute to local communities, etc. Building on the relating relating to to earthquake, earthquake, wind wind and and water water damage, damage, etc., etc., and and wrote wrote a a new new section section concerning concerning volcanic volcanic eruptions. eruptions. experience of the Great East Japan Earthquake, in 2012 we revised provisions on measures for disasters relating to earthquake, wind and water damage, etc., and 56 wrote a new section concerning volcanic eruptions. Revision of the Contingency Earthquake Countermeasures Countermeasures Planning Manual Earthquake The In anKyocera attempt Group Earthquake is preparing Countermeasures to minimize injury anda Contingency damage from Planning a majorManual for use earthquake, theif a Kyocera causes disasterGroup (indamage Japan) is the in installing Revision of the Contingency Planning Manual The Kyocera Group is preparing a Contingency Planning Manual for use if a disaster causes damage in the Group. The purpose of the manual is to minimize injury to people and property damage in the Kyocera Group, to achieve business recovery as quickly as possible, and to contribute to local communities, etc. Building on the experience of the Great East Japan Earthquake, in 2012 we revised provisions on measures for disasters relating to earthquake, wind and water damage, etc., and wrote a new section concerning volcanic eruptions. Earthquake Countermeasures In an attempt to minimize injury and damage from a major earthquake, the Kyocera Group (in Japan) is installing a disaster warning system at all plants and offices. This uses the Earthquake Early Warning System provided by the Japan Meteorological Agency. The Kyocera Group endeavors to minimize earthquake damage through diverse means. These include drills using the Earthquake Early Warning System, disaster prevention training for employees, regular disaster drills held with local fire stations and other organizations, etc. Considerable damage is expected from a tsunami that could be generated by an earthquake in the Nankai Trough. To counter the potential damage, evacuation areas have been prepared for bases that are likely to sustain damage, based on the expected maximum tsunami height and shortest arrival time. Steps have been taken to ensure employees are fully aware of what they need to do. An Approach Emergency Drills Assuming Disaster Strikes at Night or on a Public Holiday The Nagano Okaya Plant, Kyocera Crystal Device Corp.’s Okaya Office and Kyocera Connector Products Corp.’s Okaya Office conduct disaster prevention drills on the assumption that a disaster has struck at night or on a public holiday. The objective is to develop appropriate responses should an earthquake, fire and other disaster occur outside normal operating hours. Evacuation scene Fire-fighting drill Approaches to Promotion of Health The Kyocera Group is undertaking various measures to raise awareness of health among all employees and support health in body and mind. Kyocera has long engaged in diverse activities aimed at improving mental health. They include stationing industry-specific physicians specialized in mental health at facilities, encouraging consultations inside and outside the company, studying57 mental health measures at conferences of in-house industrial physicians, introducing a rehabilitative work system, and others. Fire-fighting drill Approaches to Promotion of Health The Kyocera Group is undertaking various measures to raise awareness of health among all employees and support health in body and mind. Kyocera has long engaged in diverse activities aimed at improving mental health. They include stationing industry-specific physicians specialized in mental health at facilities, encouraging consultations inside and outside the company, studying mental health measures at conferences of in-house industrial physicians, introducing a rehabilitative work system, and others. Furthermore, Kyocera sponsors regular conferences attended by the Safety and Disaster Prevention Div., Human Resources Div., labor unions, health insurance groups and industry-specific physicians. Kyocera is thus exploring various measures and systems relating to promotion of health. Holding Mental Health Seminars Early discovery in the workplace and the involvement of surrounding people including managers and supervisors are extremely important requirements for building mental health. Kyocera aims to create workplaces where employees can work safely, with peace of mind and in health. Therefore, from FY2013, Kyocera is holding mental health seminars with the objective of preventing mental disorders in each workplace and to promote understanding of the support needed for an employee to return to the workplace. Mental health seminar (Yokohama Office) Mental health seminar (Yokohama Office) An Approach AnLake Approach Suwa Walk Rally TheLake Suwa Nagano WalkPlant Okaya Rally held a walk rally at Lake Suwa in September 2012 as The Nagano Okaya Plant heldpromotion a health a walk rallyactivity. at LakeFirst, Suwainstructors in gave advice on how to walk correctly, on warm-up exercise, September 2012 as a health promotion activity. First, instructors on stretching gave adviceafter the walk, on how to walk other matters. andcorrectly, The walkers on warm-up then exercise, onset out on one of three courses, ranging 6 km, 12 km and stretching after the walk, and other matters. The walkers then set 16 km, depending out onthree on one of physical6strength person’sranging eachcourses, km, 12 km andandcondition. 16 km, Some 111 people enjoyed walking on that fine depending on each person’s physical strength and condition. autumn day. Further health promotion activities will be progressively Some 111 people enjoyed walking on that fine autumn day. organized. Further health promotion activities will be progressively organized. Participants learn how to walk correctly Participants learn how to walk correctly Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities The 5S system (Seiri: Sort / Seiton: Set in Order / Seiso: Shine / Seiketsu: Sanitize / Shitsuke: Sustain) is at the heart5S The work. Efforts (Seiri: by ofsystem Sort KyoceraSet the/ Seiton: Group to implement in Order the 5S / Seiso: Shine / Seiketsu: Sanitizeare system perfectly called Kyocera / Shitsuke: Sustain) Perfect 5S is at the Promotion Activities. They are being introduced globally. heart of work. Efforts by the Kyocera Group to implement the 5S system perfectly are called Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities. They are being introduced globally. Checklists for 5S, photographs, illustrations, and other media showing examples are compiled into 5S Checklist Examples. Evaluationfor Checklists Based onillustrations, 5S, photographs, clarification and other mediacriteria, of assessment showing state of 5S theexamples aremanagement compiled intois5S evaluated Checklistat each workplace, and improvements are implemented accordingly. We will continue to advance Evaluation Examples. Based on clarification of assessment criteria, the state of 5S management is evaluated at 5S activities, and to introduce each aggressive workplace, measures for and improvements areachieving implementedsafe and secure workplaces accordingly. while raising We will continue quality to advance 5Sandactivities, and productivity. to introduce aggressive measures for achieving safe and58secure workplaces while raising quality and productivity. Further health promotion activities will be progressively organized. Participants learn how to walk correctly Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities The 5S system (Seiri: Sort / Seiton: Set in Order / Seiso: Shine / Seiketsu: Sanitize / Shitsuke: Sustain) is at the heart of work. Efforts by the Kyocera Group to implement the 5S system perfectly are called Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities. They are being introduced globally. Checklists for 5S, photographs, illustrations, and other media showing examples are compiled into 5S Checklist Evaluation Examples. Based on clarification of assessment criteria, the state of 5S management is evaluated at each workplace, and improvements are implemented accordingly. We will continue to advance 5S activities, and to introduce aggressive measures for achieving safe and secure workplaces while raising quality and productivity. 5S Checklist Evaluation Examples 59 Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Activities Contributing to the Advancement of Society and Humankind Ever since it was founded in 1959, Kyocera has chosen business activities with the goal of contributing to the advancement of society and humankind. We do this by constantly striving to develop new technologies and offering high-quality, sophisticated products to the market. We also take advantage of diverse opportunities to contribute actively to society out of gratitude for both the tangible and intangible support we receive, which we believe has made the Kyocera Group what it is today. The Kyocera Group is a diverse enterprise of 229 companies* worldwide, with global headquarters in Kyoto, Japan. We regard a corporation as a member of society. Irrespective of the times, we aim to fulfill our responsibility as a corporate citizen that supports our local communities and the world at large. We will continue to work toward the betterment of the world and its people, not only in business, but also through diverse social contributions. *As of March 31, 2013 60 Assistance with Academic Advancement and Research Assistance Supporting the Inamori with Foundation’s Academic Kyoto Advancement Prize and Research Assistance with Academic Advancement and Research The non-profit Inamori Foundation was established in 1984, based upon the belief of Kyocera’s founder, Kazuo Inamori, that “a human being has no higher calling than to strive for the greater good of humanity and the world” andSupporting that “the futurethe Inamorican of humanity Foundation’s be assured only Kyoto when Prize there is a balance between scientific development and the enrichment of the human spirit.” The Kyoto Prize, organized by the Foundation, was established in 1985 as annon-profit The Inamori international award Foundation to honor was people who haveinmade established based upon 1984,significant the belief of in Kyocera’s contributions founder, Kazuo the three categories of Inamori, that “a human being has no higher calling than to strive for the greater Advanced Technology, Basic Sciences, and Arts and Philosophy. Each laureate receives a diploma, good of humanity andKyoto the world” Prize and medal that “the and future prize of humanity money of 50 million yenassured can be only when there is a balance between scientific development per category. and the enrichment of the human spirit.” The Kyoto Prize, organized by the Foundation, was established in 1985 as an international Following the Kyotoaward Prize to honor people presentation who have ceremony eachmade significant November 10,contributions related events encourageoflive threetocategories the held in are Advanced Technology, Basic Sciences, and Arts and Philosophy. Each laureate receives interaction with the laureates, including commemorative lectures for the general public, workshops involving a diploma, Kyoto Prize medal and prize money of 50 million yen per category. specialists, unique lessons for high school students, and events for elementary and junior high school youth. Following The Kyocera the Group is fullypresentation Kyoto Prize aligned withceremony the spirit ofeach November the Kyoto Prize10,andrelated events pleased are held to support whichlive encourage thistoaward, interaction celebrates withits 29the laureates, th year in 2013.including commemorative lectures for the general public, workshops involving specialists, unique lessons for high school students, and events for elementary and junior high school youth. The Kyocera Group is fully aligned with the spirit of the Kyoto Prize and pleased to support this award, which celebrates its 29th year in 2013. The Kyoto Prize Presentation The 2012 Kyoto Prize laureates Kyoto Prize Symposium held in San Ceremony Diego(U.S.A.) Inamori Foundation The Kyoto Prize Presentation The 2012 Kyoto Prize laureates Kyoto Prize Symposium held in San Ceremony Diego(U.S.A.) Inamori Foundation Inamori Frontier Research Center at Kyushu University The Inamori Frontier Research Center was established at Kyushu University (Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan) to undertake research Inamori activities Frontier contributing Research to the of mindsat harmonyCenter Kyushu and technology, University and to support the exchange and education of young researchers. Kyocera The Inamori agrees Frontier with the goalsResearch Center of the Center, andwas supported at hasestablished its Kyushu operations University (Fukuoka Prefecture, since 2008 by donating scholarship funds. Japan) to undertake research activities contributing to the harmony of minds and technology, and to support the exchange and education of young researchers. Kyocera agrees with the goals of the Center, and has supported its operations since 2008 by donating scholarship funds. Inamori Foundation Memorial Hall housing the Inamori Frontier Research Center Inamori Foundation Memorial Hall housing Inamori Academy Building at Kagoshima University the Inamori Frontier Research Center In 2008, the Inamori Academy building opened at Kagoshima University (Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan) to offer a course aimed at theInamori comprehensiveAcademy Building cultivation of humanat Kagoshima abilities. KyoceraUniversity supported the construction of the facility. In 2000, an endowed position, the In 2008, the Inamori Academy building opened at Kagoshima University (Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan) to offer a course aimed at the comprehensive cultivation of human abilities. Kyocera 61supported the construction of the facility. In 2000, an endowed position, the Inamori Foundation Memorial Hall housing the Inamori Frontier Research Center Inamori Academy Building at Kagoshima University Kyocera Chair In 2008, the Kyocera Chair of Management of Inamori Studies, Academy building Studies,opened Management was was established at Kagoshima established in in the the university’s university’s Faculty University (Kagoshima of Engineering. In Prefecture, Japan) Faculty of Engineering. 2005, In 2005, the tothe course offer a course course was expanded wasaimed at expanded into the a university-wide comprehensive organization, cultivation of which human was reorganized abilities. into a university-wide organization, which was reorganized into the Kyocera into the supported Inamori Academy Academyofin the construction Inamori 2008. inthe facility. In 2000, an endowed position, the 2008. Kyocera Chair of Management Studies, was established in the university’s Faculty of Engineering. In 2005, the course was expanded into a university-wide organization, which was reorganized into the Inamori Academy in 2008. Inamori Academy building Inamori Academy building Kyocera Kyocera Chair Chair of Management Philosophy of Management Philosophy at at Kyoto Kyoto University UniversityInamori Academy building In 2007, In 2007, Kyocera Kyocera established established the the Kyocera Kyocera Chair Chair of of Management Management Philosophy in the Kyoto University Graduate School of Philosophy in the Kyoto University Graduate School of Management Management (Kyoto Prefecture, Japan), an endowed chair for the purpose of Kyocera (Kyoto Prefecture,Chair of Management Japan), an endowed chair Philosophy for the purpose at Kyoto of University systematizing systematizing management management philosophy philosophy and and cultivating cultivating researchers. researchers. By By doing In 2007, doing so, Kyocera so,Kyocera Kyoceraestablished fosters a fosters a steady stream the Kyocera stream Chair steady of business of business professionals of Management professionals who who possess Philosophy possess a in atheuniversal philosophy Kyoto University universal philosophy of management Graduate School of of management and and corporate Management corporate ethics. (Kyoto Prefecture, Japan), an endowed chair for the purpose of ethics. systematizing management philosophy and cultivating researchers. By doing so, Kyocera fosters a steady stream of business professionals who possess a universal philosophy of management and corporate ethics. Kyocera Chair of Management Philosophy Kyocera Chair of Management Philosophy Symposium Symposium Kyocera Chair of Management Philosophy Alfred University Alfred University Symposium In 2005, In 2005, Kyocera Kyocera made made a donation to a donation to Alfred Alfred University University (New (New YorkYork state, U.S.A.), an institute renowned worldwide for its education and state, U.S.A.), an institute renowned worldwide for its education and research in ceramics and ceramics and glass, which led glass, which led to to the the official official renaming renaming of of its Alfred research in University its engineering school as the Kazuo Inamori School engineering school as the Kazuo Inamori School of Engineering. In of Engineering. In 2011, In 2005, 2011, the Inamori theKyocera Inamori madeKyocera Kyocera Fine Ceramics Fine a donation to Alfred Ceramics Museum University Museum was was(Newopened openedYorkto to exhibit exhibit the products the state, U.S.A.), and and technology an institute products renownedthat technology Kyocera worldwide that Kyocera forhas has cultivated over cultivated its education and over the years. research the years.in ceramics and glass, which led to the official renaming of its engineering school as the Kazuo Inamori School of Engineering. In 2011, the Inamori Kyocera Fine Ceramics Museum was opened to exhibit the products and technology that Kyocera has cultivated over the years. The Inamori Kyocera Fine Ceramics The Inamori Kyocera Fine Ceramics Museum Museum The Kyocera The Kyocera Museum Museum of of Fine Fine Ceramics Ceramics The Inamori Kyocera Fine Ceramics Museum The The Kyocera Kyocera Museum Museum of of Fine Ceramics, which Fine Ceramics, which is is open open to to the the public public free of charge, was established in the Kyocera headquarters building free of charge, was established in the Kyocera headquarters building (Kyoto TheCity, (Kyoto Japan) Kyocera Japan) Museum City, in 1998. The in 1998. Theofmuseum museum showcases how showcases Fine Ceramics 62 Kyocera how Kyocera developed developed its its fine fine ceramics technology over ceramics technology over the the years years andand contributed contributed to The to the the further Kyocera further Museum development development of of Fine the of the industry. In industry.which Ceramics, 2001, a is open In 2001, to theKyocera second a second public Kyocera the years. The Inamori Kyocera Fine Ceramics Museum The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics, which is open to the public free of charge, was established in the Kyocera headquarters building (Kyoto City, Japan) in 1998. The museum showcases how Kyocera developed its fine ceramics technology over the years and contributed to the further development of the industry. In 2001, a second Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics opened at the company’s Kagoshima Kokubu Plant in Japan. Kyocera's Cultural Facilities (The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics) The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics (Headquarters) 63 Support for Culture and the Arts Support for Culture and the Arts Support for Culture and the Arts Shiki Theatre Company’s Kokoro no Gekijo Shiki Theatre Company’s Kokoro no Gekijo Kyocera supports Kokoro no Gekijo (theatre of the heart), planned and managedsupports Kyocera Kokoro by the Shiki no Gekijo Theatre (theatre Company, whichof the usesheart), planned to and the stage managed communicateby the Shiki Theatre to children Company,life such important which usesas lessons the stage trust, to altruism communicate to children such important life lessons as and the value of life. Children across Japan are invited to attend the trust, altruism and free the value of life. Children across Japan are invited to attend the performances. free performances. Momojiro’s Adventure, performed by Shiki Momojiro’s Adventure, performed by Shiki Theatre Company Theatre (photo Company by Akihito Abe) (photo by Akihito Abe) The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kyocera Museum of Art, which is open to the public free of The Kyocera charge, Museum of in was established Art, which 1998 is open in the Kyocerato the public free ofbuilding headquarters charge, was Japan). (Kyoto City, Manyinworks established 1998 in of the Kyocera art are headquarters on permanent building display, (Kyoto City, including Japan).copper Picasso’s Many works are on347, of artseries plate print permanent display, Western-style paintings,Picasso’s including sculptures,copper plate print and Qianlong series glass from 347, Western-style China. The Museum’s paintings, sculptures, Spring Special andinQianlong Exhibition March 2013 from China. glassfeatured The Museum’s 46 works by artists Spring Youth Exhibition from theSpecial Organization of the 2013 in March Kyotofeatured Metal Arts 46 and works by artists Crafts from the Youth Association, someOrganization Kyoto Metal of the developed using materials byArts and Crafts Kyocera. Association, some using materials developed by Kyocera. Kyocera's Cultural Facilities (The Kyocera Museum of Art) Kyocera's Cultural Facilities (The Kyocera Museum of Art) The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kirishima International Music Festival The Kirishima International Music Festival Since 2001, Kyocera has supported the Kirishima International Music Since 2001, Festival Kyocera (Kirishima hasJapan), City, supported which Kirishima thehas been held International since 1980, Music with Festival (Kirishima the aim of providingCity, Japan), students which with has been held the opportunity to besince 1980, by educated with the aim of providing outstanding musicians students with the opportunity and experience to be educated their performances. Concertsby outstanding and workshops are heldand musicians experience every their performances. year, featuring musicians from Concerts around and workshops are held every year, featuring the world as invited performers and lecturers. musicians from around the world as invited performers and lecturers. Concert at the Kirishima International Music Concert at the Kirishima FestivalInternational Music Festival Music Festival © Kirishima International © Kirishima International Music Festival Kyoto Hanatouro Project Kyoto Hanatouro Project Kyocera supports the Kyoto Hanatouro project, in which64 lights and Kyocera supports flowers evoking the Kyoto a rich Hanatouro Japanese project, atmosphere whichtolights areinused and decorate Kyoto’s evoking flowers prominent a rich Japanese temples, shrines and otherare atmosphere used to historical decorate cultural assets Concert at the Kirishima International Music Festival © Kirishima International Music Festival Kyoto Hanatouro Project Kyocera supports and street scenes.the Kyoto thanHanatouro More peopleinenjoyed two millionproject, which lights and fantastic flowers evoking a rich Japanese atmosphere are used to decorate night scenery during events over 20 days in Arashiyama in December Kyoto’s 2012 prominent and temples, Higashiyama shrines in March and other historical cultural assets 2013. and street scenes. More than two million people enjoyed fantastic night scenery during events over 20 days in Arashiyama in December 2012 and Higashiyama in March 2013. Townscape vividly lit by street lanterns (Japan) © Kyoto Hanatouro Promotion Council Townscape vividly lit by street lanterns (Japan) © Kyoto Hanatouro Promotion Council 65 International Exchange and Collaboration International Exchange and Collaboration Donating of Solar Power Generating Systems to Schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal To help improve the educational environment in areas lacking electricity, Kyocera has been donating solar power generating systems and basic electrical equipment, including lighting, TVs and radios, to schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal since 2009. As a pioneer in solar power, Kyocera can help improve educational standards in developing countries by giving children — our future leaders — classrooms lit by solar electricity. Solar modules installed on a school School children watch a television powered (Uganda) by solar energy (Uganda) School staff and a Kyocera employee (at far Solar modules installed on a school (Nepal) right) hold a donation ceremony (Tanzania) “TOMODACHI in San Diego 2013” Many survivors of the Great East Japan Earthquake were supported and encouraged by Operation Tomodachi, an emergency rescue effort conducted by U.S. Armed Forces immediately after the disaster. In the spirit of these efforts, and with the aim of fostering friendships between the two nations, the TOMODACHI Initiative was jointly created by the U.S. Embassy in Japan and the U.S.-Japan Council. In alliance with the Initiative’s goals, Kyocera, together with Japan Airlines, supported the “TOMODACHI in San Diego 2013” program, which in March 2013 brought seven children from Kesennuma City — including local high school students whose homes were destroyed by the disaster — to San Diego to express their thanks to the Marines and Navy personnel High school students express their gratitude for their help and collaboration. during the Marine Corps base visit (U.S.A.) 66 School staff and a Kyocera employee (at far Solar modules installed on a school (Nepal) right) hold a donation ceremony (Tanzania) “TOMODACHI in San Diego 2013” Many survivors of the Great East Japan Earthquake were supported and encouraged by Operation Tomodachi, an emergency rescue effort conducted by U.S. Armed Forces immediately after the disaster. In the spirit of these efforts, and with the aim of fostering friendships between the two nations, the TOMODACHI Initiative was jointly created by the U.S. Embassy in Japan and the U.S.-Japan Council. In alliance with the Initiative’s goals, Kyocera, together with Japan Airlines, supported the “TOMODACHI in San Diego 2013” program, which in March 2013 brought seven children from Kesennuma City — including local high school students whose homes were destroyed by the disaster — to San Diego to express their thanks to the Marines and Navy personnel High school students express their gratitude for their help and collaboration. during the Marine Corps base visit (U.S.A.) U.S. Armed U.S. rescue efforts Forces' rescue Armed Forces' efforts are are introduced introduced to Kyocera employees and to Kyocera employees and community community supporters supporters (U.S.A.) (U.S.A.) The Inamori-Kyocera The Inamori-Kyocera Western Western Development Development ScholarshipScholarship Fund Fund Supports Supports Development Development in China in China In 2001, In 2001, Kyocera Kyocera and and its founder, Kazuo its founder, Kazuo Inamori, Inamori, setset up up the the InamoriInamoriKyocera Western Development Scholarship Kyocera Western Development Scholarship Fund to assist Fund to assist economically economically disadvantaged disadvantaged university students in university students in China’s China’s western western provinces who provinces show both who show both outstanding academic achievement outstanding academic achievement and and high moral high character. The moral character. fund fosters fosters individuals The fund individuals who who will will aid aid regional regional development through science and development through science and technology. Scholarship funds are technology. Scholarship funds are granted granted at at 12 12 universities universities each year, with each year, with aa total total of of 3,291 3,291 student student beneficiaries as beneficiaries as ofof March March 2013. 2013. Scholarship presentation Scholarship presentation ceremony ceremony Cultural Exchange Cultural Exchange Tours Tours Enable Chinese Children Enable Chinese Children to to Visit Visit Japan Japan Since 1997, Since Kyocera has 1997, Kyocera invited children children from has invited China to from China to visit visit Japan, Japan, with the with hope that that providing the hope firsthand experience providing firsthand experience of of different different cultures cultures to children will facilitate future bonds of friendship between the two to children will facilitate future bonds of friendship between the two countries. countries. A A total total of of 364 364 children have taken children have taken part part in in the the program program so so far. far. 67 The summer of 2012 marked the 13th time this tour The summer of 2012 marked the 13th time this tour has been held, has been held, with 40 with children visiting visiting Japan 40 children from Beijing Beijing and Japan from Tianjin to and Tianjin to travel travel around around Kyoto, Tokyo and Kagoshima. granted at 12 universities each year, with a total of 3,291 student beneficiaries as of March 2013. Scholarship presentation ceremony Cultural Exchange Tours Enable Chinese Children to Visit Japan Since 1997, Kyocera has invited children from China to visit Japan, with the hope that providing firsthand experience of different cultures to children will facilitate future bonds of friendship between the two countries. A total of 364 children have taken part in the program so far. The summer of 2012 marked the 13th time this tour has been held, with 40 children visiting Japan from Beijing and Tianjin to travel around Kyoto, Tokyo and Kagoshima. Chinese children enjoy a tea ceremony at Chado Research Center, Kyoto Picture Books for Children in Developing Countries Kyocera supports an international cooperative that delivers picture books to children in developing countries. Since 2009, Kyocera employees have voluntarily made picture books, which are delivered to children in countries including Cambodia, Laos, Afghanistan, and at refugee camps in Myanmar (Burma). Children at a Myanmar (Burma) refugee camp receive picture books Photo provided by Shanti Volunteer Association 68 Local CommunityActivities Local Community Activities Local Community Activities Local Community Activities Supporting Kyoto Sanga F.C. Professional Soccer Team Supporting In 1994, in response to theSanga Kyoto F.C. Professional high expectations Soccer of Kyoto residents Team calling for a local professional soccer team, Kyocera helped establish Kyoto Purple Sanga (now Kyoto Sanga In Supporting 1994,F.C.), with Kyoto in response theto theSanga belief isF.C. Professional that itexpectations the responsibility high Soccer local of Kyotoofresidents Team companies calling fortoahelp locallocal communities soccer thrive. Kyocera professional Grouphelped team, Kyocera companies in Japan establish Kyoto work together Purple Sanga support to (now the Kyoto In 1994, in response to the high expectations of Kyoto residents calling for a local Sanga F.C.), with team. Kyocera alsothe theitSanga belief that supports is the responsibility Cup Kyoto Youth of local companies Soccer to help local Championships, as professional soccer team, Kyocera helped establish Kyoto Purple Sanga (now Kyoto well as a project communities helps develop thatKyocera thrive. Group soccer companies players skillsininJapan ages work 18 andtoyounger. together support the Sanga F.C.), with the belief that it is the responsibility of local companies to help local team. Kyocera also supports the Sanga Cup Kyoto Youth Soccer Championships, as communities thrive. Kyocera Group companies in Japan work together to support the well as a project that helps develop soccer skills in players ages 18 and younger. team. Kyocera also supports the Sanga Cup Kyoto Youth Soccer Championships, as well as a project that helps develop soccer skills in players ages 18 and younger. ©KYOTO.P.S. ©KYOTO.P.S. ©KYOTO.P.S. Classes in Scientific Experimentation Teach Basics of Electricity and Photocopying TheClasses Osaka City Scientific inBoard Experimentation of Education conducts the Naniwa Teach“KidsBasicsLoveof Electricity and Photocopying Science Development Project” to help children experience the joy of learning The Classes science Osaka City Scientific inBoard and toofensureExperimentation the future Education of the conducts Teach“Kids themanufacturing Naniwa BasicsLoveof Electricity and Photocopying sector. Kyocera Development Science employees have served Project” to as helpspecial instructors children experience the2008, since joy of The Osaka City Board of Education conducts the Naniwa “Kids Love using scientific learning scienceexperiments and to ensure to teach a total the future the2,352 of of elementarysector. manufacturing Science Development Project” to help children experience the joy of school students Kyocera employees schools in 32have howasscience served specialcan be fun. since 2008, instructors learning science and to ensure the future of the manufacturing sector. using scientific experiments to teach a total of 2,352 elementary Kyocera employees have served as special instructors since 2008, Social school Contribution students Activities in 32 schools how science can be fun. using scientific experiments to teach a total of 2,352 elementary (Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.) school students in 32 schools how science can be fun. Social Contribution Activities (Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.) Social Contribution Activities Printer/copier science experiments (Japan) (Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.) Printer/copier science experiments (Japan) Printer/copier science experiments (Japan) Hands-on Science Classes about Artificial Joints Hands-on In response Science to Japan’s Structure about newClasses and Function of theJoints Artificial Human Body elementary school curriculum introduced in FY2010, Kyocera In Hands-on response teaches to Japan’s hands-on Science newClasses science Structure classes at about Artificial and Function elementary of theJoints schools Human in Gifu Prefecture Body under the elementary auspices school Gifu Science of theintroduced curriculum World Experience in FY2010, Kyocera In response to Japan’s new Structure and Function of the Human Center. Kyocera teaches hands-onGroup employees science classes at give special lectures elementary Gifu the schoolstoinexplain Body elementary school curriculum introduced in FY2010, Kyocera Prefecture of human mechanics under and artificial the auspices joints of the Gifu a simplified inScience manner. World Experience teaches hands-on science classes at elementary schools in Gifu Center. Kyocera Group employees give special lectures to explain the Prefecture under the auspices of the Gifu Science World Experience mechanics of human and artificial joints in a simplified manner. Center. Kyocera Group employees give special lectures to explain the mechanics of human and artificial joints in a simplified manner. A simplified introduction to artificial-joint mechanics A simplified introduction to artificial-joint mechanics A simplified introduction to artificial-joint mechanics Providing Scholarships to Japanese Language Students ForProviding Scholarships 30 years, Kyocera in the U.S.A. to has provided Language Japanese Students Kyocera Japanese Scholarships and Best Student Awards to students at San Diego State Providing University. These Scholarships annual partial to has Japanese scholarships and Language awards Students For 30 years, Kyocera in the U.S.A. provided 69 recognize Kyocera Japanese outstanding students Scholarships Japanese and BestofStudent language Awards and encourage to students crossat San Diego State For 30 years, Kyocera in the U.S.A. has provided Kyocera Japanese University. These annual partial scholarships and awards recognize cultural studies. Scholarships and Best Student Awards to students at San Diego State A simplified introduction to artificial-joint mechanics Providing Scholarships to Japanese Language Students For 30 years, Kyocera in the U.S.A. has provided Kyocera Japanese Scholarships and Best Student Awards to students at San Diego State University. These annual partial scholarships and awards recognize outstanding students of Japanese language and encourage crosscultural studies. Kyocera employee (left) awards a student Kyocera (right) employee with (left) awards a student a scholarship (right) with a scholarship Pink Ribbon Activities Pink Ribbon Activities The Kyocera Group supports the Pink Ribbon Movement to promote earlyKyocera The detection Group supports the and diagnosis Pink Ribbon of breast cancer,Movement and donates to promote part of the early detection and diagnosis of profits from its pink ceramic kitchen products to this effort. In part breast cancer, and donates the of the profits from its pink ceramic kitchen products to this effort. U.S.A., Kyocera has donated part of the profits from its pink-handled In the ceramicKyocera U.S.A., knives tohas donated breast part cancer of the profits research pink-handled 2004.itsKyocera since from ceramic knives to breast cancer research since 2004. Kyocera supports similar activities in Australia, China, France, Italy, Korea and supports Japan. similar activities in Australia, China, France, Italy, Korea and Japan. Ceramic knife series supports the Pink Ceramic knife series Ribbon supports the Pink Movement Ribbon Movement Recycling Initiatives Recycling Initiatives The Kyocera Group in the U.S.A. actively recycles with the dual aims The Kyocera of raising Group inawareness employees’ the U.S.A. of actively environmental with the dual recycles protection andaims also of raising employees’ awareness of environmental reducing environmental burdens. Their resource-saving results protection and also have reducing environmental burdens. Their resource-saving been recognized for 13 consecutive years: through 2013 the company results have been has won recognized for 13 consecutive annual recycling awards from years: through the city of San2013 the company Diego. In April has won annual recycling awards from 2013, Kyocera held an Earth Expo event in San Diego, whereInmore the city of San Diego. April 2013, Kyocera held an Earth Expo event in San Diego, than 40 local companies and organizations showcased innovative ecowhere more than friendly local companies 40 products and organizations and services with Earth innovative in conjunctionshowcased Day. ecofriendly products and services in conjunction with Attendees brought cell phones, computers, music players and Earth Day. Attendees cameras forbrought cell representing recycling, phones, computers, music players 3,822 pounds of eWaste andthat was cameras for recycling, properly disposed Recycle San3,822 of byrepresenting pounds of eWaste that was Diego. properly disposed of by Recycle San Diego. Employees celebrate their 13th consecutive Employeesannual celebrate their 13th recycling awardconsecutive annual recycling award 70 Ceramic knife series supports the Pink Ribbon Movement Recycling Initiatives The Kyocera Group in the U.S.A. actively recycles with the dual aims of raising employees’ awareness of environmental protection and also reducing environmental burdens. Their resource-saving results have been recognized for 13 consecutive years: through 2013 the company has won annual recycling awards from the city of San Diego. In April 2013, Kyocera held an Earth Expo event in San Diego, where more than 40 local companies and organizations showcased innovative ecofriendly products and services in conjunction with Earth Day. Attendees brought cell phones, computers, music players and cameras for recycling, representing 3,822 pounds of eWaste that was properly disposed of by Recycle San Diego. Employees celebrate their 13th consecutive annual recycling award Earth Expo attendees were encouraged to recycle old mobile phones Local Community Beautification Kyocera aims to be an integral part of its local communities, participating in regular beautification efforts for parks, forests, rivers and areas around our offices worldwide. Employees of Kyocera Group companies in the U.S.A. volunteer to clean up local beaches together with their family members. Employees beautify a local beach (San Diego, U.S.A.) Support for the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden The aim of the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden is to promote social participation and sports activities by people with disabilities. Kyocera has supported the race since it was first run in 1990. 71 Employees beautify a local beach (San Employees beautify a local beach (San Diego, U.S.A.) Employees beautify a local beach (San Diego, U.S.A.) Diego, U.S.A.) Support for the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden Support for the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden Support for the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden The aim of the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden is to promote social The aim of the participation andAll-Japan Wheelchair sports activities Rider Ekiden by people is to promote with disabilities. social Kyocera The aim of the participation andAll-Japan sports Wheelchair activities by Rider Ekiden people with is to promote disabilities. social Kyocera has supported the race since it was first run in 1990. participation has supported andthesports activities race since by first it was run with people disabilities. Kyocera in 1990. has supported the race since it was first run in 1990. Wheelchair rider Wheelchair rider Wheelchair rider Fundraising Efforts Fundraising Efforts Fundraising Efforts Since 1963, the Kyocera Group has held annual fundraising Since 1963, Contributions campaigns. the Kyocera Group has held annual from employees fundraising and Kyocera companies Since 1963, Contributions campaigns. the Kyocera Group from has held annual employees and fundraising Kyocera companies are entrusted to their local communities. In addition, many worldwide campaigns. Contributions from employees and Kyocera companies Kyocera Group companies and their employees have madeworldwide are entrusted to their local communities. In addition, many donations are entrusted Kyocera Group their local communities. tocompanies and In addition, their employees have many worldwide that support disaster-stricken communities around the made globe.donations Kyocera Group that support companies and disaster-stricken their employees communities around globe.donations the made have that support disaster-stricken communities around the globe. Kyocera employees in the U.S.A. collect Kyocera employees donations in the of for the victims U.S.A. collect Hurricane Kyocera employees donations for the in the of victims U.S.A. collect Hurricane Sandy, which devastated the northeastern donations Sandy, whichfor the victimsthe devastated Hurricane of northeastern region in October 2012 Sandy, which devastated region in October the northeastern 2012 region in October 2012 Training University Student Interns Training University Student Interns Training University Student Interns Since 2010, the Kyocera Group in Malaysia has accepted university Since student2010, theevery interns Kyocera Groupat semester in the Malaysia requesthas of accepted university local universities. Since key 2010, areas student of the interns Kyocera manufacturing every Group andat semester in Malaysia the requesthas administration. of accepted local university universities. Employees help interns acquire a practical understanding of the student Employeesinterns helpbyevery semester interns acquire at the request practical a with of local understandinguniversities. of the business world providing them pre-professional experience in Employees helpby business world interns acquire providing them practical a with understanding pre-professional of the experience in business world by providing them with pre-professional experience in key areas of manufacturing and administration. Student interns learn administrative skills Ise Football Village, Ise City, Mie Prefecture, Japan Student interns learn administrative skills 72 In April 2013, the city government of Ise improved the Asama Sanroku Park and its surroundings and opened the Ise Football Village as part Student interns learn administrative skills Student interns learn administrative skills Ise Ise Football Football Village, Ise City, Village, Ise City, Mie Mie Prefecture, Prefecture, Japan Japan In April 2013, the city government of Ise improved the Asama Sanroku In April 2013, the city government of Ise improved the Asama Sanroku Park and its surroundings and opened the Ise Football Village as part Park and its surroundings and opened the Ise Football Village as part of a community development project. Kyocera, which has a of a community development project. Kyocera, which has a manufacturing plant in Ise City, donated a solar power generating manufacturing plant in Ise City, donated a solar power generating system for installation on the clubhouse roof which helps power the system for installation on the clubhouse roof which helps power the facility. facility. Ise Football Village clubhouse (Japan) Ise Football Village clubhouse (Japan) Food Donations Food Donations for for Households Households in in Need Need The Kyocera Group in the U.S.A. donates canned goods, gathered by The Kyocera Group in the U.S.A. donates canned goods, gathered by employees, to households in need in their respective local employees, to households in need in their respective local communities. In Arizona, canned goods donated by 40 Kyocera communities. In Arizona, canned goods donated by 40 Kyocera employees were delivered to 500 homes in December 2012; the New employees were delivered to 500 homes in December 2012; the New Jersey office began holding its annual canned food drive in 2008. Jersey office began holding its annual canned food drive in 2008. Employees donate food to help those in Employees donate food to help those in need need Running for Running for Charity Charity The Kyocera Group in Germany backed a running event in which one The Kyocera Group in Germany backed a running event in which one euro was donated for every kilometer the runners covered, with euro was donated for every kilometer the runners covered, with proceeds going to underprivileged children. About 800 employees and proceeds going to underprivileged children. About 800 employees and family members participated in the event in Dusseldorf, Munich, family members participated in the event in Dusseldorf, Munich, Hamburg and Berlin. Hamburg and Berlin. Employees and family members participate Employees and family members participate in the run in the run 73 Bicycles Donated to Local Orphanage Bicycles Donated to Local Orphanage The Kyocera Group in the Czech Republic provides support to The Kyocera children livingGroup in the Czech in an orphanage in Republic provides the suburbs support of Kadan, to in the a city children northwest living theorphanage partinofan country. IninNovember the suburbs of Kadan, 2012, the Group a city in the donated northwest country. and part of thepresents bicycles, Christmas In November 2012, the daily necessities Group donated purchased with bicycles, money that Christmas employees presents and daily necessities purchased with had donated. money that employees had donated. Children receiving bicycles Children receiving bicycles Vocational Training for Document Equipment Repair Vocational Training for Document Equipment Repair The Kyocera Group in South Africa supports a local vocational training The Kyocera that organization Group in South provides Africa supports education and practical vocational a localtraining training on repairing organization that provides document equipment. education Kyocera's and and printers practical training copiers on repairing are used in this document equipment. training. Kyocera also provides printers support Kyocera'sfinancial and copiers for the used in this areorganization's training. operations. Kyocera also provides financial support for the organization's operations. Trainees who completed vocational training with Kyocera Trainees who completedemployees vocational training with Kyocera employees Toys for Tots Donation Toys for Tots Donation Since 2006, the Kyocera Group in the U.S.A. has participated in the annual2006, Since Toys the Kyocera for Tots Group run campaign in the by U.S.A. the U.S.has participated Corps, in Marine the which collectsToys annual toys to Totsas forgive campaign run by holiday gifts the U.S. Marine children. Corps, which to underprivileged Since collects the program to give as toys began, theholiday U.S. Marines underprivileged gifts to have distributed children. more thanSince 350 the program million toys tobegan, the U.S. 160 million Marines have distributed more than 350 children. million toys to 160 million children. U.S. Marines and Kyocera employees with donated U.S. Marines and toysemployees with Kyocera donated toys Children Invited to a Professional Baseball Game Children Invited to a Professional Baseball Game The Kyocera Group in Korea invited 60 underprivileged children in The Seoul Kyocera Group in Korea to a professional invited baseball game60inunderprivileged September 2012. children Before in the game, to Seoul thea children professional baseball met some game of the in September baseball 2012. players and 74 Before got their the game, the children autographs. met some Two children the baseball wereofeven players able to throw outand thegot their game’s autographs. opening pitch. Two children were even able to throw out the game’s U.S. Marines and Kyocera employees with donated toys Children Invited to a Professional Baseball Game The Kyocera Group in Korea invited 60 underprivileged children in Seoul to a professional baseball game in September 2012. Before the game, the children met some of the baseball players and got their autographs. Two children were even able to throw out the game’s opening pitch. Children receive player autographs Donating Toothbrushes to Elementary School Students Since 2000, as part of a local medical support program, the Kyocera Group in the Philippines has donated toothbrushes to over 21,700 local elementary school students in Naga, Cebu Island, helping children to establish good oral hygiene habits. Children receiving toothbrushes Supporting the Education of University Science Students The Kyocera Group in the U.S.A. began collaborating with Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement (MESA*) in 1992 to support students in their studies. Providing educational support and scholarships to universities in the state of California helps highly motivated students achieve their academic goals. * Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement University students receiving scholarships (left and right) from a Kyocera employee (center) 75 Environmental Activities Environmental Activities Since foundation of the company, based on the corporate motto “Respect the Divine and Love People,” the Kyocera Group has focused all corporate activities on three pillars of coexistence (Living Together): Coexisting with Our Community, Coexisting with Global Society, and Coexisting with Nature. The entire Kyocera Group is committed to environmental management and aims for sustainable corporate development while striving to combine the goals of ecology and economy. Kyocera Environmental Charter Environmental Management Promotion System Environment Vision 2020 / Kyocera Group Environmental Education Environmental Policy Environmental Risk Management Environmental Accounting Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products Change Green Procurement Resource Conservation Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Chemical Substances Management Kyocera Group’s Environmental Impact at Each Site Kyocera Group “Eco-Lessons” Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Providing Employees’ Families with Environmental Education and Awareness Participation in Environmental Exhibitions and Events Main Feedback for Sustainable Management 76 Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products Change Green Procurement Resource Conservation Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Chemical Substances Management Kyocera Group’s Environmental Impact at Each Site Kyocera Group “Eco-Lessons” Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Providing Employees’ Families with Environmental Education and Awareness Participation in Environmental Exhibitions and Events Main Feedback for Sustainable Management 77 Kyocera Group Environmental Management Kyocera Group Environmental Kyocera Management Group Environmental Manageme ental Management Since foundation of the company, based on theSince corporate motto of the company, based on the corporate motto foundation corporate motto“Respect the Divine and Love People,” the Kyocera “RespectGroup thehasDivine and Love People,” the Kyocera Group has cera Group has focused all corporate activities on three pillars of coexistence focused all corporate activities on three pillars of coexistence f coexistence(Living Together): Coexisting with Our Community, (LivingCoexisting Together): Coexisting with Our Community, Coexisting ity, Coexistingwith Global Society, and Coexisting with Nature. The entire with Global Society, and Coexisting with Nature. The entire . The entire Kyocera Group is committed to environmental management Kyocera Group and is committed to environmental management and management and aims for sustainable corporate development while aims striving to for sustainable corporate development while striving to ile striving to combine the goals of ecology and economy. combine the goals of ecology and economy. The Kyocera Group handles many chemical substancesThe Kyocera duringGroup handles many chemical substances during bstances during production processes, such as raw materials and chemicalprocesses, such as raw materials and chemical production d chemical agents for fine ceramics. Regarding treatment of wastefor agents water fine ceramics. Regarding treatment of waste water f waste waterfrom factories, our policy is to purify dischargedfromwater to a state factories, our policy is to purify discharged water to a state cleaner than the water system into which it is tocleaner water to a state be released. than the water system into which it is to be released. be released. Kyocera’s founder, Kazuo Inamori, determined Kyocera’s all waste waterfounder, Kazuo Inamori, determined all waste water all waste water would be first rendered as harmless as possible, usingbethe would first rendered as harmless as possible, using the , using the newest available technology. newest available technology. Based on this concept, the Kyocera Group enacted Based theonKyocera this concept, the Kyocera Group enacted the Kyocera cted the KyoceraEnvironmental Charter in 1991, the company’s basic philosophy Environmental Charter in 1991, the company’s basic philosophy basic philosophyregarding the environment. Kyocera established its Environment regarding the environment. Kyocera established its Environment Vision 2020 in order to embody the Kyocera Environmental d its Environment Vision 2020 in order to embody the Kyocera Environmental vironmental Charter and define the company’s stance on a Charter long-term andbasis up the company’s stance on a long-term basis up define ong-term basis to up 2020. As a yearly goal to achieve this vision,toKyocera has formulated 2020. As a yearly goal the “Kyocera to achieve Group this Environmental vision, Kyocera has formulated the “Ky Policy.” Kyocera has formulated the “Kyocera Group Environmental Policy.” Kyocera Environmental Charter Kyocera Environmental Charter Environment Vision 2020 / Kyocera Group Environmental Environment Policy Vision 2020 / Kyocera Group Environmental Policy nvironmental Policy 78 Kyocera Environmental Charter Kyocera Environmental Charter Kyocera Environmental Charter Preface | Basic Philosophy | Basic Policies | Promotion Organization | Application Preface | Basic Philosophy | Basic Policies | Promotion Organization | Application Established: October 1, 1991 Established: Revised: June October 1, 20131,(latest 1991 revision) Revised: June 1, 2013 (latest revision) I. Preface I. Preface Technological progress and economic development in industrialized countries have given rise to affluent Technological societies with highprogress and economic standards of living. At development the same time, in industrialized they have led countries to the mass given rise to of haveconsumption affluent natural societies with high standards of living. At the same time, they have led to resources and mass discharge of chemical substances — which, in turn now threaten to escalate environmental the mass consumption of natural resources and mass discharge of chemical substances — which, in turn now pollution and destroy the Earth’s ecosystem. In addition, explosive population growth and widespread poverty in threaten to escalate environmental pollution developing and the Earth’s destroy have countries aggravated ecosystem.these In addition, explosive environmental problems population growth and with large-scale widespreadThe deforestation. socialin poverty developing and economic countries have activities aggravated of both advanced these andenvironmental developing countries problems are with large-scale intertwined, and deforestation. with all parties social Theintent on and economic greater materialactivities consumption, advanced of bothnature’s and developing recuperative powers countries have been intertwined,As are exceeded. and a result, parties with allthe intent Earth’s on natural greater material consumption, nature’s regenerative mechanism has been damaged on a global scale. recuperative powers have been exceeded. As a result, the Earth’s natural regenerative mechanism has been damaged on a global scale. One of our major premises up to this time — that the Earth’s ecosystem is infinitely large — is now being One of our rejected majorofpremises in favor the idea up that tothethisEarth time — is athat the Earth’s closed ecosystem. Such aischange ecosystem infinitelyin large — is now view affects thebeing very rejected in favor foundation of the ideaexistence of humankind’s that the Earth is a closed and demands ecosystem. Such a re-evaluation of the a change quality and in view affects quantity the very of the products foundation of humankind’s existence and demands a re-evaluation of the used by humankind. This, in turn, will lead to a fundamental change in the industrial / technological system quality and quantity of the products within used by humankind. This, in which such products are manufactured. turn, will lead to a fundamental change in the industrial / technological system within which such products are manufactured. In the course of history, humankind has witnessed three eras of rapid development: the Agricultural Revolution, In the the Industrial of history, humankind course Revolution and the Informationhas witnessed three eras Revolution. of rapid development: It is generally the Agricultural felt that the current environmental Revolution, the Industrial movement willRevolution someday be the Information andregarded Revolution. as humankind’s fourth of rapidfelt generally It isera that the current development: environmental the Environmental movement Revolution.will someday be regarded as humankind’s fourth era of rapid development: the Environmental Revolution. Our future thus requires new policy goals. These should state that development and economic growth may be Our future pursued onlythus requires when propernew policy goals.isThese consideration given to should state that the balance development between nature andand economic society and growth may be environmental pursued only when conservation. Whileproper consideration an individual's impactismay givenbetosmall, the balance betweenresult the cumulative nature rapidly and andasociety from environmental expanding conservation. population could While causean individual's impact may be complete environmental small, the cumulative result from a rapidly expanding destruction. population could cause complete environmental destruction. Therefore it is essential to establish a basic philosophy of coexistence and co-prosperity between the developed Therefore and it is essential developing countries, establish business to between a basic philosophy and government, of coexistence and between and co-prosperity individuals and between the developed societies. All must andviewed be developing countries, in as participants between business of the stewardship and government, “Mother Earth,” andnot asbetween opposing individuals forces with All must societies. interests. andconflicting be viewed as participants in the stewardship of “Mother Earth,” not as opposing forces with conflicting interests. The greatest responsibility for promoting the Environmental Revolution lies with the advanced countries. In The greatest particular, responsibility businesses in such promotingplay for countries the Environmental a vital role, as they Revolution possess lies with the advanced production technologies and areIn countries. particular, directly businesses engaged in industrial countries play a vital role, as they possess production technologies and are in suchactivities. directly engaged in industrial activities. II. Basic Philosophy II. Basic Philosophy In accordance with our corporate motto — “Respect the Divine and Love People” — since its foundation, In accordance Kyocera with ourclosely has adhered corporate to itsmotto — “Respect management the Divine rationale, and Love “To provide People” — since opportunities for theitsmaterial foundation,and Kyocera has adhered closely to its management rationale, intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement and “To provide opportunities for the material of society intellectual and growthWe humankind.” of all our to strive employees, conduct businessand through our jointwith in harmony efforts, contributeforce the life-giving to the ofadvancement our universe. of society Kyocera and early humankind.” had insight into strive We the to conduct mindset business that today's in harmony global environmental life-givingmake with theproblems forcedemands of our universe. of everyKyocera business had early insight enterprise. into the implies This mindset mindsetthat today's global thatbusiness shouldenvironmental uphold the dignity problems make demands of humankind of everytobusiness and contribute the enterprise. This mindset implies sustainable development of society. that business should uphold the dignity of humankind and contribute to the sustainable development of society. Based on the management rationale stated above, the Kyocera Group adopts comprehensive measures for the Based onofthe creation management a low-carbon rationalesustainable producing, stated above, the Kyocera society — a society Group whichadopts comprehensive exists in harmony with measures nature — the forand creation of a low-carbon producing, sustainable society — a society which will further heighten our goals towards environmental protection, development of environmentally friendly exists in harmony with nature — and will heighten furtherenergy products, our goals towards conservation & climate environmental change prevention, protection, development resource of environmentally conservation, waste reduction, friendly proper products, energy conservation & climate change prevention, resource management of chemical substances, and biodiversity protection in order to make proactive and continuous conservation, waste reduction, proper management to contributions of environmental chemical substances, preservation.and biodiversity protection in order to make proactive and continuous contributions to environmental preservation. 79 III. Basic Policies In the course of business activities, the Kyocera Group will take a serious view of global environmental protection III. Basicclosely adhering Policies to the Company's basic philosophy, stated above, and will emphasize the following points: 1. the Adhering In coursetoofinternal business environmental activities, thestandards that make Kyocera Group global will take a serious view ofprotection environmental our first priority; global environmental protection (1) In closely adhering order totominimize the Company'simpact on thephilosophy, basic natural environment stated above, and anyandharmful effects on will emphasize thethe ecosystem, following points: 1. Adhering to internal environmental standards that make global environmental protection our those Kyocera will establish and comply with internal standards which are more stringent than specified first priority; by applicable international agreements and, national laws local regulations where the Company's (1) In order to minimize impact on the natural environment and any harmful effects on the ecosystem, facilities are located. Kyocera will establish and comply with internal standards which are more stringent than those specified (2) At by all levels, Kyocera applicable will scientifically international agreementsstudy and, and evaluate national laws thelocaleffects of business whereactivities regulations the Company'son the environment, and facilities are located. then take the necessary protective measures. (2) At allwill 2. Kyocera strive levels, Kyocera development for the will of environmentally scientifically study and evaluate friendly products the effects in two categories; of business activities on the environment, (1) Kyocera and thenitstake will increase the necessary research protectiveofmeasures. and development Products for Environmental Improvement that 2. Kyoceramakewill strive forcontribution a positive the development to the enhancement of environmentally global environment,and of thefriendly strive to spread the use products in two categories; of such products. (1) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Products for Environmental Improvement that (2) Kyocera will increase make a positive contribution to theand its research development enhancement of Environmentally of the global environment,and strive to that Gentle Products spreadhavethea use lighter of suchburden products. on the environment at each stage of production, sales, distribution, consumption and disposal and strive to spread the use of such products. (2) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Environmentally Gentle Products that have a efficient 3. Mostlighter utilization burden on theofenvironment resources and innovation stage of processing at each production, technologies; sales, distribution, consumption and disposal will (1) Kyocera anddevelop spread the technologies strive toprocessing use of such products. and production facilities that have maximum resource and 3. Most efficient utilization of resources and innovation of will energy efficiency. At the same time, the Company aim to reduce processing raw material and chemical technologies; consumption in all processes. (1) Kyocera will develop processing technologies and production facilities that have maximum resource and (2) Kyocera will promote energy efficiency. At the sameenergy internal conservation time, the Company will aim to such activities, reduce more as raw efficientand usechemical material of electricity and fossil fuels, the introduction consumption in all processes. of high efficiency equipment, and the reutilization of waste heat. At the same time, the Company will promote measures for climate change prevention. (2) Kyocera will promote internal energy conservation activities, such as more efficient use of electricity and (3) Kyocera intends fossil fuels, to purchaseofrecyclable the introduction materials high efficiency which contribute equipment, to resourceofconservation and the reutilization waste heat. At while the same maximizing time, resourcewill the Company promoteby efficiency establishing measures recycling for climate systems change for wastewater and waste materials. prevention. The Company will take aggressive steps to reduce the volume of and decontaminate all waste. (3) Kyocera intends to purchase recyclable materials which contribute to resource conservation while 4. Enhancement maximizingofresource environmentalefficiencycommunication, by establishing participation in, and support recycling systems for, social for wastewater andcontribution activities. waste materials. The Company (1) Kyocera will take will pursue aggressive education steps to to improve reduce theenvironmental volume of andawareness employees' decontaminate all waste. and thus promote participation in environmental preservation. 4. Enhancement of environmental communication, participation in, and support for, social contribution activities. (2) (1) Kyocera Kyocera willwill broadly establish cooperative pursue education relationships to improve employees' with local communities, awareness municipalities environmental and thus promote and business partners participation to promote positive in environmental environmental communication. preservation. (3) Kyocera (2) Kyocera willwill broadly cooperative(tree-planting) the greenification promoteestablish relationships of with facilities itslocal in an organized communities, create effort to and municipalities grounds which business partners areto lush and inviting. promote the same time, positiveAtenvironmental the Company will participate in and support social communication. contribution activities. (3) Kyocera will promote the greenification (tree-planting) of its facilities in an organized effort to create grounds which are lush and inviting. At the same time, the Company will participate in and support social contribution activities. IV. Promotion Organization 1. Kyocera will establish and operate an environmental management system based on ISO14001 standards, IV. and Promotion continuouslyOrganization expand environmental preservation activities. 2. To 1. ensure Kyocera compliance will establish and legal and withoperate environmentalenvironmental angovernmental management regulations, system based and oninternal ISO14001 environmental standards, standards, and an internal continuously expand review group will conduct environmental auditsactivities. preservation on both a regular and an as-needed basis. 3. The 2. Environmental To ensure compliance Management with legal and Division, facility manager governmental and environmental environmental regulations, specialists and internal will implement an environmental independent auditing system regarding environmental protection at standards, an internal review group will conduct audits on both a regular and an as-needed basis. each of its business locations. 3. The Environmental Management Division, facility manager and environmental specialists will implement an independent auditing system regarding environmental protection at each of its business locations. V. Application The Kyocera Environmental Charter will be applied to companies within the global Kyocera Group. V. Application The Kyocera Environmental Charter will be applied to companies within the global Kyocera Group. 80 Environment Vision 2020 / Kyocera Group Environmental Policy Environment Vision 2020 / Kyocera Group Environmental Policy Topics Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Goals Results FY2013 Results FY2013 FY2014 Goals Goals FY2014 Aggregate Aggregate reduction reduction ofof Factor 1.01 1.01 (Goals Factor (Goals To promote To promote activities activities for for greenhouse greenhouse gas gas emission emission accomplished accomplished one one year year accomplishing FY2021 accomplishing FY2021 Achievement Achievement of of [low-carbon [low-carbon society society early) early) Factor Factor 3.3. Environment Environment contribution contribution factor] factor] Vision 2020 Vision 2020 (FY2014 (FY2014 Factor Factor 1 1 accomplished) accomplished) Environment Environment Vision Vision 2020 2020 For For the Group, harmonious Kyocera Group, the Kyocera harmonious coexistence coexistence (Living Together) is (Living Together) the underlying is the foundation of underlying foundation of all all our our business activities business activities as we strive as we for sustainable sustainable development strive for through environmental development through environmental management. management. Based Based on on a global a environmental management management system global environmental (Green Management), Management), we system (Green strive for we strive for ecological ecological and and economic economic compatibility compatibility in in three three areas: areas: Green Products, Green Green Products, Green Factories, Factories, andand Green Green Communication. Communication. 1. Contribute 1. Contribute to realization of to realization of a a low-carbon low-carbon society society Targeting a Targeting a Low-Carbon Low-Carbon Society Society Contribution Contribution Factor of 3 Factor of 3 (Contribution (Contribution Volume Volume ÷ ÷ Emission Emission Volume) Volume) by by maximizing the maximizing reduction of the reduction greenhouse gas of greenhouse emissions through gas emissions through energy creation, and energy creation, and suppressing suppressing greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions emissions in in business business activities. activities. 2. 2. Contribute Contribute to realization of to realization of a a recycling-based recycling-based society society Contribute to Contribute to realization realization of of a a society society with with sustainable recycling of sustainable recycling resources by of resources by reducing the volume reducing the volume of of new new resource input and minimizing resource input and minimizing waste. waste. 3. 3. Contribute Contribute to to realization realization of of a a society society coexisting coexisting with with nature nature (1)Advance conservation (1)Advance conservation of biodiversity by of biodiversity minimizing negative negative impact by minimizing impact on the natural on the environment, as natural environment, as well well as as protecting and nurturing the natural protecting and nurturing the natural environment.environment. (2)Contribute to (2)Contribute to cultivation cultivation ofof an environmentally conscious an environmentally conscious society, society, through through environmental environmental communication communication with various stakeholders and environmental awareness with various stakeholders and environmental awareness activities. activities. Commitment Commitment to Achieving a to Achieving a Low-Carbon Low-Carbon Society Society In In addition addition to targets for to targets for reducing reducing greenhouse greenhouse gas gas emissions emissions fromfrom business business activities, activities, the the Environment Environment Vision Vision 2020 establishes a benchmark in aiming for realization of 2020 establishes a benchmark in aiming for realization of a low carbon society. Named the Low-Carbon a low carbon society. Named the Low-Carbon Society Society Contribution Factor, Contribution this benchmark benchmark gives Factor, this an overall overall assessment gives an assessment of the volume of the volume ofof contribution contribution toto greenhouse greenhouse gas reduction gas through use reduction through of Kyocera Kyocera Green use of Products. The Green Products. FY2013 Low The FY2013 Carbon Society Low Carbon Society Contribution Contribution Factor Factor has has reached 1.01, with the goal having been accomplished 81 one year early. reached 1.01, with the goal having been accomplished one year early. 3. Contribute to realization of a society coexisting with nature (1)Advance conservation of biodiversity by minimizing negative impact on the natural environment, as well as protecting and nurturing the natural environment. (2)Contribute to cultivation of an environmentally conscious society, through environmental communication with various stakeholders and environmental awareness activities. Commitment to Achieving a Low-Carbon Society In addition to targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from business activities, the Environment Vision 2020 establishes a benchmark in aiming for realization of a low carbon society. Named the Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor, this benchmark gives an overall assessment of the volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction through use of Kyocera Green Products. The FY2013 Low Carbon Society Contribution Factor has reached 1.01, with the goal having been accomplished one year early. *1 The volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction is obtained by converting the volume equivalent to the energy creation effect into the greenhouse effect gas, in which the photovoltaic systems produced and marketed are assumed to continue power generation for 20 years. In addition, the coefficient used in conversion shall be 0.360kg of CO2 per kWh (based on the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association’s Independent Industry Rules on Labeling). *2 Emissions of greenhouse gas by plants and offices in the Kyocera Group Participation in the Low-Carbon Society Action Plan In March 2012, Kyocera participated in the Low Carbon Society Action Plan of electrical and electronics industries. This is an approach to improve energy consumption units by 1% per year on average and to contribute to suppression of CO2 emissions from manufactured products by 2020. Kyocera will make unified efforts with industries to positively carry forward our contribution to the prevention of climate change. Kyocera Group Environmental Policy As a milestone in promoting our contribution to the realization of a low-carbon society, recycling-based society, and society coexisting with nature set out in the “Environment Vision 2020,” the Kyocera Group enacted a global environmental policy, based on which each manufacturing plant and each office voluntarily drafts environmental goals, and rolls out ongoing improvement by applying the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycle. For the environment goal, a 3-year goal was set out and promoted, but in order to focus on environmental management more directly in connection to the Kyocera Group’s management system, it was revised to an annual goal, the “Kyocera Group Environmental Policy.” 82 industries. This is an approach to improve energy consumption units by 1% per year on average and to contribute to suppression of CO2 emissions from manufactured products by 2020. Kyocera will make unified efforts with industries to positively carry forward our contribution to the prevention of climate change. Kyocera Group Environmental Policy As a milestone in promoting our contribution to the realization of a low-carbon society, recycling-based society, and society coexisting with nature set out in the “Environment Vision 2020,” the Kyocera Group enacted a global environmental policy, based on which each manufacturing plant and each office voluntarily drafts environmental goals, and rolls out ongoing improvement by applying the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycle. For the environment goal, a 3-year goal was set out and promoted, but in order to focus on environmental management more directly in connection to the Kyocera Group’s management system, it was revised to an annual goal, the “Kyocera Group Environmental Policy.” “In all production sites, the greenhouse effect gas emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, and industrial waste discharge will be reduced by 1% or more from a year earlier in terms of energy consumption unit improvement rate.” 83 Green Management: Basis of Environmental Management Promotion Green Management: Basis of Environmental Management Promotion | Environmental Management Promotion System | Environmental Education | Environmental Risk Management | Kyocera Group Environmental Management Contribution Award | Environmental Accounting | Overall Environmental Impact | Environmental Management Promotion System Targets and action plans determined by the Kyocera Green Committee are broken down in the Environmental Management System based on the ISO14001 Standard. The Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycle is applied monthly in order to spread continuous environmental conservation activities. Environmental Management Promotion System Detail Environmental Education The Kyocera Group systematically performs environmental education by classifying it into general, awareness, and professional education based on the environmental education system. Our objective is to help our employees to understand the significance of working on environmental conservation activities and the role each person plays, and thus to raise overall environmental awareness. Environmental Education Training for Eco-Lesson instructors Environmental Risk Management The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which sets stricter standards than legal and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and ground water contaminants, etc. In addition, each office specifies even stricter self-imposed standards and carries out periodic measurements. 84 Detail Environmental Risk Management Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Environmental Education Training for Eco-Lesson instructors Environmental Risk Management The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which sets stricter standards than legal and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and ground water contaminants, etc. In addition, each office specifies even stricter self-imposed standards and carries out periodic measurements. Kyocera Group Environmental Management ContributionDetail Award Environmental Risk Management The Kyocera Group used to present the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Contribution Award every year,Kyocera objective with theGroup's Environmental environmental of stimulatingImpact conservation activities, but because we have seen ongoing at Each Site improvement of environmental protection activities at work sites thanks to the environmental management system, the Award is being discontinued for the sake of reform in FY2014. We will continue to roll out positive Kyocera Group Environmental Management Contribution Award activities at each site including development of environment-friendly products, effective utilization of finite resources/energies, The Kyocera Group used activities for the the to present KyoceraofGroup prevention climate Environmental others. Incidentally, change, and Management AwardGroup the Kyocera Contribution every has year,established a system with the objective of for commending stimulating employees environmental who have made conservation a great activities, because weinhave butcontribution business seen activities, ongoing which include of improvement environmental environmental activities (President’s protection activities Award), and presents at work sites theaward thanks tothe in April every environmental year. management system, the Award is being discontinued for the sake of reform in FY2014. We will continue to roll out positive activities 2012 (16 attheach site including development of environment-friendly products, effective utilization of finite ) (pdf/104KB) resources/energies, activities for the prevention of climate change, and others. Incidentally, the Kyocera Group has 2011 (15th) (pdf/72KB) established a system for commending employees who have made a great contribution in business activities, which include environmental activities (President’s Award), and presents the award in April every year. 2010 (14th) (pdf/319KB) 2012 (16th ) (pdf/104KB) 2009 (13th) (pdf/780KB) 2011 (15th) (pdf/72KB) 2010 (14th) (pdf/319KB) Environmental Accounting 2009 (13th) (pdf/780KB) The Kyocera Group established an Environmental Accounting System which has been in practice since FY2003. In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. Environmental Accounting TheEnvironmental Kyocera Group Accounting established an Environmental Accounting System which has been in practice since FY2003. In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. Overall Environmental Impact Environmental Accounting This diagram shows the environmental impact of the entire Kyocera Group, clarifying the relationship between our business activities and the environment. Overall Environmental Impact This diagram shows the environmental impact of the entire Kyocera Group, clarifying the relationship between our business activities and the environment. Zoom 85 In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. Environmental Accounting Overall Environmental Impact This diagram shows the environmental impact of the entire Kyocera Group, clarifying the relationship between our business activities and the environment. Zoom 86 Environmental Management Promotion System Environmental Management Promotion System In the Kyocera Group, the Kyocera Green Committee (1990) and Kyocera Group Green Committee (established in 1991) which deliberated environmental management were discontinued in April 2013. Planning of environment-related measures and policies, which was the responsibility of the committees until now, will be implemented by the planning and policy division, environmental division, and related business divisions through mutual consultation with the president as the leader. In addition, environment-related projects will be launched as needed to work out solutions. The practical tasks and operations have been integrated into an organizational system within the environmental management system, which is centered on the environmental division. Environmental management promotion system Environmental Management System Targets and action plans determined by the Kyocera Green Committee are broken down in the Environmental Management System based on the ISO14001 Standard. The Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycle is applied monthly in order to spread continuous environmental conservation activities. We adopted and applied an Environmental Management System in 1996 when the ISO Standard was established. Presently, we have built systems globally and now deploy and apply them at 305 Group locations both in Japan and abroad. ISO14001 Certification Status (pdf/126KB) Environmental Safety Audit The Kyocera Group periodically conducts environmental safety audits to ensure that the environmental safety management system is properly applied in accordance with ISO14001 requirements. We report audit results and carry out corrective actions immediately. 87 The results and corrective actions are reflected in the review and in the improvement of the Environment & Safety Management System. ISO14001 Certification Status (pdf/126KB) Environmental Safety Audit The Kyocera Group periodically conducts environmental safety audits to ensure that the environmental safety management system is properly applied in accordance with ISO14001 requirements. We report audit results and carry out corrective actions immediately. The results and corrective actions are reflected in the review and in the improvement of the Environment & Safety Management System. Environmental safety audit 88 Environmental Education Environmental Education Environmental Education The Kyocera Group systematically performs environmental education by classifying it into general and The Kyocera awareness Group systematically education, performs and professional environmental education based oneducation by classifying the environmental it intosystem. education and objective general Our awareness is to help our education, employees andtoprofessional understand the education basedofon significance the environmental working education on environmental system. Our conservation objective activities and is torole the helpeach our employees person plays, and thus to the to understand raisesignificance of working on overall environmental environmental conservation activities and awareness. the role each person plays, and thus to raise overall environmental awareness. Zoom Zoom Kyocera Group’s Activities during Environmental-Awareness and Kyocera Energy-Saving Group’s Activities during Environmental-Awareness and Months Energy-Saving Months Japan Japan The Kyocera Group (Japan) established an environmental awareness The month Kyocera (June) Group (Japan) established months an and energy-saving environmental (February awareness and August), month (June) wherein and energy-saving the Kyocera Group focuses months (February andconservation on environmental August), wherein the activities Kyocera including Group focuses energy-saving environmental conservation andonelectricity-saving to raise activities including environmental energy-saving awareness and electricity-saving and enhance to raisein each conservation activities environmental awareness manufacturing plant and office. and enhance conservation activities in each manufacturing plant and office. In FY2013 we carried out a program called, “Summer Eco-Challenge In FY2013 2012,” fromwe carried June out a program to September, called, in which asked ourEco-Challenge we“Summer employees for 2012,” from June to September, in which we asked eco-ideas to save energy and electricity in our manufacturing our employees plantsfor eco-ideas to save energy and electricity in our manufacturing and offices in order to reinforce our energy-saving and electricityplants and offices in order to reinforce our energy-saving and electricityGreen curtain photo contest (grand prix) saving activities during the summertime. In addition, we held the Green curtain photo contest (grand prix) saving activities “Green duringContest” Curtain Photo the summertime. In addition,Environmental and the “Children’s we held the “Green Curtain Contest,” in whichPhoto Contest” we invited children toEnvironmental and the “Children’s employees’ submit essays Contest,” concerning which in the we invitedinemployees’ environment childrenenvironmental to submit essays order to enhance concerning the environment awareness of employees’ families. in order to enhance environmental awareness of employees’ families. China China 89 Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. designated July and August Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. designated July and August eco-ideas to save energy and electricity in our manufacturing plants and offices in order to reinforce our energy-saving and electricityGreen curtain photo contest (grand prix) saving activities during the summertime. In addition, we held the “Green Curtain Photo Contest” and the “Children’s Environmental Contest,” in which we invited employees’ children to submit essays concerning the environment in order to enhance environmental awareness of employees’ families. China Shanghai as energy-saving Electronicsmonths Kyoceraawareness Co., Ltd. and installed aJuly designated August and board bulletin as energy-saving concerning awareness environmental months and conservation, installed a bulletin board as energy-saving awareness well as aheld months andasinstalled events bulletin board concerning environmental including energy-saving conservation, education as to enhance well as held events concerning environmental conservation, as wellenergy-saving as held events including awareness energy-saving of employees. education to enhance energy-saving including energy-saving education to enhance energy-saving awareness of employees. awareness of employees. Bulletin board concerning environmental Bulletin boardconservation concerning environmental Bulletin board concerning environmental conservation conservation Thailand Thailand Thailand Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd. designated December as Kyocera an Crystal Device energy-saving (Thailand) awareness andLtd. monthCo., designated provided December for 1,100as training Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd. designated December as an energy-saving employees awareness on energy-saving month and and climate provided training change prevention. for 1,100 an energy-saving awareness month and provided training for 1,100 employees Furthermore,on energy-saving andanclimate essay change contest prevention. employees onthe company held energy-saving and climate change and conducted an prevention. Furthermore, the observation tour company held an essay contest and conducted an Furthermore, theat company held anelectric a neighboring contestplant. essay power and conducted an observation tour at a neighboring electric power plant. observation tour at a neighboring electric power plant. Energy-saving and climate change Energy-saving and training prevention climate change Energy-saving and climate change prevention training prevention training Observation tour at an electric power plant Observation tour at an electric power plant Observation tour at an electric power plant 90 Environmental Risk Management Environmental Environmental Risk Risk Management Management Establishment of the Environmental Management Standard Environmental Establishment of the Risk Management Environmental Management Standard The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which sets The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which sets Establishment stricter standards than legalEnvironmental of the Management and public regulations Standard on emissions, wastewater, soil and ground water stricter standards than legal and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and ground water contaminants, etc. In addition, each office specifies even stricter self-imposed standards and carries out periodic contaminants, The Kyocera Group In addition,the etc.established each office Kyocera specifies Group even stricter Environmental self-imposed Management Standard in 1992,and standards which sets out periodic carries measurements. stricter standards than legal and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and ground water measurements. contaminants, etc. In addition, each office specifies even stricter self-imposed standards and carries out periodic In addition, from the viewpoint of soil contamination control, the Kyocera Group established the Underground measurements. In addition, from the viewpoint of soil contamination control, the Kyocera Group established the Underground Installation Handling Standard to ensure that the pipeworks and storage tanks for discharged water containing Installation Handling Standard to ensure that the pipeworks and storage tanks for discharged water containing contaminants addition, fromare In the built for easy viewpoint visual of soil inspection, contamination the leaks so that control, be detected canGroup Kyocera early theand established the spread of Underground contaminants Installation are built Handling for easy Standard to ensure inspection, visualthat the so that pipeworks and leaks can storage be detected tanks for earlywater discharged and the spread of containing contamination can thus be prevented. contamination can thus be prevented. contaminants are built for easy visual inspection, so that leaks can be detected early and the spread of contamination can thus be prevented. [Example of Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard (extracted from a total of 44 water-related [ExampleofofKyocera [Example Kyocera Group Group Environmental EnvironmentalManagement Standard Management (extracted Standard from a total (extracted fromof 44 water-related a total of 44 water-related substances)] substances)] substances)] Legal Legal and and KyoceraKyocera Group Group Legal and Kyocera Group Self-Imposed Self-Imposed Standard Standard Item Item UnitUnit Public Environmental Public Environmental Management Self-Imposed Standard Management Item Unit Public Environmental Management (e.g. Shiga(e.g. Gamo Shiga Gamo Plant) Plant) Standards Standards StandardStandard (e.g. Shiga Gamo Plant) Standards Standard Hydrogen Hydrogenion ion Hydrogen ion 6.0-8.5 6.0-8.5 6.2-8.2 6.2-8.2 6.7-7.6 6.7-7.6 concentration(pH) concentration (pH) 6.0-8.5 6.2-8.2 6.7-7.6 concentration (pH) Biochemical Biochemical Biochemical oxygen demand mg/l 15 10 7.2 oxygen demand (BOD) mg/l 15 10 7.2 oxygen demand mg/l 15 10 7.2 (BOD) (BOD) oxygen Chemical Chemical oxygen mg/l 15 10 9.5 demand (COD) Chemical oxygen mg/l 15 10 9.5 demand (COD) mg/l 15 10 9.5 Suspended demand (COD) solid mg/l 20 5 4.75 (SS) Suspended solid Suspended solid mg/l 20 5 4.75 (SS) N-hexane extract mg/l 20 5 4.75 (SS) mg/l 3 1 0.95 weight N-hexane extract N-hexane extract mg/l 3 1 0.95 weight content Phenols mg/lmg/l 1 3 0.5 1 0.3 0.95 weight Copper Phenols content content mg/lmg/l 1 1 1 0.5 0.03 0.3 Phenols content mg/l 1 0.5 0.3 Zinc content mg/l 1 0.5 0.21 Copper content mg/l 1 1 0.03 Copper content mg/l 1 1 0.03 Dissolved iron Zinc content mg/lmg/l 10 1 5 0.5 0.42 0.21 content Zinc content mg/l 1 0.5 0.21 Dissolved Dissolved iron Dissolved iron mg/lmg/l 10 10 5 5 0.27 0.42 content manganese content mg/l 10 5 0.42 content Dissolved Coliform group Dissolved mg/l colnies/ml 3,000 10 350 5 9 0.27 number manganese content mg/l 10 5 0.27 manganese content Coliformcontent Nitrogen group mg/l 8 8 6.5 Coliform group colnies/ml 3,000 350 9 number Phosphorus colnies/ml 3,000 350 9 number mg/l 0.8 0.5 0.475 content Nitrogen content mg/l 8 8 6.5 Nitrogen content mg/l 8 8 6.5 Phosphorus Phosphorus mg/l 0.8 91 0.5 0.475 content mg/l 0.8 0.5 0.475 content Dealing with Emergencies Assuming the inevitability of accidents and emergencies which may affect the environment, we have taken preventative countermeasures, such as the installation of dikes. We have also prepared procedures for dealing with emergencies. To ensure that employees are familiar with these procedures, we hold emergency training drills more than once each year. Emergency training (Shiga Gamo Plant) Environmental Regulations Compliance Status In the Kyocera Group, no violations of environment-related legal regulations occurred in FY2013. In April 2012, the US Environmental Protection Agency issued an administrative order to AVX Corporation, a Kyocera Group company in the United States. The details of this case are stipulated in the Annual Securities Report. 92 Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting The Kyocera Group established an Environmental Accounting System which has been in practice since FY2003. In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. [Range of data collection: 219 sites] 1. Sites collectively certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System: 194 sites 2. Dongguan Shilong Kyocera Co., Ltd. (China); Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. (China); AVX Group (18 sites); KII Group (5 sites) Period covered: April 2012 through March 2013 Guideline for reference: Ministry of the Environment’s “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005” Environmental Accounting Analysis Results (FY2013) The environmental preservation costs (total of investment amount and expenses) amounted to a total of 6,777 million yen as a result of investments for reinforcement of wastewater treatment facilities at Shiga Yasu Plant and energy-saving activities at each plant. By concentrating our efforts on energy-saving measures, such as effective utilization of exhaust heat and introduction of energy-saving air-conditioning systems, the economic effects associated with environmental preservation effects reached 8,676 million yen. Concept of Environmental Accounting Double reporting of internal transactions is prevented in companies subject to data collection. For Group companies with an equity ratio not equal to 100%, data collection is performed by regarding the investment amount, expense amount, and environmental conservation effects as 100%. Concept of Environmental Conservation Costs For environmental conservation facilities, the investment amount and running costs are totaled. For environmental conservation activities, the expenses spent for such activities are totaled. Research and development costs included in costs for environmental conservation are included in fundamental research and development. Definition of Environmental Conservation Effects and Economic Benefits The economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts are computed only for cases in which there is clear, quantifiable evidence of an improvement in environmental conservation. The economic effects as a result of environmental conservation measures for research and development costs are not computed. Changes in the aggregation method For the FY2013 aggregate calculation onward, the aggregation method has been changed as follows: ◆The criteria were reviewed so that tabulation items can be chosen in accordance with environmental burdens of each site. ◆The build-up period of “The economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts was reviewed. ◆The scope of aggregation of running costs at environmental conservation facilities was reviewed. *The comparison with the previous year’s performance is not posted because the aggregation method was changed. Environmental Conservation Costs (Unit: Million yen) Investment Cost Cost Classification FY2013 FY2013 Business area costs 517 5,276 93 Pollution prevention costs 309 2,960 Global environmental conservation costs 183 1,061 ◆The build-up period of “The economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts was reviewed. ◆The scope of aggregation of running costs at environmental conservation facilities was reviewed. *The comparison with the previous year’s performance is not posted because the aggregation method was changed. Environmental Conservation Costs (Unit: Million yen) Investment Cost Cost Classification FY2013 FY2013 Business area costs 517 5,276 Pollution prevention costs 309 2,960 Global environmental conservation costs 183 1,061 Resource recycling costs 25 1,255 Upstream / downstream costs 0 219 Management costs 3 717 R&D costs Social activity costs 0 39 Environmental remediation costs 0 6 Total 520 6,257 Economic Effects of Environmental Preservation Measures (Unit: Million yen) Item FY2013 Income 2,559 Cost-cutting measures 6,117 Total 8,676 Cost-Effectiveness (Unit: Million yen) Item FY2013 Expense amount excluding research and development costs 6,257 Economic effects resulting from environmental preservation 8,676 measures Cost-effectiveness 2,419 Environmental Conservation Effects Effect Content FY2013 Unit Reduction of electricity 85,206 MWh Reduction TonsCO2 of fuel 11,565 k! (crude oil equivalent) Reduction of greenhouse gases such as PFC 9,257 Ton-CO2 Reduction of water usage 23,857 1,000m3 Reduction of chemical substances 12,858 Tons Reduction of waste 36,326 Tons Past Environmental Accounting Analysis Results 94 Environmental Accounting FY2012 (pdf/66KB) Item FY2013 Expense amount excluding research and development costs 6,257 Economic effects resulting from environmental preservation 8,676 measures Cost-effectiveness 2,419 Environmental Conservation Effects Effect Content FY2013 Unit Reduction of electricity 85,206 MWh Reduction TonsCO2 of fuel 11,565 k! (crude oil equivalent) Reduction of greenhouse gases such as PFC 9,257 Ton-CO2 Reduction of water usage 23,857 1,000m3 Reduction of chemical substances 12,858 Tons Reduction of waste 36,326 Tons Past Environmental Accounting Analysis Results Environmental Accounting FY2012 (pdf/66KB) Environmental Accounting FY2011 (pdf/205KB) Environmental Accounting FY2010 (pdf/781KB) Environmental Accounting FY2009 (pdf/783KB) 95 GreenProducts: Green Products:Environmentally Environmentally Friendly Friendly Products Products Green Products: Environmentally Friendly Products Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Topics Creation of new FY2013 “Kyocera Goals Kyocera FY2013ofResults Certification Creation of new FY2014 Kyocera Goals Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Promotion of Creation of new “Kyocera Certification of Kyocera Creation of new Kyocera Products” Products Products (goal: 8 products) environmental Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Friendly Promotion of Application of Kyocera’s Certification of Kyocera Application of Kyocera’s consciousness in Products” Products Products (goal: 8 products) environmental Green Supplier System Green Suppliers (number Green Supplier System products Application of Kyocera’s Certification of Kyocera Application of Kyocera’s consciousness in of certified companies: 667 Green Supplier System Green Suppliers (number Green Supplier System products suppliers) of certified companies: 667 suppliers) | Development of Environmentally Friendly Products | Environmentally Friendly Products | Green Procurement | | Development of Environmentally Friendly Products | Environmentally Friendly Products | Green Procurement | Development of Environmentally Friendly Products TheDevelopment of Environmentally Kyocera Group strives Friendly for all of its products Products to be Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products. The Kyocera Group strives for all of its products to be Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products. Starting in FY2007, Kyocera launched and applied a system for evaluating environmental consciousness at the time of Starting in FY2007, Kyocera launched and applied a system for developing products and techniques in order to facilitate the evaluating environmental consciousness at the time of manufacture of environmentally friendly products. developing products and techniques in order to facilitate the manufacture of environmentally friendly products. Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Detail Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Detail Environmentally Friendly Products TheEnvironmentally Friendly Kyocera Group develops variousProducts environmentally friendly products such as fine ceramics and solar cells. The Kyocera Group develops various environmentally friendly products such as fine ceramics and solar cells. Environmentally Friendly Products Environmentally Friendly Products Green Procurement Green Procurement To deal with increasing environmental problems, it is important that not only our Group companies but also the entire supply To deal with increasing environmental problems, it is important chain including suppliers take appropriate actions. 96 that not only our Group companies but also the entire supply chain including suppliers take appropriate actions. Green Procurement Green Procurement Kyocera To established deal with its environmental increasing Green Procurement Standard problems, to it is important purchase products and services with low environmental that not only our Group companies but also the entire supply impact To deal with increasing environmental problems, it is important from suppliers chain includingproactively promoting suppliers take environmental appropriate actions. that not only our Group companies but also the entire supply preservation activities. In this way, we are actively promoting chain Kyoceraincluding suppliers established take appropriate its Green Procurement actions. Standard to green procurement activities. purchase products and services with low environmental impact from suppliers Green proactively promoting environmental Procurement preservation activities. In this way, we are actively promoting Detail green procurement activities. Green Procurement Detail 97 Development Development Development of ofof Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally Friendly FriendlyFriendly Products Products Products Development The Kyocera Group strives offor Environmentally FriendlyFriendly all of its products to be Kyocera Environmentally ProductsProducts. The Kyocera Group strives for all of its products to be Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products. The Kyocera Group strives for all of its products to be Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products. Starting in FY2007, Kyocera launched and applied a system for evaluating environmental consciousness at the Starting in FY2007, Kyocera launched and applied a system for evaluating environmental consciousness at the time of developing products and techniques in order to facilitate the manufacture of environmentally friendly time of developing Starting in FY2007,products Kyoceraand techniques launched in ordera to and applied facilitate system for the manufacture evaluating of environmentally environmental friendly consciousness at the products. In addition, since FY2011, Kyocera has been calculating environmental efficiency and factors to products. In addition, time of developing since FY2011, products Kyocerainhas and techniques been order to facilitate theenvironmental calculating manufacture ofefficiency and factors environmentally to friendly evaluate how much value was created while curbing the burden on the environment. We use this data as indices products.how evaluate much value In addition, sincewas created FY2011, while curbing Kyocera has been thecalculating the environment. burden on environmental data astoindices thisfactors We useand efficiency for product development. for product evaluate howdevelopment. much value was created while curbing the burden on the environment. We use this data as indices for product development. | Environmentally Friendly Products System | Creation of New “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” | | Environmentally Friendly Products System | Creation of New “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” | Expansion of “Environmentally Friendly Products” | Environmental Efficiency and Factor | Expansion of “Environmentally | Environmentally Friendly ProductsFriendly Products” System | Environmental | Creation Efficiency of New “Kyocera and Factor |Friendly Products” | Environmentally Expansion of “Environmentally Friendly Products” | Environmental Efficiency and Factor | Environmentally Friendly Products System Environmentally Friendly Products System will promote theFriendly Environmentally Kyocera development Products System friendly products so that we can continue to supply of environmentally Kyocera will promote the development of environmentally friendly products so that we can continue to supply “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” and “environmentally friendly products” to the world in the future. “Kyocera Kyocera will Environmentally Friendly Products” promote the development and “environmentally of environmentally friendly products” friendly products future. thesupply world in to thecontinue so that wetocan “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” and “environmentally friendly products” to the world in the future. Creation of New “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” Creation of New “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” Creation Kyocera New “Kyocera of particularly certifies Environmentally outstanding Friendly from products and technologies Products” an environmental perspective, such as Kyocera certifies particularly outstanding products and technologies from an environmental perspective, such as the industry’s top-class products and technologies in regards to environmental protection, development of new the industry’s Kyocera top-class certifies products particularly and technologies outstanding in regards products and to environmental technologies perspective,of protection, development from an environmental newas such markets, high innovativeness, uniqueness, breakthroughs, etc., as “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products.” markets, innovativeness, high top-class the industry’s products uniqueness, breakthroughs, and technologies in regardsetc., as “Kyocera Environmentally to environmental Friendly Products.” protection, development of new The total number of certified products amounted to 259 in FY2013. The number total high markets, of certified products innovativeness, amounted uniqueness, to 259 in FY2013. breakthroughs, etc., as “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products.” The total number of certified products amounted to 259 in FY2013. Environmental Assessment in Product Development Environmental Assessment in Product Development For research and Assessment Environmental development ofinnew Product products Development and technologies, environmental consciousness is evaluated in For research and development of new products and technologies, environmental consciousness is evaluated in the following three steps: planning, prototype creation, and mass production the research three For following steps: planning, and development prototype of new products creation, and mass production and technologies, environmental consciousness is evaluated in the following three steps: planning, prototype creation, and mass production 98 Creation of New “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” Kyocera certifies particularly outstanding products and technologies from an environmental perspective, such as the industry’s top-class products and technologies in regards to environmental protection, development of new markets, high innovativeness, uniqueness, breakthroughs, etc., as “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products.” The total number of certified products amounted to 259 in FY2013. Environmental Assessment in Product Development For research and development of new products and technologies, environmental consciousness is evaluated in the following three steps: planning, prototype creation, and mass production Concept of Environmental Consciousness Kyocera considers the three themes of Global Warming Prevention and Energy Conservation, Resource Recycling and Environmental Preservation and Safety as high-priority issues. For each of these, we have established clear guidelines for environmental protection at the product development stage. Concept of Lowering Environmental Impact These products minimize environmental impact at all stages of the product life cycle, including manufacturing, sales, distribution, use, and disposal. Concept of Contributing to Environmental Protection These products allow customers and end-users to contribute to the reduction of environmental impact through use of our products. 99 Examples of Certified “Kyocera Environmentally Friendly Products” (FY2013) Glow Plug Heaters for Diesel Engines Recent diesel engines provide better fuel economy, less CO2 emissions, and higher power performance as compared to conventional gasoline engines, and have gained high popularity particularly in Europe, where at present about half of passenger vehicles are diesel-powered. In addition, in Europe, the world’s most stringent emissions standard is imposed, and the state-ofthe-art diesel passenger vehicles achieve an emission gas level that is cleaner than gasoline-powered vehicles. Kyocera’s glow plug heaters achieve great durability using ceramic material with outstanding heat resistance and oxidation resistance, contributing to the maximization of fuel economy, etc., by Glow plug heaters improving exhaust gas of diesel passenger vehicles and enhancing the idling stop functions. 100 Expansion of “Environmentally Friendly Products” outstanding heat resistance and oxidation resistance, contributing to the maximization of fuel economy, etc., by Glow plug heaters improving exhaust gas of diesel passenger vehicles and enhancing the idling stop functions. Expansion of “Environmentally Friendly Products” “Environmentally friendly products” are developed with the aim of contributing to global environmental protection from the standpoint of users and the entire society, in addition to satisfying legal regulations and customers’ requirements. In FY2013, the application ratio of “environmentally friendly products” was 98.9%. Environmental Efficiency and Factor Regarding the value created by a product or service as the numerator and the environmental burden due to creation of the value as the denominator, environmental efficiency is an index comprehensively indicating both aspects of the value and environmental burden. Represented by a ratio of two kinds of environmental efficiency such as new and old products, factor is an index showing the degree of improvement of environmental efficiency. Utilizing these indexes, you can evaluate how much affluence and value can be created while curbing the burden on the environment. Kyocera calculates environmental efficiency and factor for each of the three themes: Climate Change Prevention and Energy Conservation, Resource Recycling, and Environmental Preservation and Product Safety and uses them as indexes in product development. Major Products for Calculation of Environmental Efficiency and Factor 101 Major Products for Calculation of Environmental Efficiency and Factor 102 Environmentally Friendly Products EnvironmentallyFriendly Environmentally Friendly Products Products Kyocera Group develops variousFriendly Environmentally Kyocera Group Kyocera Group develops develops various environmentallyProducts various environmentally friendly friendly products such as products such as fine ceramics and fine ceramics environmentally friendly products such as fine ceramics and solar cells. and solar solar cells. cells. || Fine Fine Ceramic Ceramic Products || Energy Management System Management || Solid-Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) || LED Lighting || Solar Kyocera Group Products Energy environmentally develops various System friendly Solid-Oxide products such Fuel fine(SOFC) asCell ceramics and Lighting LED solar cells.Solar |Power Fine Ceramic Generating Products Systems| Energy | Management Cutting Tools | System Document | Solid-Oxide Equipment | Fuel Organic Power Generating Systems | Cutting Tools | Document Equipment | Organic Material | Resin Bonding Cell (SOFC) Material | | LED Resin Bonding | Solar || Lighting Sheets Sheets Power Generating Connectors Connectors || Systems | Cutting Tools | Document Equipment | Organic Material | Resin Bonding Sheets | | Fine Ceramic Products | Energy Management System | Solid-Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) | LED Lighting | Solar Connectors | Power Generating Systems | Cutting Tools | Document Equipment | Organic Material | Resin Bonding Sheets | Fine Fine Ceramic Connectors Ceramic | Products Products Fine Ceramic Products Fine Fine ceramics, Fine Ceramic ceramics, which are are the whichProducts products of core products the core Kyocera, are of Kyocera, are used in various used in various fields electronic devices, as electronic such as fields such devices, Fine ceramics, automotive which components are the and core products industrial of machinery Kyocera, due to are used their in various outstanding automotive components and industrial machinery due to their outstanding characteristics such as wear fields such characteristics as electronic such as devices, wear automotive resistance, resistance, components heat and resistance, resistance, heatwhich industrial electrical machinery and optical due to properties, their outstanding as well as characteristics their ability to such contribute as to wear the prevention Fine ceramics, are theelectrical and optical core products properties, of Kyocera, are usedas well as theirfields in various to contribute abilitysuch to the as electronic prevention devices, resistance, of of climate climate heat change, change, resistance, resource resource electrical saving saving and and and the theoptical properties, prevention prevention of of as well as environmental environmental their ability pollution. pollution. to contribute to the prevention automotive components and industrial machinery due to their outstanding characteristics such as wear of climate change, resource saving and the prevention of environmental pollution. resistance, heat resistance, electrical and optical properties, as well as their ability to contribute to the prevention of climate change, resource saving and the prevention of environmental pollution. Ceramic Ceramic Pakages Pakages and and Single-Crystal Single-Crystal SapphiresSapphires Ceramic Pakages and Single-Crystal Sapphires Ceramic Demand Demand for Pakages for LED LED packagesand Single-Crystal packages is is soaring due to soaring due Sapphires to growing growing Demand global for demand LED forpackages LEDs as is soaring environmental global demand for LEDs as environmental products. due to growing products. global demand for LEDs as environmental products. Demand for LED packages is soaring due to growing An LED An package contains LED package contains an LED LED (light-emitting (light-emitting diode) diode) global demand for LEDs asan environmental products. An LED package semiconductor contains that emits an light LED when(light-emitting electricity semiconductor that emits light when electricity passes diode) passes semiconductor through. through. The that LED package The LEDcontains packagean emits light is a is LEDwhen electricity component a component thatpasses can that can be be An LED package (light-emitting diode) through. used used in in The lighting lighting LEDand andpackage other other is a equipment. equipment.component Ceramic Ceramic that can LED LED be semiconductor that emits light when electricity passes used in lighting packages are packages are one and one of other equipment. Kyocera’s specialties of Kyocera’s specialties and we Ceramic LED we are through. The LED package is a componentand that canarebe packages concentrating concentratingare one on of the Kyocera’s production specialties and sales and of we are these used in lightingonand theother production equipment. and sales of these Ceramic LED concentrating products. products. Because Becauseon the production ceramic ceramic and sales materials materials of these efficiently efficiently disperse disperse packages are one of Kyocera’s specialties and we are products. heat heat Because generated generated by by ceramic the the LEDs, LEDs, materials they they efficiently sustain sustain long long disperse life life and and concentrating on the production and sales of these heat high high generatedwithout reliability reliability without LEDs, they LED by the diminishing diminishing sustain LED long life and luminance luminance products. Because ceramic materials efficiently disperse high reliability efficiency. Ceramic Ceramic materials efficiency. without diminishing materials thus LED thus achieveluminance achieve highhighheat generated by the LEDs, they sustain long life and efficiency. luminance luminance Ceramic LEDs. LEDs. materials thus achieve highhigh reliability without diminishing LED luminance luminance LEDs. efficiency. Ceramic materials thus achieve highSingle-crystal Single-crystal sapphires sapphires areare used used asas LED LED substrates substrates for for luminance LEDs. Single-crystal applications sapphires such as are mobile used phones as applications such as mobile phones and backlighting LED and substrates for backlighting in in applications LCD TVs. LCD TVs. such as mobile phones and backlighting in Single-crystal sapphires are used as LED substrates for LCD TVs. applications such as mobile phones and backlighting in LCD TVs. 103 Glow Plugs and Piezoelectric Elements With stronger regulations promoting the reduction of CO2 emissions and gas emissions, Kyocera’s glow plugs and stacked piezoelectric elements are being used as diesel engine components. In addition to their function to assist engine ignition, ceramic glow plugs contribute to an improvement in exhaust emissions. Stacked piezoelectric elements employ piezoelectric ceramics, which tend to expand or contract when voltage is applied. As fuel injector components, piezoelectric elements contribute to the accurate control of high-pressure fuel injection and injection quantity. These components not only contribute to fuel efficiency and CO2 reduction, but also to reducing the emission of toxic substances in exhaust gases. Ceramic Filters Kyocera’s ceramic filters support gas filters with outstanding heat resistance. They are used in exhaust gas processing equipment at large-scale waste incineration plants and other facilities, and are highly efficient for recycling exhaust heat energy. Ceramic filter Melting Aluminum Processing Components 104 Kyocera’s silicon nitride ceramic material features outstanding hightemperature strength, heat and thermal shock resistance as well as Melting Aluminum Processing Components Kyocera’s reduces siliconofnitride ceramic material features outstanding highthe risk reduces the risk of impurities entering molten impurities entering molten metal. metal. With With such such temperature strength, heat and thermal shock resistance as well as benefits, silicon benefits, silicon nitride nitride contributes contributes to to the the reduction reduction of of waste waste and and corrosion product resistance. When used in molten aluminum smelting improves product quality. improves quality. equipment for the production of automobile engines and aluminum wheels, silicon nitride extends the product life of components and reduces the risk of impurities entering molten metal. With such benefits, silicon nitride contributes to the reduction of waste and improves product quality. Components used Components used in in melting melting aluminum aluminum Energy Energy Management Management System System Components used in melting aluminum Kyocera’s Kyocera’s energy energy management management systemsystem (EMS) (EMS) provides provides visual visual information information on on the the state state of of power power useuse inin the the home. home. This new new system This enables efficient system enables efficient use use ofof energy through optimal energy through optimal control of solar control of solar power power generating generating systems, systems, storage batteries, storage batteries, fuel cells and fuel cells and other other system system elements. elements. TheThe state state ofof energy energy use be displayed can be use can displayed simultaneously simultaneously Energy Management System on multiple devices in the home, including PCs, TVs, smartphones and tablet PCs. Energy use on multiple devices in the home, including PCs, TVs, smartphones and tablet PCs. Energy use inin the the home home can can thus be easily ascertained at any time. This system is useful for power peak shifts (leveling of demand) and thus be easily ascertained at any time. This system is useful for power peak shifts (leveling of demand) and peak peak Kyocera’s cuts, and energy as and as management precaution a precaution system (EMS) commercial for commercial provides power grid power visual information shortages disasters. and disasters.on the state of power use in the home. cuts, a for grid shortages and This new system enables efficient use of energy through optimal control of solar power generating systems, storage batteries, fuel cells and other system elements. The state of energy use can be displayed simultaneously on multiple devices in the home, including PCs, TVs, smartphones and tablet PCs. Energy use in the home can thus be easily ascertained at any time. This system is useful for power peak shifts (leveling of demand) and peak cuts, and as a precaution for commercial grid power shortages and disasters. Energy Management Energy Management System System Solid-Oxide Solid-Oxide Fuel Fuel Cell Cell (SOFC) (SOFC) Energy Management System A residential-use A residential-use fuel cell has fuel cell has two two parts parts ——a power generation a power generation unit and a unit and a water heating unit water heating unit that that uses uses exhaust exhaust heat from the power generation unit. The fuel cell heat from the power generation unit. The fuel cell has high energy efficiency, and produces only extremely small has high energy efficiency, and produces only extremely small amounts of amounts of the greenhouse gases the greenhouse gases CO CO22,, nitrous nitrous oxides, oxides, sulfur oxides or sulfur oxides or other other byproducts. byproducts. Use Use ofof the the fuel fuel cell cell as as Solid-Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) 105 an environment-friendly system is expected to increase. Fuel cells differ depending on the an environment-friendly system is expected to increase. Fuel cells differ depending on the material used in the material used in the cells at cells at the heart of the heart of the the system. system. Kyocera Kyocera has has developed developed solid-oxide solid-oxide fuel fuel cells with higher (SOFC) with cells (SOFC) higher power power A residential-use fuel cell has two parts — a power generation unit and a water heating unit that uses exhaust Energy Management System Energy Management System Solid-Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) Solid-Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) A residential-use fuel cell has two parts — a power generation unit and a water heating unit that uses exhaust A residential-use fuel cell has two parts — a power generation unit and a water heating unit that uses exhaust heat from the power generation unit. The fuel cell has high energy efficiency, and produces only extremely small heat from the power generation unit. The fuel cell has high energy efficiency, and produces only extremely small amounts of the greenhouse gases CO2, nitrous oxides, sulfur oxides or other byproducts. Use of the fuel cell as amounts of the greenhouse gases CO2, nitrous oxides, sulfur oxides or other byproducts. Use of the fuel cell as an environment-friendly system is expected to increase. Fuel cells differ depending on the material used in the an environment-friendly system is expected to increase. Fuel cells differ depending on the material used in the cells at the heart of the system. Kyocera has developed solid-oxide fuel cells (SOFC) with higher power cells at the heart of the system. Kyocera has developed solid-oxide fuel cells (SOFC) with higher power generation efficiency. By employing fine ceramics as the cell material, which feature outstanding heat resistance generation efficiency. By employing fine ceramics as the cell material, which feature outstanding heat resistance and durability, we have achieved the world’s highest level* of generation efficiency. The fuel cell system is sold and durability, we have achieved the world’s highest level* of generation efficiency. The fuel cell system is sold under the name “ENE-FARM Type S” by our joint developers, Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. and JX Nippon Oil & Energy under the name “ENE-FARM Type S” by our joint developers, Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. and JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. Corp. *Among domestic-use fuel-cell cogeneration systems (as of March 13, 2012) *Among domestic-use fuel-cell cogeneration systems (as of March 13, 2012) LED Lighting LED Lighting Kyocera’s LED lighting uses white LED lamps as its light source. They produce Kyocera’s LED lighting closewhite lightuses to that sunlight, LEDoflamps as itsthereby creating gentle light source. and comfortable environments. They are bright enough They produce light close to that of sunlight, thereby creating gentle for use in offices, conference rooms, convenience stores and other and comfortable environments. They are bright enough for use in commercial shops, offices, and are rooms, conference affixed to thestores easily convenience ceiling andwith othera slim and simple commercial shops, and are design. easily Color tones thebe thattocan affixed ceiling with aaccording slim and simple changed to use, and low design. power Color tones that can consumption be changed compared according tolamps to fluorescent arelow use, and just a few of power the consumption compared to benefits of Kyocera’s LED As ourare lighting. lamps fluorescent LED of a fewpackages justlight the benefits of Kyocera’s LED lighting. As our LED light packages use ceramic materials, they have an expected product life of use ceramic materials, they have an expected product life of approximately 100,000 hours. That is about 2.5 times longer than approximately 100,000 hours. That is about 2.5 times longer than conventional LED resin packages. conventional LED resin packages. Convenience store using Kyocera’s LED Convenience store using Kyocera’s LED lighting lighting UserUser Comment Comment 106 WeWe selected Kyocera’s selected Kyocera’sLED lighting especially LED lighting especially for itsbrightness for its natural and long product natural brightness and long product design. design. Color tones Color tones thatthat cancanbe changed be changed according according to use, to use,andandlowlow powerpowerconsumption consumption compared compared to fluorescent to fluorescent lampslamps a few justjust are are a few of of benefits the the benefits of Kyocera’s of Kyocera’s LEDLED lighting. lighting. As our As our LEDLED lightlight packages packages useuseceramic materials, materials, ceramic theythey have have an expected an expected product productlife life of of approximately approximately 100,000 100,000 hours. hours. That is about That is about 2.5 2.5 timestimes longer longerthanthan conventional conventionalLEDLEDresinresin packages. packages. Convenience Convenience store using store using Kyocera’s Kyocera’s LEDLED lighting lighting UserUser Comment Comment WeWe selected selectedKyocera’s Kyocera’s LED LEDlighting lighting especially especially for for its its natural naturalbrightness brightness andand long long product product life.life. “We“We chose chose LEDLED lighting lighting by Kyocera by Kyocera because because of color of its its color reproduction reproduction andand longevity. longevity. Ordinary Ordinary lighting lighting appears appears harsh harsh andand a little a little cold, cold, but but Kyocera’s Kyocera’s lighting lighting produces produces shades shades thatthat close are are close to natural to natural light, light, showing showing store store products productsin their in their truetrue colors. colors. Another Another reason reason for our for our selection selection waswasbecause because of the of the optimal optimal brightness brightnessadjustment adjustment system. system. TheThe lights lights are are linked to sensors linked to sensors detect thatthat detect ambient brightness ambient brightness andand adjust adjust the the lighting lighting depending depending on the weather on the weather andandtimetime of day. of day. AfterAfter the the installation installation of this of this lighting, LEDLED lighting, customers customers have have remarked remarked thatthat the the storestore feelsfeels veryvery comfortable comfortable andandthatthat the the lighting lighting is gentle is gentle on the on the eyes.” eyes.” (Convenience (Convenience storestore manager) manager) Solar Power Generating Systems Kyocera started research and development of solar cells in 1975 with the belief that solar power generation technologies were necessary as new clean energy sources that could substitute for petroleum and other fossil fuel resources. Since then, for over 35 years, Kyocera has consistently continued business activities and supplied solar energy products to markets all over the world, remaining steadfast regardless of changes in the social/business climate. The total quantity of solar modules which Kyocera had shipped to markets worldwide by the end of FY2012 amounted to about 3 gigawatts, contributing to a reduction of approximately 22,450,000 tons of CO2 emissions (estimated by Kyocera). Kyocera will continue to work for the prevention of climate change by positively deploying our solar energy business and will remain committed to solutions for environmental issues. Launching of its Highest-Output Solar Module for Domestic Residential Use*1 Kyocera commercialized a 200-watt high-output solar module in November 2012, which provides the highest*1 output in solar modules developed for domestic residential use. The module has been mass produced using Kyocera’s new highefficiency multicrystalline silicon solar cells which have achieved the world’s highest*2 cell conversion efficiency at 17.8% for residential use in Japan. Incidentally, the new product will be released as part of the new lineup in the residential solar power system “ECONOROOTS®”*3 Series, which is being developed for the domestic market. *1 *1: In Kyocera’s standard lineup of solar modules for domestic residential use. *2 As of October 2012, among multicrystalline silicon solar cells (mass production level). Data obtained by Kyocera High-output solar module *3 “ECONOROOTS” is a registered trademark of Kyocera Corporation. (200-W) Supplying Large-Scale Solar Power Generating Systems Kyocera has completed an agreement with IHI Corporation and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. to build and operate a 70-megawatt solar power generation plant (“mega-solar”) project in Nanatsujima, Kagoshima City (southern Japan). This solar plant will become the largest in Japan*1, with all multicrystalline silicon cell high-output modules to be supplied by Kyocera. The annual electric energy output is anticipated to be about 79,000 MWh, which is the equivalent power for Kagoshima Nanatsujima mega-solar power plant roughly 22,000 average households*2, and will help to 107 offset roughly 25,000 tons*3 of CO per year. 2 *3 “ECONOROOTS” is a registered trademark of Kyocera Corporation. (200-W) developed for the domestic market. Supplying Large-Scale *1 *1: In Kyocera’s SolarofPower standard lineup Generating solar modules Systems for domestic residential use. *2 As of October 2012, among multicrystalline silicon solar cells (mass production level). Kyocera has completed an agreement with IHI Data obtained by Kyocera High-output solar module Corporation and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. to build *3 “ECONOROOTS” is a registered trademark of Kyocera Corporation. (200-W) and operate a 70-megawatt solar power generation plant (“mega-solar”) project in Nanatsujima, Supplying Kagoshima City Large-Scale Solar Power (southern Japan). This solar plant will Systems Generating become the largest in Japan*1, with all multicrystalline Kyocera has completed an agreement with IHI silicon cell high-output Corporation and Mizuho modules Corporate to be supplied Bank, Ltd. tobybuild Kyocera. and operate a 70-megawatt solar power generation plant (“mega-solar”) project in Nanatsujima, The annual City Kagoshima electric energyJapan). (southern output isThisanticipated to be solar plant will about 79,000 become MWh, in the largest which Japan the is*1 equivalent , with power for all multicrystalline Kagoshima Nanatsujima mega-solar power plant roughly 22,000 average households*2, and will help to silicon cell high-output modules to be supplied by offset Kyocera.roughly 25,000 tons*3 of CO per year. 2 The *1 As annual of Aprilelectric 9, 2012;energy based output is anticipated on the official to be announcement about 79,000 MWh, which is the equivalent power for Kagoshima Nanatsujima mega-solar *2 Based on an average use of 3,600 kWh per household Source: “Denki-no-Hiroba”(Electricity Forum) ofpower plant the Federation roughly 22,000 average households*2, and will help to of Electric Power Companies in Japan offset roughly 25,000 tons*3 of CO per *3 Based on calculations derived from year. 2 “Industry-level Self-regulations on Labeling” provided by the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association *1 As of April 9, 2012; based on the official announcement 2012-04-10 *2 Based KYOCERA, on an average use ofIHI, 3,600MIZUHO householdBank kWh perCorporate Reach Source: Basic Agreement to Build “Denki-no-Hiroba”(Electricity & Operate Forum) 70MW of the Federation Solar Power Plant in Japan of Electric Power Companies in Japan (News Releases) 2012-07-31 *3 Based KYOCERA on calculations Establishes derived New Company from “Industry-level to Operate Self-regulations on 70MW Solar Labeling” Power provided byPlant in Japan the Japan (News Photovoltaic Releases) Energy Association 2012-04-10with In cooperation SB Energy KYOCERA, IHI,Corp, MIZUHOa group company Corporate of SoftBank Bank Corp.Agreement Reach Basic to implementing in charge of Build & Operate clean 70MW energy projects, Kyocera has supplied Solar Power Plant in Japan (News Releases) 4.2 MW of solar modules for the SoftBank Kyoto Solar Park, the first *4 Based on calculation of 4,193 kWh per household. (Source: Global Warming Prevention Measures Section, mega-solar power plant in Kyoto Prefecture, Japan. The annual power output is about 4,200 MWh, equivalent to 2012-07-31 KYOCERA Environmental Policy Bureau, Establishes New Company Kyoto Municipal Government)to Operate 70MW Solar Power Plant in Japan (News an annual power consumption rate of approximately 1,000 households*4. Releases) 2012-03-05 KYOCERA and SOFTBANK Tying-Up to Build 4.2MW Mega-Solar Project in Kyoto, Japan *4 Based on calculation of 4,193 kWh per household. (Source: Global Warming Prevention Measures Section, In cooperation with SB Energy Corp, a group company of SoftBank Corp. in charge of implementing clean (News Releases) Environmental Policy Bureau, Kyoto Municipal Government) energy projects, Kyocera has supplied 4.2 MW of solar modules for the SoftBank Kyoto Solar Park, the first 2012-07-01 KYOCERA Modules Begin Operating at 2.1MW 'SoftBank Kyoto Solar Park' (News Releases) mega-solar power plant in Kyoto Prefecture, Japan. The annual power output is about 4,200 MWh, equivalent to 2012-03-05 KYOCERA and SOFTBANK Tying-Up to Build 4.2MW*4 Mega-Solar Project in Kyoto, Japan an annual power Furthermore, consumption Kyocera suppliedrate 6 MWof approximately of solar modules 1,000 households . (News Releases) to a solar power plant in Cigliano, Piedmont, Italy, 2012-07-01 KYOCERA Modules Begin Operating at 2.1MW 'SoftBank Kyoto Solar Park' (News Releases) constructed by ENERMILL Energie Rinnovabil s.r.l., the largest solar power operator in Italy. Furthermore, Kyocera supplied 6 MW of solar modules to a solar power plant in Cigliano, Piedmont, Italy, constructed by ENERMILL Energie Rinnovabil s.r.l., the largest solar power operator in Italy. Solar power plant in Cigliano, Piedmont, Italy 2011-04-26 KYOCERA Supplies 6MW of Solar Modules for Solar Power Plant in Italy (News Releases) Solar power plant in Cigliano, Piedmont, Italy Energy Creation Effect of Solar Cells The 2011-04-26 energy creationKYOCERA effect isSupplies 6MW of the difference Solar Modules obtained for Solar by subtracting electric Plant in Powerenergy Italyduring used Releases) (Newsproduction *1,2 from the accumulated electricity generated after installation*3. The total electricity consumed when producing a Energy Creation Effect of Solar Cells 1-kW solar power generating system is approximately 1,550 kWh. This solar power generating system produces 20,640 The kWhcreation of electrity energy in 20 effect years is the difference life). Hence, (service obtained the energy electric by subtracting effect per creationenergy used kW is 19,090 1 during kWh. production *1,2 Solar modules that Kyocera has produced and sold thus far*3amount to 2,963 MW, and the energy produced by from the accumulated electricity generated after installation . The total electricity consumed when producing a these reach a total of 5,649 GWh. The CO2 emission reduction effect after 20 years of power generation will be 1-kW solar power generating system is approximately 1,550 kWh. This solar power generating system produces 22,448,000 *4. This corresponds to about 25.1% of the amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by all forests in 20,640 kWhtonsof electrity in 20 years (service life). Hence, the energy creation effect per 1 kW is 19,090 kWh. 108 Solar modules Japan per year *5*6 that Kyocera has produced and sold thus far amount to 2,963 MW, and the energy produced by . Energy creation effect of the solar power generating system these reach a total of 5,649 GWh. The CO2 emission reduction effect after 20 years of power generation will be Solar power plant in Cigliano, Piedmont, Italy 2011-04-26 KYOCERA Supplies 6MW of Solar Modules for Solar Power Plant in Italy (News Releases) Energy Creation Effect of Solar Cells The energy creation effect is the difference obtained by subtracting electric energy used during production*1,2 from the accumulated electricity generated after installation*3. The total electricity consumed when producing a 1-kW solar power generating system is approximately 1,550 kWh. This solar power generating system produces 20,640 kWh of electrity in 20 years (service life). Hence, the energy creation effect per 1 kW is 19,090 kWh. Solar modules that Kyocera has produced and sold thus far amount to 2,963 MW, and the energy produced by these reach a total of 5,649 GWh. The CO2 emission reduction effect after 20 years of power generation will be 22,448,000 tons*4. This corresponds to about 25.1% of the amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by all forests in Japan per year*5*6. Energy creation effect of the solar power generating system *1 Calculated from the average of expected power at 16 sites around the country in a simulation by Kyocera Corporation. *2 The estimated amount of electricity used during production is calculated (system scale 30 MW/year roof mount) with an energy payback period of 2.2 years for a single-year output of less than 100 MW and an energy payback period of 1.5 years for 100 MW or more, along with a 20-year expected lifetime (Source: “Survey Research of Solar Power Generation Assessment” FY1997 NEDO Commissioned business working paper (Photovoltaic Power Generation Technology Research Association), March 1997). Because annual production currently exceeds 100 MW at Kyocera, the estimated amount of electricity during production is calculated with an energy payback period of 1.5 years. *3 The estimated amount of electricity used during production for solar power generation systems that were shipped from 1992 to 2010 was recorded in the year when the products began to generate electricity (Example: The amount of produced electricity in 1992 was recorded in 1993). *4 Calculated at 360g-CO2 per kWh. *5 The CO2 sink by 1ha (10,000m2) of forest is 3.57 tons-CO2 (Source: Solar Power Generation Introduction Guidebook < Main > 2000 Revised Edition NEDO). *6 Calculated assuming that the forest area in Japan is 251,000km2 (Source: Forestry Agency “Present State of Forest Resources (as of March 31, 2007)”). 109 Cutting Tools *5 The CO2 sink by 1ha (10,000m2) of forest is 3.57 tons-CO2 (Source: Solar Power Generation Introduction Guidebook < Main > 2000 Revised Edition NEDO). *6 Calculated assuming that the forest area in Japan is 251,000km2 (Source: Forestry Agency “Present State of Forest Resources (as of March 31, 2007)”). Cutting Tools Kyocera’s cutting tools are used in a broad range of manufacturing fields, such as the automotive industry, precision processing of IT-related components, due to their superb strength and outstanding abrasion resistance. In addition, Kyocera’s cutting tools offer unrivalled advantages, including a beautiful finish on the cut surfaces, and long life of tools themselves, etc. Recycling of Used Cutting Tools and Tip Cases Kyocera collects and recycles cutting tools and tip cases after use at users’ production sites. Kyocera is actively involved in the reduction of waste and effective utilization of resources by properly recycling collected tips and tip cases for relevant applications, such as material powder and RPF (refuse plastic fuel), slag used for roadbed material, and others. Document Equipment Kyocera Document Solutions, Inc. delivers document equipment that is environmentally friendly, reduces running costs, and achieves increased operational efficiency. Smart MFPs Contribute to Energy Saving in the Office In 1992, before environmental issues were widely a point of focus, Kyocera introduced the first ECOSYS printer FS-1500. ECOSYS can be used through its entire life by simply replenishing the toner. It produces little waste and achieves low running costs, satisfying both ecological and economical goals. Kyocera further evolved this concept and marketed the Smart MFP* TASKalfa 255c/205c (color) and TASKalfa 305/255 (monochrome) which are friendly to both humans and the environment. *Multifunctional product Standby Power Consumption Reduced to 1W or Less. At offices, multifunctional printers are always on standby mode with the power constantly on. By adopting a newly developed energy-saving controller, standby power consumption of less than 1-watt is achieved. Reduced Power Consumption During Operation 110 Through various modifications, such as adopting LEDs as light sources for irradiating papers at the time of duplication and using IH for fusing images with heat, In 1992, before FS-1500. ECOSYS environmental can be used issues throughwere itswidely entire alife point of focus, by simply replenishing the toner. the Kyocera introduced first ECOSYS It produces printer little waste FS-1500. ECOSYS can be used through its entire life by simply and achieves low running costs, satisfying both ecological and economical goals. Kyocera further evolved this replenishing the toner. It produces little waste and concept achieves low running and marketed thecosts,Smartsatisfying MFP* TASKalfa both ecological 255c/205c and economical (color) and TASKalfa 305/255further goals. Kyocera evolved this (monochrome) which concept and marketed the are friendly to both humans and the environment. Smart MFP* TASKalfa 255c/205c (color) and TASKalfa 305/255 (monochrome) which are friendly to both humans and the environment. *Multifunctional product *Multifunctional product Standby Power Consumption Reduced to 1W or Less. At offices,Power Standby Consumption multifunctional printersReduced are always to 1W or Less.mode with the power on standby At offices, multifunctional printers constantly on. By adopting a newly developed energy-saving are always on standby mode with the power controller, standby constantly power consumption on. By adopting of less athan newly developed 1-watt is achieved.energy-saving controller, standby power consumption of less than 1-watt is achieved. Reduced Power Consumption During Operation Reduced Through various Powermodifications, Consumptionsuch During Operation as adopting LEDs as light sources for Through various modifications, irradiating papers at the time of duplication and using such as adopting LEDsIHasforlight sources fusing images for with heat, irradiating power consumption papers at has the timebeenofgreatly duplication reduced. and43using IH for fusing images with heat, power consumption has been greatly reduced. 43 Further Comfort in the Office Further In small-scaleComfort in the offices, it isOffice frequently the case that workers’ desks are located In small-scale offices, extremely close to the shared it is frequently MFP and thethatcaseoperating that workers’ noisedesks may be located arebothersome. extremely The Kyocera close Groupto the shared worked onMFP noise and that operating reduction by sealingnoisethemay drivebeunit bothersome. and The Kyocera Group worked achieved optimal sound reduction of less than 60 dB. on noise reduction by sealing the drive unit and Smart MFP TASKalfa 255c achieved optimal sound reduction of less than 60 dB. Smart MFP TASKalfa 255c Biomass Color Toner that Satisfies the Goals of Both Ecology and High-Quality Imaging Biomass Color Toner that Satisfies the Goals of Both Ecology and High-Quality Imaging In color toners used by printers and MFPs, thecolor In toners Kyocera Group by printers in usedsucceeded and MFPs, the Kyocera Group succeeded developing a biomass color toner from in the world, by developing a employing biomass toner control plant-derived the materialscolor world, by employing for tonerthe firstfrom toner control time in technology plant-derived the the world,byby world, unique materialstoner employing employing to Kyocera for tonerthe Document first time in control control technology unique to Kyocera Document Solutions technology technology Japan unique unique Inc. to to In Kyocera FY2013, Kyocera Document we plan to Document Solutions Japan Inc. In FY2013, we plan to market Solutions Solutions a special Japan Japan Inc. Inc.purpose In FY2013, In FY2013,system we using plan to this market a special purpose systemwe plan using to this market toner. a special purpose system using this market toner. a special purpose system using this toner. toner. The use of plant-derived materials can Theuse The useofofplant-derived plant-derived materials can can reduce The use CO emissionsmaterials of 22emissions plant-derived generated materials at the can reduce reduce COCO 2 emissions generated generated at at the the time reduce of disposal-incineration CO emissions generated of toner 2 timeofofdisposal-incineration disposal-incineration time of toner the of toner at components components by byby about about 30%* 30%* as as compared compared time of disposal-incineration components about 30%* of toner as compared to to conventional conventional components by toners toners about whichwhich 30%* areas are made made compared to conventional toners which are made from from to petroleum-derived petroleum-derived conventional materials. materials. toners which The are made The from petroleum-derived materials. The biomass biomass from color color toner toner petroleum-derived hashas obtained obtained materials. the the The biomass color toner has obtained the BiomassPla BiomassPla biomass color Certification Certification toner has mark mark thatthat obtained allows theallows BiomassPla Certification mark that allows this this toner to toner to be be used for products used for products that BiomassPla this toner tothe Certification be used mark thatthat for products allows that comply comply with with the thetheBiomassPla BiomassPla this comply toner to with Identification be the and used the Labeling for BiomassPlaproducts system that Identification comply with and Labeling system Identification prescribed by the the andJapan the BiomassPla Labeling system BioPlastics prescribed Identification by the and Japan Labeling BioPlastics system prescribed by the Japan BioPlastics Association. Association. prescribed by the Japan BioPlastics Association. *The CO2 produced when disposing and incinerating plant-derived raw materials represents the same amount of CO2 that Association. *The CO2 produced when disposing and incinerating plant-derived raw materials represents the same amount of CO2 that is absorbed *The from the atmosphere CO2 produced when disposing growth in the and plants. Therefore, process of plant-derived incinerating rawthe toner using materials plant-derived represents raw materials amountisof CO2 that the same is absorbed carbon *The neutral, from CO2 produced the meaning atmosphere that it will not in the affect growth the total process amount of of plants. CO in Therefore, the atmosphere. the toner using plant-derived rawof materials CO2 thatis is absorbed from thewhen disposing atmosphere in and incinerating the growth plant-derived process 2 of plants. raw materials Therefore, toner usingthe the represents same amount plant-derived raw materials is carbon neutral, meaning that it will not affect the total amount of CO2 in the atmosphere. carbon is neutral, absorbed frommeaning the atmospherethat it willinnot theaffect growth total amount theprocess of CO of plants. 2 in the Therefore, atmosphere. the toner using plant-derived raw materials is carbon neutral, meaning that it will not affect the total amount of CO2 in the atmosphere. 111 Organic Material Organic Material Kyocera Chemical Corporation has actively worked on technological themes related to global environmental preservation in researching, developing, and producing various organic chemical materials from early on. Kyocera Chemical promotes the development of halogen/antimony-free flame-retardant materials, lead-free mounting materials, low VOC materials, and other environmentally friendly materials while promoting activities such as recycling of production materials. Furthermore, Kyocera Chemical is carrying forward material development that will contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. One such activity is the development of transparent encapsulation material for LED devices. an affect on the service life. Kyocera Chemical contributes to the Clear Encapsulation realization Material for LED Devices an affect onofthe a low carbon service life.society Kyocera supplying by Chemical clear encapsulation contributes to the an affect material on that the can service maintain life. highKyocera Chemical transparency contributes over a long to theof time period realization LEDs an have affect ahigher onofathe low carbon service life.society luminance by Chemical efficiency Kyocera supplying largerencapsulation clear and acontributes intensity light to the at realization with materials of aatlow carbon society amaintain preferred price by supplying clear encapsulation range. material low power realization thatof can consumption a low carbon high compared society transparency to conventional by supplying over aincandescent long period of time clear encapsulation material that can maintain an affect on the service transparency high life. Kyocera Chemical long periodtoofthe over a contributes time with lamps.materials material at amaintain Consequently, that can preferred LEDhigh price devices range. are effective transparency overinareducing long period CO2of time with materials at a preferred realization of a low carbon price society range.by supplying clear encapsulation with materials emissions, thus athigher a preferred demand price range. material that can maintainfor such high products is transparency overexpected in future a long period of time lighting applications. with materials at a preferred price range. LEDs contain an element made of gallium compound encapsulated with clear resin, and the properties of such encapsulation resin have an affect on the service life. Kyocera Chemical contributes to the Clear encapsulation material for LED realization of a low carbon society by supplying clear encapsulation devices Clear encapsulation material for LED Clear encapsulation material for LED material that can maintain high transparency over a long period of time devices Clear encapsulation material for LED Halogen-Free devices with materials atMaterial a preferred price range. Clear encapsulation devices material for LED devices Halogen-Free Material Halogenated elements, such as chlorine, bromine, and others, may Halogen-Free Material Halogen-Free produce harmful Halogen-FreeMaterial substances Materialsuch as dioxin when burned. Theirmay use is Halogenated elements, such as chlorine, bromine, and others, Halogenated controlled elements, according to such as chlorine, regulations for bromine, chemical and others, substances all may over produce Halogenated harmful substances elements, Halogenated such such elements, assuch asasdioxin chlorine, when bromine, chlorine, burned. and others, bromine, andTheir use may others, mayis the world,harmful produce with substances Europe such as dioxin when burned. Their use is controlled produce harmfulaccording produce to as substances harmful a leader. regulationssuch as substances for chemical dioxin such when as dioxin substances burned. when Their burned. allTheir overuseuse is is controlled according to regulations for chemical substances all over the world,controlled controlled with Europe according to as a leader. regulations according for chemical to regulations for chemicalsubstances substances all over all over with Europe the world,Chemical Kyocera has as a leader.a wide variety of halogen-free* developed the world,the withworld, Europewith asEurope as a leader. a leader. materials that conform Clear encapsulation material for LED Kyocera Chemical has to such legal developed regulations a wide varietyand contribute to a of halogen-free* Kyocera reduction Chemical in the Kyocera has Chemical developed environmental burden has developeda widecausedvariety wideby of halogen-free* thecontribute use of chemical devices materials that Kyocera Chemical conform has to such developed legal wideavariety a regulations variety and of halogen-free* of halogen-free* to a materials substances. that materialsconform to such that conform to legal regulations such legal and regulations contribute and to a materials in reduction thattheconform environmental to such burden caused legal regulations byand usecontribute thecontributeof chemical to a to a Halogen-Free reduction reduction substances. Material in the environmental in the environmental burdenburden caused by the caused byuse of chemical the use of chemical reduction substances. in the environmental burden caused by the use of chemical substances. *substances. Based on the standard values of the Japan Electronics Packaging Halogenated elements, such as chlorine, bromine, and others, may Molding compounds for semiconductor and Circuits * Based harmful on Association the standard (JPCA). values of the encapsulation produce * Based substances on the standard such asJapan values dioxin of Electronics when the Japan Packaging burned. Electronics Their use is Packaging Molding Molding compounds compounds for for semiconductor semiconductor * Based on the standard values of the Japan Electronics Packaging Molding compounds for semiconductor * and Based controlledCircuits on theAssociation and standard according Circuitsto (JPCA). values regulations Association of(JPCA). theforJapan chemicalElectronics substancesPackagingall over encapsulation Molding compounds for semiconductor encapsulation and Circuits Association (JPCA). encapsulation Low-VOC theand Circuits world, Material with Europe as (JPCA). Association a leader. encapsulation Low-VOC VOC (volatile Material Low-VOC Material organic compounds) is the generic name for organic compounds Low-VOC Material Kyocera Low-VOC which are Chemical Material highly has developed volatile and turn a wide into vapor variety in the halogen-free* ofatmosphere, including toluene, VOC VOC (volatile organic (volatile organic compounds) compounds) is the is the generic namename generic for organic for organic compounds compounds materials VOC (volatile xylene, and that which conform organic many are other highly to such compounds) substances. volatile legal and isregulations theinto VOC turn generic is considered vapor and name in thecontribute for to organic be atmosphere, to aof one compounds the includingcauses toluene,of which VOC are highly (volatile volatile organic and turn into compounds) vapor is the in thename generic atmosphere, foroforganic including compounds toluene, reduction which suspendedare in the highly xylene, environmental particlevolatile and many matters andother burden turn into substances. and photochemical caused vapor in VOC by the is the use atmosphere, considered oxidant, which chemical to beincluding one are suspectedof toluene, the to of causes xylene, which andhighly are manyvolatile other substances. and turn intoVOC vapor is in considered the atmosphere, to be one toluene,of of the causes including substances. xylene, affect and many suspended human other particle health.matters substances. matters In the insulation and VOC is considered photochemical varnish field, to oxidant, wherewhich bewhich varnishone of are causes used for to toof the suspected suspended xylene, and particle many other and photochemical substances. VOC isvarnish oxidant, considered areissuspected to be varnish one of isthe causes suspended insulation affect human particle of motors, health. matters Kyocera In and the insulation photochemical Chemical has developed field, oxidant, where which and are markets used suspected styrene-free forto of affect suspendedhuman health. particle insulation In mattersthe of motors, insulation and Kyocera varnish photochemical field, where oxidant, varnish which are is used suspected for to * Based affect varnishes on human thatthe standard health. reduce values the InVOC of the Chemical insulation generation Japan varnish tohas1/50 has Electronics field, developed or less where that and markets Packaging varnish is used conventional ofmarkets styrene-free forMolding compounds for semiconductor insulation affect human of motors, health. varnishes Kyocera In the that reduce Chemical insulation varnish developed field, where andvarnish VOC generation to 1/50 or less that of conventional is styrene-free used for and Circuits insulation Association of motors, Kyocera (JPCA). Chemical has developed and markets styrene-free encapsulation products, varnishes as that well as greatly reduce VOC reduce odor. insulationproducts, of motors, as Kyocera well as generation Chemical greatly reduce tohas1/50 odor. or less that developed conventional andofmarkets styrene-free varnishes that reduce VOC generation to 1/50 or less that of conventional products, varnishes as that well as greatly reduce VOC reducegeneration odor. to 1/50 or less that of conventional Low-VOC products, KYOCERA asMaterial as greatlyEnvironmentally wellChemical reduce odor. Friendly Products products, asKYOCERA well as greatly Chemical reduceEnvironmentally odor. Friendly Products VOC KYOCERA Chemical (volatile organic Environmentally compounds) is the generic name forProducts Friendly organic compounds KYOCERA Chemical Environmentally Friendly Products KYOCERA are highlyChemical which volatile andEnvironmentally turn into vapor in the Friendly atmosphere, Products including toluene, Insulation varnish Insulation varnish xylene, and many other substances. VOC is considered to be one of the causes of suspended particle matters and photochemical oxidant, which are suspected to Insulation varnish 112 Insulation varnish affect human health. In the insulation varnish field, where varnish is used for Insulation varnish insulation of Resin motors,Bonding Kyocera Sheets Chemical has developed and markets styrene-free Resin that varnishes Bonding reduce VOC Sheets generation to 1/50 or less that of conventional KYOCERA KYOCERAChemical ChemicalEnvironmentally EnvironmentallyFriendly FriendlyProducts Products Insulation Insulationvarnish varnish Resin ResinBonding BondingSheets Sheets KyoceraChemical Kyocera ChemicalCorporation workshard Corporationworks hardonontechnological technologicalthemes themes relatedto related toglobal environmentalconservation globalenvironmental conservationwhilewhileresearching, researching, developing,and developing, andproducing variousorganic producingvarious organicchemical chemicalmaterials. materials. Thesheet-form The sheet-formthermosetting epoxyresin thermosettingepoxy resin“TOROKERU “TOROKERUBonding Bonding Sheet”requires Sheet” requiresnonospecial deviceor specialdevice orpreliminary preliminaryprocess processasascompared compared to toconventional conventionalliquid-form liquid-formadhesives. adhesives.The Thesheet sheetform formensures ensureseasy easy operationas operation asmerely merelyheating canachieve heatingcan achievebonding. bonding.These Theseexcellent excellent features featurescan canshorten shortenthethemanufacturing manufacturingprocess. process.“TOROKERU “TOROKERU BondingSheet” Bonding Sheet”can canbebeapplied tocomponents appliedto componentsof ofany anyshape shapeandand material,and material, thesheet sincethe andsince sheethardens hardensat lowtemperature, atlow temperature,ititcan canbe be thermo-settingepoxy Sheet-formthermo-setting Sheet-form epoxyresin resin usedfor used forcomponents componentswith withweak heatresistance. weakheat resistance. “TOROKERU “TOROKERUBonding BondingSheet” Sheet” In addition, “TOROKERU Bonding Sheet” uses halogen-free special thermosetting epoxy resin with outstanding durability and heat resistance, which withstands solder reflow after the sheet absorbs moisture. “TOROKERU Bonding Sheet” does not contain nor emit solvents during hardening. Connectors As compared with conventional incandescent lamps, LEDs have a high luminance efficiency and provide more light with low power consumption. Therefore it has drawn attention for effectively reducing CO2 emissions. Kyocera Elco Corp.'s 9608 and 9609 series are connectors for LED lighting and LED backlights which have realized the lowest height in the industry* of 1.4mm, designed so that it does not obstruct the distribution of light. It also contributes to reduced environmental burden as it complies with the RoHS Directive and is halogen free. *As of January 25, 2011 (based on research by Kyocera Connector Products Corp.) 113 Green Procurement Green Procurement To deal with increasing environmental problems, it is important that not only our Group companies but also the entire supply chain including suppliers take appropriate actions. Kyocera established its Green Procurement Standard to purchase products and services with low environmental impact from suppliers proactively promoting environmental preservation activities. In this way, we are actively promoting green procurement activities. | Promotion of Green Procurement | Application of Kyocera’s Green Supplier System | Conforming to Environmental Product Regulations | Promotion of Green Procurement Kyocera established its Guidelines for Green Procurement starting with requests to suppliers for green procurement, and is promoting green procurement with the support of such suppliers. The Guidelines for Green Procurement specifies that we will check suppliers’ activities toward protection of the environment and environmental burdens (the chemical substances that are contained, etc.) on products to be purchased from them. In April 2013, we created and introduced a new system utilizing a Web server in order to quickly and reliably examine chemical substances contained in purchased products. Application of this system has enabled us to examine and identify chemical substances in products more efficiently and accurately. Guidelines for Green Procurement Application of Kyocera’s Green Supplier System At Kyocera, we certify suppliers who are able to cooperate with us in producing environmentally friendly products as Kyocera Green Suppliers, based on surveys and audits regarding our suppliers’ environmental activities and control of chemical substances in products. In FY2012, we completed the first round of surveys and audits. Approximately 88% of about 700 target suppliers received the “Excellent” rating (satisfactory in both environmental protection activities and control activities for chemical substances in products). In FY2013, the second round of surveys and audits was initiated, and approximately 95% of suppliers received the “Excellent” rating thanks to their positive improvement activities. With the cooperation of our suppliers, we aim to strengthen our management system for chemical substances in products. Conforming to Environmental Product Regulations In recent years, in many countries, laws and regulations have been established to control and restrict the use of chemical substances in order to prevent human impact114 and environmental contamination. The Kyocera Group reports information on related laws and regulations to each operating division at the Environmental Product Quality Subsection led by the Kyocera Green Committee to share information and review company-wide policies. received the “Excellent” rating (satisfactory in both environmental protection activities and control activities for chemical substances in products). In FY2013, the second round of surveys and audits was initiated, and approximately 95% of suppliers received the “Excellent” rating thanks to their positive improvement activities. With the cooperation of our suppliers, we aim to strengthen our management system for chemical substances in products. Conforming to Environmental Product Regulations In recent years, in many countries, laws and regulations have been established to control and restrict the use of chemical substances in order to prevent human impact and environmental contamination. The Kyocera Group reports information on related laws and regulations to each operating division at the Environmental Product Quality Subsection led by the Kyocera Green Committee to share information and review company-wide policies. Each operating division collects and investigates information on chemical substances contained in purchased materials and controls chemical substances in manufacturing processes in order to comply with related laws and regulations. Complying with European RoHS Directive We established the Kyocera Group Global Policies for RoHS Directive in February 2006. We are also working to comply with the RoHS Directive for products to be shipped to North America, Japan and China in addition to Europe. Complying with REACH To strictly observe the European chemical substance control standard known as REACH, which was enforced in June 2007, Kyocera is developing measures in cooperation with its Group companies in Europe. Also, all substances of very high concern (SVHC) registered by the end of December 2012 have been included in our Guidelines for Green Procurement. We have conducted research on SVHC contained in our products and are making every effort to achieve thorough communications within Europe. 115 Green Factories: Environmental Consciousness at Plants and Offices Green Factories: Green Factories: Environmental Environmental Consciousness Consciousness at at Plants and Plants and Offices Offices Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Topics FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Reduction of greenhouse Reduction of greenhouse In all production sites, 1% Reduction of greenhouse Reduction of greenhouse In all production sites, 1% gas emission, total energy gas emissions per net or more improvement rate gas emission per net sales gas emissions per net or more improvement rate consumption, water sales (up 10.5% from per net sales from FY2013 Reduction of total energy sales (up 10.5% from per net sales from FY2013 consumption and industrial FY2012) will be achieved in terms of consumption per net sales FY2012) will be achieved in terms of waste discharge per net Reduction of total energy greenhouse gas Reduction of water Reduction of total energy greenhouse gas Promotion of sales consumption per net sales emissions, energy Promotion of consumption per net sales consumption per net sales emissions, energy environmental (down 5.8% from FY2012) consumption, water environmental Reduction of industrial (down 5.8% from FY2012) consumption, water consciousness at Reduction of water consumption and waste consciousness at waste discharge per net Reduction of water consumption and waste plants and offices consumption per net sales discharge. plants and offices sales consumption per net sales discharge. (down 6.9% from FY2012) (down 6.9% from FY2012) Reduction of industrial Reduction of industrial waste discharge per net waste discharge per net sales (down 10.8% from sales (down 10.8% from FY2012) FY2012) | Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change | Resource Conservation | Waste Reduction and | Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change | Resource Conservation | Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures | Chemical Substances Management | Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site | Recycling Measures | Chemical Substances Management | Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site | Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Increased energy consumption has an impact on the environment, Increased energy consumption has an impact on the environment, including negative effects such as climate change. We share the task including negative effects such as climate change. We share the task of using limited energy resources more effectively, including energy of using limited energy resources more effectively, including energy use in industrial activities. The Kyocera Group set a greenhouse gas use in industrial activities. The Kyocera Group set a greenhouse gas reduction target and goals for low-carbon society contribution factors, reduction target and goals for low-carbon society contribution factors, and we are implementing various measures to prevent climate and we are implementing various measures to prevent climate change, such as energy-saving in our business activities. change, such as energy-saving in our business activities. Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change LED lighting LED lighting Resource Conservation Resource Conservation The Kyocera Group establishes specific targets and rolls out positive The Kyocera Group establishes specific targets and rolls out positive activities in order to use limited resources effectively and contribute to activities in order to use limited resources effectively and contribute to global environment protection. global environment protection. Resource Conservation Resource Conservation 116 Electric vehicle Electric vehicle Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change LED lighting Resource Conservation The Kyocera Group establishes specific targets and rolls out positive activities in order to use limited resources effectively and contribute to global environment protection. Resource Conservation Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Working towards a recycling-based society, the Kyocera Group has Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Electric vehicle set basic policies for waste reduction since FY1992, and expanded activities aiming toa minimize Working towards industrial recycling-based waste.the Kyocera Group has society, Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures set basic policies for waste reduction since FY1992, and expanded Wastetowards activities Working Reduction aiming and Recycling toa minimize Measures industrial recycling-based waste.the Kyocera Group has society, set basic policies for waste reduction since FY1992, and expanded Wasteaiming activities Reduction and Recycling to minimize Measures industrial waste. Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Tungusten sludge recovery unit Tungusten sludge recovery unit Chemical Substances Management Tungusten sludge recovery unit Some chemical substances cause environmental pollution and can Chemical Substances Management affect human health and the ecosystem as a result of long-term Some chemicalTo accumulation. manage these substances causesubstances, environmentalwe have established and cana pollution Chemical chemical Substances substances control Management gauge and minimize system to accurately affect human health and the ecosystem as a result of long-term emissions accumulation. Some chemicalof chemical To substances manage substances these cause of hazard concern substances, environmentalwe have theand cana toestablished pollution atmosphere chemical and water substances systems, control transferred system to amount accurately contained gauge affect human health and the ecosystem as a result of long-term in and minimize waste, etc. emissions of chemical accumulation. To managesubstances these substances, we havetoestablished of hazard concern the a atmosphere chemical and watercontrol systems, substances transferred system amount to accurately contained gauge in and minimize Chemical waste, emissionsetc.of Substances Management chemical substances of hazard concern to the atmosphere and water systems, transferred amount contained in Chemical waste, etc. Substances Management Scrubbers Chemical Substances Management Scrubbers Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Scrubbers Environmental impact data of individual Kyocera Group offices and Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site plants is available. Environmental impact data of individual Kyocera Group offices and Kyocera Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site plants is available. Environmental impact data of individual Kyocera Group offices and Kyocera plants Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site is available. Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site 117 Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Increased energy consumption has an impact on the environment, including negative effects such as climate change. We share the task of using limited energy resources more effectively, including energy use in industrial activities. The Kyocera Group set a greenhouse gas reduction target and goals for low-carbon society contribution factors, and we are implementing various measures to prevent climate change, such as energy-saving in our business activities. | Energy Saving and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions | Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emission Associated with Freight Transport | Energy Saving and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Kyocera Group’s total energy consumption was reduced by 5.8% as compared to FY2012 by introducing high-efficiency turbo refrigerators and implementing measures such as utilization of compressor exhaust heat. However, our greenhouse gas emissions increased by 10.5% due to a decrease in the emission factor announced by electric power companies, which was influenced by the shutdown of nuclear power plants in Japan. ¥ From FY2009, emission coefficients are calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. 118 ¥ Greenhouse gas means CO2, CH4, N2O, PFC, HFC, and SF6. each country in IEA CO2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION Highlights (2012 Edition). Examples of FY2013 Activities ¥ From Examples of FY2009, FY2012 emission Activities coefficients are calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global (pdf/518KB) Warming Countermeasures. Examples ofGreenhouse ¥ gas means FY2011 Activities CO2, CH4, N2O, PFC, HFC, and SF6. (pdf/638KB) ¥ Figures for overseas facilities are calculated using the emission coefficients of electricity for Examples of FY2010 Activities (pdf/1,505KB) each country in IEA CO2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION Highlights (2012 Examples ofEdition). FY2009 Activities (pdf/1,281KB) Examples of FY2013 Activities Efforts to Examples Reduce of FY2012 Activities (pdf/518KB)Associated with Freight Transport CO2 Emission The KyoceraofGroup Examples FY2011tookActivities (pdf/638KB) actions such as shortening transportation routes and consolidating freight to reduce transportation frequency. However, increases in outsourced processing and overseas procurement led to a 9.4% Examples rise of FY2010per in CO2 emissions Activities (pdf/1,505KB) net sales associated with freight transport as compared to FY2012. Examples of FY2009 Activities (pdf/1,281KB) Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emission Associated with Freight Transport The Kyocera Group took actions such as shortening transportation routes and consolidating freight to reduce transportation frequency. However, increases in outsourced processing and overseas procurement led to a 9.4% rise in CO2 emissions per net sales associated with freight transport as compared to FY2012. Examples of FY2013 Activities Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/518KB) Examples of FY2011 Activities (pdf/638KB) Examples of FY2010 Activities (pdf/1,505KB) Examples of FY2009 Activities (pdf/1,281KB) Examples Growing of FY2013 “Green Activities Curtains” The Kyocera Group promotes “Green Curtains” which block strong Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/518KB) summer sunshine and suppress rises in indoor temperature by covering windows Examples and outer of FY2011 walls(pdf/638KB) Activities with bitter gourd, sponge gourd, Japanese morning glory and other climbing plants. In FY2013, Green Curtains were Examples ofgrown FY2010 and offices in Japan and two 28 plants (pdf/1,505KB) at Activities overseas facilities. In total, the Green Curtains add up to a length of 830 m, aboutof1.3 Examples FY2009 Activities times that (pdf/1,281KB) of Tokyo Skytree and an area of 3,417 m2 (equal to about 13.1 tennis courts), achieving 12,000 kg of CO2 reduction. “Green Curtains” Growing The Kyocera Group promotes “Green Curtains” which block strong summer sunshine and suppress rises in indoor temperature by Green Curtains (Kagoshima Kokubu Plant) covering windows and outer walls with bitter gourd, sponge 119 gourd, Japanese morning glory and other climbing plants. In FY2013, Green Curtains were grown at 28 plants and offices in Japan and two Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/518KB) Examples of FY2011 Activities (pdf/638KB) Examples of FY2010 Activities (pdf/1,505KB) Examples of FY2009 Activities (pdf/1,281KB) Growing “Green Curtains” The Kyocera Group promotes “Green Curtains” which block strong summer sunshine and suppress rises in indoor temperature by covering windows and outer walls with bitter gourd, sponge gourd, Japanese morning glory and other climbing plants. In FY2013, Green Curtains were grown at 28 plants and offices in Japan and two overseas facilities. In total, the Green Curtains add up to a length of 830 m, about 1.3 times that of Tokyo Skytree and an area of 3,417 m2 (equal to about 13.1 tennis courts), achieving 12,000 kg of CO2 reduction. Green Curtains (Kagoshima Kokubu Plant) 120 of FY2013 Examples Examples Activities ofFY2013 of FY2013Activities Activities r Power System | Installation | Installation ofofSolar | Introduction Solar Power PowerSystem of High-Efficiency System | Introduction | Introduction Equipment ofofHigh-Efficiency High-Efficiency | Reduction Equipment of CO2 Emissions Equipment | ReductionofofCO by| Reduction CO2 2Emissions 2 Emissionsbyby theUse Heat | Introduction the Use ofofExhaust Exhaust of LED Lighting Heat | Reduction Heat | Introduction of COof2ofLED | Introduction LEDLighting Lighting Emissions | Reduction by| Improving Reduction ofofCO ProductCO2 2Emissions 2 Product ImprovingProduct EmissionsbybyImproving Transportation Transportation| | Transportation | Examples of FY2013 Activities (Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change) InstallationofofSolar f Solar PowerInstallation System SolarPower PowerSystem System has introduced The The Kyocera solar a Kyocera power Group Groupsystem has introduced hasintroduced into a asolar atsolar facilities home power systeminto andsystem abroad, power into such facilities as theatKyocera facilities homeand athome andabroad, abroad,such suchasasthe Kyocera theKyocera g and KYOCERA Head Head Office Building Office Building International and KYOCERA and KYOCERA Inc., Kyocera’s holdingInternational company inInc., International Inc., Kyocera’s North Kyocera’s holding America.holding company In FY2013, in North America. In company in North America. In FY2013, FY2013, lant and ShanghaiininShiga Shiga Yokaichi Yokaichi Kyocera Plantand Plant Electronics and Co.,Shanghai Shanghai Ltd., solar Kyocera powerElectronics Kyocera Electronics systems Co., were Co., Ltd., Ltd.,solar expanded, solar power andpowersystems systemswere wereexpanded, expanded,and and tems introduced the the in solar solar powersystems Kyocera the power systems atintroduced Group introducedhome and ininabroad theKyocera the Kyocera Groupatathome have Group exceeded home 2.7 MW. andAs and abroad a have abroad exceeded2.7 haveexceeded MW.As 2.7MW. Asa a result,the uction effect achieved result, the hasCOCO reduction reached 2 2reduction 2 1,248 effect ton-CO effect achieved 2/year.has achieved We reached hasreached will continue 1,248 1,248 ton-CO actively toton-CO 2/year. 2 /year.We 2introduce Wewill willcontinue introduce activelyintroduce continuetotoactively s to all facilitiessolar of the solar power Kyocera power systems systems Grouptotoall facilities inallfacilities the ofoftoo, future, thetheKyocera Kyocera and promote Group Group ininthe reduction thefuture, future, 2too,and of COtoo, promotereduction andpromote reductionofofCO CO 2 22 emissions siness activities. emissionsininour ourbusiness businessactivities. activities. InInJapan Japan mi Plant (115 kW) Hokkaido Hokkaido Kitami Fukushima Plant(115 Plant KitamiTanagura (115 kW) kW)(230 Fukushima Plant Chiba Tanagura Fukushima Tanagura Sakura Plant Plant (43(230 Plant (230 kW) Chiba SakuraPlant ChibaSakura Plant(43 (43kW) kW) d in FY2011) (introduced (introducedininFY2011) FY2011) kW) (introducedkW) in FY1985) kW) (introduced FY1985) (introducedininFY1985) (introduced in FY2011 and (introducedininFY2011 (introduced FY2011and and expanded in FY2012) expanded expandedininFY2012) FY2012) ya Plant (53 kW) NaganoOkaya Nagano Okaya Mie IsePlant Plant Plant (53 (53 (80kW) kW) kW) Mie MieIse Shiga Ise Plant GamoPlant (80 (80kW) Plant kW) (141 kW) Shiga GamoPlant Plant(141 ShigaGamo (141kW) kW) d in FY2011) (introduced (introduced (introduced FY2011) ininFY2011) in FY2005) (introduced (introduced (introduced ininFY2005) FY2005) in FY2011) (introduced FY2011) (introducedininFY2011) hi Plant (457 kW) Shiga Yokaichi ShigaYokaichi Shiga Plant Yasu Plant (457 (457 Plant (90kW) kW) kW) ShigaYasu YasuPlant Shiga Kagoshima Plant(90 Sendai (90 kW)(158 kW) Plant KagoshimaSendai SendaiPlant Kagoshima (158 Plant(158 2006, expanded(introduced in FY2006,expanded (introduced(introduced ininFY2006, inexpanded FY2011)inin (introducedinkW) (introduced FY2011) inFY2011) kW) kW) 12 and FY2013) FY2011, FY2011,FY2012FY2012and andFY2013)FY2013) (introduced in FY2011) (introduced FY2011) (introducedininFY2011) kubu Plant (112 kW) Kagoshima KagoshimaKagoshima Kokubu Kokubu Hayato Plant(112 Plant (112kW) Plant Kagoshima kW)kW)Kagoshima (40 Head Hayato Office Hayato Plant (214(40 Plant (40kW) kW) kW) Head HeadOffice (214kW) Office(214 kW) d in FY2006) (introduced (introduced (introduced FY2006) ininFY2006) in FY2006) (introduced (introduced (introduced FY2006) ininFY2006) in FY1999) (introduced FY1999) (introducedininFY1999) 121 Yokohama Office (58 kW) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Document Solutions (introduced in FY2012) Head Office (12 kW) Inc.’s Tamaki Plant (50 kW) (introduced in FY2008) (introduced in FY2011) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.’s Kyocera Connector Products Hirakata Plant (60 kW) Corp. Head Office (130 kW) (introduced in FY2006) (introduced in FY2012) Overseas KYOCERA Document Solutions KYOCERA International, Inc. KYOCERA Document Solutions Espana S. A. (Spain) (36 kW) (America) (279 kW) Deutschland GmbH. (Germany) (15.6 kW) (introduced in FY2008) (introduced in FY2006) (introduced in FY2008) Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. (Czech Co., Ltd. (China) (155 kW) Energy Co., Ltd. (China) (93 kW) Republic) (8 kW) (introduced in FY2010 and (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2006) expanded in FY2013) KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) (100 kW) (introduced in FY2011) Global Headquarters' Solar Power Generating System 122 Introduction of High-Efficiency Equipment Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. (Czech Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. (Czech Co., Ltd. (China) (155 kW) Energy Co., Ltd. (China) (93 kW) Republic) (8 kW) Co., Ltd. (China) (155 kW) Energy Co., Ltd. (China) (93 kW) Republic) (8 kW) (introduced in FY2010 and (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2006) (introduced in FY2010 and (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2006) expanded in FY2013) expanded in FY2013) KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) (100 kW) C.V. (Mexico) (100 kW) (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2011) Global Headquarters' Solar Power Generating System Global Headquarters' Solar Power Generating System Introduction of High-Efficiency Equipment Introduction of High-Efficiency Equipment At Kagoshima was reviewed toSendai reduce Plant, a high-efficiency heat recovery type CO2 emissions. At Kagoshima Sendai Plant, a high-efficiency heat recovery type turbo refrigerator and an inverter turbo refrigerator were newly turboreviewed was refrigerator to and anCO reduce inverter turbo refrigerator were newly emissions. introduced [Annual CO2and same 2time, at the amount] reduction the equipment operating method introduced and at the same time, the equipment operating method was reviewed to reduce CO2 emissions. 2,273 [Annual ton-CO [Kagoshima CO22 reduction Sendai Plant] amount] 2,273 [Annual ton-CO 2 [Kagoshima CO2 reduction Sendai Plant] amount] 2,273 ton-CO2 [Kagoshima Sendai Plant] Turbo refrigerator (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) Turbo refrigerator (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) Turbo refrigerator (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) Reduction of CO2 Emissions by the Use of Exhaust Heat Reduction of CO2 Emissions by the Use of Exhaust Heat In Shiga Yasu Plant, vapor was used to heat industrial water, but in Reduction of order to utilize compressor waste CO 2 Emissions by the heat, a heat Use ofwas exchanger newly Heat Exhaust In Shiga Yasu Plant, vapor was used to heat industrial water, but in installed and steam consumption was reduced. In addition, in order In Shiga to utilize Yasu compressor vapor waste Plant,Electronicswas Co., used heat,toaheat heatindustrial exchanger was but water, newly Shanghai KYOCERA Ltd. located in China, in the in installed and steam order to utilize consumption compressor waste was heat,reduced. In addition,was in newly production line using vapor, exhaust heatthe heatafrom exchanger vapor drain was Shanghai installed and KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. located in China, inin the recovered reusedconsumption and steam as a heat source, was reduced. In addition, thus promoting a reduction production line using vapor, exhaust KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. located in China, in was heat from the vapor drain ofShanghai CO2 emissions. the recovered productionand line reused as a heat using vapor, source, exhaust frompromoting heatthus the vaporadrainreduction was of CO2 emissions. recovered and reused as a heat source, thus promoting a reduction [Annual CO2 reduction amount] of CO2 emissions. 1,073 [Annual ton-CO [Shiga Yasu CO22 reduction Plant] amount] 600 ton-CO 1,073 ton-CO2 [Shanghai KYOCERAPlant] Electronics Co., Ltd.] Heat exchanger (Shiga Yasu Plant) [Annual CO 2 [Shiga Yasu 2 reduction amount] 600 1,073 ton-CO ton-CO 2 [Shanghai 2 [Shiga Yasu Plant] Electronics Co., Ltd.] KYOCERA Heat exchanger (Shiga Yasu Plant) 600 ton-CO2 [Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd.] Heat exchanger (Shiga Yasu Plant) Introduction of LED Lighting Introduction of LED Lighting Kyocera has introduced straight tube LED lighting (Kyocera-products) Introduction in order to save energy of used LEDfor Lighting lighting. In FY2013, about 7,000 Kyocera has introduced straight tube LED lighting (Kyocera-products) straight tube LED lighting lamps were installed with special emphasis in order tohas Kyocera save energy used introduced for lighting. straight tube FY2013, LEDInlights lighting about 7,000 (Kyocera-products) placed on areas in plants and offices where are kept on for a straight in order tube LED lighting lamps were installed with special emphasis long time. to In save energytoo, the future, used weforwilllighting. continueInto FY2013, activelyabout 7,000 introduce LED placed on areas in plants and offices where straight tube LED lighting lamps were installed with special lights are kept on for a 123 emphasis lighting. long placed time.on In the future, areas in plantstoo, and will continue weoffices to actively where lights introduce on for LED are kept a lighting. long time. [Annual CO Inreduction 2 the future, too, we will continue to actively introduce LED amount] of CO2 emissions. [Annual CO2 reduction amount] [Annual CO2 reduction amount] 1,073 ton-CO2 [Shiga Yasu Plant] 1,073 ton-CO2 [Shiga Yasu Plant] 600 ton-CO2 [Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd.] Heat exchanger (Shiga Yasu Plant) 600 ton-CO2 [Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd.] Heat exchanger (Shiga Yasu Plant) Introduction of LED Lighting Introduction of LED Lighting Kyocera has introduced straight tube LED lighting (Kyocera-products) Kyocera has introduced straight tube LED lighting (Kyocera-products) in order to save energy used for lighting. In FY2013, about 7,000 in order to save energy used for lighting. In FY2013, about 7,000 straight tube LED lighting lamps were installed with special emphasis straight tube LED lighting lamps were installed with special emphasis placed on areas in plants and offices where lights are kept on for a placed on areas in plants and offices where lights are kept on for a long time. In the future, too, we will continue to actively introduce LED long time. In the future, too, we will continue to actively introduce LED lighting. lighting. [Annual CO2 reduction amount] [Annual CO2 reduction amount] 420 ton-CO2 420 ton-CO2 LED lighting (Kyocera Head Office) LED lighting (Kyocera Head Office) Reduction of CO2 Emissions by Improving Product Transportation Reduction of CO2 Emissions by Improving Product Transportation At Kagoshima Sendai Plant, used cutting tools are transported to a recycle dealer in Akita Prefecture. Previously, At Kagoshima Sendai Plant, used cutting tools are transported to a recycle dealer in Akita Prefecture. Previously, they had been transported by truck but we have now initiated a modal shift to transportation by railway. they had been transported by truck but we have now initiated a modal shift to transportation by railway. [Annual CO2 reduction amount] 5,097 kg-CO2 At Fukushima Tanagura Plant, trucks were prepared and used to transport mobile phones for each customer. However, goods are now consolidated and transported using the same truck, thus reducing the transportation frequency. 124 [Annual CO2 reduction amount] 5,097 kg-CO2 At Fukushima Tanagura Plant, trucks were prepared and used to transport mobile phones for each customer. However, goods are now consolidated and transported using the same truck, thus reducing the transportation frequency. [Annual CO2 reduction amount] 2,556 kg-CO2 125 Resource Conservation Resource Conservation Resource Conservation The Kyocera Group establishes specific targets and rolls out positive activities in order to use limited resources The Kyocera effectively andGroup establishes contribute specific to global targets protection. and rolls out positive activities in order to use limited resources environment effectively and contribute to global environment protection. | Reducing Vehicle Fuel Consumption | Reducing Water Consumption and Improving the Water Recycling Rate | | Reducing Vehicle Fuel Consumption | Reducing Water Consumption and Improving the Water Recycling Rate | Reducing Vehicle Fuel Consumption Reducing Vehicle Fuel Consumption The Kyocera Group is working on reduction of vehicle fuel The Kyocera in consumption Group orderistoworking reduceon reduction fossil of vehicle fuel fuel consumption as well as to consumption prevent globalinwarming. order to reduce fossil fuel The Kyocera consumption Group has reduced as to wellvehicle as the prevent per netThe global warming. fuel consumption Kyocera sales by 7.3% Group has reduced as compared the vehicle to FY2012 by fuel consumption adopting per net sales electric vehicles, hybrid compared 7.3% as and byvehicles, to FY2012 fuel-economy carsbyas adopting electric vehicles, well as promotion hybrid vehicles, of environmentally and friendly driving or green cars fuel-economy as driving. well as promotion of environmentally friendly driving or green driving. Electric vehicle (Shiga Gamo Plant) Electric vehicle (Shiga Gamo Plant) Reducing Water Consumption and Improving the Water Recycling Rate Reducing Water Consumption and Improving the Water Recycling Rate The Kyocera Group is committed to the reduction of water consumption and recycling in order to use limited The waterKyocera Group resources is committed effectively and contribute water consumption to globalofenvironment to the reduction andAs recycling protection. comparedin order to use limited to FY2012, the water water consumption pereffectively resources and reduced contribute net sales was global byto6.9% byenvironment improving the protection. productionAsprocess, compared to FY2012, practicing the water appropriate management per consumption overnet sales water was reduced quantity by supply and6.9% by improving encouraging the production recycling process, practicing appropriate of wastewater. management over water supply quantity and encouraging recycling of wastewater. 126 Examples of Activities in FY2013 Recycling of Nonpermeate Generated at the Time of Manufacturing Purified Water KYOCERA Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd. is reusing nonpermeate water generated from the purified water manufacturing facilities for watering green spaces and cleaning filters and tanks. [Annual reduction of water consumption] 840,000m3 Piping used for watering Reduction of Water Consumption by Installing Storage Tanks Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. (China) has been using recycled wastewater (cyclically used water by treating human sewage and process wastewater) for flushing toilet bowls, though due to a shortage of water in the daytime, the Company was also using some tap water. The Company installed tanks for storing recycled wastewater generated in the nighttime to cover toilet bowl flushing water with recycled wastewater only. [Annual reduction of water consumption] 24,000m3 Water storage tank Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/255KB) 127 Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Working towards a recycling-based society, the Kyocera Group has set basic policies for waste reduction since FY1992, and expanded activities aiming to minimize industrial waste. Working towards a recycling-based society, the Kyocera Group has set basic policies for waste reduction since FY1992, and expanded Basic Policies activities for Waste aiming to minimize industrial waste. Reduction 1. Eliminate use of non-recyclable materials 2. Minimize Basic waste Policies forgenerated by business activities Waste Reduction 1. Recycle waste 3. Eliminate use ofonce it is generated non-recyclable materials 4. Minimize Process non-recyclable 2. waste generated waste into harmless by business materials activities 3. Recycle waste once it is generated 4. Process non-recyclable waste into harmless materials | Reduction in Waste Discharge | Promoting Zero Emissions | Proper Waste Disposal | Reduction | Reduction in Waste in Waste DischargeDischarge | Promoting Zero Emissions | Proper Waste Disposal | Reduction Reduction in Industrial in WasteWaste Discharge Discharge The Kyocera Group reduced industrial waste generated per net sales by 8.0% as compared to FY2012 by Reduction implementinginprocessing Industrialimprovements Waste Discharge and recycling of chemicals. The Kyocera Group reduced industrial waste generated per net sales by 8.0% as compared to FY2012 by implementing processing improvements and recycling of chemicals. Reduction in Industrial Waste Discharge The Kyocera Group reduced industrial waste discharge per net sales by 10.8% as compared to FY2012 by implementinginactivities Reduction Industrial Waste including Discharge in-house treatment of waste liquid generated in processing and reviewing of The Kyoceratreatment wastewater methods. Group reduced industrial waste discharge per net sales by 10.8% as compared to FY2012 by implementing activities including in-house treatment of waste liquid generated in processing and reviewing of wastewater treatment methods. 128 Examples of FY2013 Activities Examples of FY2013 Activities Examples Examplesof ofFY2012 FY2013Activities Activities(pdf/426KB) Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/426KB) Examples of FY2011 Activities (pdf/287KB) FY2012 Activities (pdf/287KB) Examples of FY2011 (pdf/426KB) Examples of FY2010 Activities (pdf/1,307KB) Examplesof Examples FY2011 ofFY2010 Activities(pdf/1,307KB) FY2013Activities (pdf/287KB) Examples of FY2009 Activities (pdf/748KB) FY2010 Activities (pdf/748KB) Examples of FY2009 (pdf/1,307KB) Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/426KB) Examples of FY2009 Activities (pdf/748KB) Examples Promoting of FY2011 Activities (pdf/287KB) Zero Emissions Promoting Zero Emissions The definitionofofFY2010 Examples zero emission in (pdf/1,307KB) Activities the Kyocera Group (Japan) is the volume of landfill of waste, etc., at the final ThePromoting Zeroemission definition of zero Emissionsin the Kyocera Group (Japan) is the volume of landfill of waste, etc., at the final disposal site (including landfill discharged by intermediate waste disposers) within 0.5% of the total waste, except Examples disposal site of FY2009 landfill (including Activities (pdf/748KB) discharged by intermediate waste disposers) within 0.5% of the total waste, except for The adefinition portion ofofthe waste zero beyond whichinis the emission control Kyocera of the Group Groupissuch (Japan) as those the volume landfillfor ofitems etc., at is waste,disposal which for a portion of the waste which is beyond control of the Group such as those items forofwhich disposal the final is designated disposal siteby municipalities. (including landfillAll Kyocera discharged Group by companies intermediate in wasteJapan have disposers) achieved within 0.5%zero emissions of the total and will waste, except designated by municipalities. All Kyocera Group companies in Japan have achieved zero emissions and will continue for a theirofefforts. portion the waste which is beyond control of the Group such as those items for which disposal is Promoting continue Zero Emissions their efforts. designated by municipalities. All Kyocera Group companies in Japan have achieved zero emissions and will continue The their of definition efforts. zero emission in the Kyocera Group (Japan) is the volume of landfill of waste, etc., at the final disposal site (including landfill discharged by intermediate waste disposers) within 0.5% of the total waste, except Proper Waste Disposal for Proper a portion Waste Disposal of the waste which is beyond control of the Group such as those items for which disposal is designated by municipalities. All Kyocera Group companies in Japan have achieved zero emissions and will Thorough investigations were conducted of companies providing waste disposal services, including financial Proper Thorough continue Waste efforts.Disposal investigations their were conducted of companies providing waste disposal services, including financial stability and on-site surveys according to the treatment work management standard for waste, in which proper stability and on-site surveys according to the treatment work management standard for waste, in which proper disposal Thorough and management investigations of waste were are specified. conducted Evenproviding of companies after signing waste disposalwith a contract a waste-treatment services, company, including financial disposal and management of waste are specified. Even after signing a contract with a waste-treatment company, field surveys stability of these and on-site disposal surveys companies according are to the conducted twice a year. field surveys of these disposal companies are treatment conductedwork twicemanagement a year. standard for waste, in which proper disposal Proper andWaste management of waste are specified. Even after signing a contract with a waste-treatment company, Disposal field surveys of these disposal companies are conducted twice a year. Thorough investigations were conducted of companies providing waste disposal services, including financial stability and on-site surveys according to the treatment work management standard for waste, in which proper disposal and management of waste are specified. Even after signing a contract with a waste-treatment company, field surveys of these disposal companies are conducted twice a year. On-site surveys of waste disposal companies On-site surveys of waste disposal companies On-site surveys of waste disposal companies 129 Examples of FY2013 Activities | Converting Sludge into Valuables by Reviewing Wastewater Treatment Methods | Converting TungstenContaining Sludge into Valuables | In-House Treatment of Grinding Waste Liquids | Reduction of Sludge Volume by Changing Filter Cloth | Examples of FY2013 Activities (Resource Conservation) Converting Sludge into Valuables by Reviewing Wastewater Treatment Methods At the Shiga Yasu Plant, the volume of flocculants was revised in the treatment of copper wastewater generated in the plating process, and wastewater treatment sludge was converted into valuables (copper recovery). [Annual reduction of waste discharge] 387 tons Wastewater treatment plant Copper-containing sludge Converting Tungsten-Containing Sludge into Valuables Kyocera Tycom Corporation in the U.S.A. converted tungsten sludge contained in wastewater generated from the grinding process into valuables by separating and recovering tungsten sludge using a recovery unit. [Annual reduction of waste discharge] 0.6 tons Tungsten sludge recovery unit In-House Treatment of Grinding Waste Liquids Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. in China changed its handling method for high-concentration grinding waste liquids from being discharged as industrial waste to an in-house treatment process at its wastewater treatment plant, thus reducing the industrial waste discharge. [Annual reduction of waste discharge] 18 tons 130 0.6 tons Tungsten sludge recovery unit In-House Treatment of Grinding Waste Liquids Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. in China changed its handling method for high-concentration grinding waste liquids from being discharged as industrial waste to an in-house treatment process at its wastewater treatment plant, thus reducing the industrial waste discharge. [Annual reduction of waste discharge] 18 tons Storage tanks Reduction of Sludge Volume by Changing Filter Cloth Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. in China changed the filter cloth of the sludge water extraction machine to a high-strength filter Storage tanks cloth, thereby reducing the moisture content in sludge from 80% to 75%, which reduced the sludge volume discharged as industrial waste. Reduction of Sludge Volume by Changing Filter Cloth [Annual reduction of waste discharge] 30 tons Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. in China changed the filter Shanghai cloth of the sludge water extraction machine to a high-strength filter cloth, thereby reducing the moisture content in sludge from 80% to 75%, which reduced the sludge volume discharged as industrial Sludge water-extraction machine waste. [Annual reduction of waste discharge] 30 tons Sludge water-extraction machine 131 Chemical Substances Management Chemical Substances Management Some chemical substances cause environmental pollution and can affect human health and the ecosystem as a Chemical result of long-termSubstances accumulation. To manage Management these substances, we have established a chemical substances Chemical Substances Management control system to accurately gauge and minimize emissions of chemical substances of hazard concern to the Some chemical atmosphere andsubstances water systems,cause environmental transferred amount pollution can and in contained affectetc. human health and the ecosystem as a waste, Some result of chemical long-termsubstances causeTo accumulation. environmental manage these pollution and can substances, we affect human health have established and the ecosystem substancesas a a chemical result long-term controlofsystem accumulation. to accurately gauge Toandmanage these minimize substances, emissions of chemical establishedofa hazard we havesubstances chemical substances concern to the |control Effortssystem atmosphere for Reducing and Emissions accurately towater gauge systems, andand Transferred transferredminimize amount Amount emissions contained Substances of of chemical Subject to PRTR in waste, substances etc. Lawconcern of hazard | Efforts toforthe atmosphereofand Prevention Air water and Water Pollution systems, | Improved transferred amountEfficiency of Wastewater contained in waste, etc.Treatment Chemicals | Management and Disposal of PCB Waste | | Efforts for Reducing Emissions and Transferred Amount of Substances Subject to PRTR Law | Efforts for |Prevention Efforts for ofReducing Emissions Air and Water and Transferred Pollution Amount ofofSubstances | Improved Efficiency WastewaterSubject to PRTR Treatment Law | Efforts Chemicals for | Management Efforts for Reducing Emissions and Transferred Amount of Prevention and Disposal AirPCB of of Water Pollution and Waste | | Improved Efficiency of Wastewater Treatment Chemicals | Management Substances Subject to PRTR Law and Disposal of PCB Waste | TheEfforts Kyocerafor GroupReducing Emissions (Japan) carries and Transferred out activities Amount for reducing emissions andofthe transferred amount of Class I Efforts Substances for Reducing Subject Emissions to PRTR Law Designated Chemical Substances as prescribed by PRTR Law.and Transferred Amount of Substances Subject to PRTR Law KyoceraGroup's TheKyocera Group Environmental out activities (Japan) carriesImpact at Each forSite reducing emissions and the transferred amount of Class I The Designated Group (Japan) KyoceraChemical carriesasout Substances activities by prescribed reducing forPRTR Law.emissions and the transferred amount of Class I Designated Chemical Substances as prescribed by PRTR Law. Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site for Prevention EffortsGroup's Kyocera Environmental of AirImpactandatWater Each Site Pollution Because the natural environment and ecosystems are susceptible to environmental pollutants discharged in the Efforts water, for Prevention atmosphere, and soil, the Air and ofKyocera Water Group setsPollution a voluntary control standard and takes initiative in carrying outEfforts for Prevention environmental load reduction ofactivities. Air and Water Pollution Because the natural environment and ecosystems are susceptible to environmental pollutants discharged in the Because water, the natural atmosphere, Examples of FY2013 environment and soil, Activities and ecosystems the Kyocera Group sets areasusceptible to environmental voluntary control standard and pollutants discharged takes initiative in the in carrying water, atmosphere,load out environmental andreduction soil, the Kyocera activities.Group sets a voluntary control standard and takes initiative in carrying outExamples environmental load reduction of FY2012 activities. Activities (pdf/181KB) Examples of FY2013 Activities Examples Examplesof ofFY2011 FY2013Activities Activities(pdf/87KB) Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/181KB) Examples of FY2010 Activities (pdf/988KB) Examples of FY2012 Activities (pdf/181KB) Examples of FY2011 Activities (pdf/87KB) Examples of FY2009 Activities (pdf/623KB) Examples of FY2011 Activities (pdf/87KB) Examples of FY2010 Activities (pdf/988KB) Examples of FY2010 Activities (pdf/988KB) Examples Improved of FY2009 EfficiencyActivities (pdf/623KB) Treatment Chemicals of Wastewater Examples of FY2009 Activities (pdf/623KB) The Kyocera Group (Japan) sets a target to reduce the consumption rate per treated water volume for chemicals usedImproved in wastewater Efficiency treatment. ofThe Wastewater Kyocera Group Treatment Chemicals revised wastewater treatment methods, changed chemicals, andImproved Efficiency revised dosages, of Wastewater etc. However, Treatment since the wastewater Chemicals treatment volume of the Shiga Yasu Plant increased, Thechemical the Kyocera consumption Group (Japan) sets rate pera treated reduce target towater increased byrate the consumption volume 1.8%perastreated watertovolume compared FY2012. for chemicals usedKyocera The in wastewater (Japan) sets Group treatment. Thea target Kyocera reducerevised the consumption to Group wastewater rate per treated treatment water changed volume for methods, chemicals chemicals, used in wastewater and revised dosages, treatment. The Kyocera etc. However, since the Group wastewater revisedtreatment wastewater treatment volume of themethods, Shiga Yasuchanged Plant chemicals, increased, and revised dosages, the chemical consumption etc. However, since the rate per treated waterwastewater treatmentby volume increased volume 1.8% as of the Shiga Yasu compared Plant increased, to FY2012. theManagement chemical consumption and Disposal of PCB rate per treated waterWaste volume increased by 1.8% as compared to FY2012. The Kyocera Group (Japan) strictly controls and manages PCB Management (polychlorinated and Disposal biphenyl) waste at specified Wastewith control of PCBlocations Management sheets and Disposal prepared in accordance of PCBlaws. with relevant Waste Kyocera has The Kyocera already becomeGroup (Japan) an early strictly for registrant controls andofmanages disposal PCB with these wastes The the Kyocera (polychlorinated Japan Group (Japan) biphenyl) Environmental strictly waste Safety controls and at specified Corporation andmanages locations withPCB will disposecontrol of them sheets prepared biphenyl) (polychlorinated accordingly. wastewith in accordance at specified relevant locations with control laws. Kyocera has sheets alreadyprepared become an in accordance withfor early registrant relevant laws. disposal Kyocera of these has with wastes already the Japan become an early registrant Environmental for disposal Safety Corporation and these ofwill wastes dispose of with them the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation and will dispose of them accordingly. accordingly. 132 The Kyocera Group (Japan) sets a target to reduce the consumption rate per treated water volume for chemicals used in wastewater treatment. The Kyocera Group revised wastewater treatment methods, changed chemicals, and revised dosages, etc. However, since the wastewater treatment volume of the Shiga Yasu Plant increased, the chemical consumption rate per treated water volume increased by 1.8% as compared to FY2012. Management and Disposal of PCB Waste The Kyocera Group (Japan) strictly controls and manages PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl) waste at specified locations with control sheets prepared in accordance with relevant laws. Kyocera has already become an early registrant for disposal of these wastes with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation and will dispose of them accordingly. Transporting operations for outsourced disposal (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) 133 Examples of FY2013 Activities | Reduction of Acetone through Introduction of a Recycling Device | Prevention of Water Pollution by Reinforcing Effluent Management | Examples of FY2013 Activities (Chemical Substances Management) Reduction of Acetone through Introduction of a Recycling Device A recycling device was introduced at Kyocera Industrial Ceramics Corp.’s Vancouver Plant in the U.S.A. in order to recycle acetone used in the semiconductor components manufacturing process, thus approximately 800 liters of acetone are now being reused per year. Recycling device Prevention of Water Pollution by Reinforcing Effluent Management Anshi Electronic (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. in China introduced equipment for continuous monitoring of the nickel concentration in order to reinforce management of effluent. Monitoring equipment 134 Green Communication: Transparency with Local Green Communities Communication: Regarding Transparency Environmental Local with Matters Communities Green Communication: RegardingTransparency Environmental withMatters Local Communities Regarding Environmental Matters Items FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results FY2014 Goals Expand Kyocera Group Eco-Lessons provided at Continuous Items FY2013 program “Eco-Lesson” Goals FY2013 Results 203 elementary schools. FY2014 Goals implementation of Kyocera Expand Kyocera’s PromoteKyocera Group Forestation activities Eco-Lessons provided at Group Eco-Lessons. Continuous forestation “Eco-Lesson” activities. program started 203 from Kyocera elementary schools. Promotion of Kyocera’s implementation of Kyocera Promote Kyocera’s Headquarters. Forestation activities forestation Group activities Eco-Lessons. Environmental forestation activities. Participation started in from Kyocera Promotion of Kyocera’s communication environmental events Headquarters. forestation activities with local Environmental hosted by local Participation in communities communication governments. events environmental with local Fukushima hosted Tanagura Plant by local communities governments.Award for received the Promotion of Fukushima Measures Tanagura to Plant Cope with Global received the Award for Warming. of Measures to Promotion Cope with Global |Kyocera Group “Eco-Lessons”|Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity|Providing Employees’ Warming. Families with Environmental Education and Awareness| |Participation |Kyocera Groupin Environmental Events|Main “Eco-Lessons”|Activities Feedback Related to theon Sustainable of Conservation Management| Biodiversity|Providing Employees’ Families with Environmental Education and Awareness| KyocerainGroup |Participation “Eco-Lessons” Environmental Events|Main Feedback on Sustainable Management| Since 2003, the Kyocera Kyocera Group Group has offered a community social action “Eco-Lessons” program, providing onsite environmental classes called “EcoLessons,” Since 2003, which the Kyocera Group— allow children leaders has offeredof athe next generation community — to social action deepen their program, understanding providing of environmental onsite environmental classes called and problems “Eco-energy concerns, as well as nurture their thinking towards Lessons,” which allow children — leaders of the next generation concerns for the — to Earth in the course of school education. In FY2010, deepen their understanding of environmental problems and energy we began to offer the program concerns, asinwell China, taking their advantage as nurture thinking know-how of towards we have concerns for the accumulated in Japan. Earth in the course of school education. In FY2010, we began to offer the program in China, taking advantage of know-how we have In FY2013, the accumulated in Kyocera Japan. Group offered classes to 11,854 school children at 203 elementary schools in Japan, primarily in areas Eco-Lessons (Japan) surrounding In FY2013, the Kyocera Group 25 Kyocera Group offered 13 prefectures). sites (inclasses to 11,854Inschool addition, we offered classes to 9,251 school children at children at 203 elementary schools in Japan, primarily in areaselementary schools in 6 cities in China. Eco-Lessons (Japan) surrounding 25 The total Group Kyocera numbersites of children who attended (in 13 prefectures). Inthe classes addition, since FY2004 has reached 66,403. we offered classes to 9,251 school children at elementary schools in 6 cities in China. The total number of children who attended the classes The sinceKyocera FY2004Group believes66,403. has reached it is important to consistently continue supporting such educational activities, and we will continue to create opportunities The for children Kyocera Group to develop believes environmental it is important awareness. to consistently continue supporting such educational activities, and we will continue to create opportunities for children to develop environmental awareness. Eco-Lessons (China) 135 Eco-Lessons (China) Kyocera Group “Eco-Lessons” Activities Kyocera Group Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity “Eco-Lessons” Human society Kyoceraconsists Groupof“Eco-Lessons” various blessings from nature. On the other hand, forests equivalent to one fifth of Japan’s land area are lost from the world every year. It is also said that the effect of human activities over the last several hundreds of years has caused the extinction rate of species to be accelerated by 1,000 times. In these ways, Activities circumstances Related to thebiodiversity Conservation surrounding have becomeof Biodiversity extremely serious. Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Human society consists of various blessings from nature. On the other hand, forests equivalent to one fifth of InJapan’s regardsland to theareaKyocera lostGroup’s are consists fromofthe business world activities, every year. while It is also are benefitting we said that the fromofthe effect ecological system thelast inthe Human society various blessings from nature. On the other hand, forests human activities equivalent overof to one fifth form of raw materials, several hundreds Japan’s land its of area years output arehas has no from thethe lostcaused small world effect extinction on every year. biodiversity. rateIt of species is also said to bethe that accelerated by 1,000 effect of human times. activities these overInthe last several hundreds ways, circumstances of years has surrounding caused the have biodiversity extinction becomerate of species toserious. extremely be accelerated by 1,000 times. In these The Kyocera ways,Group establishes circumstances workingbiodiversity surrounding policies relatinghave becometo the conservation extremely serious. of biodiversity on activities such as the reduction of destructive effects on the natural environment In regards to the Kyocera Group’s business activities, while we are benefitting from the and on the ecological system, activesystem ecological promotion of in the In regards greenification at Group Kyocera Group’s to thefacilities, and business activities, participation in and while weofare support benefitting social from theactivities. contribution ecological system in the form of raw materials, its output has no small effect on biodiversity. form of raw materials, its output has no small effect on biodiversity. The KyoceraofGroup Relevance Corporation establishes and Biodiversity working (Kyocera policies relating to theGroup (Japan)) conservation of biodiversity on activities such as The Kyocera Group establishes working policies relating to the conservation of biodiversity on activities such as the reduction of destructive the reduction effects of destructive on the effects on natural the natural environment environment andandon onthe theecological system,active active ecological system, promotion promotion of of Ingreenification regardsgreenification to the at Kyocera Group Group's facilities, at Group business and facilities, activities, participation and participation while in and in and we support socialcontribution supportofofsocial activities. contribution activities. are benefitting from ecological systems such as raw material procurement, Relevance output Relevance of has of a largeand Corporation Corporation effect and onBiodiversity biodiversity. Biodiversity We haveGroup (Kyocera (Kyocera (Japan)) Group(Japan)) summarized the relevance between business activities and biodiversity In regards in this In regards to chart. to the Kyocera the Kyocera Group's Group's business business activities, activities, whilewhile wewe are benefitting from ecological systems such as raw material are benefitting from ecological systems such as raw material procurement, output has a large effect on biodiversity. We have procurement, output has a large effect on biodiversity. We have summarized the relevance between business activities and summarized the relevance biodiversity between business activities and in this chart. biodiversity in this chart. ZOOM Kyocera’s Forestation Activities ZOOM The Kyocera Group is positively assisting in forestation activities with Kyocera’s Forestation Activities ZOOM the aim of responding to environmental issues such as the prevention of climateThe Kyocera change andGroup is positively conservation of assisting biodiversity, in forestation contributing to with activities Kyocera’s local Forestation the aim communities, of responding Activities and increasing to environmental environmental issues such as theofprevention awareness its employees. of climate change and conservation of biodiversity, contributing to The Kyocera Group is positively assisting in forestation activities with local communities, and increasing environmental awareness of its the aim of responding to environmental issues such as the prevention employees. Inof2012, thechange climate Kyocera and Group newly introduced conservation its activities of biodiversity, at a fifth contributing to site inlocal Kyotanabe, communities, In 2012, the and Kyoto. In starting Kyoceraincreasing these Group newly activities, environmental introduced awareness the Kyocera its activities at Group ofaits fifth site and the Kyocera employees.in Kyo-Tanabe, Union In Labor Kyoto. concluded starting these activities, theof an “Agreement ForestGroup Kyocera Use and Preservation” with Kyoto Modelforest Association and the Kyocera Labor Union concluded an “Agreement of Forest Use and the Takigi Signing ceremony Kannabiyama In 2012,and Preservation thePreservation” Kyocera Group Society with in Kyotanabe Kyoto Modelforest newly introduced its at the Kyoto Association activities and thefifth at a Takigi site Signing ceremony that visitors Prefectural to Mt. Kannabiyama Government Kannabiyama Preservation Office can use Society in Kyoto them. in Kyo-Tanabe at the Kyoto in Kyo-Tanabe, Kyoto. In starting November theseinactivities, the2012, Kyocera Group subsequentlyPrefectural Government implemented Office first round the concluded in Kyoto of 2012, in Novemberactivities. and the Kyocera Labor Union anforestation “Agreement of Forest Use Despite subsequently a gentle rain, implemented 50Kyoto participants including the first round of forestation Kyoceraand Group activities. and Preservation” with Despite a gentle rain, 50Modelforest Association participants including Kyocera Group the Takigi Signing ceremony employees Kannabiyama there for theSociety werePreservation tree thinning in operation.atWe Kyo-Tanabe the fabricated Kyoto employees were there for the tree thinning operation. We fabricated benches fromGovernment Prefectural benches thinned timber from thinned andininstalled Office timber Kyoto inthem and installed November along hiking them along 2012, trails so hiking trails so that visitors to Mt. Kannabiyama can use them. subsequently implemented the first round of forestation activities. Despite a gentle rain, 50 participants including Kyocera Group employees were there for the tree thinning operation. We fabricated benches from thinned timber and installed them along hiking trails so Maintaining forests Examples of Activities Related to the Conservation of136 Biodiversity Maintaining Maintainingforests forests ExamplesofofActivities Examples Relatedtotothe ActivitiesRelated theConservation ConservationofofBiodiversity Biodiversity Providing ProvidingEmployees’ Employees’Families Familieswith withEnvironmental EnvironmentalEducation Educationand andAwareness Awareness recentsignificant AArecent increaseininCO significantincrease CO2 2emissions emissionsfrom households,which fromhouseholds, suspectedcause whichisisaasuspected causeofofclimate climatechange, change, has become a major issue. The Kyocera Group (Japan) believes that it is important for has become a major issue. The Kyocera Group (Japan) believes that it is important for each person to seriously each person to seriously addressglobal address globalenvironmental environmentalissues, issues,and andhas proactivelypromoted hasproactively promotedaaprogram programtotoencourage encourageuse useofofthe theEcoEcoAccount Book at employees’ homes since FY2009 Account Book at employees’ homes since FY2009 in order to support environmental protection activitiesatat in order to support environmental protection activities home. home. Participation ParticipationininEnvironmental EnvironmentalEvents Events InInorder ordertotoobtain obtainunderstanding understandingofofthe theKyocera KyoceraGroup’s Group’sactivities activitiesfor for environmentalprotection environmental protectionamong variousstakeholders, amongvarious stakeholders,the theKyocera Kyocera Group Groupactively environmentalevents. participatesininenvironmental activelyparticipates events.Kyocera Kyocera Mexicana, S. A. de C. Mexicana, S. A. de C. V. (Mexico) participatedininthe V. (Mexico) participated theEnvironment Environment EXPOhosted EXPO hostedby bythe MinistryofofEnvironment theMinistry EnvironmentininOctober October2012. 2012.AtAtthe the event,where event, whereapproximately 18,000children approximately18,000 childrenparticipated participatedfrom from kindergartenerstotosenior kindergarteners seniorhigh schoolstudents, highschool students,Kyocera KyoceraMexicana Mexicana talked about environmental activities implemented talked about environmental activities implemented by the Kyocera by the Kyocera Group. Group.Dongguan DongguanShilongShilongKyocera KyoceraCo., Co.,Ltd. Ltd.(China) (China)participated participatedininan an event held for the World Environment event held for the World Environment Day under the auspicesofoflocal Day under the auspices local governmentsand governments andthe EnvironmentProtection theEnvironment ProtectionAgency AgencyininMay May2012, 2012, Environment EnvironmentEXPO EXPO(Mexico) (Mexico) whereparticipants where participantsrode bicyclesand rodebicycles andappealed appealedfor forenvironmental environmental protection. protection. Eventheld Event heldfor theWorld forthe WorldEnvironment EnvironmentDay Day (China) (China) Main MainFeedback Feedbackon onSustainable SustainableManagementManagement Minister Ministerofofthe theEnvironment EnvironmentAward Awardreceived receivedfor forthethePromotion PromotionofofMeasures MeasurestotoCope Copewith withGlobal Global Warming Warming Environmentalactivities Environmental activitiesand localcontribution andlocal contributionactivities activitiesfocusing focusingon on utilization of a solar power utilization of a solar power generating system installed atthe generating system installed at the 137 Event held for the World Environment Day (China) Main Feedback on Sustainable Management Minister of the Environment Award received for the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming Environmental activities and local contribution activities focusing on utilization of a solar power generating system installed at the company’s Fukushima Tanagura Plant were recognized and awarded Japan’s “2012 Minister of the Environment Award for the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming (countermeasures category).” The award is given to honor outstanding achievements by individuals and organizations in the prevention of global warming in December of every year — global warming prevention awareness month. This is the third consecutive year that Kyocera has received the award. Solar power generating system installed at the Fukushima Tanagura Plant (230 kW) Other Major Recognitions (FY2013) Award Hosted by Title of award Reasons for award category The Dongguan Dongguan City Dongguan Various environmental activities including waste City Environmental Shilong reduction and recycling were commended for having Environmental Protection Agency Kyocera contributed to the formation of a recycling-oriented Friendly (China) Co., Ltd. society. Company Shanghai Municipal The Shanghai Shanghai Various water-saving activities such as the Economic and City WaterKyocera introduction of wastewater recycling facilities, etc. Informatization saving Model Electronics were commended. Commission (China) Company Co., Ltd. 138 Examples of Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity | Cooperative Effort to Refurbish Local Natural Parks | Distributing Seedlings to Create More Green Space | Promoting Project Firefly | Conservation of a Stork Habitat | Examples of Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Cooperative Effort to Refurbish Local Natural Parks Kyocera America, Inc. has carried out activities to refurbish local natural parks since 2011. Making the best of lanes in the park extending along San Diego River (California), a natural plant garden was refurbished. Moreover, local elementary school children have been participating in such activities in order to learn about the environment. Kyocera employees refurbishing the park. Distributing Seedlings to Create More Green Space Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd. is actively involved in planting seedlings to increase green areas. On World Environment Day in June 2012, about 120 Kyocera employees and family members participated in planting trees and cleaning the temple. To enhance environment awareness, seedlings were distributed to employees. We will continue our commitment to clean and green regional development in the future. Participation in local planting Promoting Project Firefly The Kagoshima Kokubu Plant launched Project Firefly in November 2009 in order to preserve the distinctive local biosphere around the manufacturing plant. With the cooperation of local firefly researchers, employees improved the environment around a pond in the plant premises to make it habitable. As a result, fireflies flew around the plant in May 2010, glowing brilliantly. We also endeavor to enhance the environmental awareness of employees through this project. Conservation of a Stork Habitat Kyocera Document Solutions, Inc. has cooperated in stork protection activities in Toyooka, Hyogo since FY2011. We are proactively involved in eliminating nonnative moso bamboo — which proliferate in the vicinity of marshy areas — in order to restore forests139covered with plant in May 2010, glowing brilliantly. We also endeavor to enhance the environmental awareness of employees through this project. Conservation of a Stork Habitat Kyocera broad leaf trees andSolutions, Document create an Inc. has cooperated environment where storks protection in storkcan habitat. activities in Toyooka, Hyogo since FY2011. We are proactively involved in eliminating nonnative moso bamboo — which proliferate in the vicinity of marshy areas — in order to restore forests covered with broad leaf trees and create an environment where storks can habitat. Bamboo grove cutting Bamboo grove cutting 140 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy This CSR report is published to report on the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities in keeping with the concept of ISO26000, International Standard concerning social responsibilities. Information contained in this report is disclosed in consideration of opinions and views received from stakeholders, and the degree of importance placed on the above activities by the Kyocera Group. Reporting Period Information disclosed focuses on content from FY2013 (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013). Scope of the Report KYOCERA Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries In this report, “Kyocera” refers to KYOCERA Corporation as a separate entity. It is specified where the scope of the report differs from the above. Guideline References GRI* “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1” Ministry of the Environment (Japan) “Environmental Report Guidelines (2007 Version)” *GRI:Global Reporting Initiative is an international organization established in 1997 to draft a sustainability report framework for use by organizations worldwide. Accuracy of Information To ensure the accuracy of disclosed information, the information presented here is disclosed after being crosschecked by multiple divisions, including the division providing the information, the Editorial Section, the Legal Affairs Division and the Corporate Communications Division. 141 ISO9001 Certification Status ■ ISO9001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (6 companies) (as of April 2013) Region Company Date of registration KYOCERA Corporation KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc. Jul. 1992 Japan KYOCERA SLC Technologies Corp. (Registration No.: JMI-0036) KYOCERA Chemical Corp. KYOCERA Solar Corp. Individual Certification (39 companies) (as of April 2013) Region Company Date of registration Region Company Date of registration KYOCERA Connector Products Corporation ※ 1 Jul. 2008 KYOCERA America, Inc. Apr. 1994 KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Mar. 1998 KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation Apr. 1995 KYOCERA Crystal Device Hokkaido Corporation Mar. 1998 KYOCERA TYCOM Corporation Aug. 1996 KYOCERA Medical Corporation ※ 2 May 2005 Biddeford Nov. 2004 Japan KYOCERA Communication Systems Co., Ltd. Colorado Spring Jul. 2003 North America Six divisions related to computer systems Conway Jul. 2004 Aug. 1997 U.S.A. AVX Corporation and package software Myrtle Beach ※ 1 Jul. 2005 Two divisions related to mobile base stations Sep. 2004 Olean Dec. 2003 Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. Dec. 1998 Raleigh Jul. 2004 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co.,Ltd. Feb. 2003 AVX Filters Corporation Dec. 2003 Kyocera Document Technology ( Dongguan) Co.,Ltd. Feb. 1994 American Technical Huntington Oct. 1997 KYOCERA Chemical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Apr. 2004 Ceramics Corp. Jacksonville Oct. 1998 China KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd. Jul. 2004 KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. Jun. 2005 South and Central America Asia Mexico KYOCERA Connector Products Hong Kong Ltd. Mar. 2004 Avio Excelente, S. de R.L. de C.V. ※ 1 Jan. 2004 KYOCERA Document Technology Co., El Salvador AVX Industries, Pte. Ltd. ※ 1 Dec. 2003 Feb. 1994 （H.K.）Ltd. Brazil AVX Components da Amazonia Ltda. Jan. 2004 AVX Electronics（Tianjin）Co., Ltd. ※1 Sep. 2007 American Technical Ceramics Europe Sweden Jan. 2003 KYOCERA Connector Products Asia Pte, Ltd. Oct. 2004 Aktiebolag Singapore KYOCERA Chemical Singapore Pte, Ltd. Mar. 2003 UK AVX Limited ※1 Nov. 2007 KYOCERA Connector Products Korea Co., Ltd. Apr. 1998 France TPC S.A.S ※ 1 Dec. 2007 Korea Europe KYOCERA Precision Tools Korea Co., Ltd. Feb. 2004 Germany ELCO Europe GmbH ※ 1 May 2007 KYOCERA Chemical（Thailand）Ltd. Feb. 2002 KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. Feb. 2006 Thailand KYOCERA Crystal Device（Thailand）Co., Lanskroun Feb. 2006 Sep. 2003 Czech Ltd. ※ 1 AVX Czech Republic Oct. 2007 ※ 3 s.r.o. Uherske ※ 1 Malaysia TPC Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. Mar. 2004 Dec. 2007 ※ 4 Philippines KYOCERA Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. ※ 1 Mar. 2004 Israel AVX Israel Ltd. Dec. 2003 ※ 1 Certification of the quality management standard (ISO/TS-16949) to which automotive special requirements are added based on ISO 9001. ※ 2 Certification of the quality management standard (ISO 13485) to which medical-related special requirements are added based on ISO 9001. ※ 3 Related to connectors. ※ 4 Related to electronic parts and capacitors. 142 ISO14001 Certification Status ■ ISO14001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (192 sites) (as of April 2013) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Headquarters Hokkaido Kitami Plant Fukushima Tanagura Plant Chiba Sakura Office Tokyo Yaesu Office Tokyo Harajuku Office Yokohama Office Nagano Okaya Plant Mie Ise Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Fushimi Office R&D Center, Keihanna Osaka Daito Office Kagoshima Sendai Plant Kagoshima Kokubu Plant R&D Center, Kagoshima Kagoshima Hayato Plant Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office Nagaoka Sales Office Takasaki Sales Office Utsunomiya Sales Office Omiya Sales Office KYOCERA Corporation Tachikawa Sales Office Kanto Logistics Center Komae Sales Office Atsugi Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office Hamamatsu Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Mikawa Sales Office Kyocera Management Research Institute Kyocera Keiaikan Osaka Sales Office Himeji Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Okinawa Sales Office CV Ginza Store CV Kyoto Store CV Osaka Umeda Store CV Kobe Sannomiya Store CV Hiroshima Store KYOCERA Connector Products Headquarters Okaya Plant Osaka Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Corporation Tachikawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. Headquarters Chigase Plant Tokyo Sales Office Kansai Sales Office KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc. Headquarters Hirakata Plant Tamaki Plant Tokyo R&D Center KYOCERA Document Solutions Japan Headquarters Sapporo Office Sendai Office Nagoya Office Osaka Sales Office Inc. Hiroshima Office Fukuoka Office Sales Offices: 52 locations (including local offices) Oct. 1996 (Registration Japan Headquarters Kansai Branch Kyushu Branch Kawaguchi Plant Kawasaki Plant KYOCERA Chemical Corp. No. Kohriyama Plant Moka Plant EC99J2032) Headquarters Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Ayabe Plant Kagoshima Sendai Plant Higashi Nihon Sales Office KYOCERA SLC Technologies Corp. Kyushu Sales Office KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Headquarters Nagano Okaya Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant KYOCERA Crystal Device Hokkaido Corporation Headquarters Headquarters Tokyo Sales Office Kobe Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Research Center Kobe Product Control Center Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office KYOCERA Medical Corporation Omiya Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kyoto Sales Office Kobe Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tokyo 1st Data Center (2 sites) Tokyo 2nd Data Center Tokyo 3rd Data Center KYOCERA Communication Systems Takanawa Branch Shiga Office Kyoto Karasuma Office Osaka Office Osaka ICT Branch Co., Ltd. Fukuoka Office Sendai Office Kokubu Office Sapporo Sales Office Sendai Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Takamatsu Sales Office Kagoshima Sales Office Headquarters Tohoku Sales Office Tokyo Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Osaka Sales Office KYOCERA Solar Corp. Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Sakura Office Shiga Yohkaichi Office Shiga Store Kagoshima Sales Branch(Satsumasendai) Kagoshima Sales Branch(Kirishima) KYOCERA Solar FC Lake Town KYOCERA Solar FC Itami Koya ※ The above 203 offices and plants are jointly ISO 14001 certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System. Individual Certification (107 sites) (as of April 2013) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. ― Jul. 2000 Guragaon Jun. 2011 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co.,Ltd. ― Dec. 2000 Mumbai Jun. 2011 Kyocera Document Technology ( Dongguan) Co.,Ltd. ― Oct. 2001 Gujarat Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Chemical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. ― Apr. 2001 Pune Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Technology Co.,（H.K.）Ltd. ― Nov. 2000 Nagpur Sep. 2012 AVX Electronics（Tianjin）Co.,Ltd. ― Feb. 2008 New Delhi Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Solutions Hong Kong Ltd. ― Nov. 2000 Lucknow Sep. 2012 China KYOCERA Document Solutions Asia Ltd Apr. 2012 KYOCERA Document Solutions India Private Chennai Sep. 2012 Asia India Limited KYOCERA Document Solutions (China) Corp. Dec. 2012 Bangalore Sep. 2012 KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd. ― Aug. 2009 Emakulam Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Connector Products（Dongguan） Hyderabad Sep. 2012 ― Dec. 2003 Co., Ltd. Vizag Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Display (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd. ― May 2002 Kolkata Sep. 2012 KYOCERA OPTEC（Dongguan）Co., Ltd. ― Dec. 2003 Bhubanmeswar Sep. 2012 Asia KYOCERA Document Solutions Taiwan ― Jan. 2008 Guhawati Sep. 2012 Corporation KYOCERA Chemical Singapore Pte, Ltd. ― Jun. 1999 Ranchi Sep. 2012 Singapore KYOCERA Document Solutions Singapore Canada KYOCERA Document Solutions Canada, Ltd. ― Jul. 2008 ― Feb. 2008 Pte, Ltd. KYOCERA America, Inc. ― Aug. 1997 KYOCERA Connector Products Korea Co., Ltd. ― Spt.1999 Vancouver Jun. 1998 Korea KYOCERA Document Solutions KOREA Co., Ltd. ― Feb. 2010 KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation Mountain Home Feb. 1999 KYOCERA Chemical（Thailand）Ltd. ― May 2005 SanDiego Sep. 1997 KYOCERA Crystal Device（Thailand）Co., Ltd. ― Dec. 1999 KYOCERA Communications Inc. ― Aug. 2000 North America Thailand KYOCERA Document Solutions（Thailand） ― Aug. 2006 Costa Mesa Nov. 2005 Corp., Ltd. Arden Hills, MN Nov. 2005 KYOCERA Display Thailand Co., Ltd. ― Jan. 2005 U.S.A. San Jose, CA Nov. 2005 Philippines KYOCERA Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. ― Jun. 2006 KYOCERA TYCOM Corporation Beaverton, OR Nov. 2005 Israel AVX Israel Ltd. ― May 2003 Owego, NY Nov. 2005 TPC Malaysia Sdn Bhd ― Feb. 2008 Malaysia Zhuhai Nov. 2005 KYOCERA Telecom Equipment（Malaysia）Sdn.Bhd. ― May. 1998 Hong Kong Nov. 2005 Conway Feb. 2008 AVX Corporation Myrtle Beach Feb. 2008 143 Individual Certification (107 sites) (as of April 2013) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration American Technical Ceramics Corp. ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Austria Austria ― Apr. 2008 GmbH AVX Greenville, LLC. ― Mar. 2010 Belgium KYOCERA Document Solutions Belgium N.V. ― Apr. 2004 Fairfield Mar. 2007 Lanskroun Feb. 2000 Irvine Mar. 2007 AVX Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Uherske Feb. 2008 Norcross Mar. 2007 KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. ― Mar. 2009 Wood Dale Mar. 2007 KYOCERA Document Solutions Danmark A/S ― Apr. 2008 North America KYOCERA Document Solutions America, Inc. New York Mar. 2007 KYOCERA UNIMERCO A/S ― Mar. 1996 Irving Mar. 2007 Denmark U.S.A. KYOCERA UNIMERCO Fastening A/S Mar. 1996 Miami Mar. 2007 KYOCERA UNIMERCO Tooling A/S ― Mar. 1996 Arlington Mar. 2007 Finland KYOCERA Document Solutions Finland OY ― Apr. 2008 Memphis Mar. 2007 Norway KYOCERA Document Solutions Norge NUFV. ― Apr. 2008 AVX Tantalum Corporation ― Feb. 2008 Sweden KYOCERA Document Solutions Nordic AB ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Technology ― Jun. 2008 Europe Development America, Inc. TPC S.A.S. ― Feb. 2008 France KYOCERA International, Inc. ― Aug. 1997 KYOCERA Document Solutions France S.A.S ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Solar, Inc. ― Jul. 2010 ELCO Europe GmbH ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ― Dec. 1998 KYOCERA Document Solutions Deutschland Germany ― Apr. 2008 Central and South America GmbH Avio Excelente, S. de R.L. de C.V. ― Feb. 2008 Mexico KYOCERA Display Europe GmbH ― Jul. 2004 KYOCERA Document Solutions Mexico, S.A. ― Nov. 2008 de C.V. Italy KYOCERA Document Solutions Italia S.p.A. ― Apr. 2008 El Salvador AVX Industries Pte, Ltd. ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Nederland B.V. ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA do Brasil Componentes Industriais Ltda. ― Apr. 2007 Netherlands Hoeksteen Mar. 2007 Brazil KYOCERA Document Solutions Europe B.V. KYOCERA Document Solutions Brazil, Ltd. ― Nov. 2009 Zurich Apr. 2008 South KYOCERA Document Solutions South Africa Portugal KYOCERA Document Solutions Portugal Lda. ― Apr. 2008 Africa Africa （PTY）Ltd. ― Apr. 2008 Spain KYOCERA Document Solutions Espana S.A. ― Apr. 2008 Sweden KYOCERA Document Solutions Nordic AB ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions（U.K.）Ltd. ― Apr. 2008 U.K. AVX Limited ― Aug. 2000 New Oceania KYOCERA Document Solutions New Zealand Ltd. ― Oct. 2007 Zealand Australia KYOCERA Document Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd. ― Jun. 2006 144 OHSAS 18001 Certification Status ■ OHSAS 18001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (135 sites) (as of April 2013) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Headquarters Hokkaido Kitami Plant Fukushima Tanagura Plant Chiba Sakura Office Tokyo Yaesu Office Tokyo Harajuku Office Yokohama Office Nagano Okaya Plant Mie Ise Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Fushimi Office R&D Center, Keihanna Osaka Daito Office Kagoshima Sendai Plant Kagoshima Kokubu Plant R&D Center, Kagoshima Kagoshima Hayato Plant Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office Nagaoka Sales Office Takasaki Sales Office Utsunomiya Sales Office KYOCERA Corporation Omiya Sales Office Tachikawa Sales Office Kanto Logistics Center Komae Sales Office Atsugi Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office Hamamatsu Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Mikawa Sales Office Kyocera Management Research Institute Kyocera Keiaikan Osaka Sales Office Himeji Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Okinawa Sales Office CV Ginza Store CV Kyoto Store CV Osaka Umeda Store CV Kobe Sannomiya Store CV Hiroshima Store KYOCERA Connector Products Headquarters Okaya Plant Osaka Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Tachikawa Sales Office Corporation Matsumoto Sales Office KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. Headquarters Chigase Plant Tokyo Sales Office Kansai Sales Office KYOCERA Document Solutions Headquarters Hirakata Plant Tamaki Plant Tokyo R&D Center Inc. KYOCERA Document Solutions Headquarters Japan Inc. Oct. 2005 Japan Headquarters Kansai Branch Kyushu Branch Kawaguchi Plant Kawasaki Plant Kohriyama Plant (Registration KYOCERA Chemical Corp. Moka Plant No. :C05J0006) KYOCERA SLC Technologies Corp. Headquarters Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Ayabe Plant Kagoshima Sendai Plant Higashi Nihon Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Headquarters Nagano Okaya Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant KYOCERA Crystal Device Headquarters Hokkaido Corporation Headquarters Tokyo Branch Kobe Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant KYOCERA Medical Research Center Kobe Product Control Center Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Corporation Kyoto Sales Office Kobe Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tokyo 1st Data Center (2 sites) Tokyo 2nd Data Center Tokyo 3rd Data Center KYOCERA Communication Takanawa Branch Shiga Office Kyoto Karasuma Office Osaka Office Osaka ICT Branch Fukuoka Office Systems Co., Ltd. Sendai Office Kokubu Office Sapporo Sales Office Sendai Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Takamatsu Sales Office Kagoshima Sales Office Headquarters Tohoku Sales Office Tokyo Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Osaka Sales Office Okayama Sales Office KYOCERA Solar Corp. Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Sakura Office Shiga Yohkaichi Office Shiga Store Kagoshima Sales Branch(Satsumasendai) Kagoshima Sales Branch(Kirishima) KYOCERA Solar FC Lake Town KYOCERA Solar FC Itami Koya ※ The above 135 offices and plants are jointly ISO 14001 certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System. Individual Certification (4 sites) (as of April 2013) Region Company Date of registration Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. Oct. 2006 Asia China Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co.,Ltd. Jan. 2009 Central and South America El Salvador AVX Industries Pte, Ltd. Nov. 2008 Europe Czech KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. Mar. 2009 145 GRI and ISO26000 Comparison Tables GRI GRI andGroup and The Kyocera ISO26000 ISO26000 Comparison strives to reportComparison Tables in conformity to international Tables standards and refers to core subjects of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 of GRI and ISO 26000: 2010. The Kyocera Group strives to report in conformity to international standards and refers to core subjects of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 of GRI and ISO 26000: 2010. GRI Guideline Item Indicator References 1.Item Strategy and Analysis Indicator References Statement 1. Strategy from the most senior decision-maker of the and Analysis organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Top Management Message position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior 1.1 organization and its strategy Top Management Message position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Top Management Message 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Form 20-F Top Management Message 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2. Organizational Profile Form 20-F 2.1 Name of Profile 2. Organizational the organization Corporate Summary 2.1 2.2 Primary the organization Name ofbrands, products, and/or services Business Summary CorporateSegments 2.2 Operational Primary brands,structure products, organization, of theand/or servicesincluding Business Segments 2.3 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Business Development Operational structure of the organization, including and joint ventures 2.3 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Business Development 2.4 Location and joint of organization's headquarters ventures Corporate Summary 2.4 Number Location ofof countries whereheadquarters organization's the organization operates, Corporate Summary and names of countries with either major operations Business Development 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability Global BusinessNetwork Development and names of countries with either major operations 2.5 issues covered in the report or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability Global Network issues covered in the report Corporate Summary 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Form 20-F Summary Corporate 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Form 20-F 2.7 Corporate Summary sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Corporate Summary 2.7 Corporate Summary 2.8 Scale sectorsofserved, the reporting organization, and types including: of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of thechanges Significant reportingduring the reporting organization, period including: Corporate Summary 2.9 Form 20-F regarding size, structure, or ownership including: Significant changes during the reporting period Form 20-F 2.9 Approaches to Raising Quality and regarding size, structure, or ownership including: Customer Satisfaction Levels 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Approaches to Raising Quality and Main Feedback for Sustainable Customer Satisfaction Levels 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Management Main Feedback for Sustainable 3. Report Parameters Management Report Profile 3. Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Report Profile 3.1 Editorial Policy information provided Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 Editorial Policy 3.2 Date of mostprovided information recent previous report (if any) June, 2013 3.3 3.2 Reporting Date of most cycle (annual, recent biennial, previous etc) report (if any) Annual June, 2013 3.3 Contact Reporting point cycle questions for(annual, biennial, etc)the report or its regarding Annual 3.4 Support / Contact contents Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Support / Contact 3.4 Report Scope and Boundary contents 3.5 Process Report Scope for defining report content, including: and Boundary Editorial Policy 146 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Editorial Policy Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 Editorial Policy information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) June, 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc) Annual Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 3.4 Support / Contact contents Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Editorial Policy Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 Editorial Policy suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 Editorial Policy boundary of the report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 Form 20-F entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Environmental Accounting 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of Green Factories the Indicators and other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.10 reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ Form 20-F acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 3.11 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 GRI Guideline Comparison Table Disclosures in the report Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability 3.13 report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 Corporate Governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their 4.2 Corporate Governance function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the 4.3 Corporate Governance highest governance body that are independent and/or 147 non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to committees under the highest governance body 4.1 Corporate Governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their 4.2 Corporate Governance function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the 4.3 Corporate Governance highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 4.4 provide recommendations or direction to the highest Corporate Governance governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and Corporate Governance the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance) Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6 Corporate Governance ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, Corporate Governance including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, Kyocera Group Corporate Social codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 Responsibility (CSR) environmental, and social performance and the status Corporate Governance of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and Responsibility (CSR) opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Corporate Governance internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.10 body's own performance, particularly with respect to Responsibility (CSR) economic, environmental, and social performance Corporate Governance Commitments to External Initiatives Corporate Governance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 4.11 Risk Management and Compliance approach or principle is addressed by the organization Environmental Risk Management Externally developed economic, environmental, and 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Participation in International Initiatives the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), 4.13 associations) and/or national/international advocacy JEITA (Japan Electronics and Information organizations in which the organization: Technology Industries Assocciation) etc Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.14 organization Responsibility (CSR) Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.15 with whom to engage Responsibility (CSR) 148 Fair Business Activities Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Customer Concerns 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Memberships in associations (such as industry Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), 4.13 associations) and/or national/international advocacy JEITA (Japan Electronics and Information organizations in which the organization: Technology Industries Assocciation) etc Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.14 organization Responsibility (CSR) Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.15 with whom to engage Responsibility (CSR) Fair Business Activities Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Customer Concerns 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Respect for Human Rights / Optimal group Work Environment Social Contribution Activities Fair Business Activities Key topics and concerns that have been raised Customer Concerns through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal organization has responded to those key topics and Work Environment concerns, including through its reporting Social Contribution Activities Management Approach and Performance Indicators Item Performance Index: Core ( ) / Add ( ) References Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance. Financial Results Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Form 20-F Economic Aspects. Policy Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the Financial Results organization's overall commitment relating to the Economic Form 20-F Aspects listed above, or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; Financial Results ! Major organizational risks and opportunities; Form 20-F ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and ! Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. Economic Performance Indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other community Form 20-F investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities due to Form 20-F climate change Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan EC3 obligations Significant financial assistance received from EC4 government Indirect Economic Impacts 149 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities due to Form 20-F climate change Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan EC3 obligations Significant financial assistance received from EC4 government Indirect Economic Impacts Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by EC5 gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Construct Partnerships with Business EC6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Associates operation Measures on Conflict Minerals Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Respect for Diversity / Balance of Work EC7 management hired from the local community at and Life (Adapting to Globalization) locations of significant operation Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public EC8 Social Contribution Activities benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance Green Products Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Green Factories Environment Aspects. Green Communication Policy Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the Kyocera Environmental Charter organization's overall commitment related to the Environmental Environment Vision 2020 / Kyocera Aspects listed above or state where this can be found in the Group Environmental Policy public domain (e.g., web link). Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility for Environmental Management Promotion Environmental Aspects or explain how operational responsibility System is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. Training and awareness Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation Environmental Education to the Environmental Aspects. Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Monitoring and Follow-Up Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Environmental Management Promotion actions, including those related to the supply chain. System (Environmental Safety Audit) Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; ! Major organizational environmental risks and opportunities Environmental Activities related to issues; ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and ! Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies 150 or achieving goals. Training and awareness Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation Environmental Education to the Environmental Aspects. Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Monitoring and Follow-Up Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Environmental Management Promotion actions, including those related to the supply chain. System (Environmental Safety Audit) Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; ! Major organizational environmental risks and opportunities Environmental Activities related to issues; ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and ! Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Percentage of materials used that are recycled input EN2 Environmentally Friendly Products materials Energy Environmental Accounting EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Environmental Accounting EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Environmental Accounting Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 Energy Conservation and Prevention of improvements Climate Change Development of Environmentally Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Friendly Products EN6 energy based products and services, and reductions Energy Conservation and Prevention of in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Climate Change Green Factories Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 Energy Conservation and Prevention of reductions achieved Climate Change Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of EN9 water Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Reducing Water Consumption and EN10 reused Improving reused Improving the the Water Water Recycling Recycling Rate Rate Biodiversity Biodiversity Location and Location size of and size of land owned, leased, land owned, leased, managed managed Activities Activities Related the Conservation to the Related to Conservation of of EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas ofareas of high high Biodiversity Biodiversity biodiversity value biodiversity value outside outside protected protected areas areas Description of Description of significant impacts of significant impacts of activities, activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected Activities Related Related to Activities of Conservation of the Conservation to the EN12 products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12 areas and areas and areas areas of high biodiversity of high biodiversity value value outside outside Biodiversity Biodiversity protected areas protected areas Activities Related Activities Related to the Conservation to the Conservation of of EN13 Habitats EN13 Habitats protected protected or or restored restored Biodiversity Biodiversity 151 Kyocera Environmental Environmental Charter Charter Kyocera Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Environment Vision Vision 2020 2020 // Kyocera Kyocera EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14 Environment managing impacts on biodiversity Group Environmental Policy reused Improving the Water Recycling Rate Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Activities Related to the Conservation of EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected Activities Related to the Conservation of EN12 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Biodiversity protected areas Activities Related to the Conservation of EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity Kyocera Environmental Charter Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Environment Vision 2020 / Kyocera EN14 managing impacts on biodiversity Group Environmental Policy Green Communication Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Energy Conservation and Prevention of EN16 by weight Climate Change Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Energy Conservation and Prevention of EN17 weight Climate Change Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Energy Conservation and Prevention of EN18 reductions achieved Climate Change EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Complete elimination Chemical Substances Management NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type EN20 Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact and weight at Each Site Resource Conservation EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Environmental Risk Management Green Factories EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN24 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly EN25 affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Green Products EN26 products and services, and extent of impact Environmentally Friendly Products mitigation 152 EN24 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly EN25 affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Green Products EN26 products and services, and extent of impact Environmentally Friendly Products mitigation Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN27 Environmentally Friendly Products materials that are reclaimed by category Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number Environmental Risk EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Management (Environmental environmental laws and regulations Regulations Compliance Status) Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emission EN29 organization's operations, and transporting members Associated with Freight Transport of the workforce Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30 Environmental Accounting investments by type Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Goals and Performance Education Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Labor Aspects, indicating their linkage to the internationally Cultivating Human Assets recognized universal standards. Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Policy Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the Kyocera Employee's Action Guideline organization's overall commitment related to the Labor Aspects, Philosophy Education Rationale or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web Respect for Human Rights and Diversity link). Also reference their linkage to the international standards Occupational Health & Safety Policy indicated above. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Organizational responsibility Education The most senior position with operational responsibility for Labor Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at Environmental Management Promotion the senior level for these Aspects. System Training and awareness Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation Education to the Labor Aspects. Include information on who participates in Respect for Human Rights and Diversity diversity, equal opportunities and gender sensitization training Cultivating Human Assets (e.g., highest governance bodies, senior management), and the Building a Safe & Secure Work topics addressed by training and any informal awareness Environment raising. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal 153 Monitoring and Follow-Up Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Construct Partnerships with Business Training and awareness Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation Education to the Labor Aspects. Include information on who participates in Respect for Human Rights and Diversity diversity, equal opportunities and gender sensitization training Cultivating Human Assets (e.g., highest governance bodies, senior management), and the Building a Safe & Secure Work topics addressed by training and any informal awareness Environment raising. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Monitoring and Follow-Up Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Construct Partnerships with Business actions, including those related to the supply chain. Associates Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Environmental Management Promotion System (Environmental Safety Audit) Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; ! Major organizational risks and opportunities; Advancing Kyocera Philosophy ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures Education to improve performance; and Respect for Human Rights and Diversity ! Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or Cultivating Human Assets achieving goals. Building a Safe & Secure Work ! A description of the legal and socio-economic environment Environment that provides opportunities for, and barriers to, gender equity in the workforce, including but not limited to women's workforce participation rates, their participation at highest governance level, and equal remuneration. Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment LA1 contract, and region, broken down by gender Total number and rate of new employee hires and LA2 Careers employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not LA3 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operations Return to work and retention rates after parental LA15 leave, by gender Labor/Management Relations Percentage of employees covered by collective LA4 bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Approaches to Stimulating joint managementworker health and safety LA6 Communication (Labor and committees that help monitor and advise on Management Exchange Conference) occupational health and safety programs Approaches to Occupational Safety and Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Health / Fire and Disaster LA7 absenteeism, and total number of work-related Prevention (Kyocera Group (Japan) fatalities, by region and by gender Safety Record) Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk154 Approaches to Promotion of Health control programs in place to assist workforce LA8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Approaches to Stimulating joint managementworker health and safety LA6 Communication (Labor and committees that help monitor and advise on Management Exchange Conference) occupational health and safety programs Approaches to Occupational Safety and Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Health / Fire and Disaster LA7 absenteeism, and total number of work-related Prevention (Kyocera Group (Japan) fatalities, by region and by gender Safety Record) Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskApproaches to Promotion of Health control programs in place to assist workforce LA8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Approaches to Promotion of Health Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 agreements with trade unions Training and Education Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Average hours of training per year per employee by LA10 Education gender, and by employee category Cultivating Human Assets Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of LA11 Philosophy Education System employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 performance and career development reviews, by gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to Respect for Diversity / Balance of Work LA13 gender, age group, minority group membership, and and Life (Adapting to Globalization) other indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to LA14 men by employee category, by significant locations of operation Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Respect for Human Rights and Diversity human rights Aspects, indicating their linkage to the international declarations and standards listed in the introduction. Kyocera Employee's Action Guideline Policy Construct Partnerships with Business Brief, organization-wide policy or policies that define the Associates (Supplier Selection Policy) organization's overall commitment to the human rights Aspects. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility for Supply Chain Management human rights Aspects, or an explanation of how operational Respect for Human Rights and Diversity responsibility is divided at senior level for these Aspects. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation Education to the human rights Aspects, Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 155 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Monitoring, Follow-Up AND REMEDIATION Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Policy Construct Partnerships with Business Brief, organization-wide policy or policies that define the Associates (Supplier Selection Policy) organization's overall commitment to the human rights Aspects. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility for Supply Chain Management human rights Aspects, or an explanation of how operational Respect for Human Rights and Diversity responsibility is divided at senior level for these Aspects. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation Education to the human rights Aspects, Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Monitoring, Follow-Up AND REMEDIATION Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Audit System) actions, including those related to the supply chain. Construct Partnerships with Business Associates Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; Supply Chain Management ! Major organizational risks and opportunities; Respect for Human Rights and Diversity ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and ! Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include HR1 clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and Construct Partnerships with Business HR2 other business partners that have undergone human Associates (Supply Chain CSR rights screening, and actions taken Questionnaire) Total hours of employee training on policies and Advancing Kyocera Philosophy procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR3 Education are relevant to operations, including the percentage Respect for Human Rights and Diversity of employees trained Non-Discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and HR4 corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in Construct Partnerships with Business which the right to exercise freedom of association Associates (Supply Chain CSR HR5 and collective bargaining may be violated or at Questionnaire) significant risk, and actions taken to support these Respect for Human Rights and Diversity rights Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as Construct Partnerships with Business having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Associates (Supply Chain CSR HR6 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition Questionnaire) of child labor Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as Construct Partnerships with Business having significant risk for incidents of forced or Associates (Supply Chain CSR HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute 156 to the Questionnaire) elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Security Practices significant risk, and actions taken to support these Respect for Human Rights and Diversity rights Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as Construct Partnerships with Business having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Associates (Supply Chain CSR HR6 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition Questionnaire) of child labor Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as Construct Partnerships with Business having significant risk for incidents of forced or Associates (Supply Chain CSR HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Questionnaire) elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights HR9 of indigenous people and actions taken Percentage and total number of operations that have HR10 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights filed, HR11 addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance Corporate Governance Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Risk Management and Compliance Aspects indicated above. Policy Kyocera Employee's Action Guideline Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that define the Corporate Governance and Internal organization's overall commitment relating to the Society Control Systems Aspects or state where this can be found in the public domain Risk Management and Compliance (e.g., web link). Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility for Corporate Governance and Internal Society Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is Control Systems divided at the senior level for these Aspects. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Training and awareness Education Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation Thorough Legal Compliance to the Society Aspects. Cultivating Human Assets Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Monitoring and Follow-Up Audit System) Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Construct Partnerships with Business actions, including those related to the supply chain. Associates Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; Corporate Governance ! Major organizational risks and opportunities; Risk Management and Compliance ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and 157 ! Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Construct Partnerships with Business actions, including those related to the supply chain. Associates Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; Corporate Governance ! Major organizational risks and opportunities; Risk Management and Compliance ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and ! Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local Social Contribution Activities SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Green Communication development programs Operations with significant potential or actual SO9 Environmental Risk Management negative impacts on local communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in SO10 operations with significant potential or actual negative Environmental Risk Management impacts on local communities Corruption Internal Control Audits of the Kyocera Percentage and total number of business units Group SO2 analyzed for risks related to corruption Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Audit System) Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Percentage of employees trained in organization's SO3 Education anti-corruption policies and procedures Thorough Legal Compliance SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public SO5 policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number SO8 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance Approaches to Raising Quality and Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Customer Satisfaction Levels Product Responsibility Aspects. Policy 158 Corporate Motto / Management Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the Rationale (Methods of Management) organization's overall commitment to the Product Responsibility Approaches to Quality Improvement Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number SO8 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance Approaches to Raising Quality and Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Customer Satisfaction Levels Product Responsibility Aspects. Policy Corporate Motto / Management Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the Rationale (Methods of Management) organization's overall commitment to the Product Responsibility Approaches to Quality Improvement Aspects, or state where this can be found in the public domain (Kyocera Quality Policy, Kyocera (e.g., web link). Product Safety Policy) Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility for Approaches to Quality Improvement Product Responsibility Aspects, or explain how operational (Quality Management System) responsibility is divided at the senior level for Product Responsibility Aspects. Training and awareness Approaches to Quality Improvement Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation (Quality Management System) to the Product Responsibility Aspects. Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Audit System) Monitoring and Follow-Up Construct Partnerships with Business Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive Associates actions, including those related to the supply chain. Approaches to Quality Improvement (Quality Management System) Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: ! Key successes and shortcomings; Approaches to Raising Quality and ! Major organizational risks and opportunities; Customer Satisfaction Levels ! Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and ! Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 Approaches to Quality Improvement improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products Development of Environmentally PR3 and services subject to such information Friendly Products requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning159 product PR4 and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes of products and services are assessed for PR1 Approaches to Quality Improvement improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products Development of Environmentally PR3 and services subject to such information Friendly Products requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product PR4 and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Approaches to Raising Customer PR5 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Satisfaction Levels Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Thorough Legal Compliance PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, (Appropriate Information Disclosure) and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding PR8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for nonPR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 160 GRI and ISO26000 Comparison Tables The Kyocera Group strives to report in conformity to international standards and refers to core subjects of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 of GRI and ISO 26000: 2010. ISO26000 ISO26000 Core Issues References Subjects Top Management Message Organizational Kyocera Group Corporate Social Governance Responsibility (CSR) Corporate Governance 1.Due diligence 2.Human rights risk situations 3.Avoidance of complicity 4.Resolving grievances 5.Discrimination and vulnerable Risk Management and Compliance Human Rights groups Supply Chain Management 6.Civil and political rights Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 7.Economic, social and cultural rights 8.Fundamental principles and rights at work 1.Employment and employment relationships 2.Conditions of work and social Respect for Human Rights and Diversity protection Labour Practices Cultivating Human Assets 3.Social dialogue Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment 4.Health and safety at work 5.Human development and training in the workplace 1.Prevention of pollution 2.Sustainable resource use Kyocera Group Environmental Management 3.Climate change mitigation and Green Management The Environment adaptation Green Products 4.Protection of the environment, Green Factories biodiversity and restoration of Green Communication natural habitats 1.Anti-corruption 2.Responsible political involvement Fair Operating Risk Management and Compliance 3.Fair competition Practices Supply Chain Management 4.Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 5.Respect for property rights 1.Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 2.Protecting consumers' health and safety 3.Sustainable consumption Risk Management and Compliance Consumer Issues 4.Consumer service, support, and Supply Chain Management complaint and dispute Customer Concerns resolution 5.Consumer data protection and 161 1.Anti-corruption 2.Responsible political involvement Fair Operating Risk Management and Compliance 3.Fair competition Practices Supply Chain Management 4.Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 5.Respect for property rights 1.Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 2.Protecting consumers' health and safety 3.Sustainable consumption Risk Management and Compliance Consumer Issues 4.Consumer service, support, and Supply Chain Management complaint and dispute Customer Concerns resolution 5.Consumer data protection and privacy 6.Access to essential services 7.Education and awareness 1.Community involvement 2.Education and culture 3.Employment creation and skills Community development Social Contribution Activities Involvement and 4.Technology development and Green Communication Development access 5.Wealth and income creation 6.Health 7.Social investment 162 U-Shaped Kelcima
