United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication of Progress 2013 United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress Contents 3 4 Statement of continued support of the UN Global Compact Principles 5 Introduction 6 Background to RBPlat 6 Legislative overview 6 Governance of sustainability 7 Stakeholder Engagement 8 Our Ethos 9 Sustainability objectives 9 Our Sustainability Achievements 10 Overview of progress made in meeting the 10 UNGC Principles 10 Human Rights 10 Principle 1 14 Principle 2 15 Labour 16 Principle 3 17 Principle 4 17 Principle 5 18 Principle 6 18 Environment 18 Principle 7 20 Principle 8 24 Principle 9 25 Anti-corruption 25 Principle 10 Integrating the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 4 Statement of continued support Introduction 5 of the UN Global Compact Principles I am pleased to confirm that Royal Bafokeng Platinum Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of Royal Bafokeng Platinum Limited (RBPlat) became a This transfer of control followed an agreement reached signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in between Anglo Platinum Limited (APL) and the investment the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, protection of the natural 2012. This report presents a summary of our sustainability arm of the Royal Bafokeng Nation, Royal Bafokeng Holdings environment and the fight against corruption. We are committed to sharing the information in this report activities during our financial year ended 31 December Proprietary Limited (RBH), to restructure the BRPM JV. 2012. A full description of our activities is available in our with our stakeholders and further detailed information is available in our 2012 Integrated Report and our 2012 Integrated Report and on our website, The restructuring transaction involved a change in the website at www.bafokengplatinum.co.za. www.bafokengplatinum.co.za. participation interests of the Joint Venture partners from that of joint control (50% RBR and 50% Rustenburg Platinum We are committed to creating and sustaining value for all Mine (RPM) with APL managing the JV, to RBR holding a In light of our Board’s newly-established Social and Ethics Committee and the merger of our corporate our stakeholders through the integration of sustainable majority interest (67% RBR and 33% RPM) and operating business practices into our core business. To achieve this we the Joint Venture. The transaction became unconditional sustainability portfolio with our risk and assurance executive management portfolio, we welcome the continually undertake review and realign our sustainability on 7 December 2009. RBR opportunity to review our current governance, strategy, operational management and stakeholder engagement agenda. processes. We will also be creating more robust frameworks and practices with the aim of continuing to drive RBPlat has operated BRPM, located in the North West Early in 2013, the Company merged its sustainability province, since 4 January 2010. This includes operating the integration of sustainable business practices into our core business during 2013. portfolio with that of risk and assurance, which has raised the Boschkoppie Mine and bringing the Styldrift Merensky the status of our sustainability initiatives. We will report Phase I Project into production These operations are located on the impact of this change in our 2013 Communication 120 kilometres from Johannesburg, 30 kilometres from on Progress. Rustenburg and 17 kilometres from Phokeng − the heart Steve Phiri of the Royal Bafokeng Nation. RBPlat currently employs Background to RBPlat 7,200 people (both own employees and contractors) on Chief Executive Officer both its operations. Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. We are a relatively new company, incorporated in 2008 by Royal Bafokeng Holdings, the investment vehicle of These combined operations, which have significant mineral the Royal Bafokeng Nation, and listed on the Main Board reserves and resources, are capable of sustaining operations 10 July 2013 of the JSE Limited on 8 November 2010. RBPlat, which is for the next 50 years. The Boschkoppie Mine currently mines black owned and controlled, trades within the Platinum both the Merensky and UG2 reefs and the Styldrift Mine and Precious Metals sector. will do the same once it goes into production. On 4 January 2010, Royal Bafokeng Resources Proprietary Limited (RBR), a subsidiary of RBPlat, assumed management control of the Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine Joint Venture (BRPM JV). Sun City Location of RBPlat’s operations Mine Community Styldrift Bafokeng PTA R565 Rustenburg Rustenburg Mafikeng Boschkoppie Royal JHB North West Bafokeng Gauteng Province Nation Joha nnesburg Johannesburg Pretoria Rustenburg Capable of sustaining operations for the next 50 years United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 6 Background to RBPlat 7 Legislative overview Stakeholder Engagement All RBPlat’s operations, exploration and development The committee’s role is to supplement, support, advise Stakeholder engagement is one of our key material issues. We categorise stakeholders as those directly affected, activities are located in South Africa and are therefore and provide guidance on the effectiveness of our efforts The Board is responsible for communicating effectively with both positively and negatively by our activities, interested subject to the local laws and regulations governing various in terms of social, ethical and sustainable development our shareholders and has made the CEO, the CFO, the COO parties who, while not directly affected by our activities, matters. These include laws and regulations relating to related matters which include safety, health and wellness, and the Investor Relations Manager responsible for regularly have an interest in or influence over them and authorities exports, price controls, repatriation of capital and exchange environmental management, climate change, the engaging with our shareholders and potential shareholders. at all levels (local, regional and national). The methods of controls, taxation, mining royalties, labour standards and management of the Company’s ethical conduct, corporate engagement that we use are as diverse as our stakeholders. occupational health and safety, including mine safety and social investment, community development, stakeholder In addition, specific engagement forums have been We encourage dialogue and feedback. The methods of historic and cultural preservation. engagement and the protection of the Company’s assets established under the leadership of the CEO and executive engagement we employ are also described on our website and risks associated with these matters, including the directors to ensure that other stakeholders, such as our www.bafokengplatinum.co.za. Mining operations are subject to a variety of industryassessment of key assurance provisions. employees and the communities in which we operate, have specific health and safety laws and regulations formulated to a platform to raise their concerns and have meaningful Community misperceptions regarding the possible impact improve and to protect the safety and health of employees. discussions with management. of the restructuring of the ownership of Bafokeng Rasimone In South Africa, recent fatalities in the mining industry have Platinum Mine (BRPM), the listing of RBPlat and the impact resulted in the introduction of Section 54, a compulsory We have a broad range of internal and external stakeholders of the Styldrift project have required increased engagement shutdown of operations to enable investigations into the who have a material interest in or are affected by RBPlat by RBPlat with the local communities of Robega, Chaneng, cause of fatal incidents. Reporting lines of the RBPlat governance structures and we have assessed our involvement with them, our Rasimone and Mafenya to clarify what these impacts will be. potential impact on them and their potential impact on A particular challenge is the youth within these communities Other legislation governing the mining industry in South our business at both a corporate and operational level. who are unemployed and who seek employment, but mainly Africa includes the: Stakeholders lack the requisite skills. Our comprehensive stakeholder engagement framework • Mine Health and Safety Act, 29 of 1996 identifies our stakeholders, the material issues involved • Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993 Board of directors with each stakeholder, the frequency of engagement and • Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act the processes in place to ensure that material issues are 2002 (MPRDA) effectively addressed. • Broad-Based Socio-Economic Charter for the South Board committees Potential for future returns African Mining and Minerals Industry (the Mining Charter) Our stakeholders* and related material issues Market outlook Project progress and funding • Charter Scorecard, the Mining Titles Registration Act Sustainability 1967 (as amended) Our stakeholders include our shareholders, the majority Impact on labour unrest • Mineral and Petroleum Resources Royalty Act, 28 of 2008 of whom are members of the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN) Safety records • Restitution of Land Rights Act, 22 of 1994 Remuneration Audit and which, through its investment arm, Royal Bafokeng Holdings Good governance • Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995, Basic Conditions and Nomination Risk (RBH), owns 56.57% of RBPlat, potential investors, the of Employment Act, 75 of 1997 Committee Committee communities in which we operate from whom we earn Mining safety • Employment Equity Act, 55 of 1998 our license to operate, our employees, organised labour, Mining rights government, our business partners, suppliers and providers Compliance with Mining Charter • Competition Act of 1998. Regulatory compliance of debt. Financial provisions for Governance of sustainability rehabilittaion Social and Local procurement Tax and royalties RBPlat has established sound corporate governance Ethics Portable skills development Shareholders Committee Employment opportunities and Health and safety structures and processes and is committed to maintaining Infrastructure development investors Remuneration and incentives high standards of governance throughout its operations. Government Communities and Workers’ rights The Company has implemented policies and procedures Competitor trade unions Housing benefits regulators to ensure full compliance with the King Code of Corporate Health and safery Career opportunities Governance (King III) and the requirements of the South Remuneration and incentives Skills development Workers’ rights Employment equity African Companies Act No. 71 of 2008. To provide oversight Housing benefits Consultation on future with respect to the Company’s social, environmental and Threat to bargaining process Trade unions RBPlat Employees operational changes economic impact, a Social and Ethics Committee (previously Career opportunities the Sustainable Development Committee) of the Board was Skills development Employment equity Impact of changes in metal established in February 2012. Consultation on future prices on cash flow Business Risk management operational changes and joint Providers Ability to repay borrowings venture of debt partners Sustainability Suppliers HDSA procurement requirements Accountability & transparency Risk management Payment terms Financial returns Contract terms *See www.bafokengplatinum.co.za for more information on our stakeholder engagement United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 8 Background to RBPlat 9 Our Ethos Sustainability objectives Asset protection and security – to acknowledge and recognise the direct and indirect impact of our business and Our business Our logo Safety and health stewardship – to instil a safety first to openly engage, communicate and respond to stakeholder philosophy to achieve zero harm to our employees concerns and interests. Maximum value from safe platinum group metals extraction The RBPlat logo consists of a crocodile eye. The crocodile through effective and efficient monitoring, prevention is the genealogical icon and a symbol of prosperity for the and management of occupational safety and health risks. Corporate governance framework – to lead the business Our vision Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN). in accordance with best practice principles and compliance Human capital development – to instil a people first with regulations, for sustained stakeholder value creation. To seek and deliver the good from mining The green colour symbolises the natural environment and philosophy which enhances the intellectual and productive our commitment to conserve it, while the silver stands for capacity of our employees. Stakeholder engagement and reputation management – to Our mission the colour of platinum. acknowledge and recognise the direct and indirect impact Ore body development – to secure the long term viability of of our business and to openly engage, communicate and To leave a lasting legacy of sustainable benefits for our The RBPlat logo signifies the sustainability aspect of our our platinum group metals (PGM) resource through efficient respond to stakeholder concerns and interests. stakeholders platinum group metals (PGM) extraction business, as well exploration and development of our ore reserves to create as our vision of establishing value for the benefit of all our immediately available ore resources (IMA) and immediately Our Sustainability Achievements Our purpose stakeholders to create a lasting legacy. In addition, the stopable faces (IMS). inherent qualities of platinum that make it suitable for use • Our 2011 Integrated Annual report was recognised The purpose of our business model is to create economic in automotive catalytic converters that reduce the noxious Economic capital – to employ cost effective and efficient as excellent in the Ernst & Young Excellence in value, within a mutually beneficial joint venture, in a gases from automotive emissions, align with the company’s investment capital methods for the production of PGMs to Integrated Reporting Awards 2012 manner that also creates value for society sustainability vision. generate a risk-adjusted rate of return. • We qualified for the JSE Socially Responsible Our Strategy Our tagline Environmental stewardship – to employ mine development Investment (SRI) Index in 2012 and extraction methods that minimise damage and Towards operational excellence ‘More than mining’ disturbance to the natural environment and ecosystems. • We perform well against the Mining Charter Scorecard Build flexibility mining is what we do and not who we are. Grow organically Social development – to empower communities to sustain • Our commitment to the Carbon Disclosure Project Pursue value enhancing opportunities themselves beyond our mining activities. resulted in our inclusion in the Nedbank Green Index which selects companies for inclusion in the Our values Manufactured (Innovation) capital – to develop, seek index based on their commitment to, performance and implement relevant and appropriate PGM production and levels of disclosure on climate change issues. Safety and People First: Mining is a high-risk business and approaches in order to enhance both safety (zero harm) cannot succeed without total trust, respect, teamwork and and total factor productivity performance. an uncompromising commitment to safety and people first. Promises delivered: We do what we say we will do. Mutual Interests & Mutual Rewards: We have mutual goals and mutual interests, and we depend on each other to realise our collective vision and mission. We operate in good faith, openly and transparently. Mining is what we do and not who we are United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 10 Overview of progress made in meeting the Human rights 11 10 UNGC Principles Human Rights Please refer to Pages 85 and 97 of our 2012 Annual Integrated Report Principle 1 Continued www.bafokengplatinum.co.za Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Within our Company The second block, safety discipline, sets out what action needs to be taken and proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence. how it should be taken to address the type of human error identified, taking into consideration slips, lapses, mistakes or violations. Overview We identify our impacts on the communities in which we operate, both positive and Within our community negative, using social and human rights baseline studies and risk assessments. We work The third block, safe teamwork, relates to the concept of ‘my brother’s keeper’ with closely with the communities to maximise the positive impacts of our activities and to one common goal – zero harm. minimise or avoid any potentially negative effects that could arise from our activities. Standing on this foundation are the four barriers we identified as needing to be Community consultation is a key part of our approach. We involve communities in developing in place to prevent unwanted events. These are leadership, design, systems and solutions that will have mutual benefits and engage openly and honestly with community behaviour. Each barrier has a critical role to play in preventing unwanted events. The representatives. Both our BRPM and Styldrift operations conduct monthly meetings with stronger the barrier, the less likelihood there is of something unplanned happening. community representatives to keep them informed of activities at our operations, to be informed by them of issues that have arisen since the previous meeting and to provide Safety Vision feedback on issues that they raised during the previous meeting. The communities in which we operate live in four villages: Mafenya, Chaneng, Robega and Rasimone, which • Every person working on our mine must go home unharmed every day are informally known as MACHARORA. Three of these villages are on Royal Bafokeng • No rock will fall uncontrolled Nation (RBN) property and the third, Robega, is on state-owned land. We invest in all • No sub-standard winch will be operated these communities. Empowering these communities and enhancing their socio-economic • No machinery is to be operated without authorisation. All machinery must comply capacity, prosperity and sustainability secures our licence to operate and is an investment with the original equipment manufacturers (OEM) specifications and be effectively in their futures and ours. ----guarded for safe operation. For example, the Phokeng police station had no facilities for the disabled and there was Trust, respect, teamwork and an uncompromising commitment to the safety and health no privacy for people reporting matters of a personal nature. We replaced the counters of our people is of utmost importance at our Company. and provided privacy, installed cupboards, replaced desktops, repainted the community service centre, installed air conditioners and repaired windows and doors. The safety principles which support the holistic safety, health and environment (SHE) strategy are: Because of the population growth in the MACHARORA villages, the Chaneng clinic was not coping with the intake of patients. Having assessed the problem areas we assisted • All injuries are preventable by providing a fully equipped ambulance, medical equipment, wheelchairs and office • Our standards and procedures are non-negotiable and must always be applied furniture. We are also paying the salaries of two additional nurses, employed by the Royal • We learn from unexpected events and put systems in place to prevent them Bafokeng Administration (RBA). recurring. For more examples see Page 77 of our 2012 Annual Integrated Report Health and Wellness www.bafokengplatinum.co.za We comply with the requirements of the South African Mine Health and Safety Act. Until Safety we implement our new health and wellness strategy in 2013 we are employing the Anglo American Platinum health strategy, policies, processes and procedures that were in place Our Board and CEO, assisted by the Board sub-committees, assume ultimate responsibility when RBPlat took over management control of BRPM. Platinum Health is responsible for for RBPlat’s safety performance. In our operations safety is the direct responsibility of our medical surveillance and the monitoring of our healthcare delivery. Occupational senior management who are responsible for providing effective leadership, appropriate health and hygiene policies, standards, monitoring and auditing are the responsibility of designs, workable systems and behaviour that will prevent unwanted events and eliminate our SHE department. Line management is responsible for maintaining occupational health fatalities. and hygiene standards. A healthy workforce is an advantage to our business, because it means that our employees are fit to work at their full potential and absences due to We developed a safety strategy model for RBPlat in 2011 to be used as a guiding principle sickness are reduced. when designing and developing new projects. It is also used as the guiding document for investigating the reasons for failure when there is an unwanted event in our operations. We aim to eliminate occupational diseases by providing a workplace free from health and hygiene hazards and are committed to improving the wellbeing of our employees and Our Safety Code of Conduct, safety discipline and safe teamwork are the building blocks contractors. Because we have identified the main health issues affecting our workforce, that form the foundation of our safety strategy model. we can effectively address their specific needs. We also take measures to establish if there are any activities at our mines that could affect neighbouring communities. Each The rules set out in the first building block, our Safety Code of Conduct, outline the operational area at our Boschkoppie Mine (North shaft, South shaft, the concentrator plant duties, functions and responsibilities of individuals in their day-to-day decision making and central services) has a health and safety committee, whose members are drawn from processes for the actions they need to perform. both management and employees. United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 12 Human rights 13 Principle 1 Continued Principle 1 Continued Within our Company Employees elect representatives from among the health and safety representatives 2012 Activities Safety appointed for their operational area onto the Operational Health and Safety Committee. Each operational area Health and Safety Committee consists of at least four employee • Our safety strategy has been implemented and we are busy embedding the culture representatives and a number of management representatives equal to or less than the of safety first in our operations. Sadly, we did not have a fatality-free year at RBPlat numbers of employee representatives. Committee meetings are held at least once a month. owing to a gravity-induced fall of ground fatality at BRPM’s North shaft on 6 February 2012 where Mr Castigo Mario Ndeve lost his life. We have adopted a vision of zero occupation-related harm. To achieve our vision we are: • BRPM has maintained its Occupational Health and Safety Assessment System (OHSAS) 18001 certification every year since 2004. • implementing a workplace culture throughout RBPlat which recognises that all • All employees injured on duty are now counseled by a qualified psychologist, occupation-related illnesses are preventable. as part of the process through which we are developing a better understanding of • making a consistent and sustained effort to ensure that there are no repeat what factors contribute to unwanted events resulting in injury. In the case of a occurrences of occupational diseases in any part of our organisation. traumatic accident, both the injured person and those who witnessed the accident • applying simple, consistent and non-negotiable health and safety standards across are given formal trauma counselling. our organisation to prevent occupation-related illnesses. Health and Wellness Housing • The health and wellness part of our SHE strategy is complete and will be distributed We recognised during our wage negotiations in 2011 that RBPlat needed to address the in the first quarter of 2013. living conditions of our employees. As part of the agreement both parties undertook to • No person showed a compensable shift in hearing loss in 2012 as a result of investigate a housing solution which would make it possible for BRPM’s employees to working at RBPlat operations. A survey of our hearing conservation programme procure their own homes. The first phase of our housing intervention will be started in conducted in 2012 indicated a high level of compliance with the programme. 2013 with the construction of 400 houses. The detail governing the allocation of these • No occupational related diseases reported for 2012. houses is currently being developed in conjunction with the union. We are hopeful that • HIV prevalence rate for 2012 is 22.7% which is well below the North West the availability of these homes will encourage our employees to invite their families to province prevalence rate of 30%. This year 577 employees tested positive for join them in Rustenburg and will over time reduce the financial burden of maintaining HIV of which 500 were contractors. dual households, i.e. the rented accommodation employees occupy near their place of • 430 patients currently on anti-retroviral treatment (ART) 261 received ART from the employment and the homes in which their families live. BRPM clinic and the balance from surrounding Platinum Health service providers exceeding our 50% target. Education and Training • There were no tuberculosis (TB) deaths of patients on our TB programme. Our TB prevalence rate for 2012 is 507/100 000. There were 37 new cases of TB When we realised that it was very difficult to find enough community members with a detected among our employees and contractors during medical examinations. suitable maths and science qualification for employment, it was evident that we had to start addressing this gap in the local schools. We launched our Bokamoso schools Programme Education and Training in 2012. This year 173 pupils from three schools participated in the programme, which offers extra maths and science classes to Grade 10, 11 and 12 pupils. This programme • Launched our Bokamoso schools Programme in 2012. will assist children from the community to matriculate with maths and science marks • Launched our Rock Drill Operators Academy. that allow them entry at tertiary level and qualify for bursaries. In addition to a school programme, our investment in community education includes bursaries and graduate 2013 Plans Safety development programmes. • Achieve zero fatalities. We offer adult basic education and training (ABET), portable skills training and training in • Improve at least 20% year-on-year on our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) and various mining skills to community members. In 2012 we started our Rock Drill Operators serious injury frequency rate (SIFR) to achieve total zero harm within five years. Academy which was introduced to address the current shortage of these skills. Our training • Address the changing risk profile of the development at Styldrift I as a result of the programme, for unemployed youths, who have completed our ABET and portable skills change from shaft sinking to lateral development. programme, is facilitated over 18 months during which the youths are trained in the full • Implement an effective SHE management system that will address the changing complement of mining skills. Their practical training takes place in our underground training risk profile. centre where they are taught how to blast and are trained in the relevant safety rules. • Grow our understanding of the role human error plays in unwanted events. We have 18 women on our rock drill operator training programme and hope ultimately to produce an all-female rock drill operator team. We already have two women who have been through our Rock Drill Operators Academy. United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 14 Human rights Labour 15 Principle 1 Continued Labour Refer to Page 77 of our 2012 Annual Integrated Report www.bafokengplatinum.co.za 2013 Plans Health and Wellness Overview Responsibility for setting human resources strategy and standards and aligning them with RBPlat’s overall strategy lies with our Executive: Human Resources who reports directly • 95% exposure measurement for respirable crystalline silica to be less than an to our Chief Executive Officer. Our human resource teams at BRPM and Styldrift I are occupational exposure limit of 0.1mg/m3 as per the requirements in the 2013 responsible for implementing our human resource policies, ensuring strategic workforce safety Milestone document. planning and employee training and development. Our approach encourages multiskilling • No deterioration in hearing greater than 10% among occupationally exposed and provides our permanent employees and contractors with opportunities to acquire employees as a result of exposure at RBPlat operations. No new cases of the skills and competencies that will allow them to develop and progress their careers. noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) in 2013 in line with the 2013 safety Milestone requirements. The enhancement of our human capital through education and training is essential for • Reduction in the total noise emitted by all our equipment to below 110 decibels, our business sustainability. The RBPlat human resource team’s goal of providing effective by December 2013. human resource strategic solutions to facilitate business operational excellence underpins • No new cases of any occupation-related illness or diseases. their approach to enhancing our human capital by providing our operations with the • Intense education, motivation and support to decrease the incident rate appropriate skills and experience when they are required. In order to attract and retain (new infections) of HIV. the right skills we recruit, manage performance for development purposes, train and • To facilitate the enrolment of contractors on a Company-controlled antiretroviral develop, and let go responsibly. We provide industry-leading career opportunities, welltreatment (ART) programme. structured employment contracts, fair and competitive remuneration. Our policies and • Achieve early detection, using innovative TB detector methods. procedures are designed to eliminate discrimination of every kind and ensure equal opportunity, regardless of race, nationality, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, Housing disability, political opinion or any other differentiator. • A pilot project will commence in 2013 during which 400 houses will be built Employee Relations and Engagement near Rustenburg (in terms of the Mining Charter stipulations mining companies will provide housing close to a functional town). We have identified a breakdown in relationships with our workforce as being a key risk to our business. To eliminate this risk we continually engage with our workforce (permanent Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. employees and contractors) to achieve transparency and mutual understanding of issues. We developed a communication strategy and implemented a communication plan designed to achieve regular transparent communication with our workforce. This approach helped Overview Our main focus is ensuring that business practices are aligned with RBPlat’s vision to be us minimise the impact of the labour unrest that affected the South African platinum more than mining as well as with our business strategy. The Housing and Social Labour industry in the second half of the year. Plan projects are part of our business strategy and form part of our business sustainability. 2012 Activities • Implementation of RBPlat’s new human resource strategies, which includes improving 2012 Activities As our human resource policies were inherited from APL, there was a need to develop and/ the diversity in our workforce, investing in our people, stable labour relations and or revisit these policies e.g. New Remuneration strategy and policy completed with short maintaining an open dialogue with trade unions. term incentives revised, travel and subsistence, Behavioural policy revised, among others. • The progress we have made in all these areas and the challenges we have faced in doing so are described in our integrated annual report. We also developed and introduced a new behavioural and grievance policy and procedures. 2013 Plans Completion of all outstanding human resource policies and provision of accommodation • Employee housing solutions: We have made progress towards delivering on the (housing) project has begun – Phase I for employeesin a quest to provide our employees commitment we made as part of the three-year wage agreement we signed in with decent living conditions. Policies to be revised/developed among others include July 2011. recruitment, Human Resource Development and Talent Management Policy. • Talent management: We established and agreed on our approach to talent management and succession planning during 2012. 2013 Plans • Continue to implement our human resource strategies with a particular emphasis on: engagement with our employees and the trade unions. meeting our social and labour plan (SLP) requirements. talent management. • Deliver against our commitments in terms of a pilot housing project of 400 houses. • Fully implement our talent management and succession planning process. United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 16 Labour 17 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. the right to collective bargaining. Overview We uphold the rights of our employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining Overview When RBPlat took over management of BRPM from Anglo American Platinum we retained and 91% of our employees, excluding approximately 100 Patterson Grade D2 and above their policies in our operations until we had developed our own, incorporating the latest employees, are unionised. The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) represents the trends and practices. During 2011 we developed the RBPlat remuneration philosophy to majority of the employees at BRPM. ensure we remain competitive in terms of remuneration and career opportunities. We currently recognise two unions: NUM and United Association of South Africa (UASA). Over and above the legally mandated employment benefits, we provide our fulltime NUM remains the majority union at RBPlat with 74% representation in the operators unit employees with retirement benefits in the form of a retirement fund and medical scheme and 60% representation in the supervisory unit. UASA’s membership currently stands at benefits. Employees also receive disability benefits which will include the payment of 31% in the supervisory unit and 11% representation in the operators unit. In accordance the full medical aid benefit for the duration of the disability period, as well as death with our Employee Relations Recognition Agreement (ERRA) on collective bargaining, we benefits and funeral cover. signed a three-year wage agreement with NUM, the majority union, in 2011. Should someone pass away while in our employ, their children will receive free education When we find it necessary to reduce our workforce we take our responsibilities seriously within the rules of the scheme, until the child has completed its tertiary education. and make every effort to implement the necessary workforce reduction fairly and in Information on our Mahube Trust employee share ownership plan (ESOP) can be found in consultation with our employees and the trade unions. Whenever there are significant our Remuneration report on pages 118 to 119 of our 2012 Annual Integrated Report organisational changes we consult and communicate with our employees and provide www.bafokengplatinum.co.za. them with appropriate support. The maximum notice period for advising our workforce of any changes that we have agreed with the trade unions is 14 days. 2012 Activities • During 2012 we focused on implementing our remuneration philosophy uniformly Our CEO plays an important role in our employee engagement, regularly addressing across RBPlat, benchmarking our salaries and updating our short-term incentive scheme. employees and trade unions. He meets with our teams every quarter to congratulate those • A Talent Management project was launched with the aim of retaining staff and who have performed well and motivate the lowest performing teams to improve. This implementing training aligned with business/individual needs year his schedule included addressing shop stewards, recognising their contribution to our business and providing them with feedback on the progress of our housing committee, the platinum industry in general, and safety issues. We keep employees informed on business 2013 Plans Liaison with contractors to ensure compliance and consistency with the Basic Conditions issues through various communication tools including our quarterly Lebone newsletter, of Employment (BCE Act). Compliance with this Act is nonnegotiable and protects partnership forums and the monthly feedback sessions held by the mines’ general managers employment of children under age as prescribed. and operational area production managers. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 2012 Activities • During the periods of labour unrest our management team interacted with employees regularly and our CEO also took responsibility for addressing our Overview We are committed to upholding the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the employees, including those on strike. We kept our workforce updated on the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights situation via their mobile phones, using an interactive SMS system and community at Work and complying with all relevant South African legislation. We are committed to radio broadcasts. Our unions are engaged through various forums including the the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour and prohibit any form of child monthly operational unit partnership forums. labour in our operations. All HR policies are in line with the Basic Conditions of Employment • Refer to page 82 of our 2012 Annual Integrated Report www.bafokengplatinum.co.za which also protects all employees against any abuse, including child labour. for a case study on the 2012 strike action. 2012 Activities Focus was on the embedding of all our human resource policies and encouraging employee 2013 Plans • We are currently on a three-year wage agreement which expires in 2014. participation in CEO engagements, Labour engagements/forums, to ensure that no practices However, informal preparations have already started, setting the schedule for 2014 exist in terms of human rights abuses, including child labour. and discussing the approach to the exercise. • Continuous engagement with Labour through Union/Management forums taking place 2013 Plans • Open engagement with employees about their rights without any form of as planned for the year. This is one of our strategies that has improved relationships discriminationfreedom of association always encouraged. with this key stakeholder. • Hotline established as requested by employees and managed by an independent body. This hotline to be refreshed/re-launched. It is meant to accommodate any report relating to various issues that may arise. • Current Recruitment policy does not allow for child labour as it is based on the BCEA. United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 18 Labour Environment 19 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Principle 7 Continued and occupation. Overview Our employment policy is designed to provide equal opportunities to all potential and Overview We completed our new RBPlat environmental strategy during 2012 and will implement it existing employees and to achieve a diversified workplace that reflects the demographics as an integral part of our SHE management system in 2013. In the meantime we continue of our country. to employ the Anglo American Platinum environmental strategy that was in place when we took over management and control of BRPM and the Styldrift Project. Our human resource transformation strategy seeks to: • develop the miners of tomorrow through youth development, graduate and Our environmental team ensures that the RBPlat policies are aligned with all legal and bursary programmes and learnerships regulatory requirements. The environmental team is also responsible for the auditing of the • develop the miners of today by upgrading existing skills implementation of policy, standards and procedures. Line management is accountable for • develop the historically disadvantaged South African leaders of tomorrow through its effective implementation and uses our SHE management systems for this purpose. We leadership development programmes, internal promotion and succession planning review our environmental risks and opportunities annually as part of our business strategy • increase the number of women in the workplace through retention, external and planning process. BRPM is ISO 14001:2004 certified and environmental management recruitment and diversity training at Styldrift Mine is the responsibility of the Environmental Coordinator based at BRPM. In • achieve diversity at all levels in the organisation the future environmental management will be a shared service with one environmental • facilitate home ownership in line with our social and labour plan commitments coordinator overseeing the BRPM Joint Venture. and our three-year wage agreement commitments. Stakeholder Engagement 2012 Activities • We have already exceeded the Mining Charter’s 2014 HDSA targets by: We engage with the relevant government departments and communities on environmental 100% at Board level issues and environmental impact assessments (EIAs). 166.7% at senior management level 12.5% at middle management level Minimising Impact 87.5% at junior management level 226.7% at core skills level. We are committed to minimising our environmental impacts throughout the life of our • Our approach to talent management was developed and approved by the Board in operations and rehabilitate the land once our operations have ceased. Where possible, 2012. The objective of our talent management and succession planning process concurrent rehabilitation is done. is to deliver the right talent with the right knowledge, skills and experience as and when the We continuously identify and mitigate the negative environmental impacts of our activities business requires them. It will be guided by our strategic plan, will include and our operations have closure plans in place. They are captured in our impact register resourcing development, deployment and displacement and will be aligned with at operational and corporate office level and considered by the Board Audit and Risk our current performance management system. Committee. This approach involves the management team in the analysis and treatment of environmental risks and performance. We train our employees in risk management and 2013 Plans • The first step in 2013 will be to identify a leadership pipeline and, using the profiles environmental awareness. of the future positions, assess the potential succession candidates and identify suitable candidates. We will then develop individual growth plans for each 2012 Activities • Finalising our environmental strategy. succession candidate. • Established various energy efficiency methods (see listing under Principle 8). • In 2013 we will be introducing key performance management indicators for mining • Good progress with water management. The Regulation 704 construction work teams at BRPM. This integrated process will include analysis of data collected for the separation of clean and dirty water was completed this year. from observing teams at work and coaching. Initially, the cost efficiency team will • The disturbed land footprint for BRPM is 949 hectares. No more land was disturbed identify sections in the mine or concentrator that are experiencing difficulties. by BRPM operations in 2012. The disturbed land for Styldrift is 238.8 hectares. These teams will be assessed, the training centre coaching team will conduct No more land was disturbed by Styldrift in 2012. underground inspections and the data from these will be analysed by a psychometrist for further action. 2013 Plans • Implement environmental strategy. • Continue to increase IMS. Implement further energy reduction projects that were Environment Refer to Page 77 of our 2012 Annual Integrated Report identified during the gap analysis conducted in 2012. www.bafokengplatinum.co.za • Installation and commissioning of a water treatment plant once the EIA has been approved. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Overview Our approach to the environment Our Board of directors and our Chief Executive Officer, assisted by the Board’s Social and Ethics Committee, are accountable for RBPlat’s environmental management and the management of our impact on climate change. The Social and Ethics Committee also provides overall direction on our sustainable development. United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 20 Environment 21 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 8 Continued Overview Environmental Rehabilitation Trust Overview These include: RBPlat’s mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations • Installing capacitor banks to keep the power factor close to unity. This has resulted governing the protection of the environment. The company recognises management’s in a significant reduction in charges on BRPM’s electricity account for reactive power. best estimate for asset retirement obligations in the period in which they are incurred. • We installed and commissioned a Level 2 electricity metering and measurement Actual costs incurred and actual timing thereof in future periods can differ materially system at BRPM to enhance electricity consumption management. from the estimates. • Installing heat pumps at change houses to heat up water, instead of using urns to heat water, which has achieved a reduction in power usage of approximately 5%. Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations, life of mine estimates • Energy saving lights, which have been installed on surface and underground workings. and discount rates can affect the carrying amount of this provision. Estimated long• All ventilation fan vanes having been clamped at 60% to reduce their energy term environmental provisions, comprising pollution control, rehabilitation and mine consumption to a minimum. closure, are based on the company’s environmental policy taking into account current • We continued with the installation of an underground compressed air control system technological, environmental and regulatory requirements. which has now also been installed on 9 and 10 levels at North shaft and 9 level at South shaft. By changing the control philosophy of our compressed air system we Provisions for future rehabilitation costs have been determined, based on calculations reduced our energy consumption by a further 2MWh a month. which require the use of estimates. RBPlat contributes to the BRPM Environmental • A compressed air automatic control system that has been installed underground Rehabilitation Trust annually. The trust was created to fund the estimated cost of pollution on each level to automatically shut down the valves feeding the level if there is no control, rehabilitation and mine closure at the end of the life of the mine. Contributions activity or work being done on that level. After the shift all the valves will be are determined on the basis of the estimated environmental obligation over the life of remotely shut off to avoid wastage. a mine. Contributions made are reflected as an environmental trust deposit. • We also implemented a management system change which shuts off 50% of our ventilation fans over weekends when we do not have people working underground. Climate Change • Continual monitoring and adjustment of the main ventilation fans’ vanes’ positions, to ensure operational efficiency and the steady reduction of ventilation Physically, climate change could materially affect our operations and the communities in air leakage underground. which we operate through damage or possible business interruption caused by flooding, • The installation of variable speed drives to control our main ventilation fans is extreme storms, reduced availability of water and possible health impacts. Prolonged estimated to reduce our energy consumption by a further 9 800MWh per annum. drought conditions could limit production growth or prevent us from operating. • Vanes were installed on first phase main ventilation fans to enable a potential reduction in electricity consumption by 13.2MWh a month. The vanes allow us to One of the financial risks associated with greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is the introduction control the use of electricity during off-peak periods by reducing the size of the of a carbon tax in South Africa, which could result in increased costs for electricity and aperture through which we distribute air to the underground workings and in turn transportation, as well as higher operational costs related to GHG emission monitoring, reducing our energy usage by up to 60%. reporting and accounting. Higher energy costs could also negatively affect our ability to • We also embarked on a programme to reduce leakages on our main compressed contain operating costs and maintain production. air system. This included addressing air leakages in our stopes and closing off compressed air columns in all mined out areas. Energy Two other recommendations made to optimise energy savings were the optimising of The fundamental business objective of responsible energy management is ensuring that the compressors’ cooling circuits and installing soft-starters on the main compressors to our operations have an adequate supply of energy for sustained business growth. It is manage maximum energy demand. We plan to take advantage of some of these energy incumbent on us therefore to improve energy efficiency and reduce the consumption of saving ideas to further reduce our energy consumption per tonne of ore treated. electricity generated from the burning of fossil fuels. Biodiversity In 2012 we completed a general energy audit which identified the potential to reduce our electricity consumption and related emissions by 5% and we successfully completed To manage any biodiversity risks we have developed a long-term biodiversity monitoring major energy conservation projects. programme to: Two significant other recommendations were the optimising of the compressors’ cooling • implement an integrated alien plant control programme circuits and installing soft-starters on the main compressors to manage maximum energy • conduct a medicinal plant survey demand. We plan to take advantage of some of these energy saving ideas to further • design and implement a fire management plan reduce our energy consumption per tonne of ore treated. • promote sustainable use of natural resources within the area At BRPM, we have embarked on a number of energy saving initiatives which, combined • initiate environmental education programmes with an increase in tonnes milled, have contributed to a reduction in energy consumption. • improve our understanding of the biodiversity in the area. United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 22 Environment 23 Principle 8 Continued Principle 8 Continued Overview While our operations are not in protected areas, they are adjacent to sensitive sites Materials currently recycled include scrap metal and conveyor belts. From 2013 our waste important not only for their unique and rich biodiversity, but also because of the ecosystem paper will also be recycled. Most of our industrial waste is sorted on site and reused where services they provide. No threatened plant species were recorded during baseline and possible. Packaging material is not recycled, explosives bags and boxes are destroyed by follow up surveys. We maintain firebreaks to prevent the loss of biodiversity during fires. means of burning, as required by law. To promote biodiversity, we plant indigenous trees on our property and in the community. We also engage with the schools in the vicinity of our operations to promote biodiversity BRPM reduced its use of paper by the equivalent of 23 trees this year and was presented and sponsor indigenous tree planting at these schools. with 23 trees by the supplier of our photocopy paper to plant on Arbour Day in recognition of this achievement. Our hazardous waste (made up of hydrocarbon contaminated material) The combination of mining activities, the proximity of the community areas to the mine is transported to a landfill site at Holfontein. lease area and the associated human activities may have a negative impact on BRPM’s biodiversity, aspects of which include: RBPlat does not import, export or treat waste deemed hazardous under the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII. Tailings are disposed of at our tailings dam and waste rock is • habitat loss due to old and redundant infrastructure and new infrastructure developments disposed of at our waste rock dumps. • altered or inappropriate fire regimes • the mistreatment and/or collection of animals for food/pets (predators, snakes) Product Stewardship • possible road deaths of animals hit by vehicular traffic • the removal of habitat components (rocks, trees, etc) for construction material We are committed to minimising the dispersion of metals back into the biosphere and • the potential increase in erosion of cleared areas reducing the environmental and health risks associated with this. We aim to ensure the • noise, dust and movement associated with construction and mining activities in health, safety and environmental risks associated with the use, recovery, recycling and the area disposal of our products are properly understood by customers and mitigated. • increasing airborne and gaseous emissions as a result of mining activity • the disturbance of vegetation (historical cultivation/construction/grazing) Since our metals are sold into a global market place, we believe that meeting our product • invasion by alien vegetation stewardship commitment is best done in collaboration with key stakeholders. Much of • the deterioration in water quality (sedimentation/embeddedness/seepage/spills). our engagement on product stewardship is done via our membership of the International Platinum Group Metals Association (IPA). To manage any biodiversity risks we have developed a long-term biodiversity monitoring programme to: The refiners and marketers of our PGMs recognise the responsibility they have as suppliers of PGMs to build value chains that minimise the negative and enhance the positive • implement an integrated alien plant control programme impacts of PGMs over their lifecycles. The metals produced from our concentrate are • conduct a medicinal plant survey sold into the global marketplace by Anglo American Platinum, which meets its product • design and implement a fire management plan stewardship commitments in collaboration with key stakeholders including government, • promote sustainable use of natural resources within the area industry associations, the scientific community and civil society organisations. There have • initiate environmental education programmes been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning our • improve our understanding of the biodiversity in the area. products and we have not received any fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of our products and services. Water 2012 Activities • We have established a four-year history of our carbon footprint between 2009 Our management of water resources is based on: and December 2012. We conduct an annual assessment of our carbon emissions with the aim of improving our carbon intensity and reducing our absolute emissions. • securing sufficient water for our current and future mining operations. We also continue to participate in the carbon disclosure project as part of our • reducing our fresh water consumption by improving water use efficiencies and accountability to our stakeholders. water recycling. • During the year we completed the infrastructure to separate clean and dirty • preventing the contamination of ground and surface water resources. water infrastructure at BRPM. We upgraded stormwater dams and diversion canals Waste across the property. This work has ensured that no dirty water is discharged from our operations to the environment. Mining and metallurgical operations produce hazardous and non-hazardous waste which, • During the year we automated and expanded the potable water metering and unless properly disposed of, can be a threat to the environment. We have a waste management system. This will give us a better understanding of and ability to management plan in place to reduce, reuse, recycle or responsibly dispose of the waste control our water usage. we generate. Our aim is to minimise the amount of waste sent to the landfill site and cut • We currently have excess water on site at BRPM. To reduce this we installed a costs. Accredited service providers transport our recyclable waste to recycling companies sprinkler system at our tailings dam complex as an interim measure to evaporate for recycling in a responsible manner. the excess water and reuse it. United Nations Global Compact RBPLAT’S Annual Communication On Our Progress 24 Environment 25 Principle 8 Continued Principle 9 Continued 2012 Activities • In terms of operational readiness for Styldrift I in 2014, in addition to preparing Overview Our Product to achieve ISO 14001:2004 accreditation, we are investigating how best to manage its mine water. We have installed a filtering system, which allows us to reuse our The PGMs we produce, are a vital component in autocatalytic converters. As such they play mine water and reduce our consumption of water from Magalies Water. a significant role in reducing air pollution by limiting the discharge of carbon monoxide, We are also monitoring the amount of nitrates in the water stemming from the hydrocarbons, nitrous oxides and particulates. Approximately 56% of global PGM production use of explosives for blasting. is used in autocatalytic converters. • The reduction in our explosives consumption in 2012 is due to improved drilling and blasting efficiencies. • Reserves of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) from 2011 were used in 2012 resulting 2012 Activities • We completed a general energy audit which identified the potential to reduce our in a reduction in LPG purchases in 2012. electricity consumption and related emissions by 5%. • RBPlat increased its GHG emissions by 25 603 CO2-e tonnes, mainly due to the increased energy consumption resulting from the increased shaft sinking activities at 2013 Plans • Implementation of energy saving ideas to further reduce our energy consumption Styldrift I. per tonne of ore treated. • BRPM’s energy consumption improved by 3.2% per tonne of ore treated and its • Our plans to treat the excess water currently stored on site will go ahead as soon energy consumption improved by 0.8% per tonne of ore treated. as the EIA has been approved by the Department of Environmental Affairs. • We successfully completed major energy conservation projects at BRPM this We are hopeful that the water treatment plant construction will commence in the third year as discussed in the overview. quarter of 2013. The installation of this plant will reduce our reliance on potable water from external sources. The expected reduction in our consumption of potable water from external sources (Magalies Water) is four megalitres (Ml) a day. 2013 Plans • Implementation of energy saving ideas to further reduce our energy consumption We also intend installing a mini pump station at North and South shafts to per tonne of ore treated. pump out fissure water for reuse in our mining processes. Anti-corruption Refer to Page 121 of our 2012 Annual Integrated Report Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally www.bafokengplatinum.co.za friendly technologies Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Overview Energy Some of the significant consumers of electricity in our mines are the main ventilation Overview We believe in ethical business conduct and have a zero tolerance approach to corrupt fans and compressors. Vanes were installed on first phase main ventilation fans to behaviour and any behaviour that may compromise human rights. enable a potential reduction in electricity consumption by 13.2MWh a month. The vanes allow us to control the use of electricity during off-peak periods by reducing the size of We require our directors and employees, including our contractors and consultants, to apply the aperture through which we distribute air to the underground workings and in turn the highest ethical standards when conducting business on behalf of RBPlat. We have a Code reducing our energy usage by up to 60%. We also implemented a management system of Ethics in place and an Ethics line independently managed by an experienced external change which shuts off 50% of our ventilation fans over weekends when we do not have service provider, KPMG. Members of our workforce and our suppliers are encouraged to people working underground. report any suspicions they may have of irregularities, using the Ethics line. Our Ethics Hotline number is: 0800 00 73 96 or +27 (0) 12 543 5802 (outside SA). Anyone using our We continued with the installation of an underground compressed air control system Ethics line is guaranteed anonymity. We investigate cases reported and take corrective which has now also been installed on 9 and 10 levels at North shaft and 9 level at South action if it is required. Since the inception of this facility in November 2011, 13 cases shaft. By changing the control philosophy of our compressed air system we reduced our have been reported of which two recent cases are still under investigation. These cases energy consumption by a further 2MWh a month. Our off-peak consumption period for are reported on to the Audit and Risk Committee and the Social and Ethics Committee. compressed air coincides with Eskom’s peak consumption period, when electricity is at its most expensive and in short supply. We are able to shut off the compressed air The Board approved a revision of our ethics policy, based on international best practice, supply to our underground workings at this time, reducing our electricity consumption during 2012. In 2013 we will begin establishing a framework that will allow us to assess and associated GHG emissions. We also embarked on a programme to reduce leakages our ethics culture, establish gaps and implement a process to monitor and report on the on our main compressed air system. This included addressing air leakages in our stopes ethical behaviour within RBPlat and the risks associated with unethical behaviour. and closing off compressed air columns in all mined out areas. To help us establish a culture of ethical behaviour and a respect for human rights, the The energy consumption audit we conducted at BRPM this year identified additional areas induction process at our operations includes training in human rights and ethics. We also where we can reduce energy consumption. Most significant is the installation of variable have the necessary grievance and corrective action procedures in place to ensure that speed drives to control our main ventilation fans which it is estimated would reduce our any corrupt behaviour that we become aware of is dealt with accordingly. energy consumption by a further 9 800MWh per annum. Two other recommendations were the optimising of the compressors’ cooling circuits and installing soft-starters on the main compressors to manage maximum energy demand. We plan to take advantage of some of these energy saving ideas to further reduce our energy consumption per tonne of ore treated. United Nations Global Compact 26 Environment Principle 10 Continued Overview Code of Ethics Our Code of Ethics explains that we do not tolerate acts of bribery or fraud by our employees, contractors, suppliers, joint venture partners and other business partners. We take immediate action (which may include dismissal and legal action) against any organisation or person committing bribery or fraud and have systems in place to prevent these misdemeanours. We are also committed to fair trade and purchasing in an ethical manner. RBPlat does not support any political parties or politicians with financial or in-kind contributions. No legal action of any kind has been instituted against RBPlat during 2012 as far as we are aware. RBPlat is in discussion with the DMR regarding a fine which is not material in nature. 2012 Activities • All service and goods contracts were transferred from Anglo American Platinum and further enhanced to provide RBPlat with value for money agreements and to strengthen the governance around contracts. • A Supply Chain division was established to ensure that there is proper segregation of duties to eliminate possible collusion and/or corrupt practices. • A Risk and Assurance Executive was appointed at Executive Committee level to coordinate all risk management and assurance (internal audit, forensic audit and compliance) activities and to develop a robust enterprise risk management policy and framework. • The Ethics Hotline was launched and a continuous monitoring process implemented. 2013 Plans • A comprehensive fraud and corruption prevention policy will be developed to provide adequate governance and processes for the combating of fraud and corruption. • All senior and middle management will be required to sign a “declaration of interest” document to ensure that any possible direct or indirect conflicts are eliminated and thus reduce the opportunity for fraudulent activities. • A companywide awareness campaign will be launched to make employees aware of the fraud and corruption prevention policy and the ethics hotline. www.bafokengplatinum.co.za
