United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Year 3 March 2013 Table of contents Letter of Commitment COP Road Map GHD 2012 Annual Review GHD 2012 Sustainability Report Policies – Quality – Health Safety & Environment (HSE) – Sustainability – Integrity Management GHD | United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Year 3, 10/01110/00 | i 2 March 2013 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) – Year 3 – March 2013 Our third year as a signatory of the UNGC is now complete and we would like to take this opportunity to communicate our progress across our broad range of global stakeholders. We have continued a period of discovery to better understand how we can grow and strengthen our business through active engagement with other companies and institutions within the UNGC. During 2012, our company has been an active member of the Australia UNGC Australian Network. GHD is a major international, professional services company built around strong core staff values and a sustainable business model which align very readily to the 10 Principles of UNGC. Our annual progress against these principles is contained in our 2012 Annual Review and 2012 Sustainability Report, both included as part of this document. The table below is a COP ‘road map’ that correlates the Annual Review and Sustainability Report to the UNGC 10 Principles. This year, we have also included in the COP, a measurement of actions (ie, the degree to which targets/performance indicators are met), relative to performance in 2011. Highlights of Year 3 Further development to enhance the GHD Integrity Management System to strengthen our business practices around the globe as part of Principle 10 – Anti-corruption. Improved sustainability reporting and measurement of performance. Continued sponsorship and resources support for ‘MSABI’ Community Water and Sanitation Program in Tanzania as part of Partnerships in Development. Statement of Continued Support for UNGC GHD remains strongly committed to our alignment with the UNGC 10 Principles while acknowledging the resilience to be achieved in striving for Corporate Sustainable Leadership within our sphere of influence. This commitment includes an ongoing process of continuous improvement and open communication with stakeholders from all our people and management. Yours faithfully GHD Pty Ltd Ian Shepherd CEO GHD | United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Year 3, 10/01110/00 | 1 1. COP Road Map GHD 2012 Indication of GHD 2012 Outcomes UNGC Principles Sustainability Comments Annual Review Report 2011 2012 Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect Our People (p7) Sustainability Policy strengthened in March 2012 protection of internationally proclaimed to better reflect UNGC principles. human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in Our People (p7) human rights abuses Labour 3 Business should uphold the freedom of Our People (p7) association and the effective recognition of the collective bargaining 4 The elimination of all forms of forced Our People (p7) and compulsory labour 5 The effective abolition of Our People (p7) Explicit policy on prohibition of child labour. child labour 6 The elimination of discrimination in Our People (p7) GHD continues to recruit a greater percentage of respect of employment and occupation female graduates than the industry norm (35% versus 30%). There is also a focus on continued recruitment of people from diverse cultural backgrounds. 2012 saw the appointment of two additional female executives. In addition a further female Board member has been appointed. 2 | GHD | United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Year 3, 10/01110/00 GHD 2012 Indication of GHD 2012 Outcomes UNGC Principles Sustainability Comments Annual Review Report 2011 2012 Environment Improved and more focussed sustainability. Improved and more focussed sustainability reporting implemented with benefits expected to crystallise in 2013. 7 Businesses are asked to support a CSR HSE (p7) Project Opportunity Sustainability Policy strengthened. precautionary approach to Environment (p12) Assessment (p3) environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater CSE HSE (p7) Sustainability Sustainability Policy strengthened. environmental responsibility Environment (p14) performance summary (p2-4) 9 Encourage the development and Innovation program Innovation (p3) diffusion of environmentally friendly (p6) technologies Environment (p14) Anti-Corruption Integrity Policy strengthened in March 2012. 10 Business should work against CSR (p9) Integrity Management Guidelines formalised. corruption in all forms including China Gift and Entertainment Guidelines. extortion and bribery eLearning completion: Australia/New Zealand 82% Asia 97% and Americas 94% Incident Reporting System (IRIS) is effective. GHD | United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Year 3, 10/01110/00 | 3 GHD 2012 Indication of GHD 2012 Outcomes UNGC Principles Sustainability Comments Annual Review Report 2011 2012 Partnerships in Development MSABI Community Water & Sanitation Chairman’s GHD in the in Tanzania message (p4) Community (p1) CSR (p8) Indigenous Communities in Australia CSR (p8) Legend Red: Serious deficiencies identified and corrective actions required immediately. Amber: Minor deficiencies identified and corrective actions in place Blue : Satisfactory but areas for improvement identified Green: Excellent 4 | GHD | United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Year 3, 10/01110/00 2012 Annual Review GHD at a glance GHD works with clients in a way that is collaborative, timely and reliable Who we are Established in 1928, GHD is one of the world’s leading engineering, architecture and environmental consulting companies. Wholly-owned by its people, GHD has a long tradition of combining global reach, local capabilities, technical skills and innovative approaches to solve our clients’ toughest challenges. What we do Our global network of engineers, architects, planners, scientists, project managers and drafters collaborate to improve the built, economic and social environment of the communities in which we operate. We provide multi-disciplinary services covering the full life cycle of projects such as water treatment plants, mines, buildings and roads amongst many others. How we benefit clients GHD is a client-centred company. We are dedicated to understanding and helping our clients achieve their goals. Having successfully completed thousands of projects around the globe, we have the relationships, knowledge and ability to meet our clients’ needs. Extensive training, robust systems and a culture of idea generation and collaboration underpin our commitment to quality, safety and innovation. How we operate GHD’s business model is to operate globally and deliver services locally. Today, more than 6500 people work in 100+ offices across five continents. They are united by the core values of Teamwork, Respect and Integrity. The cornerstone of our business is our client-centred culture and teamwork-based approach known as One GHD. Key facts We serve clients in the global markets of water, energy and resources, environment, property and buildings, and transportation UK Asia Canada USA Middle East Australia & New Zealand South America 1 5 5 70+ team continents market sectors services 100+ 5000+ 6500 $1.12 offices clients people billion AUD GHD 2012 Annual Review | 3 Chairman’s message Our strategic positioning, solid performance and global reach gives us confidence in the future The past year has seen GHD continue to be a leader GHD in the Community in the five markets in which we operate. This is the With a business model built on supporting our client-facing result of a clear strategy, our resolute client focus, people, it makes sense that our community engagement follows and the discipline of our people. the same principle. Over the years, GHD has stood behind our people and supported them in their charitable and community Client-centred endeavours with financial and in-kind support. We are particularly proud of the outstanding success of the GHD enjoys strong, long-standing relationships with our clients. MSABI program, which has brought safe drinking water and While the past year has been challenging for many, we continue sanitation to more than 40,000 people in Tanzania. Led by one to innovate and provide the capabilities and resources our of our water engineers, Dale Young, this initiative has been clients require, and in the process cement these relationships supported by GHD since inception. further. More recently, we have made great inroads into providing career We thank our clients for their confidence in our abilities and pathways for Indigenous people. We have supported hundreds respect their feedback, which encourages us to improve our of local fundraising and not-for-profit activities around the world services further. as a way of contributing to the communities in which we live and work. One GHD GHD operates as an integrated business. We leverage our Future strength and experience to grow our technical capabilities and GHD remains focused on growth and investment in our clients, provide opportunities for our people. people and communities. We are dedicated in our approach Today we have an inspired and motivated workforce that lives and will continue to capitalise on opportunities to deliver the values of Teamwork, Respect and Integrity. We are proud significant value to our clients in the years ahead. to be 100 percent employee-owned and every day I see great In my first year as Chairman, I have enjoyed connecting with examples of our people’s passion, thirst for knowledge and our people and sharing meaningful dialogues with many of our commitment to our clients. clients. I admire their passion and commitment and am excited We work hard to attract, retain and develop impressive people by what the future holds. to help them achieve their full potential. In 2012, we sustained our investment in technical development through the GHD Business School, with a clear focus on leadership development and succession planning. Russell Board Chairman 4 | GHD 2012 Annual Review CEO’s review A passion for serving clients and building on our competitive strengths has delivered a record turnover In 2012, GHD realised the value of embedding key In property and buildings, our industry based approach to success factors into our business. Focused organic multidisciplinary projects is helping clients understand how we growth, strong alignment with clients and the can add value through simplification of design and integration of momentum of numerous mergers enabled us to grow documentation. Finally, we have strengthened our environment business with major wins for environmental impact assessments our turnover by 12 percent, setting a new record for together with new projects in the USA, Middle East, Chile and the company. Asia. Operations Highlights Solid progress in building a sustainable international business was achieved by: • Improved our health, safety and environment initiatives achieving a 24 percent reduction in total incident frequency • Growing the revenue of our non-Australian operations by rate 20 percent, in alignment with our global reach strategy • Developed the Innovation Interchange initiative (see • Expanding our business in Australia, which reflects the page 6), which is facilitating the connection of many sustained demand for multidisciplinary services organisations around the world • Deepening our footprint in the Americas with nearly 1000 • Continued embedding sustainability principles in our people, many of whom joined in the past year through service delivery company mergers • Applied resources and technologies that support our • Facilitating projects for expanding Asian companies clients’ objectives of improving their return on investments • Diversifying our services in the Middle East and capitalising through our diverse geographical presence and service on our overall technology strengths delivery • Broadening our rail business in the UK Markets Our vision of delivering integrated services to our clients has supported GHD’s growth during the year in our five market sectors. This is clearly illustrated by our achievements in the Ian Shepherd energy and resources sector, where our emerging engineering, Chief Executive Officer procurement and construction capabilities are in demand. In transportation, we continue to be appointed on road, air, rail and port projects as we partner with clients and stakeholders to drive asset efficiency. Growth in the water sector, particularly the USA and Canada, is helping us leverage our deep experience and deliver technology on a global scale. In addition, our leadership in asset and logistics management is assisting utility operators to realise greater value from their assets. GHD 2012 Annual Review | 5 Clients Around the world, 6500 committed GHD professionals Because the client engagement journey continues well after collaborate extensively and work closely with private and a project is completed, we take feedback seriously and look public organisations of all shapes and sizes, and in all for ways to continuously improve our performance. sectors. Every year, they complete thousands of projects In 2012, we simplified our business processes and with one objective in mind: to deliver successful outcomes. streamlined our systems to provide greater integration of While our clients are diverse, they all are united in their services and easier access to information. These changes expectations of GHD. They rely on us to provide quality are an important part of our focus on delivering high quality services in a timely manner and seek innovative answers to services in a timely and reliable manner and communicating complex questions. Put simply, they expect us to get the job with our clients every step of the way. done, on time and on budget. For GHD, engaging with our clients is all about developing and maintaining close relationships. Rather than work for our clients, we partner with them to execute projects in line with their brands and goals. We are passionate about understanding their challenges and provide holistic solutions that deliver value not just today, but well into the future. Innovation Highlights At GHD, innovation is a highly focused discipline that enables • Received a grant from the Australian Government’s us to deliver added value to our clients. It is critical for improving Enterprise Connect to host a clean energy forum service delivery, streamlining processes and boosting efficiency. • Recognised for our work on the Water Atlas project with a More importantly, it allows us to solve our clients’ challenges in Service Provider Innovation Award from Australia’s Smart a way that differentiates them from the competition. Water Fund During the year, we became the principal supporter of the • Rewarded with a financial innovation bonus for our work Innovation Interchange, an exclusive global business community on the City East Alliance alongside Leighton Contractors, that drives solutions to infrastructure challenges. As part of NRW and Main Roads Western Australia where more our support, we provided technical and commercial advisory than 100 qualifying innovations were generated services to Technology Provider members. • Patented a GHD-developed technology that enables clients The University of Melbourne engaged us to develop urban to continuously monitor water pump efficiency in real-time water research priorities for Carlton Connect, an entrepreneurial environment for research and collaboration. In addition, we are working with Sydney Water to assess the feasibility of using the Annamox bacteria and process in its wastewater treatment plants to leverage international progress in this area. 6 | GHD 2012 Annual Review People At the heart of our success is GHD’s client-centred culture and Highlights a network of talented, diverse and creative people. It is this ‘One • Increased engagement and retention of our people by 3% GHD’ approach, backed by a commitment to our core values, that allows us to assist our clients in achieving their goals. • Achieved strong tenure levels, with 39% of our people being employed by GHD for more than five years • Recognised by Randstad Australia as the fourth most The GHD difference attractive employer in Australia • We are committed to our clients’ goals of building • Validated our approach to gender equality with Equal community infrastructure, economic and social wellbeing Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency • The One GHD network provides a sense of belonging and • Attracted a range of leading professionals to join us in a helps resource projects irrespective of geographic borders range of sectors and disciplines • Our core values of Teamwork, Respect and Integrity • Enhanced our recruitment of graduates year-on-year to underpin how we work together and with our clients 220, 68% of whom are engineers and 34% are women • Private ownership of GHD instills a distinctive culture of • Provided extensive coaching, mentoring and professional leadership, responsibility and accountability development opportunities as part of our career and • We pride ourselves on the diversity, depth and quality of leadership development model our technical services and ability to contribute to projects • Supported mobile working practices with 60 international • Our business model of operating globally and delivering and 120 domestic transfers involving relocation completed services locally allows us to be where our clients need • Delivered more than 140 programs and 3000 face-to-face us most learning opportunities through the GHD Business School Technical leadership • Supported the appointment of GHD people to board and committee positions in industry organisations One of the hallmarks of GHD is the technical leadership including Intelligent Transport Systems Australia, we bring to our clients’ projects. To enable our people to National and International Standards Organisation, the continue providing the guidance and insights our clients Institute of Sustainable Infrastructure USA, International value, we have developed a technical leadership model. This Water Association, Permanent Way Institute UK, approach provides a visible career pathway that recognises Infrastructure Partnerships Australia, the Warren Centre excellence and achievement, cultivates a sense of belonging for Advanced Engineering, the International Society for and facilitates a collaborative network of technical and Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering, amongst professional people. More importantly, it enables us to many others mobilise and resource ‘best-for-project’ teams from our global network to deliver quality services to our clients. • Continued to work collaboratively with technology providers such as ESRI, Autodesk and Bentley Systems to enhance the use of technology for design, Highlights documentation and collaboration across the company • Established technical partnerships with key international • Enhanced our structured succession planning organisations to optimise the services we deliver framework to ensure coverage of our technical • Presented a broad range of technical papers at capabilities and skills prestigious international conferences GHD 2012 Annual Review | 7 Governance & community engagement Board • John Baird, BE (Civil Hons), FIEAust, CPEng, GAICD • May Ngui, BAppSc (ElecEng), MIEAust, GAICD, CPEng GHD is committed to high standards of corporate governance with clearly defined roles and responsibilities for • Rob Knott, BE (Elec), FIEAust, MAICD both the board and management. The board is responsible • Michael Muntisov, BE MEng, CPEng, MAICD for overall governance and establishes GHD’s core purpose • Warren Traves, BE (Hons), MEng Sc, Grad Dip Eng, as well as fostering our culture. The Executive Management FIEAust, CPEng, GAICD Group is led by the CEO and tasked with developing and implementing strategy. It also manages the company’s • Peter Wasow, B Com, Grad Dip Mgt, FCPA operations with the support of the leadership team. External Committee Members • Rob Kella, B Ac (Hons), CPA (USA), CA Directors (see photo above) • Stephen Skulley, MBA, M Petroleum Engineering, • Russell Board, BE (Civil), FAICD, FIEAust, CPEng BE (Mech) • Ian Shepherd, Assoc (Civil Eng) Grad Dip Bus, • Kerry Smith, B Ec (Syd), CA FIEAust, CPEng, MAICD The board is also supported by Company Secretary, • Nick Apostolidis, BE (Civil Hons), MEng Sc, Lisa Elbourne, BBus, CPA, ACIS, GAICD. FIEAust, GAICD GHD in the Community • United Nations Global Compact As a signatory, GHD has adopted an established and globally recognised While GHD is an international company operating across five policy framework for the development, implementation, continents, we act like a local business caring for our clients, and disclosure of environmental, social, and governance people and communities. Under the umbrella of our GHD in policies and practices. the Community program, we contribute to a range of not-forprofit organisations, support the volunteer activities our people, • Indigenous communities We continue to partner provide pro-bono services and respond to natural disasters. with Engineers Without Borders, in Australia and the USA, to assist developing and Indigenous communities improve water quality. As part of our involvement 2012 support with CareerTrackers, we have provided employment • MSABI Since 2009, GHD has been a core donor opportunities for 14 Indigenous university students of this safe water, sanitation and hygiene initiative in in Australia. We also participated in the 2012 World Tanzania. Established by one of our water engineers, Dale Indigenous Business Forum and the 2012 Yutjulwala Young, MSABI has delivered 230 water points and 25 Garma Key Forum, an important gathering of Australian environmentally safe sanitary points to date, benefiting Indigenous, government and industry stakeholders. more than 40,000 people in local communities and • Not-for-profits We supported a range of vital causes schools. It also conducts education meetings in many including the Box Appeal (Middle East), Redwood Empire villages and has established a local filter pot manufacturing Food Bank (USA), Multiple Sclerosis Association, World facility in collaboration with a local women’s group. Today, Vision, Royal Flying Doctor Service, Movember and more. MSABI has evolved into a respected non-governmental We contributed to initiatives to benefit schools in Australia organisation, that has created a replicable and expandable and the Philippines, and disadvantaged communities in model for the implementation of cost-efficient community New Zealand and Nepal through Habitat for Humanity. based water, sanitation and hygiene programs. 8 | GHD 2012 Annual Review Corporate social responsibility GHD’s approach to corporate social responsibility is aligned Risk with our strategy to develop long-term growth for the firm in Leveraging 80+ years of experience, GHD applies a manner that is socially and environmentally responsible. systematic approaches and proactive programs to help our We are focused on refining and implementing our systems clients better manage the risks of their activities. and standards to protect our people and clients. We aim to During the year, we enhanced our risk management maximise positive outcomes for the communities in which framework to provide a structured and consistent approach we operate. to risk across all business activities that align strategy, systems and people to deliver on our clients’ objectives. Highlights In addition, we continue to refine our ‘Safety in Design’ • Certified our Health Safety and Environment (HSE) framework to enhance project outcomes. management system across our operations to Lloyds Register Quality Assurance standards OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 Quality GHD’s core strength is derived from the integrity, capability • Expanded our HSE management system to include and enthusiasm of our people. Along with teamwork, these delivery of Engineering, Procurement, Construction, are the elements that inspire a passion for quality in the Maintenance (EPCM) projects services we deliver. • Continued to perform company-wide analysis of HSE Since 1993, GHD has operated under a Quality risk to identify risk-based improvement strategies and Management System (QMS) which is certified by Lloyds assist clients to improve the way they manage and Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) to international mitigate environmental risks standards ISO 9001: 2008. • Achieved a 24 percent reduction in our total injury frequency rate, and reduced our energy consumption by 7 percent across all our operations Integrity management • Refined our plans for potential crises and emergencies In our role as one of the world’s leading engineering, throughout our operations architecture and environmental consulting companies, GHD has embedded the principles of integrity across its operations. Health, Safety and Environment Our Integrity Management System is aligned to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact of which During the year, we deepened the integration of our HSE we are a signatory and our people are committed to a core systems across the company and simplified core business set of values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, processes to enable continued performance improvements. the environment and anti-corruption. We also achieved high levels of engagement amongst our people with GHD’s HSE culture which promotes a ‘SAFE you, SAFE me, SAFE GHD’ message. GHD 2012 Annual Review | 9 Financial highlights Report 2012 was a year of solid growth for GHD with revenue rising by Consolidated Balance Sheet almost 12 percent to AUD1.12 billion. As at 30 June 2012 Our growth was underpinned by increased workflow from major AUD millions energy and resources clients and from the addition of seven new firms that joined GHD. The largest mergers took place in the USA and Canada, while other important integrations were 2012 2011 2010 completed in the UK and Australia. The key benefit to our Current Assets 289.3 251.7 260.2 operations has been the addition of many wonderful people, Non Current Assets 189.1 140.1 145.4 clients and capabilities that make GHD a more diverse, talented and ultimately more competitive firm. Total Assets 478.4 391.8 405.6 Overall, GHD has retained a very buoyant financial position. Current Liabilities 190.0 164.5 171.1 We concluded our mergers while maintaining very low net debt Non Current Liabilities 107.5 63.3 76.3 levels. This was the result of prudent financial decision making and effective working capital management by teams in all parts Total Liabilities 297.5 227.8 248.0 of our business. Net Assets 180.9 164.0 157.6 We also expanded and extended our debt facilities during the Equity 180.9 164.0 157.6 year. At the time of writing this report, we have in excess of AUD150 million in unused facilities. Source: Consolidated Financial Statements as at 30 June 2012 Our strong performance and financial standing places GHD in a for GHD Group Pty Ltd. robust position to capitalise on further growth opportunities with our clients around the world. Phillip Bradley General Manager Finance 10 | GHD 2012 Annual Review 2012 Revenue by Global Market Sector Statement of Revenue AUD millions 1118 1200 1100 Property & Property & Water 1100 1002 Buildings Water 998 Buildings 1000 935 900 Environment 800 Environment Energy & Energy & Resources 700 Resources 600 Transportation Transportation 500 400 300 200 Water 20% 100 Energy & Resources 22% Environment 13% Transportation 26% Property & Buildings 19% 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Auditor’s Statement Standard ASA 810 Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements. We have audited the accompanying summarised financial information of GHD Group Pty Ltd (the “Company”), Auditor’s Opinion comprising the summary Consolidated Balance Sheet as at In our opinion, the information disclosed in the summarised 30 June 2012 and the summary Statement of Revenue for financial information is consistent, in all material respects, the year ended 30 June 2012 which were derived from the with the financial report from which it was derived. For financial report of the Company for the year ended 30 June a better understanding of the scope of our audit, the 2012. We expressed an unmodified auditor’s opinion on that summarised financial information should be read in financial report in our auditor’s report dated 29 August 2012. conjunction with our report on the financial report. The financial report and the accompanying summarised financial information do not reflect the effects of events DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on that financial report. The responsibility of Directors for the summarised financial information The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the summarised financial information in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting J A Leotta Interpretations). Partner Auditor’s Responsibility Chartered Accountants Sydney, 28 September 2012 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summarised financial information based on our procedures Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation which were conducted in accordance with Auditing Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited GHD 2012 Annual Review | 11 Water Market snapshot Outlook • Water Management Programs, Santos and Centennial Coal Global Market Leader Our water business continues to help Chris Hertle clients achieve their goals, particularly • Water Roadmap, Australian in water and wastewater infrastructure National Water Commission Global Technical Leader Rip Copithorn including desalination, as well as asset Asia management and water services for • Boracay Island Wastewater Study, Key services the energy and resources sector. Philippines • Asset Management The year ahead will see us working on a wide range of water projects in Middle East • Dams traditional geographies and in China, • Abu Dhabi Water Efficiency • Irrigation India and the Middle East. Our recent Project, UAE expansion in the USA and Canada • Industrial Water & Waste New Zealand has broadened our footprint and we • Integrated Water Management are undertaking projects to benefit • Rebuild of Christchurch Horizontal communities across the Americas Infrastructure • Wastewater Collection including Chile. The Americas • Wastewater Treatment • Computerised Maintenance Mgt. • Water Efficiency Recent projects System Yorktown, USA • Water Treatment & Desalination Australia • Desalination Plants in Huntington • Water Sciences • Proserpine & Bowen WTPs, Beach, Carlsbad and Pendleton, Whitsundays Regional Council, USA • Waterways & Coastal QLD • Total Phosphorus Study, City of • Water Transmission & Distribution Barrie, Canada • Mundaring WTP, Water Corporation, WA Case studies City of Barrie, Canada Mundaring Water Treatment Plant, Western Australia A comprehensive study has been undertaken by GHD to As part of our work on this project, GHD has provided tender investigate alternatives and develop recommendations for design, detailed design and construction support services to increasing phosphorus removal to meet a total phosphorus ACCIONA TRILITY JV and Brookfield Multiplex Engineering and limit of 0.04 mg/L at the City Water Pollution Control Center. A Infrastructure. Delivered as a Public Private Partnership project, tertiary membrane filtration system was selected and following this biological activated carbon and dissolved air flotation/ a successful phosphorus pilot study, the City has a plan to meet filtration plant will ultimately treat up to 240 MLD to supply the reduced effluent limits under the Lake Simcoe Protection Plan. vast goldfields and agricultural regions, from Perth through to Kalgoorlie. Boracay Island Wastewater study, Philippines Known for its pristine beaches and clean waters, Boracay is Desalination, the Americas addressing its rising infrastructure and environmental protection The development of Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) plants needs. GHD was engaged by the Boracay Island Water in Carlsbad, Huntington Beach and Camp Pendleton (San Company to complete a wastewater planning study and provide Diego) is benefiting from GHD’s considerable experience in reference designs for the existing 6.50 MLD Sewage Treatment this area. A feasibility study for desalination is also under way Plant (STP) as well and two new ones with a combined capacity in Rosarita, on the border of Mexico and California, and our of 24 MLD. These STPs will cater to more than one million people are assisting BP with a unique SWRO project in the Gulf tourists (per annum) projected to visit the island which was of Mexico. voted as the world’s best island destination for 2012. 12 | GHD 2012 Annual Review Energy & Resources Case studies facilities, fire water systems, storage tank overfill protection, Moranbah South Underground Coal Mine, Australia as-building services and risk assessments. Our team has also assisted with managing crude tank turnaround and improving The Anglo American Metallurgical Coal & Exxaro Resources power system reliability together with power supply upgrades. Joint Venture engaged GHD to prepare the underground mining A key part of our engagement was the transfer of knowledge to and infrastructure design for the pre-feasibility study of the Interoil employees. proposed Moranbah South Underground Coal Mine. Our team analysed the mining operation using two longwalls, investigating geotechnical issues, materials handling options, underground Codelco Power Study, Chile services and surface infrastructure alternatives including drift A study of operational and maintenance services has been and services locations. The final deliverables included capital carried out for the high and medium voltage assets of Codelco’s and operating cost estimates as well as execution plans for the Andina mine facilities. As part of this project, our team feasibility and project execution phases. undertook an audit of the organisational structure including Codelco employees and the external contractors in charge of Interoil, Papua New Guinea operation and maintenance activities. Maintenance plans of the electrical grid and associated patterns of the power network are The Napa Napa Oil Refinery near Port Moresby has benefited being developed with a view to reformulating existing plans. A from a range of engineering services from GHD. These include critical equipment and spare parts list of the power network has design of mercury removal beds, process and steam production also been created comprising the transmission, transformation modifications, refinery HAZOP services, water treatment and distribution networks. Market snapshot Outlook Recent projects Global Market Leader We experienced significant growth Mining David Luscombe in energy and resources this year, • BHP MAC 32 Expansion Selection Global Technical Leader driven in part by the mining sector in Phase Study, Australia Richard Fechner Australia, Chile and the Philippines. • St Ives Gold Mine, EPCM New We are focused on helping our Tailings Storage Facility, Australia Key services mining clients re-prioritise their capital expenditure efforts to maximise • Vale, Exploration and Resource • Hydrocarbons Processing & Evaluation, Australia return on investment and improve the Transportation efficiency and productivity of existing Power • Industrial & Electrical Engineering operations. • Sino Iron 220 KV Port Substation • Materials Handling In terms of power, the need to upgrade Energisation, Australia • Minerals Processing ageing generation and distribution • Yap Island Renewables Feasibility assets is a key part of our future Assessment, Philippines • Mining Engineering growth in developed countries. • Biomass gasification, Morrisville, • Mining Geosciences On the oil and gas front, we continue USA • Resource Evaluation to play a key role in significant onshore Oil & Gas • Power Generation & Delivery projects in Australia, while developing opportunities in the USA and Canada. • Santos GLNG, Engineering & • Renewable Energy Procurement, Australia • Tailings • Arrow Energy, Moranbah Gas Project, Australia • Environmental Services • Metrogas LNG Storage & Regasification, Chile GHD 2012 Annual Review | 13 Environment Market snapshot Outlook Asia Global Market Leader Our environment business grew in • Climate Change Adaptation in Christine Wyatt 2012 driven by the buoyant conditions the Pacific Tonga, Vanuatu and in the mineral resources and energy Papua New Guinea Global Technical Leader markets, particularly in Australia, South Middle East Fouad Abo America and the Middle East. With our • Offshore Oil & Gas Projects Key services expanding presence in the USA and Canada, demand for our services is Marine Monitoring Programs, • Air & Noise increasing as new regulations, rising Doha, Qatar • Climate Change environmental awareness and clean New Zealand • Contamination Assessment & energy requirements continue to • Tui Mine Rehabilitation Remediation stimulate growth. Looking ahead, our extended global reach is providing us The Americas • Environmental Impact Assessment with greater capability to respond to • Landfill Expansion, Broome & Approvals existing and emerging environmental County, New York, USA • Forestry Management issues for our clients. • Health, Safety & Environment, • Antofagasta South Desalination Plant Environmental Impact & Audits Recent projects Statement, Chile • Natural Resources Australia • Spatial Sciences United Kingdom • Mt Todd Gold Mine Environmental • Stakeholder Engagement Impact Statement, NT • Low carbon strategy, National Health Service • Waste Management • Oran Park Town Social Plan • Water Sciences Implementation, NSW • Toowoomba Gasworks Clean Up, QLD Case studies Adobe Gulch Grasslands Habitat Restoration, USA Emirates Foundation for Youth Development, UAE GHD is playing a key role in helping the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission restore a 66 acre watershed protection An Environment, Health and Safety Management System has area in San Mateo County known as the Adobe Gulch been developed for the Emirates Foundation, an independent Grasslands. UAE organisation that uses venture philanthropy to help young people in the country reach their full potential. Our team is also Our team developed a Mitigation and Monitoring Plan, providing training for system awareness and risk assessment as produced design drawings and outlined specifications to restore well as internal auditing advice. the site to a diverse mosaic of native grassland, oak woodland, wetland and riparian habitat for species protected under the St Barbara Limited Gold mines, Western Australia US Endangered Species Act. This includes the California Red-Legged Frog, San Francisco Garter Snake, Mission Blue As part of its business and compliance management Butterfly and the Bay Checkerspot Butterfly. requirements, St Barbara Limited has engaged GHD to prepare mine closure and rehabilitation plans along with subsequent Once restoration is complete, the project will feature two closure cost estimates for its gold mining operations. Our team seasonal wetlands and will contribute to improved water quality. developed ‘domain’ closure and rehabilitation plans for the It will closely resemble the landscape reported by surveyors in mines’ various site features, tailings storage and waste rock the mid-1800s. facilities. The plans include consideration of new regulatory needs and St Barbara’s consultation with their stakeholders. 14 | GHD 2012 Annual Review Property & Buildings Case studies Fraser Coast Cultural Centre, Australia Porsche Facilities, India and Middle East Australia’s whale watching capital will soon boast a new cultural centre designed by GHD. The facility will house the As the Regional Architect for Porsche in the Middle East and new Fraser Coast Discovery Centre, Hervey Bay Regional Africa, GHD is providing concept designs for more than 27 new Gallery and an administration area. Our team delivered a range showrooms and servicing (after sales) facilities across the UAE, of integrated services underpinned by BIM including planning, Qatar, Oman, Lebanon and Egypt as well as India. architecture, engineering (civil, structural, mechanical, electrical In India, we are designing 12 of these facilities using Building and hydraulic), interior and landscape design, tender and Information Modelling (BIM) to facilitate development efficiency construction management, project delivery and structural steel and assist Porsche in understanding the design challenges workshop drawings to optimise and fast-track construction. that some sites present. These facilities are located in a range of greenfield sites and tenancies within newly constructed Tianjin Cuijinhu Residential Area, China buildings in prominent retail developments. GHD is providing master planning and architectural design In delivering these projects, our team is committed to providing services for Phase one of this residential development which well-designed facilities that integrate corporate architecture with is located in the Wuqing district of Tianjin. It spans 93 hectares functional design. and features 450 Mediterranean style villas and 5000 garden apartments as well as recreational and commercial facilities. The project has received the 2012 Habitat Scroll of Honour Award. Market snapshot segments of the market remain tight, China GHD’s ability to deliver complex • Tianjin Cuijinhu Residential Area Global Market Leader projects, especially those that require Paul Morris • SNPTC Science and Technology integrated building and infrastructure Global Technical Leader Base, Beijing solutions, has permitted us to adapt Paul Murphy and respond quickly to emerging • New campus, Hunan Railway client needs. In 2013, growth will be Professional Technology College Key services realised in most sectors, particularly in Middle East Our planners, architects, engineers, emerging geographies including China and the Middle East, in addition to our • Showrooms and servicing scientists, economists and project growing presence in North America. facilities, Porsche, UAE managers service the sectors of: • Automated car park, Doha City • City & Community Development Centre, Qatar • Defence & National Security Recent projects New Zealand • Resources & Industrial Facilities Australia • Structural assessments of • Social Infrastructure • Cultural Centre, Fraser Coast buildings in Christchurch • Transport Facilities Regional Council, QLD The Americas • Workplace & Lifestyle • Victoria Harbour, Lend Lease, VIC • Campus-wide steam and chilled • Starlight Express rooms in power loop, Portland State hospitals, Starlight Children’s Outlook Foundation, SA University, USA • Expansion of Ninkasi Brewing We delivered a solid performance for • Indigenous developments, Cairns, Company barrel brew house, USA 2012, underpinned by our diversified Cape York, and Torres Straits, markets and focus on integrated QLD service delivery. Although some GHD 2012 Annual Review | 15 Transportation Market snapshot Outlook Middle East Global Market Leader Our integrated transport business • Light Rail, Qatar Ian Dawson planning and investment, aviation, New Zealand Global Technical Leader marine, rail, roads and highways • Central Hawkes Bay Road Bernard Shepherd performed strongly in 2012, driven Network Management in part by the need to renew ageing Key services assets and provide efficiencies to • Puhoi to Warkworth Roads of support economic development. National Significance Motorway • Asset Management Opportunities in the Middle East, the Extension Alliance • Airports Americas and the UK are on the rise The Americas • Bridges and recent GHD mergers are delivering • Transportation Research Board added value to our clients. • Strategy & Economics USA Primer & Guidebook on Asset & Infrastructure • Intelligent Transport Systems Recent projects Management Airports • Maritime & Coastal Australia • Vergara Pier Restoration, Chile • Pavement Engineering • Regional Rail Link, City to • Halton Transportation Masterplan, • Railways Maribyrnong Alliance, VIC Canada • Roads & Highways • Pacific Highway, NSW United Kingdom • Road Systems • Perth Gateway, WA • Swiss Federal Railways, Fleet • Supply Chain Logistics • Adelaide Superway, SA Asset Management • Tunnelling • Intermodal initiatives, • Doncaster to Water Orton rail • Transport Planning & Traffic Lincoln Gap, SA network Engineering • Northern Freight Corridor, NSW Case studies with the contractor, Carillion, to provide design management City East Alliance, Western Australia service. As the vital link between design and delivery, GHD is managing the development, review, submission and approval A 4.2 km stretch of Perth’s Great Eastern Highway is being of designs against a very tight programme of track possessions upgraded from four to six lanes with GHD’s assistance. Key whilst driving efficiencies and value engineering initiatives. improvements include a widened central median, on-road cycle facilities, continuous pedestrian paths and bus priority lanes. Michael Herbert Bridge, South Australia The City East Alliance, of which GHD is a member alongside A new traffic and pedestrian bridge designed by GHD is Leighton Contractors, NRW and Main Roads Western Australia, benefiting the community by providing safe and efficient access generated more than 100 qualifying innovations during the to the tourist destination of Glenelg in Adelaide. It has received costing phase of the project spanning technological, process, a Commendation in the Project Infrastructure Category of methodology and delivery improvements. This included the Engineers Australia’s 2012 Engineering Excellence Awards (SA). development of a 3D model of all underground elements which enabled collaborative development and reduced the project schedule by almost 18 months. Rebuilding Christchurch, New Zealand Following recent earthquakes, the Stronger Christchurch Doncaster to Water Orton (D2WO), United Kingdom Infrastructure Rebuild Team (SCIRT) is rebuilding resilient D2WO is the latest part of the UK rail network to be tackled as infrastructure. As one of the four lead design organisations, part of the gauge enhancement programme to clear the route GHD is providing concept and detailed design for roading for large container freight traffic. GHD is collaborating closely projects incorporating innovative techniques to fasten delivery. 16 | GHD 2012 Annual Review Our services GHD provides a comprehensive range of services to help our clients investigate, plan, develop, design, build, maintain and improve the natural, built and social environment of communities around the world • Air & Noise • Integrated Water Management • Tailings • Airports • Intelligent Transport Systems • Transport Planning & Traffic • Architecture • Interior Design Engineering • Asset/Facilities Management • Irrigation • Transport Strategy & Economics • Bridges • Land Development • Tunnels • Climate Change • Landscape Architecture • Waste Management • Communication Systems • Light Rail • Wastewater Collection Systems • Contamination Assessment & • Maritime & Coastal • Wastewater Treatment Remediation & Recycling • Materials Handling • Dams • Water Efficiency • Materials Technology • Drafting • Water Treatment & Desalination • Minerals Processing • Electrical Engineering-Building • Water Sciences • Mining Engineering • Electrical Engineering-Industrial • Water Transmission & Distribution • Mining Geosciences • Engineering Procurement & • Waterways & Coastal • Natural Resources Construction Management • Water & Wastewater Strategy (EPCM) • Pavement Engineering & Planning • Environmental Impact • Planning Assessments & Approvals • Plant Engineering To find out more about our services, visit www.ghd.com • Food Processing • Power Delivery or ‘like’ our Facebook page: • Forestry Management • Power Generation www.facebook.com/GHDGroup • Geology • Project Management • Geotechnical • Rail • Health, Safety & Environment • Renewable Energy (HSE) & Audits • Resource Evaluation • HVAC • Risk Management • Hydraulics-Buildings • Road Network Management • Hydrocarbons Processing • Road Systems • Hydrocarbons Transportation • Security • Hydrogeology • Spatial Sciences • Industrial Water & Waste • Stakeholder Engagement Management • Structural • Instrumentation & Control GHD 2012 Annual Review | 17 Achievements and awards Rankings Cotter Dam Discovery Trail GHD is ranked: 2012 Design Award Australian Institute of Landscape Architects • 37th in Australia’s Business Review Weekly Top 500 Private Companies Listing for 2012 Mardi-Mangrove Link Project Water Transfer Scheme • 41st in Engineering News Records’ (ENR) Top 150 • 2012 Infrastructure Excellence Award (Newcastle), Global Design Firms in 2012 Regional Communities Category Engineers Australia • 53rd in ENR’s Top 200 International Design Firms in • 2012 Award for Excellence (Newcastle), Highly 2012 Commended Engineers Australia • 8th in ENR’s global water market list in 2012 City East Alliance Leighton Contractors Western Australia Awards: • 9th in ENR’s international sewerage and waste market list in 2012 • 2012 Innovation Excellence • 16th in ENR’s Top 20 construction management/ • 2012 Safety & Health Excellence program management list (company of non-US origin) • 2012 Community Excellence • 2012 Environmental Excellence Recognition Gateway WA • Best waste consultant in Australia 2012 Inside Waste Magazine 2012 Award for Excellence (WA), Control Systems, Reports and Procedures Category Engineers Australia • 4th most attractive company to work for in Australia in 2012 Randstad Australia Glenfield to Leppington Rail Line • Recommended Spatial Employer in Queensland, 2011 Design Steering Group Safety in Design Award Australia in 2012 Spatial Industries Business Transport Construction Authority (NSW) Association’s Excellence Spatial Awards Health Screening Levels for Petroleum Hydrocarbons in • GHD 2011 Award for Enterprise Australian Business Soil and Groundwater Awards 2012 CEO Award Centre for Contamination Assessment • GHD Business School 2011 Be Inspired Special and Remediation of the Environment (CRC CARE) Recognition Award Australian Business Awards Horizon Alliance Australian Master Builders’ Brisbane Housing and Project awards Construction Awards: Australia • 2011 Innovation and Environment Management Award Alkimos Wastewater Treatment Plant Stage 1 • 2011 Sporting and Community Services Facility Award 2012 Award for Excellence (WA), Infrastructure and Highlands Source Project Buildings Category Engineers Australia 2012 Award for Excellence (Sydney), Regional Communities Broome North Category Engineers Australia 2012 Excellence Award, Hard Won Victory Category The Planning Institute of Australia 18 | GHD 2012 Annual Review This publication is printed at an ISO14001:2004 certified plant with Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification. Hoxton Park Recycled Water Scheme Stage 1 New Zealand 2012 Award for Excellence (Sydney), Infrastructure Kopane Bridge Replacement, Horizons Regional Category, Highly Commended Engineers Australia Council Melbourne Main Sewer 2012 Highly Commended Ingenium Award Association • 2012 Earth Award for Infrastructure Projects over of Local Government Engineering New Zealand AUD75 million Civil Contractors Federation Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment (Linton Military • 2012 Project of the Year (new installation) Australian Camp) Society for Trenchless Technology 2012 Western Architecture Award New Zealand Institute Michael Herbert Bridge of Architects Inc. 2012 Commended Award for Excellence (SA), Infrastructure TetraTrap Stormwater Catchpit Device, Auckland Category Engineers Australia Transport Reservoir West Primary School • 2012 Project Innovation Award International Water Association 2012 Steel Design Award, Buildings, Small Projects Category Australian Steel Institute • 2011 Arthur Mead Award for Environment and Sustainability, Institute of Professional Engineers SA Aquatic & Leisure Centre New Zealand • 2012 High Commendation Steel Design Award Australian Steel Institute The Americas • 2011 High Commendation Award (SA) Engineers Australia City of Santa Rosa Utilities Field Office • 2011 Design Award (SA) for the 10 m dive tower 2012 Outstanding Architectural Engineering Project of the Concrete Institute of Australia Year State Award (Region 9) American Society of Civil Engineers Water Atlas Otisco Lake Water Treatment Plant 2012 Service Provider Innovation Award Smart Water Fund 2012 Platinum Award, Resources Category American Council of Engineering Companies Excellence Awards Middle East Portland State University Campus (Infrastructure for Matajer Al-Quoz Project (Shopping Mall) Steam and Chilled Water Utilities) 2012 Leisure and Tourism Project of the Year (UAE) Middle 2012 Grand Award, Building/Technology Systems Category East Economic Digest Awards American Council of Engineering Companies Excellence Awards New Doha International Airport, Qatar 2011 Award for Safety Performance in a Long Term This is a small selection of GHD’s awards for 2012. Environmental Monitoring Program Overseas Betchel To view a complete list visit www.ghd.com/awards GHD 2012 Annual Review | 19 Sustainability at GHD 2012 WATER | ENERGY & RESOURCES | ENVIRONMENT | PROPERTY & BUILDINGS | TRANSPORTATION “Delivering quality services in balance with the evolving needs of the environ Ian Shepherd, CEO As one of the world’s engineering, architecture Policy and environmental consulting company Our Sustainability and Environment policy reflects GHD’s operating in the global markets of water, commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen. energy and resources, environment, property As a signatory of the United Nations’ Global Compact, GHD and buildings and transportation, GHD has adopted an established and globally recognised policy recognises the importance of sustainability to framework for the development, implementation and disclosure our business. of environmental, social and governance policies and practices. We actively collaborate with our clients, We contribute to the goals of sustainable development and are offering solutions to reduce energy committed to managing the social, economic and environmental consumption and greenhouse emissions; impacts of our operations, and assisting our clients to manage increase water efficiency; protect biodiversity theirs in the provision of our professional consulting services. and respond to community concerns. We recognise innovation as the key to realising this aspiration. Corporate responsibility Leadership GHD aims to enhance business success through our GHD provides technical leadership in many forums, focused contribution to sustainable development. We aspire to assist our on achieving sustainable outcomes for our clients’ projects. clients with their projects without compromising the environment We have a range of Service Line and Business Leaders to or impacting communities. We seek to make sustainability part assist our people and clients meet this objective. of every project, and continuously improve our operations to In addition, many of our people bring a wealth of experience reduce their impact and maximise positive outcomes. and unique skills, as well as a deep understanding of current and emerging technical issues to realise our clients’ Sustainability at GHD sustainable vision. For example, GHD’s Lynn Sorrell, was recently appointed as a judge for the ‘Keep Australia Beautiful GHD manages the sustainability of its operations through a National Sustainable Cities Awards’. In the USA, Howard Health Safety and Environment (HSE) management system LaFever, a Board Certified Environmental Engineer, chairs the certified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Standards nine-member board of directors of the newly-formed Institute OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. of Sustainable Infrastructure. This system includes processes to measure the impact of our operations according to ten sustainability indicators which are aligned to the Global Reporting Initiative’s C standard. Initiatives For example, in 2012, all new GHD offices require a minimum GHD in the Community building energy rating of 4.5 stars, while vehicle emissions For many years now, we have engaged in Corporate Social represent less than 5 percent of the company’s total emissions. Responsibility initiatives under the umbrella of our ‘GHD in the As the major impacts arising from GHD are related to our Community’ program. These include contributing to not-forclients’ projects, we are committed to: profit community organisations, supporting the volunteering activities of our people, providing pro-bono services and • Collaborate with our clients to define sustainability on their responding to natural disasters. terms, and aim to meet or exceed their goals. Since 2009, GHD has been the core donor for a safe • Provide assistance to manage the sustainability impacts of water, sanitation and hygiene initiative in Tanzania. Known our clients’ projects and businesses. as MSABI, this project uses local materials, local skills and • Equip our technical leaders with state of the art tools to adapted low cost technologies to install safe water points and help them develop innovative responses to our clients’ environmentally safe compost pit latrines. challenges. We are committed to assisting Indigenous and developing communities around the world. As part of our partnership with Engineering Without Borders, we help Indigenous communities in Australia and the USA improve water quality. And, we are providing employment opportunities to 14 Indigenous university students as part of our involvement with CareerTrackers in Australia. Every year, we lend our support to a range of vital causes including the Box Appeal (Middle East), Redwood Empire Food Bank (USA), Multiple Sclerosis Association, World Vision, Royal Flying Doctor Service, Movember and more. We contribute to initiatives to benefit schools in Australia and the Philippines, and disadvantaged communities in New Zealand and Nepal through Habitat for Humanity. ment and community is fundamental to our long-term performance.” Carbon Disclosure Helping deliver sustainable client projects In Australia, GHD has been accepted as a Carbon Disclosure Our vision is to assist our clients with innovative solutions and new Project (CDP) Silver Consultancy Partner. The CDP is an approaches to meet the challenges of sustainable development. independent not-for-profit organisation that has developed the largest database of corporate carbon disclosure information Water in the world. We are one of only five consultancy partners in Australia and are assisting clients wanting to report to the CDP. Our clients around the world are seeking to further understand water management issues. We have assisted in the delivery of For example, we have been engaged by PanAust Ltd to a range of projects that address all elements in the water cycle undertake a carbon baseline assessment for one of its mines in including: Laos. We will prepare a carbon information management plan to assist the organisation measure and report its Greenhouse Gas • Water loss management: GHD released an innovative (GHG) emissions to the CDP. Water Loss Management Toolkit that is helping water utilities minimise water losses. • Roadmap of Australia’s water future: Our team has Project Opportunity Assessment produced two industry reports for the Australian National Instead of identifying the ‘negative’ of impacts, we have Water Commission. The Australian Environmental Water developed a unique and powerful tool which focuses on Management Report 2012’ and companion ‘Framework highlighting ‘positive’ opportunities. This holistic approach is Criteria Report’ present a comprehensive roadmap of naturally aligned with our sustainability principles, and is used Australia’s current environmental water management from project inception. arrangements. The POA process often includes working with our clients to • Guidelines for energy and GHG: GHD has helped the Water develop innovations together. In one case, we identified a Services Association of Australia (WSAA) set a benchmark solution for a water authority, with a new pipe route saving on for energy and Greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting practices. capital and operating costs, thereby reducing energy use and • Phosphorus removal: In the Canadian City of Barrie, GHD impact from construction. has played a key role in helping investigate alternatives and develop recommendations for increasing phosphorus Innovation removal to meet reduced effluent limits under the Lake Throughout our history, GHD has focused on developing Simcoe Protection Plan. innovations to help our people deliver better results for our clients. Many of these directly impact sustainability, including: Energy & Resources • Innovation Interchange GHD is the principle supporter Worldwide, there is growth in energy demand as populations of the Innovation Interchange, an exclusive global increase and nations improve living standards. GHD is working business community that drives solutions to infrastructure with clients to: challenges. As part of our support, we provide technical • Reduce the reliance on fossil fuels, such as helping to and commercial advisory services to Technology Provider implement solar power sources in Hidden Valley Lake members. Community in Australia, Sonoma County in the USA • GHD Pump Efficiency Meter System Developed and (California), Napa New Technology High School (California), patented by GHD, this technology continuously monitors and the Bruce R. Thompson Courthouse in Reno, Nevada. water pump efficiency in real time. The system has the • Reduce Yap Island’s dependency on imported diesel fuel potential to save millions of dollars in wasted energy at for power generation, through expansion of renewable municipal water and wastewater facilities globally. power a combination of wind and solar technologies. • TetraTrap™ Developed to help Auckland City Transport • Help our mining clients with mine closure and rehabilitation achieve its environmental and sustainability goals, the plans. TetraTrap is a stormwater treatment device that prevents the entry of road pollutants to the city’s waterways and harbour. This low-cost, low-maintenance device has a projected asset life of 25 years, can be retrofitted and is proven to increase the capture of gross pollutants by 75 to 175 percent. It won the 2011 Arthur Mead Award for Environmental Sustainability and the 2012 Project Innovation Award from the international Water Association. • Integrated Water Management (IWM) Toolkit GHD has developed this award-winning water balance software tool, which helps stakeholders to assess the complex interrelationships between different quality source waters and end uses, to arrive at more holistic sustainable solutions. Environment GHD’s environmental professionals play a key role in each of our projects. We integrate these people into our design teams, so that our solutions incorporate social and environmental considerations at the outset. For example, our engineers and environmental scientists are helping to: • Remediate various sites including the former Gasworks in Toowoomba (Australia). • Rehabilitate a 66 acre watershed protection area in San Mateo County known as the Adobe Gulch Grasslands in California, USA. • Develop a low carbon strategy for the UK’s National Health Service (NHS). This multifaceted approach to carbon reduction is being implemented through the participation of numerous regional and organisational functional units, and targets a diverse range of emission sources. • Undertake a range of Environmental Impact Assessments. Our focus is to provide an integrated approach to EIA, working hand-in-hand with our designers and environmental specialists to find holistic solutions. Property & Buildings GHD is delivering on the vision that sustainability is a core feature of well designed buildings and cities and that the key to success is to ensure architecture, engineering, planning and sustainaibility services are integrated. Recent project that showcase this approach include our work to: • Renovate a building in downtown Syracuse in the USA to About GHD cater for students attending the Upstate Medical University. We delivered a range of design services, facilitated the LEED certification process and created a roadmap to guide GHD is one of the world’s leading engineering, the inclusion of sustainable concepts and processes into architecture and environmental consulting companies. the project. Established in 1928, GHD employs more than • Develop a large new urban area in Broome North, Western 6500 people across five continents and serves Australia. This master-planned residential area will provide clients in the global markets of water, energy and subdivisions, schools, public open space and commercial resources, environment, property and buildings, and development for around 15,000 people. Our people transportation. provided a range of services in the environment and hydrology areas including environmental advice during the The cornerstone of our business is our client-centred culture and teamwork based approach known as One development process and public consultation periods. GHD. Operating globally and delivering services locally, we are united by the core values of Teamwork, Respect Transport and Integrity. Sustainable transport is about finding ways to move the growing Wholly-owned by its people, GHD is dedicated to number of people and goods efficiently in ways that reduce the understanding and helping our clients achieve their impact on the environment. Rail is emerging as an opportunity goals. Our global network of engineers, architects, for our clients to reduce congestion and carbon emissions. planners, scientists, project managers and drafters collaborate to improve the built, economic and social GHD has played an integral role in: environment of the communities in which we operate. • The development of the Australian Green Infrastructure Council’s Infrastructure Sustainability (IS) rating scheme, GHD is committed to sustainable development, launched in 2012 which has been adopted by some major safety and innovation. We care for the wellbeing of our people, assist communities in need and conduct road projects. business in an ethical and environmentally responsible • Rebuiding Christchurch in New Zealand, following recent manner. earthquakes. As one of the four lead design organisations, GHD is providing concept and detailed design for roading GHD operates under a Practice Quality Management System, ISO 9001:2008 and an Environmental projects incorporating innovative techniques to speed Management System, ISO 14001:2004 which are delivery. certified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance. • Helping the UK rail network with its gauge enhancement program from Doncaster to Water Orton, which will clear For more information, visit www.ghd.com the route for large container freight traffic. Quality Policy GHD Group Quality Policy At GHD, we harness the experience and capability of our talented global network to become the preferred partner of our clients. Our goal is to position GHD as a leader in each of our global markets of water, energy and resources, environment, property and buildings, and transportation. Our people embrace a client-centred culture that actively nurtures and maintains industry networks, develops a comprehensive understanding of our clients’ businesses, cultivates longterm partnerships and fosters a collaborative environment. We are committed to the continual improvement of the effectiveness of our management system, which encompasses all professional services undertaken for our clients. We are proud of the fact that all operations within the GHD Group comply with ISO 9001. The overall objective of this policy is to accomplish more with our clients. Russell Board Ian Shepherd Chairman Chief Executive Officer March 2012 WATER | ENERGY & RESOURCES | ENVIRONMENT | PROPERTY & BUILDINGS | TRANSPORTATION HSE Policy GHD Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy At GHD, the health and safety of our people, clients, visitors and business partners are key priorities, as are the identification and management of our potential environmental impacts. We seek to create an outlook and culture in which HSE principles are front of mind and part of everyday business. We are committed to minimising injury and ill health, and to minimising our impact on the environment in order to achieve leading industry practice. With these goals in mind, the effective delivery of our services will be achieved through the development, implementation and ongoing review of a robust health, safety and environment (HSE) management system, comprising: • Objectives and measurable targets that promote a strong HSE culture • Defined responsibilities for our people including those that work on our behalf as subcontractors and subconsultants • Consultative mechanisms and proactive communication throughout the organisation • Risk management processes that exceed minimum compliance with relevant legal and non statutory requirements • Safety in design principles that encompass the full project lifecycle • HSE training to enable our people to safely undertake their work activities and ensure environmental impacts are managed • Incident management and injury rehabilitation • Monitoring and reporting performance against HSE indicators • Internal review for continual improvement We seek the cooperation of our people in satisfying their duty to health and safety, and the management of environmental impacts. We are committed to implementing continual improvement strategies and allocating resources in our drive towards risk minimisation and lasting HSE benefits to our stakeholders. Russell Board Ian Shepherd Chairman Chief Executive Officer March 2012 WATER | ENERGY & RESOURCES | ENVIRONMENT | PROPERTY & BUILDINGS | TRANSPORTATION Sustainability Policy GHD Group Sustainability Policy At GHD, we deliver innovative and responsible business solutions. We have a responsibility to ourselves, our clients, our business partners and present and future communities to embed sustainable practice in how we operate. For us, sustainability means: Developing our people We connect our people with a safe, diverse and rewarding career path. Our people feel valued and secure in their workplace. Contributing to our world positively We care by minimising our ecological impact through resource efficiency and nature conservation initiatives and by supporting communities through development and GHD in the Community Programs. Demonstrating good governance We commit to our values and policies. This is reflected in the way we manage our business and interact with our clients and our people. Managing our risk profile We understand our risk appetite and manage our business to maximise opportunities by identifying and managing material risks to an acceptable level in accordance with a risk management framework. Assisting clients in being We create opportunities for our clients to enjoy prosperity and more sustainable achieve sustainability goals with innovative ideas that embrace our sustainability principles. We have made a group-wide commitment to foster sustainable business practices which are enabled by: • Monitoring, reporting and verifying key business performance targets • Working with stakeholders across our supply chain to enhance sustainable business practices • Continuing to improve resource efficiency • Providing leadership through ongoing research and industry engagement Russell Board Ian Shepherd Chairman Chief Executive Officer March 2012 WATER | ENERGY & RESOURCES | ENVIRONMENT | PROPERTY & BUILDINGS | TRANSPORTATION Integrity Management Policy GHD Group Integrity Management Policy At GHD, we commit to ethical business behaviour in regard to both the internal conduct of our business and our engagement with external stakeholders and the public. The core values of Teamwork, Respect and Integrity will guide all our activities. We will only seek professional services work and participate in business transactions under high standards of corporate ethics and with complete integrity. We will act in the best interests of the client and community at all times, undertaking our services with professional integrity. We will not conspire with any party to defraud a client or any other party or act in an improper manner in our operations. An approach of ‘zero tolerance’ applies towards any unethical business practices. We foster an open environment in which our people can report any suspected, fraudulent or other improper practice without fear of reprisal. All reported incidents will be treated in confidence and investigated independently with appropriate follow-up. We will cooperate fully with external agencies investigating corrupt practices within any legal parameters. Russell Board Ian Shepherd Chairman Chief Executive Officer March 2012 WATER | ENERGY & RESOURCES | ENVIRONMENT | PROPERTY & BUILDINGS | TRANSPORTATION www.ghd.com
