United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Contents Introduction ..................................................................... 4 UNGC principles ............................................................... 5 Human rights ................................................................... 6 Labor ................................................................................ 8 Environment....................................................................12 Anti-corruption .............................................................. 15 Supporting our communities across the world ................. 16 The Communication on Progress 2012 provides brief highlights of actions that Ernst & Young is taking on a global basis to address UNGC principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Throughout the report, examples of actions that address UNGC principles in specific countries are provided. For more details on our efforts in countries around the world and additional actions demonstrating how we act on the UNGC principles, please go to our website: www.ey.com 2 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in professional services. Worldwide, our people in more than 140 countries are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. Globally, we provide services across four service lines — assurance, advisory, tax and transaction advisory — in 16 global industry sectors. Our combined global revenues were US$24.4 billion for the financial year ended 30 June 2012, compared with US$22.9 billion in 2011. We’ve grown our headcount to 167,000 — an increase of nearly 15,000 people over the course of the 2012 financial year. Read our Global Review to learn more about our financial performance and for further facts and figures about Ernst & Young. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 3 Responsibility and sustainability are integral to our business As a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services, we understand the impact that we have in communities around the world. Through the insights and service we deliver as an organization, we are helping to build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies across the world. Maintaining a responsible and sustainable business is fundamental to all that we do at Ernst & Young. In addition to the positive impact our core business provides to society, we are aware of the influence that our people have. We encourage their contributions to help communities thrive — this is primarily done though supporting entrepreneurs as engines of economic growth and strengthening the workforce of the future through educational initiatives. We support our people in their individual efforts to do this through formal programs and by creating the right culture. Part of this culture includes our membership in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We are pleased to submit our Communication on Progress (COP) 2012, which highlights the progress we have made in the past year, as well as ongoing initiatives. Further information can be found in our Global Review, Global Transparency Report and our Global Code of Conduct. James S. Turley Chairman and CEO, Ernst & Young 4 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 UNGC principles Our values define who we are. They are the Our culture is built on these values and also includes fundamental beliefs of our global organization. They our commitment to and membership of the United guide our actions and behavior. They influence the Nations Global Compact. You can read more way we work with each other — and the way we serve about how we uphold the UNGC principles our clients and engage with our communities. as an organization and as individuals on the We are: following pages. • People who demonstrate integrity, respect and teaming • People with energy, enthusiasm and the courage to lead • People who build relationships based on doing the right thing United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 5 Human rights UNGC principles: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our values define who we are and what we stand for, The Global Code of Conduct is overseen by the Global and our Global Code of Conduct provides a clear set of Executive and its delegates, who are responsible standards for our business conduct. Together with our for evaluating potential breaches, deciding on commitment to responsible and sustainable business, appropriate sanctions or remediation and monitoring they guide our support and respect for human rights. consistent application. Abiding by our Code of Conduct We strive to create an environment that encourages Our Global Code of Conduct provides each of us with our people to act responsibly, including reporting an ethical and behavioral framework to guide our alleged misconduct without fear of retaliation. response to the challenging and sometimes difficult The Global Code of Conduct can be found at choices we face to ensure we respect the human www.ey.com/GL/EN/home/Global-Code-of-Conduct rights of our people and our wider stakeholders. Ethics hotline It also reflects the commitments outlined in our We also have EY/Ethics, a global ethics hotline, to values. We ask everyone at Ernst & Young to make provide Ernst & Young people, clients and others a personal commitment to abide by our Global Code outside of the organization with a confidential of Conduct. In this way we treat each other and our means to report activity that may involve unethical stakeholders in a way we wish to be treated ourselves. or improper behavior that may be in violation of The section on working with others in the Global Code professional standards or otherwise inconsistent with of Conduct clearly states that: the Global Code of Conduct. EY/Ethics is operated by • No client or external relationship is more external organizations that provide confidential and, important than the ethics, integrity and if so desired, anonymous hotline reporting services reputation of Ernst & Young. for companies worldwide. • We reject unethical or illegal business practices in Global procurement policy all circumstances. Ernst & Young has a global procurement policy, applicable to all the member firms of the • We avoid working with clients and others whose Ernst & Young organization. In addition to standards are incompatible with our Global Code requirements for compliance with the rules of doing of Conduct. business in a responsible way and ensuring our • We recognize our responsibility as an organization independence when dealing with suppliers, this in playing an active and positive role in supporting procurement policy also requires that we evaluate the a successful and sustainable society. impact of our procurement decisions and encourage suppliers to support our sustainability initiatives. 6 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 Our procurement policy provides a separate Code of Conduct for our suppliers and includes: • Obligatory compliance with legislative requirements • Environmental risk management, including policy recommendations for minimizing resource and energy consumption, reducing waste production and implementing eco-friendlier technology • Compliance with human rights, particularly compliance with employee rights, ensuring a friendly working environment and zero tolerance to the exploitation of child workers and representatives of vulnerable groups • Equal opportunities policy, particularly nondiscrimination of employees or counterparties for any reason and equal treatment of suppliers based on transparent selection criteria • Occupational health and safety • Highest ethical standards and zero tolerance to any types of corruption, extortion, bribery or embezzlement • Contractors’ control of compliance with the provision of the code The Code also recommends that our suppliers increase their cooperation with local communities in order to promote these communities’ social and economic development. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 7 Labor UNGC principles: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. At Ernst & Young, our people are our greatest We give our people opportunities to develop diverse asset, and they underpin our reputation. By careers that can span different disciplines and instilling professional values through supporting and countries, to work on complex issues and to develop developing our people we continue to create a strong the skills to lead inclusively that will last them a people culture. It also allows our people to lead by lifetime. example and ultimately helps build stakeholder trust. If and when people choose to leave Ernst & Young, We need talented people performing at their best, and we don’t see this as an end to the relationship, just we need to bring these people together to create the the next stage. highest-performing teams. In turn, these inclusive, Our alumni represent a diverse global community, and high-performing teams will deliver exceptional service our different alumni programs around the world are for our clients all over the world in the most insightful, designed not only to keep this community connected connected and responsive way. We believe that to Ernst & Young and former colleagues, but also to whenever people join and however long they stay share knowledge and industry experience and keep with Ernst & Young, they will be given an exceptional people updated and informed about planned events experience that lasts a lifetime. and activities. As part of this approach we are committed to Encouraging diversity providing the best working environment for our Diversity means getting the right mix within our people. This not only covers practicalities such as workforce including differences in gender, ethnicity, health and safety but it’s also about creating a diverse national cultures, subcultures within countries, sexual and positive working environment. The tone is set orientation, disability and generation, among others. from the top — something our senior leadership is proud of. Inclusiveness for us is about the way we make that mix work. It’s about creating an environment where Here are some of the ways we are building a positive our people feel valued, are part of the community and empowering workplace: and are able to perform at their best. For us, this isn’t Our people culture a program. It is a way of thinking and operating that We are committed to building a leading people culture underpins everything we do, and it is one of our top everywhere in the world by including, engaging with business imperatives. and developing our people at each stage of their career. This relationship begins by recruiting people who are curious and entrepreneurial, who thrive in international teams and who have a global mindset. 8 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 “We have no equipment, no machinery, no fixed assets, no inventory; all we have are our ideas and our people. … Once you get to the stage where you value people and you value their ideas, it’s possible to think that the best ideas come in any shape, any size, any gender, any skin color, any sexual orientation, any anything.” James S. Turley, Ernst & Young Chairman and CEO We also publish various studies promoting diversity One example of a global initiative that will support this and inclusiveness. Recent examples include: work is our Messaging and Collaboration program. This will overhaul our technology capability, enabling • High achievers — recognizing the power of women people to connect with each other more easily to spur business and economic growth. than ever before. For example, videoconferencing To access this report, click here. will be possible from individuals’ laptops or mobile • Thinking big — how to accelerate the growth of devices with just a few clicks of a button, and cloud women-owned companies. To access this report, technology will support enhanced access to global click here. information, networks and knowledge. This means that our people will have more flexibility around where • Women of Africa — a powerful untapped force for and how they work and a greater ability to adapt their the continent. To access this report, click here. working patterns not only to their clients, but also Workplace of the Future (WOTF) their personal lives. We want our people to have balanced, well-rounded Creating learning and development lives because people are at the center of how we opportunities — EYU (“EY and you”) deliver our services to our clients. Given the global We are passionate about helping our people reach nature of how we operate across more than 140 their goals and achieve their potential. It’s another countries, we can’t decide for each individual what way of maintaining our leading people culture. that balance looks like because everyone has different needs. However, we do aim to create a WOTF that Ernst & Young is dedicated to providing employees enables flexible working and supports the health and with outstanding development opportunities for well-being of all our people. WOTF also aims to create professional growth, whether through formal learning an environment that encourages teaming and or by enhancing skills as part of on-the-job coaching. a culture where our people feel empowered. EYU supports employee development to help our people reach their goals, achieve their potential and Encouraging flexibility and choice make a difference to clients, business, communities All of our local management teams around the world and each other. are being asked to find ways to support and enable individuals to work independently in an informal We encourage all our people across the globe to capacity; to remove barriers to virtual teaming, to have career conversations throughout the year. adapt safety; health and environmental policies to These could be formal conversations (such as annual cover well-being and emergency care; and to find appraisals or client reviews). Our My Development opportunities to promote health and well-being in Site tool makes it easier for people to give, seek and an informal way. receive feedback on a peer-to-peer basis. This tool will be made available to teams around the world during 2013. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 9 We make sure that our people, no matter where Compensation they are in the world, will have access to high-quality We want our people to receive compensation that is formal learning through a tailored, structured highly competitive with local needs, the prevailing curriculum. We deliver learning in a variety of formats, employment market circumstances and relevant including virtual (web-based, videos, webcasts) and business conditions. We work hard to drive business face-to-face (case studies, lectures and simulations). results in all countries so that we can provide competitive remuneration packages to our people. In fiscal year 2012, our people took part in more Of course, we acknowledge that reward isn’t just than eight million hours of learning. about money; it’s about the career opportunities, Creating a global mindset the learning experiences, the culture and the Consistently, we find that our best teams are made working environment. up of a wide variety of individuals from a rich range Encouraging feedback of backgrounds and cultures. They use cross-cultural It’s also important for us to constantly track and strength to tackle multifaceted problems. Our measure progress on our commitments — it’s how people know from experience that the best way of we can keep improving. Feedback helps us do this. creating a truly fresh solution is to bring a real mix of perspectives and experiences to bear on the problem. Listening is important to us, and we do this in several The ability to work with and lead these teams in ways. The most significant is our Global People Survey the rapidly evolving workplace is a key competency (GPS), which we conduct every two years. You can required in all our people. see some of the results in our 2011 UNGC COP. This survey looks at how our people think As a result, it is imperative that we continue to Ernst & Young is doing. It contains questions relating develop people who demonstrate a global mindset to strategy and leadership, quality, recognition and and encourage diverse perspectives. We have several rewards, inclusiveness, development and corporate ways we support our people in order to strengthen a responsibility. global mindset. For example, we have a global cultural awareness tool, GlobeSmart, to help our people We also conduct “spot” surveys, polls and “pulse” before they travel internationally or if they surveys when we need quick information on particular are working on international teams. subjects, and we use qualitative methods, such as focus groups, when we need more in-depth feedback. Additionally, we have a number of milestone events These mean that our employees can give us their views that mark key points in our people’s careers — on hot topics in time for us to take speedy action. especially promotions. For example: Welcome to Ernst & Young, New Senior Program, New Manager/ Our Career Value Study that we are launching later Assistant Director Program, New Senior Manager/ this year asks our alumni and our “boomerangs” Associate Director Program and New Partner (people who have left Ernst & Young and subsequently Program. These events bring our people together in one location and encourage cross-border teaming and great networking opportunities in addition to skills-based workshops. 10 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 returned), as well as our current employees, for Some of our other awards include: their views on what adds value to their career at Ernst & Young. By asking this diverse group of • Equal Opportunity for Women in the people for their opinions on what makes a positive Workplace Award (Australia) or negative work experience, what attracted them to • MediaCorp’s Top 100 Employers 2010 Ernst & Young, why they might leave and, for alumni (Canada) and “boomerangs,” how their career progressed after leaving, we improve our understanding of what • Ernst & Young’s Professional Women’s our people want and expect from a career at Network and Working Parent Network Ernst & Young. recognized by Women in Business Leadership Awards (China) Feedback also comes in the form of a “thank you”, and our Values Awards are a great example of us • Universum top employer for business acknowledging some of our inspiring people around students (Germany) the world and recognizing their contribution to the • Europe’s top professional services organization and highlighting how they have “led by organization and the third most attractive example.” employer overall in Universum’s European Awards and recognition talent attraction index, Europe’s Most The World’s Best Multinational Workplaces top Attractive Employers 2012 25 rankings are based primarily on confidential • Randstad’s most attractive employer in surveys of employees, plus submissions made by the consulting sector (India) organizations about their policies and practices. In 2012, we were named the 12th best multinational to • Great Place to Work Institute’s Best work for by Great Place to Work — the only Big Four Companies to Work for (Mexico) organization in the top 25. • Great Place to Work Institute’s 50 Best Places to Work (UK) • Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to Work for 2011 (US) • Ranked fifth on DiversityInc’s list of the Top 50 Companies for Diversity (US) • Hispanic Business’ Top 60 Diversity Elite (US) United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 11 Environment UNGC principles: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Climate change issues now firmly on the • Insights: We regularly publish thought leadership boardroom agenda pieces on sustainability issues. A recent example Business leaders around the world now understand of our insights for clients is: Climate change and both the risks and opportunities their organizations sustainability: seven questions CEOs and boards face as a result of climate change. The results of should ask about ‘triple bottom line’ reporting. our recent survey, the Six Trends in Corporate To access the report click here. Sustainability, show the extent of this: For more examples of our thought leadership relating • 76% of survey respondents anticipated natural to sustainability, visit our Climate Change and resource shortages will affect their core business Sustainability Services website. objectives over the next 3 to 5 years. Measuring and reporting our carbon footprint • 65% of respondents stated their CFO has become We continue to build out our greenhouse gas involved in sustainability. To access the report measurement and reporting. Working with our click here. own in-house Climate Change and Sustainability Services professionals, we have established a global Helping clients and society methodology for calculating our environmental Our services not only help our clients achieve their impacts and continue to refine it. We are looking business objectives, but also have broader benefits for ways to evolve our methods and employ leading for society. For example: practices to make sure we have a credible global • Sustainability services: We help our clients footprint. In addition, we are working with our navigate their sustainability journeys. We stakeholders to lay the foundation for improved understand business and regulatory threats centralized data collection to streamline our work and opportunities, deliver strategy, explore and improve the quality of the energy and business commercial transactions, devise carbon travel data gathered. This will enable us to set management plans, monitor performance and meaningful goals and reduction targets across add rigor to public disclosures on progress. For the globe in the future. more information about our Climate Change and Additionally, we continue to globalize some of our Sustainability Services click here. core business functions (e.g., real estate, information • Cleantech services: From start-ups to large technology, travel, procurement). This allows us corporations to national governments, to improve the environmental sustainability of our organizations worldwide are embracing clean operations more consistently (e.g., our global real technologies as an engine of growth, efficiency, estate group is managing our physical footprint more sustainability and competitive advantage. This systematically around the globe to reduce energy service helps our clients and the environment usage in key locations, and global IT is installing as companies move to reduce their greenhouse Telepresence in key locations around the globe gas emissions and adopt cleaner operating and to reduce travel). Also, by engaging globally with production processes that consume fewer natural these groups, we have more ability to set global resources. For more information on our Cleantech environmental goals and measure progress. services click here. 12 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 Changing our behavior • Mexico’s EcoCare team spearheaded a At Ernst & Young, reducing our environmental reforestation campaign. Employees were given footprint is an element of our business strategy. seeds, containers and instructions for planting Nearly all of our carbon output comes from two their seedlings. sources — office energy consumption and business • In Toronto, the EcoCare team launched a travel — and so we have focused on increasing our zero-waste pilot project. The team introduced energy efficiency and promoting travel alternatives single-stream recycling at all desks and such as videoconferencing. We are also seeking to kitchens as well as organics composting, manage our waste more effectively. diverting 70% of waste from landfill. One of the key ways we encourage our people to make • Our Serbian team joined together with the small changes is through raising internal awareness. other Big Four organizations to create the For example: Green 4, driving local conservation and • Earth Hour: In 2013 our offices in Australia, environmental campaigns. New Zealand, China, Singapore, UK, US, Canada, • In India, our people have a tree planted Italy and Spain will participate in Earth Hour by to mark their birthday and increase their ensuring the minimum use of lighting. awareness of environmental issues. • EcoCare (Americas) is a network of more than • Through our collaboration with Earthwatch, 1,000 passionate Ernst & Young volunteers who We send our people “into the field” for a week constantly find new ways to make us greener. long expedition to conduct scientific research and • Environment Champions (UK): With volunteers provide skill-based volunteer services to a local in almost every UK office, our “environment entrepreneur/organization. champions” educate their peers about leading practices relating to travel, energy use and reducing waste. • Campaigns: Across the world, our people are supporting more environmentally friendly behavior. For example: • A “Green Week” aimed at educating our people runs in Croatia and UK. • Israel’s EcoCare team added new recycling bins to every floor of the Tel Aviv office and began using eco-friendly cleaning products. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 13 Raising environmental awareness in society • Australia — Ernst & Young is represented on We engage with universities and other organizations the boards of a number of Environmental as part of our commitment to raise environmental organizations including Greening Australia (Vic) awareness and support change. Ltd. an environmental organization working to protect and restore the natural landscape; The Our people are taking their experience to universities. Australian Conservation Foundation, a not-forFor example: profit that advocates for the environment; and • Japan — Our Corporate Responsibility Leader the Centre for Sustainability Leadership, which and Climate Change and Sustainability Services fosters leadership sustainability via an annual Leader for Japan, Kazutaka Okubo, is an active fellowship educational series. contributor to the public debate on how to curb • Netherlands — We chair the Dutch Sustainable greenhouse gas emissions. He’s been able to Growth Coalition (DSGC) to jointly drive and expand the reach of his message by teaching promote sustainable growth business models. courses on corporate responsibility in universities, The group, which consists of AkzoNobel, DSM, reaching more than 10,000 people each year. FrieslandCampina, Heineken, KLM, Philips, • Denmark — Since 2006 our people have taught Shell and Unilever, is supported by the Dutch 370 graduates of Environmental Management at Employers Federation VNO-NCW and facilitated by the Technical University. We also have a seat on Ernst & Young. The DSGC was announced at the the faculty. World Economic Forum in Davos (January 2012) by Jan Peter Balkenende, Partner, Ernst & Young We have joined forces with other organizations to Netherlands, chair of the DSGC, and former drive change. For example: Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Using our skills in the mangroves The importance of mangroves Our 2011 COP featured our collaboration with These “rainforests of the sea” play a vital role in the Earthwatch, which sees our volunteers use their lives of many varieties of fish and nesting birds and time and skills to undertake scientific research and, can help to mitigate storm damage to shorelines. separately, to help local businesses. Currently, these forests make up less than 1% of In 2012 we added a new program in Australia to tropical forests worldwide and are one of the most complement our existing programs in India, Brazil, threatened ecosystems in the world. Despite their Costa Rica and Japan. Our team of professionals sparseness in the environment, these ecosystems brought their business skills to support the sequester vast amounts of greenhouse gases in MangroveWatch organization by creating a strategic mangrove sediments, salt marshes and sea grasses. framework for a regional network of mangrove restoration and conducting research projects in the Daintree River region of far North Queensland, Australia. 14 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 Anti-corruption UNGC principle: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. At Ernst & Young, we have robust internal We also work with external networks and groups mechanisms in place to tackle corruption, to raise awareness to fight corruption. As a global extortion and bribery. For example: business leader, we join with organizations like the World Economic Forum and Transparency • Our Global Code of Conduct provides a clear International to help find ways to address the set of standards that guides our member firms’ social and economic challenges of our time. actions and business conduct. Member firms comply with applicable laws and regulations, We are a signatory to the World Economic Forum and our values underpin our commitment to Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). PACI’s do the right thing. This important commitment mission is to develop multi-industry principles and is supported by Ernst & Young policies and practices that will result in a competitive and level procedures covering anti-bribery, gifts and playing field based on integrity, fairness and ethical hospitality, procurement, business relationships, conduct. It is a platform for companies to commit consortia and subcontracting arrangements, and themselves to develop, implement and monitor independence. their anti-corruption program through peer network meetings and provision of private-sector-driven • Our member firms are complying with the support tools. requirement of the EU 8th Directive that statutory auditors of EU public-interest entities publish We are one of approximately 170 organizations an annual transparency report. As strong that have committed to strengthening efforts to advocates of transparency, we have extended counter corruption and bribery through PACI. These this by publishing a global report that provides companies have signed a statement supporting an overview of our global governance and quality the PACI Principles for Countering Bribery. These standards. principles call for a commitment to two fundamental actions: a zero-tolerance policy toward bribery • Our global approach strengthens our ability and the development of a practical and effective to establish and execute on global policies and implementation program. For more information, practices that raise the bar for service quality. please click here. Our range of global tools and processes supports our people in evaluating, accepting and serving For additional information, see our independence the right clients with the right services. These practices on pages 20 and 21 of the Global tools include GTAC, our Global Tool for Client Transparency Report 2012. To access the report, Acceptance and Continuance, and SORT, our click here. Service Offering Reference Tool, which allow people to quickly assess which services can be delivered to our audit and non-audit clients. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 15 Supporting our communities across the world As noted, our commitment to strengthening our communities and economies can be seen through our focus on supporting entrepreneurs as engines of economic growth and strengthening the workforce of the future through educational initiatives. Supporting entrepreneurship We help them achieve their goal of transforming emerging economies by providing access to our We know that entrepreneurs can transform resources and knowledge. This includes our people economies, drive innovation and change communities. volunteering to work with Endeavor entrepreneurs, However, there are smaller-scale entrepreneurs providing their technical expertise and helping them worldwide who might not be able to easily access accelerate their businesses. capital, let alone professional services. These include smallto medium-size enterprises, women Specific ways that we work with Endeavor include: entrepreneurs lacking a network to help them grow, • We are part of their international selection panels young entrepreneurs and social entrepreneurs identifying businesses to support. building a business to benefit the marginalized and • We give some of our high performers the the poor. opportunity to make a difference, build their skills In the industrialized world, entrepreneurial and develop their global mindset by spending five businesses create more jobs proportionally than to seven weeks “in the field” working with the businesses. large, established firms. For example, top-performing start-ups are responsible for 40% of the new jobs • We’ve supported businesses in 12 emerging created in the US. In the developing world, there may economies: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, be no large, established firms nearby to offer formal El Salvador, Jordan, Lebanon, Mexico, employment, so entrepreneurial firms, which include Nicaragua, South Africa, Turkey and Uruguay. 90% of all businesses, often represent an area’s only • We developed a “Finance for Exceptional hope of lifting itself out of poverty. Enterprises” course that offers technical insights to Endeavor entrepreneurs. Helping these entrepreneurs is one of the most • We provide virtual mentoring and project powerful ways that our people at Ernst & Young development support. can support our communities. By working with organizations like Endeavor, Kiva and the Network For Accelerate Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE), we are improving A new program for 2012, Accelerate, a learning the lives of an ever-widening circle of people who forum, conceived and developed by our people in work for, sell to and are served by their businesses. Ernst & Young UK&I, provides skilled support to social and young entrepreneurs through a series of Here are few of our initiatives: workshops and mentoring. All the business leaders Endeavor come via key relationships we have with not-for-profit We know there is a direct link between levels of organizations. employment and poverty, particularly in emerging Eighty-eight percent of attendees tell us their markets. This is a key reason to work with Endeavor, “on-the-job” performance will improve after attending a not-for-profit organization working with fast-growth Accelerate. entrepreneurs in emerging markets, helping them The structure is tailored, so whether attendees are be a force for positive economic and social change, beginners or advanced, our people have thought creating jobs, driving innovation and revitalizing about their unique needs. We facilitate access to communities by creating jobs and wealth. 1:1 support, including Ernst & Young business Endeavor-supported businesses experience an advisors, co-mentoring by clients/Ernst & Young average growth rate of 59% in the first two years of and Entrepreneur Of The Year alumni mentors, and engaging with Endevor. we also run networking events and secondment opportunities. 16 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 United Nations GlobalGlobal Compact Exchange — Communication Program on Progress 2012 17 Network For Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE) We have provided support in: Belgium, Chile, China, Ernst & Young people support NFTE’s goal of Colombia, Germany, India, Israel, New Zealand, bringing entrepreneurship education to low-income Saudi Arabia and the US, with others in the pipeline. teenagers at risk of dropping out of school. Working Kiva with students from disadvantaged backgrounds, the Kiva is a nonprofit organization with a mission to program helps them see the relevance of their studies connect people through lending money to alleviate as they learn skills in key subject areas alongside poverty. Using the internet, Kiva encourages business and financial planning. individuals to lend as little as US$25 to entrepreneurs NFTE has been operating for 25 years, providing from emerging economies around the world. entrepreneurship education programs to more than Kiva works with microfinance institutions on five 450,000 young people in 10 countries who often continents to provide loans to people without have no other support or opportunities. access to traditional banking systems. The loans get administered locally by microfinance institutions, and Mentored by Ernst & Young employees, the students a loan is made on Kiva’s website every four seconds — in the program learn about the relevance of their changing millions of lives. school studies as they create business plans for their ideas and compete in classroom, city-wide We’re proud to help Kiva through our professionals and national competitions. contributing their time to drive projects designed to assist Kiva track its flow of funds and organize Our people volunteer their time — judging business and check information surrounding its activities plan competitions, mentoring students and teaching with borrowers and lenders. We have committed to the NFTE curriculum. We’re also proud to have: providing US$1m of value to Kiva. • Created the Entrepreneur Of The Year Alumni In 2012 we began to embed activities with Kiva into Fund, pledging to match US$300,000 in our cross-border training events, to raise awareness donations to NFTE in honor of Entrepreneur Of among our people of our work with Kiva and raise The Year award winners. funds to support micro-entrepreneurs. • Honored young NFTE entrepreneurs at The Next 36 Program Ernst & Young Entrepreneur Of The Year Awards This program, helping to launch the careers galas across the world, by giving an award of of Canada’s most promising undergraduate US$1,000. entrepreneurs, was introduced in 2011. The program • Made 17 scholarships available for successful identifies students through a rigorous national students (at least US$7,500 each) in the US. selection process and provides them with the • A partner from within the Ernst & Young academic foundation, practical skills, role models organization serves on every one of NFTE’s and networks to become Canada’s next generation Regional Advisory Boards across the US, and we of entrepreneurial leaders. are aiming to have an Ernst & Young partner on As these young leaders continue to push their every NFTE affiliate board around the world. boundaries, gain skills vital to entrepreneurship, • Maria Pinelli, our Global Vice Chair, Strategic and build their expectations of themselves and the Growth Markets as Chair of the NFTE board. businesses they hope to create, our people are there every step of the way to mentor and coach, facilitate networks, and provide financial support through our Ernst & Young offices across Canada. 18 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 “By providing the right information, networks and guidance, we’re able to help these talented women access capital, identify strong business advisors and put the processes in place to radically expand their companies. Businesses involved in the program have had average annual revenue growth of 49% and average annual job growth of 26%.” Kerrie MacPherson, Partner, Ernst & Young LLP and Entrepreneurial Winning Women Americas Executive Sponsor Empowering inspiring women The program: Women make up half the population yet are not • Identified 30 girl learners (3 from each of equally represented in society. Economically 10 participating schools) who are in grades empowering women can have a long-term positive 10 to 12 and have shown latent potential effect. • Gave a three-part experience, consisting of three Women own around 40% of the world’s privately “leadership camp” — style courses: My Continent, owned businesses. Women typically invest a My Africa; The Leader in Me; and Can Do staggering 90% of their income back into their families • Provides a mentor — an Ernst & Young leader who and communities. provides individualized coaching Ensuring that girls are educated to the same level as • Invited guest speakers who are leaders in their boys in developing countries means that the world’s fields to share their experience economy could be improved by a massive US$92 billion a year. We are confident that this will create a network of innovative, socially conscious leaders with a passion for the continent’s development. For us, it’s not about Here are few of our initiatives ... setting them up for today but for many years to come, so they can ultimately reinvest in their families and Helping women shape the future of a continent communities. Africa has one of the fastest economic growth rates and highest returns on investment in the world. Entrepreneurial Winning Women (EWW) There are, however, hurdles to overcome. While From our 25 years of experience with Entrepreneur women represent 49% of our workforce across Africa, Of The Year, we noticed not enough women were making a powerful contribution to the success of represented at the highest levels of achievement. our organization, on average only about one-third of We know experienced role models and access to women participate in economic activity across the business-building networks are critical for women continent. We believe that the continent cannot reach entrepreneurs, and this program is designed to its potential with half its resources untapped — we see deliver just that. Through EWW, Ernst & Young great possibility in the economic force that women in identifies a select group of women entrepreneurs Africa could represent, if nurtured and developed. with established, successful businesses and clear Economic studies show a strong relationship growth goals. The program provides introductions to between gender equality in a country and the level of an influential network of entrepreneurs, corporate development that the country experiences. leaders, investors and advisors, as well as potential partners, strategic alliances, customers and suppliers With this at the forefront of our minds, Ernst & Young who can help the entrepreneurs think bigger and scale Africa’s Next Gen Program looks to tap into the their companies. potential of women by backing young girls who will be future leaders. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 19 Tradition in modern times — an Indonesian Lisa is listed in the 100 most powerful women EWW story in Indonesia, receiving many awards for having outstanding and exemplary achievements in Lisa Mihardja created Alleira Batik in 2005 and entrepreneurship. She has also supported and successfully turned the traditional fabrics of batik developed communities through Alleira Batik by into modern and trendy clothes. Now with providing much-needed employment, especially for 42 boutiques all over Indonesia, Alleira Batik is women who now create handicrafts from leftover penetrating international markets like Singapore, fabrics. This is helping to provide income and Malaysia and Australia. development opportunities to many and ensuring traditional craftsmanship continues. The program has been rolled out in several countries, We are sole sponsors of the Canadian Board Diversity including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Indonesia and the Council, which is helping women and those of diverse US. We’re planning to roll out in Hungary, across our background to “break through”. Through council Middle East/North Africa (MENA) region practices, meetings held at Ernst & Young in 2012, 47 leading and in South Africa and Ukraine soon. CEOs and directors have been engaged in tackling challenges related to increased board diversity. Supporting Women in Canada In Canada we continue to support and sponsor Involvement in women’s civic and business initiatives that promote women and diversity. organizations For example, we sponsor and provide support to Many people across Ernst & Young have taken leading WeConnect where we are founding members; TRIEC, roles in a variety of women’s civic and business an immigrant mentoring program that includes organizations that campaign around the women’s minority women; The International Women’s Forum; agenda, such as the International Council for and Minerva Foundation. Women Business Leaders. 20 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 “Over the next decade, the impact of women on the global economy — as producers, entrepreneurs, employees and consumers — will be at least as significant as that of China’s or India’s one-billion-plus populations, if not greater. If women’s economic potential can be successfully harnessed and leveraged, it would be the equivalent of having an additional one billion individuals in business and in the workforce contributing to the global economy. It’s for this reason that Ernst & Young has been involved in the Third Billion global campaign, which unites governments, NGOs, corporations, youth and others to partner toward ensuring women’s access to legal protection, education and training, finance and markets.” Beth Brooke, Ernst & Young Global Vice Chair of Public Policy United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 21 Supporting the workforce of the future Smart Futures Launched in 2012, our Smart Futures Program is Through skills-based volunteering, our people help a series of experiences designed to unlock career young students access or continue in education and opportunities for ambitious and motivated young stay on track in order to get the skills and experience students from some of London’s most underserved needed in the workplace. While it makes a big boroughs. difference to the lives of young people, it also helps to develop skills and creates a world of opportunities Young students selected by Ernst & Young UK&I for the next generation of workers. have the opportunity to develop their skills and business knowledge. It’s a great way for us to engage with young people as they consider their Here are few of our initiatives ... work and life options. Pathways to Education A key part of the program is to provide students with Every year, thousands of Canadian students make three weeks of paid experience at our London offices. the life-altering decision to drop out of high school. After their time with us, all the students are offered a In some of the country’s most vulnerable Smart Futures coach from Ernst & Young. The coach neighborhoods, more than 50% of students do provides unique support and encouragement through not graduate high school. the student’s final school year — at a time when those Pathways to Education helps youth in low-income all-important decisions about higher education and communities graduate from high school and careers are being made. successfully transition into post-secondary education. College MAP It provides a comprehensive set of academic, financial The College Mentoring for Access and Persistence and social support to young people. (MAP) program targets economically challenged high Ernst & Young people volunteer with Pathways to school students who have the potential to succeed Education as mentors to help break down systemic in college but need some extra help creating the barriers to education. Specifically, we connect with “MAP” that will take them there. We work with College students through mentorship via email, in-person For Every Student (CFES), a nonprofit organization tutoring after school and/or group mentoring after committed to raising the academic aspirations of school. underserved youth so that they can prepare for, This program has reduced high school dropout rates gain access to and succeed in college. CFES has by as much as 70% and increased the rate at which helped more than 100,000 underserved youths youth go on to college or university by up to 300%. in 540 schools. For more information on this initiative please click here. 22 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 Through a national team-mentoring program, Increasing access to education in India Ernst & Young mentors (of all levels, backgrounds Many programs driven out of Ernst & Young India and service lines) are matched with groups of local seek to break long-term cycles — whether it’s cycles of high school students for monthly sessions focused on: poverty, manual labor or dependency — by supporting the education of the country’s young people. • Awareness — exposing students to different college opportunities and the lifelong benefits For example: of higher education • Employees can sponsor a child that they know, • Financial readiness — demystifying the process of and their contributions are matched by applying for financial aid and paying for college Ernst & Young. Some employees support up to 10 children through Ernst & Young India’s Student • Persistence — providing personal support and Scholarship Program, which currently supports coaching on the life skills that will help a student 2,300 children — most of whom would be unable stay in and complete a four-year degree to access education due to poverty. Since 2011, we have expanded College MAP, which • The Ernst & Young India Foundation’s work is now delivered in 14 American cities, with further with the Srinivasan Services Trust (SST) has expansion planned. For more information on this helped to scale up SST’s village development initiative please click here. model. By funding 12 villages on a pilot basis TEAM Program it will provide empowerment for women, allow This program has been seed-funded, developed and access to education for children and deliver basic piloted by our Ernst & Young people across Australia. necessities like water so as the village The aim of TEAM is to encourage young high can continue to sustain a model. The plan is to school students to continue with mathematics and cover 500 villages over the next 5 to 7 years. technology, subjects that students are dropping out of • We’ve reached 75,000 children via Toon Masti at a historically high rate and that are key indicators — animated educational lessons — created by of future employability. Our people are involved working together with the Indian Government. through mentoring students. The animated content has been distributed to The program is now being offered to a large number all primary schools across the state of Haryana. of corporations across Australia to participate in • Ernst & Young Foundation works with the next year. Dr. Reddy’s Foundation (DRF) to fund 14 vocational centers as DRF moves towards creating a sustainable model. The students are funded through soft loans repayable after they become gainfully employed. • We fund the Ensuring Children Learn Program run by the Naandi Foundation in 200 primary schools, covering approximately 10,000 children. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 23 UK: Social Business Trust (SBT), a partnership of seven worldclass businesses, supports UK social enterprises capable of scaling up their operations on a regional and national level: its goal is to help transform the impact of social enterprises and improve the lives of over a million of the UK’s most disadvantaged people. We are committed to providing £2 million worth of support to SBT through a combination of professional expertise and growth capital over a five year period. AMERICAS: We are working together with Public Broadcasting Services (a nonprofit organization) on the series Cyberchase, which builds math and problem-solving skills in children aged 8 to 11 with a curriculum translated into French, Hebrew, Portuguese and Spanish and rolled out in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile and Israel. Community initiatives across the world COLOMBIA: Our Ernst & Young Business BRAZIL: We support and organize Development Center delivers education English and Portuguese classes for programs for high-impact entrepreneurs. hearing impaired young people, The program provides weekly seminars supporting their educational to 50 entrepreneurs on strategy and development and equipping them planning, finance management, process with key skills. Over 500 hours optimization, cost cutting, tax planning of activities (classes and cultural and reporting, and marketing and activities) will be provided as part communications. of our three-year commitment. 24 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 THE NETHERLANDS: Our people share SWEDEN: We work with Rinkebyakademien, their skills with entrepreneurs, coaches, an organization that helps minimize the gap investors, business angels and SME service between school and working and supports providers through our collaboration with disadvantaged teenagers, often from Business in Development (BiD) Network, immigrant families. Our people volunteer, which focuses on high-growth businesses/ helping teach students about business planning entrepreneurs based in developing countries. and broadening their understanding of their options in the working world. UKRAINE: We support the Leadership Development Seminar (LDS), a leadership and proficiency development seminar held by AIESEC, because we believe JAPAN: The leaders’ by involving youth in social meeting for reconstruction initiatives we increase the level is our collaboration program of social responsibility of future with Keio University. We entrepreneurs. support and deliver a leadership training program for young leaders. The focus includes broad leadership trends and issues. Attendees include young leaders from NGOs, governments, universities, businesses and media. CHINA: 436 of our professionals donated HK$1.7 million in the form of tuition for 166 underprivileged students as part of our China Student Sponsorship campaign in 2012. INDIA: Developed in-house, the AUSTRALIA: Adding to our six Samarth Program raises the selfcurrent educational programs confidence of schoolchildren aged focused on improving educational 15-16 years. Our people work outcomes for disadvantaged young closely with students through role people (as members of Australian playing, group activities and games Business Community Network), over two and half weeks. Now in we also developed and delivered a its second year, the program has Leadership Program for School and reached 2,500 students, trained 23 Vice Captains in four disadvantaged trainers and delivered courses in 7 schools in Sydney, collaborating with different languages across 7 cities. other major corporate organizations. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 25 26 United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 Learning more about our efforts in the community Being a responsible and sustainable business is at the To learn more about our efforts in communities across heart of our organization. Every one of our people the world, click here. and partners plays a role in helping to build a better For more information on the content in this report working world. please contact: This COP provides a snapshot of our efforts in the Nicky Major, community to help build a better working world. If you Ernst & Young Global Corporate Sustainability Leader, would like to learn about the efforts from some of our nmajor@uk.ey.com. practices around the world in more detail, please visit www.ey.com for sustainability/corporate responsibility reports from: Americas, Brazil, Canada, EMEIA Financial Services, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Nordics, Russia/CIS, Switzerland, Ukraine. United Nations Global Compact — Communication on Progress 2012 27 Ernst & Young Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. Worldwide, our 167,000 people are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by helping our people, our clients and our wider communities achieve their potential. Ernst & Young refers to the global organization of member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit www.ey.com. © 2013 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. DU0014 This publication contains information in summary form and is therefore intended for general guidance only. It is not intended to be a substitute for detailed research or the exercise of professional judgment. Neither EYGM Limited nor any other member of the global Ernst & Young organization can accept any responsibility for loss occasioned to any person acting or refraining from action as a result of any material in this publication. On any specific matter, reference should be made to the appropriate advisor. ED None
