poverty reduction through sustainable business Swedfund’s sustainabilityand annual report 2012 swedfund 2012 33 COUNTRIES in which swedfund has portfolio companies 90 INVESTMENTS IN THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 9 NEW INVESTMENTS 8 COMPLETED INVESTMENTS 91 INVESTMENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR Production: Swedfund and Global Reporting 2013. Text: Swedfund and david isaksson/global reporting. Graphic design: Lisa Jansson/Global Reporting. cover photo: sven torfinn/panos pictures. 2 | swedfund printed sustainability by modin tryckoffset 2013. report 2012 table of contents statement by the managing director …….....................…................................ 4 SWEDFUND – A DEVELOPMENT FINANCE INSTITUTION (DFI).................................... 8 SWEDFUND’S STRATEGY, SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS AND PERFORMANCE REPORT. 18 OUR CORE VALUES AND POLICies ............................................….............................. 20 RISK MANAGEMENT ………….………………..........................…................................... 25 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND RESPONSIBILITY …...........….................................... 31 OUR INVESTMENTS ……………....……………..........................…................................. 36 PERFORMANCE REPORT ON the INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO .....….............................. 45 SWEDPARTNERSHIP …………………………..........................….................................... 54 about this REPORT ………........…............................................................................ 56 GRI/COP-INDEX ..........…………….…………..........................….................................... 58 DIRECTOR’S REPORT ….………….........................................….................................... 60 corporate governance REPORT .…………........................................................... 66 The Board’s report on internal control in financial reporting ............….......................................................................... 69 financial result ….….............…........................................................................... 70 Board of Director’s, md’s and auditors attestation ................................... 88 Appendices: Owner’s intructions …...……....................................................................... 89 List of portfolio companies ....................................................................... 90 Swedpartnership, list of projects .......................................................... 92 Technical Assistance, TA, list of projects ............................................. 93 Abbreviations and glossary ....................................................................... 94 10 years in brief ............................................................................................ 95 Auditor’s report ….……..........................................…........................................... 96 Auditor’s report on review of sustainability report ................................. 97 Board of Directors and management ............................................................... 98 swedfund 10 years in brief ................................................................................. 99 swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 3 statement BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR Swedfund 2.0 – poverty reduction through sustainable business A new Swedfund is taking shape. During the Ekonomisk Utveckling (only in Swedish) in which we year the new Board of Directors has issued three economic outlooks during the last year. clarified Swedfund’s mission and role as a Our investment portfolio included 91 (90) investments Development Finance Institution (DFI), at the end of the year. The value of the portfolio before and set out the strategy for the company. write-downs totalled SEK 2.7 (2.6)1 billion. Thirteen of Private sector development, sustainability and financial the investments are joint financing within the frameviability are the cornerstones of the new Swedfund. By work of European Financing Partners (EFP). Four of investing in sustainable, financially viable companies, the investments are joint investments within the among others, manufacturing and energy, Swedfund framework of Interact Climate Change Facility. contributes to creating new job opportunities, increasDuring the year we participated in 9 (7) new investing tax revenues and transferring knowledge and new ments and exited 8 (10). The contribution of our techno­logies, thus contributing to positive social portfolio companies is vital to the development of the development in many poor countries. We firmly believe private sector, particularly through job creation in the that this is the key to creating opportunities that respective countries, and we in Swedfund continue to improve the quality of life for poor people. develop our ESG expertise in order to help companies Swedfund’s investments are a part of Swedish develgrow in a sustainable way for as long as possible. opment cooperation; just one of its many instruments. Despite the generally positive picture, the result for the We do not conduct our business isolated from the year was negative. The main reason lies in some others. Nor is there only one solution to the poverty investments, mainly Vietstar and Raffia, that have issue. On the contrary, many different interventions are made a negative impact on our result due to writerequired. Collaboration between the various actors is a downs. This means that in the coming years the prerequisite in achieving the goals of Swedish developcompany will be unable to achieve the long-term ment cooperation. Civil society organisations are financial objectives (although some years generate a necessary, as are the development funds channelled positive financial result), something which I made clear through the Swedish International Development in my introduction to the 2011 Sustainability and Annual Cooperation Agency (Sida) and multilateral organisareport. tions. Entrepreneurship and business development are However, looking at the long-term results, I am equally important. optimistic, especially in light of the developments now Collaboration with other Development Finance taking place in sub-Saharan Africa. The private sector Institutions has been strengthened during the year and in sub-Saharan Africa is attracting increasingly more we have stepped up our participation in EDFI (Euroinvestments and a greater share of the capital now pean Development Finance Institutions) and particicomes from domestic banks and investors. Despite pated in several joint poverty reduction investments. foreign investment capital having increased over the We monitor and analyse emerging and developing past decade, the levels are nonetheless still low commarkets, and publish findings in our newsletter pared to, for example, the BRIC countries (Brazil, 4 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 1 Of the portfolio value, SEK 0.8 billion were written down. Russia, India, China). One likely explanation is that companies and investors still see sub-Saharan Africa as a very difficult and inaccessible region. All too often the region is seen as a single country, not as a region with roughly fifty countries. It is important that we can pass on the knowledge about the opportunities that exist in many sectors in order to get more companies to invest in the region. The challenges are huge. The International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Jobs Study shows that in the coming decades, 600 million new jobs will be needed, most of which will have to be created in Africa and Asia while remaining at current levels of unemployment. Nine out of ten jobs are in the private sector and 66 per cent of all jobs are in small and medium-sized enterprises. photo: Swedfund Generally, the trend is clear. The region south of the Sahara is heading towards an economic “take-off”. However, there are a number of challenges that the countries must overcome to get where China and India are today. Above all, the countries must reduce their dependency on extractive industries and instead with professional staff into a professional organisation diversify their production structure. To diversify their with clear mechanisms and quality assurances has been economies, human capital must be developed and set. We are undergoing change to improve our mechaservices improved, and they have to tackle the issue of nisms, procedures and quality assurance in line with corruption. our defined policies. Africa is no longer a hopeless continent. Behind I am happy to confirm Swedfund’s support to the armed conflicts, democracy and poverty issues lies a UN Principles for Responsible Investment and the ten continent with vast amounts of natural resources and a principles of the UN Global Compact with regard to middleclass that is already bigger than in India. If you human rights, fundamental labour rights, environment want to get involved and influence developments, and anti-corruption. In this, our first Communication contacting Swedfund is a good first step. We are on Progress, we describe how we are integrating increasing our geographical presence towards countries Global Compact’s ten principles in our strategy, culture south of the Sahara. With our many years’ experience and daily operations. It is important for us to share of investments and entrepreneurship in Africa, we are information with our stakeholders in this way and to very well placed to help business partners in the region. intensify the ongoing dialogue. Our role as a Development Finance Institution In our evaluations we prioritise investing in projects (DFI) makes us additional. We can participate in that have the potential for significant development investments that otherwise would not have taken impact. By engaging in corporate governance and place. Thereby, we are able to make a difference and environmental and social issues, we are not only contri­ contribute to more and better investments in developbuting to the development of the company, but also to ing countries by taking on higher risks and costs than private sector development and poverty reduction. most private investors would. By demonstrating that it is possible to make profitable investments in poor Stockholm, March 2013 countries, Swedfund can serve as a catalyst for others. To make sustainable poverty reduction possible, the private sector has to develop. Our mission is to contribute to this. Anders Craft The goal of turning Swedfund from an organisation Acting Managing Director swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 5 6 | lima cape town swedfund sustainability report 2012 photo: Abbie Trayler-Smith /panos pictures nairobi new delhi photo: Jacob Silberberg/panos pictures beijing A day in the global market photo: istock photo: johan resele/global reporting photo: julia björne/global reporting photo: Abbie Trayler-Smith /panos pictures photos: swedfund photo: Kenna Love/getty images swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 7 photo: Loungepark/getty images Swedfund – A DEVELOPMENT FINANCE INSTITUTION (DFI) Mission exchangeable requirement. Our model of, and approach Swedfund’s mission is to contribute to poverty reducto, sustainable business is detailed in the adjacent figure. tion through sustainable business. The company’s role as a Development Finance Institution focuses on Private Sector Development partly consists of the development of the private sector in low and middleeffects that our investments have on the development income countries, particularly countries south of the of a country’s private sector and partly on the impact Sahara. Low-income and post-conflict countries are a on the society as a whole. Private sector development is priority. The goal of the company mirrors the goal of in areas such as the provision of better and cheaper Swedish international development cooperation in products and services, increased competition and the helping to create opportunities to improve the quality transfer of knowledge and technologies. The knock-on of life for poor people and to restructure the cooperaeffects in a broader, socioeconomic sense include job tion process with Eastern Europe in order to bolster opportunities and an increase in tax revenues for the democracy and fair and sustainable development, thus country. These effects can be of a direct or indirect bringing Eastern European countries closer to the nature. For example, jobs can be created directly in the European Union and its fundamental values. company in which we invest, alternatively, indirectly As a responsible, long-term investor, we are helping through increased needs in supply and distribution to create and develop viable and sustainable businesses chains. We assess our company’s contribution to in low and middle-income countries. This has positive private sector development by forecasting the expected effects on society as a whole and contributes to development results prior to engaging in the investimproved living conditions for poor people. We ment. We then measure the development results contribute to sustainable entrepreneurship by: throughout our engagement as owners or lenders to • Providing risk capital in countries where commercial the company (management phase), and we conduct a actors regard the risk (real or perceived) as being too final review at the exit of the investment. high and/or where there is no financial infrastructure. • Contributing with our comprehensive know-how of Our most important performance indicators for running a business in difficult markets in which we private sector development are: actively participate, to develop our portfolio compa• Job creation nies’ best practices in areas such as financial mana• Taxes gement and reporting, environment, human rights, • Transfer of knowledge and capacity building working conditions, anti-corruption, business ethics, gender equality and diversity. Sustainability describes the investor’s social and environmental actions along with issues relating to The mission of poverty reduction through sustainable corporate governance and ethics. We also use the term business therefore rests on three pillars: Private Sector ESG (Environment, Social, Governance). Swedfund Development, Sustainability and Financial Viability. focuses on these issues in order to help develop These pillars represent the conditions that have to be sustainable and responsible operations within a fulfilled for Swedfund to be a partner in an investment. portfolio company. Sustainability is also assessed in the These conditions exist in order to achieve satisfactory evaluation of the company. The environment part results in these areas and are an absolute and noncould relate to minimising the climate impact or 8 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 P R I VAT E S E C T O R D E V E L O P M E N T POVERTY REDUCTION THROUGH SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS FINANCIAL VIABILITY S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y The picture above illustrates how different stakeholders benefit from the value we create through our investment activities, i.e., the overall development impact. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 9 introducing environmental management systems. equity capital, limits the growth of the private sector in Social issues would include matters such as labour developing and transition economies. Complex rights or training activities. Corporate governance regulations increase the risks associated with investcovers issues such as ethics or transparency. In our ments. Common challenges include the lack of techno­ company, we pursue proactive sustainability efforts logy, experience and fluctuating levels of governance through contract formulation, ongoing activities with and transparency. These factors contribute to increased the Board, ESG audits and advocacy dialogue. As an interest rates and lending volume decreases, which in investor, Swedfund also complies with international turn leads to higher costs that limit private sector growth. guidelines laid down by the UN and OECD, and As minority investors, Swedfund and its partners develops policies that comply with these guidelines. provide capital to companies that would otherwise not have had the possibility to invest and grow. Our Our most important sustainability parameters are: investments also demonstrate an investee’s financial • Environment viability, thus paving the way for other investors and • Working conditions banks to see an opportunity to finance a company with • Business ethics and anti-corruption the potential to develop. By demonstrating that it is possible to succeed as an investor in developing Financial Viability is a company’s estimated and actual countries and emerging markets, Swedfund and other ability to be financially sustainable and successful. DFIs can attract new actors and increase competition, Profitability is essential for a business to survive and be thus stimulating renewal and efficiency. By providing able to contribute to a country’s long-term developthe financing and expertise required, and asked for, by ment by fulfilling its role as a credible producer in a our portfolio companies which they have difficulties market, through job creation and by paying taxes, getting, Swedfund stimulates the establishment of new etcetera. Swedfund evaluates potential investments by companies and the expansion of existing companies. analysing the company’s financial and commercial Our portfolio companies contribute to a higher projections. In addition, we require regular financial standard of living for poor people by creating job reporting from our portfolio companies and have a opportunities, increasing income, stimulating the trade close dialogue with company management and other of better quality and cheaper goods and services, and investors in order to monitor the company’s developthrough technology and competence creation. This ment and identify potential issues early in the process. indirectly helps to develop the industrial sectors and the supply and distribution chains while creating Our most important financial viability parameters are: competition and a sound business environment. In this • Growth way the companies contribute to developing the coun• Corporate governance tries they operate in through an increased tax base. • Profitability Swedfund has been promoting entrepreneurship in • Return emerging markets and contributing to the advancement of well-managed companies for more than 30 Need for Investment and Swedfund’s Role years. These portfolio companies show that it is Swedfund’s investments complement the work carried possible to make investments that are both profitable out by other Swedish development cooperation actors. and sustainable while creating opportunities for poor Our development finance offer is a way of stimulating people to improve their standard of living. companies to overcome the higher risk involved in investing in the most challenging markets. The role of Swedfund’s capital base businesses and the participation of the private sector is Since its establishment in 1979, Swedfund has made all about mobilising their knowledge, innovation and 240 investments with an overall value of over SEK 5 resources. Risk capital plays a vital role in this process; billion. Today we have 91 investments in 33 countries companies that pay tax, develop infrastructure and and SEK 2.7 billion in assets (recorded value before provide jobs lay the foundations for increased prosperwrite-downs including contracted undisbursed comity. Private sector growth is therefore crucial for mitments). development in many of the world’s poorest countries. Sweden’s total development aid budget for 2013 The lack of long-term risk capital, particularly totals roughly SEK 38.2 billion. This is equivalent to 10 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 DIVIDENDS TO SWEDFUND FOR NEW INVESTMENTS DIVIDENDS TO PROPRIETORS INVESTMENT RECIPIENT COUNTRY P R I VAT E S E C T O R D E V E L O P M E N T • JOB C R E AT I O N (DIRECT AND INDIRECT) • TA X E S • KNOWLEDGE BUILDING • TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGIES • NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES • DEVELOPMENT O F P R I VAT E E C O N O M Y S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y ( ESG) • EFFECTIVE USE OF RESOURCES • R E D U C E D E N E R G Y A N D WAT E R C O N S U M P T I O N POVERTY • H I G H E R S TA N D A R D S F O R W O R K I N G REDUCTION THROUGH SUSTAINABLE C O N D I T I O N S , W O R K I N G E N V I R O N M E N T AND S A F E T Y • BETTER GOVERNANCE, BUSINESS ETHICS S U S TA I N A B L E BUSINESS AND ANTICORRUPTION BUSINESS IN THE PORTFOLIO FINANCIAL VIABILITY • G R O W T H A N D P R O F I TA B I L I T Y COMPANY • SALARIES REINVESTED PROFITS illustration: helena shutrick Swedfund’s investment activities complement the work undertaken by other Swedish development assistance organizations. Our participation mitigates the overall risk faced by private-sector companies investing in the most challenging developing countries. Meanwhile, the participation of private-sector companies mobilizes additional resources for the developing countries, in the form of both financial capital and knowledge transfer. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 11 IFC Jobs Study On 14 January 2013, Swedfund and 27 other Development Finance • Higher productivity allows for more new jobs and contributes to Institutions signed a declaration that emphasises the importance of poverty reduction creating more and better job opportunities in developing countries. • There is a need for a specific focus on women and youth, since The basis for the declaration was the IFC Jobs Study – Assessing these groups find it difficult access the labour market and often private sector contributions to job creation and poverty reduction. get employment in the informal sector. This study shows that: • 600 million new jobs must be created, chiefly in Africa and Asia, In the declaration, the Development Finance Institutions stated that just to retain current levels of unemployment. they have an important role by: • Nine out of ten jobs come from the private sector • Working for a better investment climate and more jobs in the • 66 per cent of all jobs come from small or medium-sized formal sector enterprises (SMEs) • Improving infrastructure by fostering the private sector • Increasing access to funding, especially for SMEs The study draws a number of conclusions about how and where jobs • Urging the private sector to collaborate with the education are created: system and offer internal capacity building and training within • Investment climate, infrastructure, access to financing and level the portfolio company. of education are crucial factors in developing countries • Working in portfolio companies to strengthen the supply system, • Indirect job opportunities, primarily in the supply and distribution distribution networks and productivity. systems, are more often created in connection with new • Striving to promote the most vulnerable groups such as women, investments compared with those created directly in the invested youth and the poor. company. • Smaller companies exhibit a higher growth of new jobs, while larger enterprises are more productive, invest more in education and pay higher wages one per cent of Sweden’s gross national income (GNI). contribute to an expanded tax base, skills enhanceOf that amount, approximately one per cent will be ment and the development of local markets. At the allocated to Swedfund during 2013. In the 2012 same time, Swedfund’s field of operation – business budget draft (version 2011/12:1, category 7, section and development in the poorest countries – is complex, 3.7), the government announced a contribution of and is characterised by difficult decisions, both businesscapital to Swedfund of a minimum SEK 1,200 million and those related to taking responsibility for social and for the 2012-14 period, of which SEK 400 million for environmental issues. the years 2012 and 2013 have been approved by Swedfund’s corporate governance was further parliament. The proposal in the 2012 budget draft for strengthened through the adoption of new ownership a three-year capital injection further strengthens guidelines during the 2012 Annual Meeting. The new Swedfund’s contribution to global development and ownership guidelines (available in its entirety in the the fulfilment of international development cooperaAppendix 1 on page 89) further clarifies i.a. our tion goals. development policy mandate by putting additional With the proposed capital contribution of SEK focus on the poorest and most vulnerable countries. 1,200 million during the 2012–14 three-year period, Moreover, clearer requirements for transparency and Swedfund’s annual investment volume is expected to for conducting business in accordance with internatotal around SEK 600 million per annum. tional norms and principles have been set. Following the review that previously put restrictions on making Swedfund’s governance certain fund investments, the annual meeting drew up As shown in the budget proposal for 2013 (Version, new guidelines for fund investments both direct, and 2012/13:1), the Government believes that Swedfund is through a third country. Thus, Swedfund is again able an effective instrument in supporting the emergence of to make fund investments through a third country. viable companies, which, in addition to creating jobs, Learn more on page 28. 12 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Africa – an emerging market! F or a very long time Africa was mostly associated with famine and poverty. Today, however, we read more and more about fast economic growth while at the same time violence and conflicts continue. So, what is really “true” about Africa? First of all, one should avoid talking about Africa as one single market. The difference between Algeria in northern Africa and Botswana in Southern Africa is enormous. Equally great are also discrepancies within the same region, for example, in photo: julia björne/global reporting West Africa where Ghana is developing rapidly, while neighbouring Mali is torn apart by civil war. Swedfund’s new investments in Africa focus on the sub-Saharan region where several countries are undergoing rapid economic growth despite the serious challenges posed by the global financial crisis. According to the latest IMF forecasts, by the year 2017, six of the fastest growing countries in the world are to be found in the sub-Saharan region. The average growth fluctuating global economy poses great challenges and rate in the region is expected to reach 5.5 per cent per the financial turmoil increases vulnerability of poor year. These countries’ economies are now transforming countries and people. at an increasingly faster pace with a growing middle However, the democratic development has not class demanding more consumer goods. One of the progressed as quickly as the economic development. fastest growing sectors is ICT, where progress within Many fast-growing African countries (including Ethiopia, certain areas, such as mobile banking, already surChad and Angola) are authoritative, non-democratic passed Europe. At the same time, we must not forget regimes that stand low on Freedom House’s ranking list that the economies of many African countries are of countries respecting democratic rights and civil growing from a very low starting level. A relatively liberties (Freedom in the World 2013 – Democratic large part of the growth is still based on export of raw Breakthroughs in the Balance). Translating this positive materials, particularly oil and natural gas. However, economic and entrepreneurial development into increased other sectors are steadily becoming more important. stability and respect of human rights and civil liberties is For example, the local added value has grown from and remains one of the major future challenges. zero to 20 per cent in only a few decades. In the next Our analyses show that sub-Saharan Africa is few years, several million young people will leave perhaps the most interesting market from a global African rural areas and move to cities that continue to perspective, with a great potential for profitability. In grow at an even faster pace. Creating jobs for this order words, there are possibilities for profitable growing, young urban population is a huge challenge. investments that are both socially and environmentally The, from a global perspective high food prices, are an sustainable and at the same time contribute to Africa’s additional burden for many poor families in Africa. further development. From a macroeconomic perspective, development Swedfund closely monitors the situation in subhas been rather positive in many African countries. Saharan Africa and regularly publishes the newsletter Budget deficits are manageable and many countries Ekonomisk utblick, which analyses the latest develophave balanced budgets. This is also reflected through ments in the world’s emerging markets. Subscribe to the steadily declining national debts. Meanwhile, the newsletter on Swedfund’s website (click on Publications). swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 13 Lagos. Africa – an emerging market! photo: george osodi/bildbyrån silver According to the latest IMF forecasts, by the year 2017, six of the fastest growing countries in the world are to be found in the sub-Saharan region. The average growth rate in the region is expected to reach 5.5 per cent per year. 14 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 15 interview: Muchiri Wahome »Those who ignore Africa also ignore their own ­future. this is the only place where there is a double-digit growth.« M uchiri Wahome is the CEO of Deacons Kenya Ltd., a fast-growing umbrella retail group that owns and manages various fashion brands in several East photo: deacons ltd, kenya African countries. Swedfund is the largest single shareholder of Deacons (approx. 13.4 per cent) with local investors as other major shareholders. The economic development has during recent years been very fast in East Africa and Muchiri Wahome expects the growth to continue: “The economy is very dynamic. East African digit growth. So, if Europe is to continue producing, governments have been heavily investing in the then you will need Africa! The companies that don’t infrastructure, which in turn helped open up the dare to invest will end up being the losers. market. These investments are now leading to a In Kenya, corporate social responsibility (CSR) is also growing middle class and poverty reduction”, he says. becoming increasingly important and many large African Muchiri Wahome believes that infrastructure companies are pursuing active, social engagement: development is a key issue in poverty reduction, since “CSR is extremely important and writing nice this is a basic requirement for transportation of goods words in brochures is simply not enough.” from farmers to consumers and from producers out Then how important are the investments Swedfund into the world market. Other important issues are is doing for the overall development? It is, after all, a political stability, corruption-reduction and democratic small amount of money. development. “Yes, that’s true, but every journey must begin with “Having responsible governments in place that can a first step. The key is that the investments are made in create stable environments in their countries is an areas that we think can contribute to growth in important condition for economic development and general. In addition to jobs that are created, the poverty reduction. And this can only happen if the investments contribute to introducing new knowledge wealth is distributed so that people get a better life.” in areas such as ICT, management, environment, Do European countries really understand the human resources and many more. Hence, even if one development that is taking place in Africa right now? private investment is just a drop in the ocean, it can, “Yes, well that is an interesting question. Unfortuwith its new approach, set the standard for an entire nately I think that many European governments still sector.” view Africa from a traditional perspective.” What advice would you give to Swedish companies Muchiri Wahome sees a a major and important role that are considering investing in East Africa? for Foreign Direct Investments in East Africa play. He “Come and see for yourself! When you get off the believes that many Swedish companies have the right airplane you will be surprised by the enormous attitude, but that many more of them should invest in opportunities that exist here. Meet with companies, Africa: government institutions and ordinary people. There’s a “Those who ignore Africa also ignore their own great probability that you will fall in love with us!” future. This is the only place where there is a double16 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Swedfund in cooperation with other DFI’s F ifteen European countries that have estabExclusion List). The focus is on small and mediumlished bilateral institutions like Swedfund sized companies in their emerging phase. Our most have joined forces to set up an umbrella important investment partners come from the Swedish organisation: European Development business community, as well as other European Finance Institutions (EDFI). development finance institutions (DFIs), particularly These development finance institutions (DFIs) support our counterparts in the Nordic countries (Finnfund, economically, environmentally and socially sustainable Norfund and the Danish IFU), as well as FMO (the development by financing and investing in profitable Netherlands), Proparco (France) and DEG (Germany). private sector companies. In many investments, Today our investments are made up of direct equity Swedfund collaborates with one or several developinvestments, 49 per cent (44), loans, 29 per cent (34), ment finance institutions within EDFI (European indirect investments in form of funds, 21 per cent (22) Development Finance Institutions (www.edfi.be). This and guarantees one per cent. When Swedfund invests enables us to share knowledge and information, and in equity shares it is as a minority shareholder; one also risks. requirement is that there is always a strategic partner with relevant experience and know-how who has its Investment Criteria and Portfolio own financial resources. The typical investment scope Swedfund invests in countries that qualify for developis SEK 20–100 million per investment. The value of the ment funding according to the OECD/DAC. Priority is portfolio before write-downs and including contracted given to low-income and post-conflict countries. undisbursed commitments was SEK 2.7 billion (2.6) at Specifically, this entails a strong focus on Africa, where the end of the fiscal year, divided between 91 investapproximately 50 per cent of the portfolio is invested. ments (90). Thirteen of these investments were at the Swedfund invests in most sectors, with the excepend of the fiscal year joint financing projects within the tion of arms, tobacco, alcohol, child labour, pornograEFP (European Financing Partners) framework, and phy, prostitution and casino activities according to a four investments within the Interact Climate Change specific exclusion list drawn up in cooperation with Facility framework, www.sifem.ch/portfolio/portfolioother European development finance institutions (EDFI composition/1-interact-climate-change-facility. DFI Country Est. year Portf. Mill.€ 2011 CDC UK 1948 3 826 DEG Germany 1962 5 647 IFU Denmark 1967 505 FMO Holland 1970 5 874 SBI Belgium 1971 22 PROPARCO France 1977 3 613 EDFI EUROPEAN SWEDFUND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE Sweden 1979 330 INSTITUTIONS FINNFUND Finland 1980 450 COFIDES Spain 1990 551 SIMEST Italy 1991 777 NORFUND Norway 1997 981 BIO Belgium 2001 398 SIFEM Swizerland 2005 347 OeEB Austria 2007 292 SOFID Portugal 2007 3 swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 17 SWEDFUND’S STRATEGY, SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS AND PERFORMANCE REPORTING Strategic orientation Financing model Throughout the years, Swedfund has developed a Swedfund’s portfolio is currently comprised of 49 per strategy based on its mission, its experience of various cent shares (i.e. equity capital), 29 per cent loans, 21 investment situations where it can be financially per cent funds and one per cent guarantees. Swedfund complementary, and an assessment of the markets in will continue to focus on its role as shareholder as we direst need of experience and capital. The most believe that this is how we can make the most signifiimportant aspects, from a strategic point of view, are cant contribution. As a shareholder, Swedfund has the geography, sectors, financing model (type of invested possibility of influencing a company’s development, capital), investment partners and investment size. particularly through our active work with corporate governance. In addition, investing equity capital gives photo: swedfund Geography a catalytic effect, meaning that our investments could Swedfund has had a relatively broad geographic encourage other investors to follow suit. Hence, distribution of its investment portfolio. In order to put bolstering a company’s equity capital also means a stronger emphasis on the poorest countries, and in increasing its chances of acquiring bank loans. Our order to utilise our existing experience in the best way, goal is that within 3 years, 75 per cent of our portfolio we will continue to concentrate our investments to will be in the form of shareholder-related capital, Africa. Our goal is to increase our African investment mezzanine financing (e.g. subordinated loans) and portfolio to more than 60 per cent (approx. 48 per funds. The main part of this should be in the form of cent today) within three years. We will particularly direct investments. focus on sub-Saharan Africa where the concentration of the poorest countries is highest. Also, Sub-Saharan Investment partners Africa, particularly East Africa, is the region in which The strength of our partners’ experience is the single Swedfund has the most extensive experience. most important factor in determining the success of an investment. This is accentuated by the fact that Sectors Swedfund is always a minority investor and that we By putting a stronger emphasis on certain sectors, are therefore not alone in governing the operations we strive to address the areas that our investment and development of a company. Today, the majority countries need the most. Priority sectors include: of Swedfund’s investments are in companies in which manufacturing and service sectors that create jobs the main partner is a smaller, single entrepreneur and increase the added value of the country’s own with limited financial and organisational resources. resources, financial institutions such as banks, which For portfolio companies to survive in the long-term, are essential if the private sector is to reinvest and Swedfund will, for as long as possible, seek to invest grow. The energy sector including renewable energy with partners that are sufficiently strong financially is also of great importance. It is the cornerstone of all and structurally, which is especially important for industry and commerce, but is often neglected in small-and medium-sized companies. The structural developing countries, where a lack of electricity is resources, such as adequate internal procedures and often given as the single greatest obstacle to business. clear division of responsibilities among (and know­ ledge of) important functions on management level 18 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Staff at Bhutan Diary. are essential for meeting the increased requirements set strategic goals are as follows: by stakeholders, including Swedfund, especially with • Few and comprehensive. regard to ESG compliance. • Relevant for the company’s business and for ­overcoming sustainability challenges. Investment size • Long-term and challenging. The size of individual investments is important as it is • Possible to follow up. also an indicator of the company’s size and thus its • Clear and simple to communicate. existing resources. As a minority investor, we must assess whether the company/partner has a functioning Environmental issues, human rights, working condiinfrastructure that will allow it to operate and grow in tions, anti-corruption, business ethics, gender equality challenging environments. To be an active and compleand diversity all define sustainable business and are all mentary investor, the number of investments must be integrated in Swedfund’s operations through the ESG in proportion to available resources. In the future, sustainability standards. Swedfund intends to increase our average investment In 2012 Swedfund’s Board of Directors decided that amount to around SEK 50 million per investment. the strategic sustainability targets shall be defined within the framework of sustainability and its compoStrategic sustainability targets nents environment, social factors (especially work In 2012 the Swedish Minister of Financial Markets environment) and governance (particularly business Peter Norman made it clear that the state-owned ethics and anti-corruption). In 2013 Swedfund will companies must define (by 2012), set (by 2013) and define the strategic sustainability targets, which will start following up (by 2014) strategic goals for sustainsubsequently be followed up and reported in 2014. able entrepreneurship. Requirements set through swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 19 OUR CORE VALUES AND POLICies Swedfund’s Code of Conduct confident that sustainable business methods generate In 2012 three internal seminars were held within the value in our portfolio companies and in the societies in framework of developing Swedfund’s Code of Conduct which they operate. This policy for sustainable develop­ which was adopted by the Board of Directors in ment is therefore incorporated in all our investments December 2012. The Code of Conduct, www.swedand is, where appropriate, included in Swedpartnerfund.se/en/files/2013/02/Swedfunds-Code-of-Conduct. ship’s conditional loans. pdf describes Swedfund’s core values that are expected to be followed by Swedfund’s employees and, where Swedfund’s Anti-Corruption Policy applicable, by Swedfund’s external Board representaSwedfund’s investments are often made in some of the tives in portfolio companies, by consultants and world’s most corrupt countries. A separate, formal members of the Board of Directors. The Code of anti-corruption policy therefore helps us facilitate our Conduct is a moral compass that describes how we act continuing work in such countries. During the process as a business partner, as an employer/employee and as of developing our anti-corruption policy, we turned to a member of society. policies of other DFIs (e.g., IFU, DEG, FMO as well as photo: david isaksson/global reporting This comprehensive Code of Conduct complements CDC) for reference. Swedfund’s Anti-Corruption Swedfund’s established policies, guidelines and manuPolicy, www.swedfund.se/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/ als that, where appropriate, also apply to our portfolio Swedfunds-Anti-Corruption-Policy.pdf was adopted by companies. The implementation of commitments set the Board of Directors in December 2012. by Swedfund’s policies and other governing documents Anti-corruption clauses have been part of Swedthat are a part of our investment manuals and managefund’s earlier shareholder agreements. By adopting ment systems is an ongoing process. Swedfund’s new anti-corruption policy when signing an agreement with us, our portfolio companies consent Swedfund’s Sustainable Development Policy and commit to following their own adopted anti-corThe previously adopted policy, incorporated in ruption policies. To support their efforts to combat Swedfund’s investment agreements, was updated corruption, Swedfund has developed a “help to during the year and a revised policy, www.swedfund. self-help”, a portfolio company anti-corruption policy se/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Swedfunds-Policy-formodel that our portfolio companies can use as a Sustainable-Development.pdf was adopted by the guideline. This portfolio company policy and the Board of Directors in December 2012. model can be downloaded on our website, www. The policy describes how Swedfund should ensure swedfund.se/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Swedfundthat investments are economically, socially and enviPortfolio-Company-Anti-Corruption-Policy-Model.pdf ronmentally sustainable and is an integral part of our Code of Conduct. The policy describes our commitHuman rights ment towards our stakeholders and the commitment In 2012 the Swedish Government decided to incorpothat our portfolio companies have towards us. Sustainrate the UN Framework for Companies and Human able business includes corporate governance, environRights Guiding Principles on Business and Human mental issues, human rights, working conditions, Rights: Implementing the United Nations “Protect, business ethics, anti-corruption, gender equality and Respect and Remedy” Framework into the 2012 issue diversity. of the 2012 Ownership policy and guidelines for state We view our investments as long-term commitowned companies. OECD guidelines for multinational ments through which we strive towards financial, corporations, Global Compact and Global Reporting environmental and social sustainability. We are Initiative (GRI) had long been a part of the ownership 20 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 In August, Anders Wijkman and Johan Rockström gave a lecture to all staff at the Swedfund University on the topic “Sustainable development – a challenge for development cooperation”. Their latest book Bankrupting Nature has been purchased to be used as additional reading material. Three internal workshops, in smaller groups and one large workshop with all employees, were conducted under the ESG Managers’ supervision as part of the decision-process prior to the Board’s decision to adopt Swedfund’s Code of Conduct. The Board’s decision to adopt Swedfund’s AntiCorruption Policy was preceded by a process in which about ten employees were involved in the document’s development under the supervision of the ESG Manager. In parallel, the ESG Manager participated in a number of external seminars with focus on anti-corruption in order to remain updated with regard to recent developments within the Corporate Code, Swedish and British legislations. In June the head of legal affairs and an ESG Manager also took part in the course ”Bribery or corruption? Globalisation is here!” that was joint organised by VJS. Due to the Board’s adoption of the anti-corruption policy, another internal training is to be conducted during 2013. By subscribing to the monitoring report “CSR Update” we are keeping the organisation up to date with respect to sustainability within the fields of investMicro credit in Bangladesh. ment, lending and screening, ESG, PRI and SRI, as well as new efforts related to financial tools and policy. We are now in the process of updating Swedindicators. In addition, Swedfund subscribes to some fund’s internal manuals guided by the UN’s new frameof the major magazines on sustainable development. work with focus on a human rights perspective. In January the ESG Managers took part in the training ”Applying the Updated Performance Standards” Education, capacity building organised by the IFC and hosted by FMO in Cologne. During the year, Swedfund, with guidance from ESG During the year the ESG Managers participated in Managers, conducted three workshops with the aim of networking meetings arranged by the “Network for educating and further developing sustainable developSustainable business” established by the Government ment expertise. These were: Offices of Sweden. As members of the Swedish Asso• Workshop all employees (February) ciation of Environmental Managers (NMC), Swedfund • Workshop for the new Board of Directors and repretook part in a number of seminars throughout the sentatives from the Swedish National Audit Office (May) year. In September the ESG managers and internal • Workshop for especially invited staff from the council participated in a seminar organised by DEG ­Ministry for Foreign Affairs (August) (i.a.) called “Corporate Governance: Directorships in Emerging Markets” upon Swedfund’s adoption of The book Sustainable Business Development written Approach Statement on Corporate Governance to be by Lars-Olle Larsson was used as educational material implemented in early 2013 (see page 51). and handed out to all participants. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 21 Policies 2012 During 2012, Swedfund’s Board of Directors has adopted: Swedfund also adheres to: • Swedfund’s Code of Conduct • OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials • Swedfund’s Policy for Sustainable Development (update of in International Business Transactions previous policy) • OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State-owned • Swedfund’s Anti-corruption Policy Enterprises The Code of Conduct and the other two policies explain Swedfund’s • EDFI Guidelines for OFCs (Offshore Financial Centers) fundamental values and describe the international guidelines that the policies are based upon. Swedfund’s portfolio companies Swedfund’s Policy for Sustainable Development, inter alia, stipulates Like all state-owned companies, Swedfund is required to support and that Swedfund’s portfolio companies shall “…comply with the ten follow the following international guidelines: principles in UN Global Compact.” • UN Global Compact based on UN Universal Declaration of Human • UN Global Compact is based on UN Universal Declaration of Rights, ILO´s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Human Rights, ILO´s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Work, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and Rights at Work, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Agenda 21 Development and Agenda 21 • Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing In Swedfund’s Policy for Sustainable Development it is made clear the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework that Swedfund’s portfolio companies “…shall adhere to…” • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • UN Framework for Corporate Responsibility and Human Rights • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Swedfund’s Policy for Sustainable Development also makes clear Guidelines that Swedfund’s portfolio companies “…shall work over time to adhere to EDFI Harmonized Environmental and Social Standards for Direct Investments…” Swedfund has chosen to formally sign: • EDFI Harmonised Environmental and Social Standards for Direct • UN Global Compact based on UN Universal Declaration of Human Investments are based on IFC Performance Standards on Rights, ILO´s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Environmental and Social Sustainability, which refer to IFC/World Work, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Guidelines Agenda 21 Swedfund’s Anti-Corruption Policy stipulates that Swedfund’s • UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) portfolio companies “…shall adhere to the international frameworks • The World Bank Group’s Corporate Governance Development and principles mentioned in this Policy.” As well as e.g.: Framework • OECD Convention on combating bribery of foreign public officials • European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) Principles on in international business transactions Responsible Financing www.swedfund.se/wp-content/ Moreover, Swedfund’s Policy for Sustainable Development stipulates uploads/2010/06/09-05-07-edfi-principles-responsible-finan that Swedfund’s portfolio companies “…shall promote the abovecing-signed-copy.pdf . mentioned international frameworks and principles throughout their supply chains.” As a result, Swedfund adheres to: • Harmonised EDFI Exclusion List • EDFI Harmonized Environmental and Social Standards for Direct Investments • EDFI Harmonized Environmental and Social Standards for Financial Institutions • EDFI Harmonized Environmental and Social Standards for Fund Investments These three EDFI Harmonised Standards are each based on international standards and guidelines, such as UN Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Core Conventions, IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability and IFC/World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Guidelines. 22 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 GRI COMMUNICATION ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS (COP) REPORTING PRI GUIDELINES REPORTING FRAMEWORK SWEDFUND STRATEGIES, BUSINESSAND OPERATIONAL PLANNING SWEDFUND’S CODE OF CONDUCT SWEDFUND’S POLICY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SWEDFUND’S ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY THE WORLD BANK GROUP’S CORPORATE UN PRINCIPLES FOR EDFI PRINCIPLES ON EDFI GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT RESPONSIBLE FINANCING EXCLUSION LIST EDFI Harmonized Environmental and EDFI Harmonized Environmental and EDFI Harmonized Environmental and Social Standards for Direct Investments Social Standards for Financial Institutions Social Standards for Fund Investments IFC Performance Standards on IFC Environmental, Health EDFI Guidelines Environmental and Social Sustainability and Safety Guidlines for OFC’s OECD Guidelines for UN Framework for Corporate Multinational Enterprises Responsibility and Human Rights OPEN UN GLOBAL COMPACT Swedpartnership AID UN Universal Declaration ILO’s Declaration of Fundamental of Human Rights Principles and Rights at Work The Rio Declaration on Agenda 21 Environment and Development PILLARS: PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT, SUSTAINABILITY AND FINANCIAL VIABILITY MISSION: POVERTY REDUCTION THROUGH SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OWNERSHIP POLICY AND GUIDELINES LAWS AND REGULATIONS (E.G. THE SWEDISH COMPANIES ACT AND THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ACT), THE SWEDISH CODE FOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTING COUNCIL’S RECOMMENDATIONS AND DECLARATIONS International commitments Policy adopted by Swedfund Guidelines followed by Swedfund The ”Swedfund House” shows the international principles, framework and policies Swedfund adheres to. Swedfund’s Code of Conduct summarizes our core values and guiding policies, which are implemented in our internal guidelines and processes. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 23 interview: Bo forsberg »We need ethics and morality. Everyone has a personal, moral responsibility for his or her actions, regardless of where they are working.« B o Forsberg is the Secretary General of the development cooperation organisation Diakonia and one of Sweden’s most prominent voices in the aid debate. Traditionally, civil photo: markus marcetic society organisations have had a critical and analytical approach towards policyand decision-makers. “It is important to be able to demand accountability in accordance with the Swedish policy for global development. By first and foremost holding politicians accountable, we can fight corruption, and contribute to strengthening democracy and human rights,” says improved the dialogue with civil society in Sweden, Bo Forsberg. which is positive. At the same time, we have become However, today even the private sector is required better in understanding the corporate world. But it is a to take more responsibility. Renowned international long journey because we come with so many different companies have their own policies for corporate social perspectives. This is why we need a respectful dialogue.” responsibility (CSR). And even greater requirements are What Bo Forsberg is calling for from all actors in put on companies working with development aid funds: Sweden is a moral discussion about ethics and respon“Swedfund contributes to development by strengthsibility. ening local companies. When companies become “We need ethics and morality. Everyone has a increasingly important as actors, it also includes personal, moral responsibility for his or her actions, accountability. This in turn requires transparency. regardless of where they are working. Companies are You have to find ways to help companies be transpa­ under pressure by their owners to deliver. At the same rent without running the risk of losing their competitime, companies with good intentions risk paying a tive advantage,” maintains Bo Forsberg. higher price than the ones exploiting and not adhering The changes within development cooperation also to rules and regulations. Therefore it is important that mean that it is not enough for organisations to remain serious companies call for regulations that everybody on the sidelines. Those who want to influence must should follow. In the long run I also believe that this also be ready to take part in a constructive process. will prove to be more profitable.” “I believe in dialogue and discussion. We don’t want Bo Forsberg believes that Diakonia and other to be an organisation that only says ‘no’, instead we organisations can help companies better understand want to contribute, helping the business sector and what human rights mean in everyday life. getting a better understanding of, for example, human “Companies need to constantly assess whether a photo: Marc Shoul/Panos Pictures rights.” business deal contributes to positive development. A Bo Forsberg also believes that relations between the lot is required from the companies when they embark private sector and the civil society have become a lot on such analyses, and this is where we can contribute better in recent years. with our expertise. It is also important that Swedfund “Swedfund has demonstrated that to a larger extent continues to develop its capacities in human rights in they want to measure and report on development results, order to be able to make the right decisions in complias well as to increase transparency. Swedfund has also cated situations.” 24 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 risk management Swedfund’s mission is to invest in low and middlerisks related to investment climate could include income countries with focus on post-conflict and the political instability and high levels of corruption. Such poorest countries. Investing in these countries means risks arise from the mission and cannot be entirely that the operation is associated with high risks of avoided. However, by conducting a structured assessvarious kinds, related to both the specific investment, ment process before making an investment decision as well as the general investment climate in the country (due diligence) and actively manage an already comin question. For example, risks associated with a pleted investment, Swedfund seeks to manage those specific investment might be issues related to environrisks that cannot be avoided. mental impact and the commercial viability, whereas swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 25 the investment process The investment process from the first assessment to the improvements. This is an ongoing process and we exit is described in the illustration below. During the continue to improve and develop our procedures based past few years Swedfund has done a lot to document on requirements put upon us and on how we carry out best practices and to further develop areas that needed our work. 1. Investment proposals Swedfund assesses roughly 500 investment proposals a year. Some of these are sent to 1. INVESTMENT PROPOSAL us spontaneously while others are a result of active origination work. After an initial screening based on Swedfund’s investment criteria, many could be written off for not meeting basic requirements, such as sector, country, etc. 2/3. Concept Clearance och Due Diligence When an investment is deemed interesting for Swedfund, it is prepared for “concept clearance” (CC). The appointed Investment Manager (IM) writes a brief memo, which is then discussed in an informal investment committee made up of the Managing Director, the director of investments and the Director of business development. If the decision is made to persue the investment opportunity, a process of “due diligence” (DD) is initiated. This 2. CONCEPT CLEARANCE process involves analysing the company and the intended investment from all relevant perspectives, that is, all preconditions for investing (financial, commercial, legal, partners, development effects, and ESG issues). If the company is a company with on-going business, then the company and its existing owners are assessed. If the company is a newly established company, then we assess our potential partners and the business plan. This “due diligence” process continues throughout the entire investment process, until the transaction has been made illustration: helena shutrick (disbursement of our investment). Analyses of different areas are sometimes done in parallel, sometimes they intertwine, and more in-depth analyses are made when necessary. When an investment has received concept clearance, a preliminary notification is sent to the board of directors. 3. DUE DILLIGENCE DURING THE ENTIRE INVESTMENT PROCESS 5. BOARD’ S DECISION 4. SCREENING 26 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 4. Screening ment and continuous monitoring of the investment. ManFollowing the notification to the Board of Directors, the agement implies active involvement that creates value for all investment process moves on to the screening phase. Apart stakeholders in the investment. When Swedfund is a sharefrom the IM, an analyst and a lawyer usually take part in holder, this is carried out with the board representation as a this. During the screening, the investment is analysed and platform. As a shareholder, Swedfund normally has the right discussed in an internal peer review group on the basis of the to nominate a member of the board. Often this member is earlier documentation. The screening group gives their also the one responsible for the investment. In cases when it opinions and recommendations for further evaluation. These is deemed important for the investment, Swedfund appoints recommendations include guidelines that the continued due an external board member who can contribute with a diligence process should focus on. If the outcome of the specific expertise within a certain business sphere or market, continued process is positive, a decision guidance document etc. A thorough analysis and review is carried out once a is drawn up for the board or the managing director. The year, including the ESG and development effects, and environmental and social due diligence process is carried out presented to the Swedfund Board of Directors. with the participation of the ESG Manager. If the investment is rated as a risk with the risk grade A or B+ in terms of 8. Exit environmental and social performance, an external ESG After the exit, an exit report is made, which includes an expert is also called in. Regardless of the risk rating, the analysis of development results, as well as a chapter with memorandum to the Board of Directors always includes a ”lessons learned”. summary of environmental and social risks. 8. EXIT AND FOLLOWUP 5. Investment decision Depending on the investment amount, a decision is made either by the Managing Director (up to SEK 10 million) or the Board of Directors (above SEK 10 million) 6. Conclusion of the transaction If the investment is approved, negotiations are concluded and, if necessary, remaining issues reviewed and further in-depth due diligence performed if deemed necessary. At this point, an investment agreement is drafted. The agreement covers, among other things, sustainability requirements based on Swedfund’s Policy for Sustainable Development adapted to that specific investment. Disbursement When the conditions for disbursement (Conditions Precedent) have been met, the disbursement is made. 7. Management After the contract signing and disbursement comes the management phase. The IM is responsible for the manage7. MANAGEMENT, ACTIVE WORK WITH BOARD AND FOLLOWUP 6. N E G O T I AT I O N , CONTRACT SIGNING AND DISBURSEMENT swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 27 Risk areas monitor regularly. As an active owner, we monitor the To highlight and illustrate how Swedfund views certain company during the entire investment process in order risk areas, we have chosen to give a detailed description to detect irregularities, and when they occur, we work of our approach to corruption, partner risk and ESG risk. in dialogue with the company to achieve continuous improvements. Risk of corruption Swedfund’s portfolio companies are situated in counCurrent issues tries and markets that face a high risk for corruption During the year civil society organisations have raised according to international indexes. The due diligence issues regarding the role of the private sector in process, along with contractual clauses against corrupdevelopment cooperation, specifically concerning tion and money laundering constitute important land-based investments and tax issues connected with instruments in the fight against corruption. The fund investments. Anti-Corruption Policy adopted during the year also helps Swedfund’s continued work within this area, as Land-based investments does the Portfolio Company Anti-Corruption Model In recent years there have been reports about extensive that helps portfolio companies adopt their own land-based investments made in sub-Saharan Africa. anti-corruption policies. Investments have largely been made by international investors. Swedfund is currently involved in such an Partner risk investment in collaboration with several Development An important principle is that Swedfund shall not Finance Institutions: the company Addax Bioenergy in compete with commercial actors, but rather seek to Sierra Leone. Civil society actors have been particuinvest together with qualified partners and share the larly critical to such investments, often referring to risk with them. This establishement of such cooperathem as “land grabbing”, a term without a particular tion with strategic partners in whom we have confidefinition. The same rules that apply for other investdence is therefore an important part of our strategy. ments also apply to Swedfund’s investments in agriculOver the years we have developed procedures that help tural companies (including the sector-specific rules). us deal with business, credit and other financial risks This includes that all investments shall be made in (see Director’s Report, page 69). We continue to accordance with the owner’s instructions. The agreedevelop the Due Diligence process with regard to ments that had been signed between the company and environmental aspects, social issues including human the landowners with regard to Addax Bioenergy’s rights, and corporate governance. In order to be able investments in Sierra Leone have been presented by the to assess our partners’ integrity and reputation, company in a transparent way. Swedfund welcomes Swedfund’s investment work includes background objective criticism, as it helps us improve our work. checks; both when Swedfund is considering embarking on an investment, but also when we intend to sell to a Fund investments new investor. The goal is to avoid working with, In order to contribute to development, Swedfund not financing, or selling to people or companies whose only invests directly in companies in low and middlebusiness activities are not in line with Swedfund’s core income countries, but also indirectly through fund values. investments. Funds enable Swedfund to cost effectively reach small and medium-sized businesses in poor ESG risk countries to an extent that would otherwise be difficult As a minority owner Swedfund has a responsibility for to achieve. Making indirect investments through funds the portfolio company’s operations. In order to be able is an established method used regularly by multilateral to push for important issues, it is always necessary that organisations such as IFC, EIB and ADB, many the main industrial owner, co-investors and the portfonational aid organisations, as well as bilateral developlio company live up to our vision regarding the key ment finance institutions like Swedfund. issues related to environmental, social responsibility The domicile of a fund is determined by the fund and corporate governance. Our way to ensure this manager who chooses a country that has the specific happens is to include Swedfund’s policies and requireinfrastructure and the legislation required to set up and ments in all shareholder and loan agreements, and operate funds with investors coming from several 28 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 countries. The fund then invests in companies located only in funds that meet strict requirements regarding in countries where Swedfund ha a mandate to invest. investment rules, ethical guidelines (including rules When the fund manager has identified a company and against money laundering) and reporting. For all has decided to invest, Swedfund pays its share of the investments there are contract clauses and background investment through the fund. The company pays taxes checks designed to thwart, for example, money in the country where it operates. After a few years of laundering and corruption. As a minority shareholder, contributing to a country’s growth and development, Swedfund cannot alone decide upon a fund’s domicile. the fund sells its share. Swedfund’s share of profits goes Swedfund and other members of EDFI (European to Swedfund in Sweden and Swedfund pays Swedish Development Finance Institutions (www.edfi.be), have tax on the profit. The after-tax profit is then reinvested set up a special working group to oversee and harmoin new companies. nise standards and guidelines for investments through A large part of the funds that Swedfund and other OFCs. IFC (the World Bank Group) believes that DFIs invest through are located in offshore financial investing through OFCs can be done provided that centres (OFCs) such as Mauritius. There are two main such investments are made together with partners who reasons why the investments are made through these have integrity and follow existing laws. countries. Firstly, it has to be easy to move money from However, we are well aware of the tax and capital the fund’s “home country” (domicile) to any of the evasion issues and therefore closely follow internationcountries in which the investment is made. Regardless al developments on investing via intermediary jurisdicof the country in which the fund is established, the tions. As the tax laws, etc. are simplified and streammoney will be used for investments in several counlined in more African countries, it is also our hope that tries. Secondly, it must be possible to return the funds we will be able to fund investments via more countries to fund shareholders at an exit. Today, such prerequithan is currently the case. sites are only available in a few countries in Africa, which is why investments must go through these Swedfund’s guidelines on countries. intermediate jurisdictions There is no official Swedish or international The terms governing which countries Swedfund is technical definition of the term “tax haven”. Swedfund allowed to invest through both directly and via funds therefore follows IMF’s terminology and uses the term are listed in our owner’s intructions. The company OFC (offshore financial centre). Mauritius, which shall: ”not take part in investments via intermediary hosts several of the funds that Swedfund and other jurisdictions that have been examined through DFIs have invested through, has a double taxation OECD’s framework Global Forum Peer Review treaty with Sweden and many of the African countries Process and have thereby not been approved in the where DFIs operate. Several other OFCs have now phase 1, or have been deemed as Partially Compliant committed to be a part of an information exchange or Non-Compliant during phase 2.” agreement made according to the OECD standard Global Forum is made up of 108 members and the model and are also subject to the Global Forum’s Peer EU, and has nine international observers (including the Review Process. Up-to-date information about inforUN, the World Bank and the IMF). It has defined ten mation exchange agreements and Global Forum is essential aspects for transparency and information available on OECD’s website. sharing in the context of taxes. The countries that are One of the criticisms against fund investments has examined are analysed from two perspectives: Phase 1 been that very little taxes are being paid in the country assesses the quality of a jurisdiction’s legal and regulawhere the fund is established (domicile). This is true, tory framework for the exchange of information while but the purpose of a fund is to invest in companies Phase 2 looks at the practical implementation of that operating in different countries, each company is framework. required to pay taxes in the country in which it is registered and in which it operates. In the light of what has been described above, it is also important that the investment through an OFC does not take place because Swedfund and other DFIs wish to avoid taxes or transparency. Swedfund invests swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 29 interview: Abebnego Wambua »The key issues for us ­include an improvement of the management structure, employee policy, and raising the lowest wages.« A photo: stephen mudiari/imagepix photo agency bebnego Wambua Muema is 30 years old and elected President of the local trade union at Athi Steel, a steel company in Kenya that recycles metal. Acacia Fund (with Swedfund as one of its shareholders) invested in Athi Steel back in 1998. When the fund was liquidated in 2008, Swedfund chose to take over investments totalling SEK 45 million. Today Swedfund owns roughly 20 per cent of Ahti Steel, which have a workforce of around 900. “Our main objective is to ensure workplace health and safety and to make sure that the workers get zero. But it is also important that everybody who has rightfully paid,” explains Abebnego Wambua Muema, been forewarned is offered training so that they can a machine assembler. become better at following the rules,” reiterates Abebnego Wambua Muema began working at Ahti Abebnego Wambua Muema. Steel in 2005. He mostly attends to the role as PresiThe company and the union have negotiated three dent of the local association of the Kenya Engineering collective agreements. The latest two-year agreement, Workers Union during his spare time. Athi Steels which will expire in December 2013, gave the membusiness concept is to buy scrap metal, process it and bers an 11 per cent salary increase based on the official produce metal products for customers. In this way, the minimum wage that was dramatically increased in company contributes to recycling old metal as well as 2012. The local association, which is a part of the the rapid economic growth in Kenya. The customers Kenya Engineering Workers Union, has 350 members come mostly from the Kenyan construction sector. included in the collective agreement, and the number is The factory in which Abebnego works is about 30 on the increase. kilometres east of the capital Nairobi. The entrance “We are hoping to speed up the process so that into Mavoko, or Athi River as the city is also called, is every steelworker becomes part of the collective lined with cement plants and other factories. This is agreement by 2015, and that those with a basic also where Abebnego lives with his wife and two minimum wage get the same salary raise as the rest,” children. Safety issues are an important priority for says Abebnego. Abebnego. Even though the number of industrial Generally he thinks that the cooperation with the accidents have fallen since the company hired an company management is good. So far there have been external health and safety expert, there is still much to few conflicts. However, the union sees many areas that improve. As a part of these efforts, a consultant is the company management could improve: training all the factory workers. Every morning “The key issues for us include an improvement of workers take part in discussions about safety. Strict the management structure, employee policy, and rules, and in the worst cases dismissal, apply for raising the lowest wages”, concludes Abebnego. workers who repeatedly violate safety regulations: “I think that’s good! It will help us to reduce the number of accidents and get them down to almost 30 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND RESPONSIBILITY The importance of transparency Stakeholders Swedfund is engaged in the implementation of transSwedfund’s stakeholders are people, groups, compaparency guarantee in Swedish development cooperanies or organisations that are affected by or affect tion in order to improve awareness of Swedfund’s Swedfund’s operations and our role, as well as our operations and investments. The new ownership portfolio companies, their operations and their role in guidelines adopted at Swedfund’s AGM on 20 April a sustainable private sector development. 2012 states that Swedfund shall report to the InternaLiving conditions for poor people in countries and tional Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI), OECD/DAC societies in which we operate through our portfolio as well as to the online information service OpenAid. companies are central to our work, as is sustainable se. Open aid is the Swedish government’s efforts to development. Swedfund does not act in a vacuum. adapt Swedish development cooperation to today’s Through our portfolio companies we are part of the reality and the opportunities created by globalisation society. Different stakeholders affect, or are affected by and technological development. The goal is to combat the society and private sector development. One poverty as effectively as possible. To achieve this goal, conclusion drawn from this is, for example, the development cooperation needs to be more transparent importance of the “do no harm” principle. To always and open to new ideas. As a part of Open aid, the carefully examine and reduce an investment’s negative transparency guarantee has been incorporated in impact on its environment. With this as a premise, we development cooperation. This guarantee mean that see ourselves with our portfolio companies as influencthe public information about Swedish development ing our environment in the same way as everyone else. cooperation is made available on the internet. The Through a dialogue with selected stakeholders we can website for this information service is www.openaid.se. reach consensus how we can together impact and We are also continuously examining the possibiliimprove through our, our portfolio companies’ and ties of publishing updated information about our other stakeholders’ roles. investments on Swedfund’s website. Some information, The impact on private sector development through however, cannot be made publically available as this sustainable business includes environmental responsigoes against already signed business agreements. Since bility, ecosystems and climate, social responsibility for we want to be as open as possible despite these human rights, working conditions, gender equality and restrictions, we publish sensitive information on an diversity. anonymous aggregated basis as often as we deem possible. As a minority owner or a lender, we are often Stakeholder perspective not the only ones who decide about publishing disSwedfund’s investments are a part of Swedish developclosed information on specific investments. Swedfund ment cooperation, and Swedfund does not operate welcomes independent reviews of our internal processisolated from other actors. On the contrary, in order to es as well as of our portfolio companies, because such be able to achieve goals set by Swedish development studies give a valuable addition to our own reviews cooperation, collaboration between different actors is and follow-ups. Our external auditors continuously crucial. There is, of course, not only one solution to revise our businesses, and we encourage other stakeresolving the poverty issue, quite the opposite. Many holders to analyse our operations, since this helps us in different kinds of actions must be undertaken in order our ambition to improve our work. to reach a common goal in development cooperation. Civil society organisations are needed, as is development aid channelled through Sida and similar agencies. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 31 DEVELOPMENT CIVIL SOCIETY AID ACTORS ORGANISATIONS AND LABOUR UNIONS GOVERNMENTS LOCAL SOCIETY MEDIA AND THEIR BODIES PORTFOLIO COMPANY OWNER AND POLITICIANS EXPERTS CONSULTANTS RESEARCHERS INVESTMENT OTHER PARTNERS FINANCIERS PRIVATE SECTOR COMPANIES AND DFI ‘ S ORGANISATIONS CUSTOMERS , SUPPLIERS , DISTRIBUTORS Swedfund’s stakeholders are the individuals, companies or organizations that are either affected by, or that can impact upon, Swedfund (i.e., our activities and our mission) or our portfolio companies (i.e., their activities and their mission) within the framework of sustainable development. 32 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 In the same way there is also a need for a developed portfolio companies allegedly not having followed business sector. labour laws to the full, which were not accurate. Many actors scrutinize Swedfund and our activities Swedfund was further criticised for its fund investwithin the portfolio companies. Some are critical. ments, and investments in Addax Bioenergy in Sierra There are, of course, many ways of looking at the Leone. Swedfund’s portfolio company, Addax Bioendevelopment agenda, and media and civil society play ergy, was accused of causing a water shortage and of an important role in critically examining all actors. not fulfilling its pledge to help build up the infrastrucSwedfund takes every criticism seriously and ture, such as schools, hospitals and roads. A report welcomes constructive dialogue with all stakeholders from Sierra Leone was followed up with additional because it helps us develop our work in portfolio reports, including an interview with Swedfund’s acting companies and improve our transparency and how we Managing Director Anders Craft, and with comments present our work. A good dialogue with our stakeby various politicians. The reports have also led to holders gives us valuable experience, knowledge and comments on blogs and other social media. perspective. Our ambition is therefore to continue For more information, see page 38 and Swedfund’s being transparent, and to deepen the dialogue with website: www.swedfund.se/?artikel=addax-bioenergyselected stakeholders. %E2%80%93-en-mycket-viktig-och-langsiktig-investering (in Swedish). Roundtable discussion in cooperation with Swedfund hired the British consultancy company EKN and SEK Nippon Koei UK to write a report about the manageIn December 2012 Swedfund, in cooperation with the ment of environmental and social activities within the Swedish Export Credits Guarantee Board (EKN) and Sierra Leone project, with specific focus on the ESHIA Swedish Export Credit Corporation (SEK), organised a process (Environmental, Social, Health Impact Assessroundtable discussion on responsibilities and the role ment) and the follow-up process that succeeded it. The of the business sector in developing countries. Particireport was presented in September 2012, but did not pants included IF Metall, Swedwatch, World Wide lead to additional reporting in the media. The report Fund for Nature, ABB and the Government Office of also states that Addax Bioenergy takes all questions Sweden. During the dialogue Swedfund took up the and recommendations that arise very seriously, and issues that arise when an investment company is faced deems it highly important to clarify all remaining with attaining profitable investments while complying unresolved issues. with the sustainability rules. The event touched upon To read the full report, please go to: several aspects of responsibility and dialogue issues and http://91.123.200.225/~swedfund/wp-content/ was a good example of how a constructive dialogue can uploads/2012/09/Swedfund-NKUK-Summary-Reportbe held between actors with different roles and apAug-Sept-2012.pdf proaches but who are striving towards the same goal. During the year Swedfund also wrote a debate article published in the magazine OmVärlden. In-depth dialogue with civil society ­organisations The Race for Land Report Swedfund aims to learn more about how other develIn May 2012 during a joint seminar, Forum Syd, the opment cooperation actors see our role and how we Africa Groups and the Swedish Cooperative Centre can achieve joint goals. We also want other actors to presented a report about large-scale land-based learn more about conditions for our work and how we investments in developing countries. During the operate. This is why Swedfund, during the year, held a seminar, the organisations presented a report entitled number of informal dialogues with different actors, Race for Land, which described the actors, the extent, including civil society organisations. We will continue the purpose and the consequences of land-based this process during 2013. investments on local populations. The report also included case studies. Swedfund, having been criticised Swedfund in the media in the report, gave its reflections about the accusations In May 2012 the Swedish Radio’s news programme made in the report and took part in a panel debate. Ekot broadcast several reports on Swedfund’s operaSwedfund’s ESG Manager, Lars-Olle Larsson, gave an tions. Some of the reports were about Swedfund’s additional interview for the magazine OmVärlden, and swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 33 answered criticism put forward in Race for Land. 10.Work against corruption in all its forms, including Swedfund thereby gave information about the impleextortion and bribery. mentation of the project, including information about stakeholder dialogues that had taken place, extensive The ten UN Global Compact principles are now also land measurements, and about the ongoing follow-up guiding our advocacy towards portfolio companies process. that should run their business in a long-term, sustainable and responsible way. Read more on page 22. By Adoption of UN’s Principles on Corporate adopting the UN Global Compact, Swedfund commitResponsibility and Responsible Investments ted to annually report about the progress on the Swedfund’s mission is to contribute to the reduction of implementation of these accountability issues through poverty through sustainable business. Environmental a yearly Communication on Progress (COP). This and social responsibility and corporate governance are Sustainability and Annual report is similar to Swedkey prerequisites for the fulfilment of our mission. Just fund’s first COP. like other state-owned companies, Swedfund is Read more about the UN Global Compact and its ten obligated to follow existing international guidelines on principles on UN Global Compact’s homepage, environment, human rights, labour rights, anti-corrupwww.unglobalcompact.org tion and business ethics among other the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Swedfund has therefore, UN PRI was launched in 2006 by former UN Secretary during 2012, joined both the UN Global Compact and General Kofi Annan as a global initiative for instituthe UN Principles for Responsible Investment, UN PRI. tional investors with the aim of increasing accountability with focus on ESG issues. In 2012 Swedfund The UN Global Compact was launched by former UN decided to join UN PRI, which means that we commit Secretary General Kofi Annan in 2000. The initiative to integrate the six UN principles in our business, as was set up in order to make companies a part of the well as to annually report about the results of these solution for a more sustainable and inclusive global efforts directly to the PRI secretariat and in the economy by promoting globally responsible entrepresubsequent sustainability and annual reports. We thus neurship. More than 7,000 companies from more than commit ourselves to the following: 145 countries make up the network. By signing the UN 1.We will incorporate ESG issues into investment anaGlobal Compact, Swedfund has committed to implelysis and decision-making processes. ment and integrate the ten principles in all its opera2.We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues tions. By doing so, we also require our portfolio into our ownership policies and practices. companies to improve their own performance and 3.We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by follow Global Compact’s ten principles: the entities in which we invest. 4.We will promote acceptance and implementation of 1.Respect international human rights. the Principles within the investment industry. 2.Make sure that the company is not complicit in hu5.We will work together to enhance our effectiveness man rights abuses. in implementing the Principles. 3.Uphold the freedom of association and the recogni6.We will each report on our activities and progress tion of the right to collective bargaining. towards implementing the Principles. 4.Eliminate of all forms of forced and compulsory Read more about UN PRI and the six principles on UN labor. PRI’s homepage, www.unpri.org 5.Abolish child labor. 6.Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7.Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8.Undertake initiatives to promote greater environ­ mental responsibility. 9.Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 34 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 interview: carina lundberg markow »I think one should try investing in difficult countries. Getting engaged is the only way to achieve a positive development in the long term.« C arina Lundberg Markow is the Executive Officer, Head of Corporate Governance at Folksam, and one of the people who deve­ loped Principles for Responsible investment (PRI). Through her role as a shareholder representative, Carina Lundberg Markow is active in photo: folksam the Swedish public debate about corporate responsibility and in the dilemma that stems from it. In 2013 she was voted second (of 150) of Sweden’s most important economic communicators by the magazine Resumé. “As an investor, you always have the responsibility over how employees, the local population and others well, but all organisations could learn by putting are affected by your investment. That’s why it is forward their failures and analysing why something important for companies to understand that doing it went wrong. It’s also important to have a corporate right from the start really pays off,” she explains. culture that is in line with what you want to do. Here In what is called “ethical investments”, the investor value-issues play an extremely important role,” says often decides not to invest in companies that produce Carina Lundberg Markow who believes that Swedfund weapons, tobacco and other products. The purpose of can inspire other companies and investors: PRI is of a different nature. It is about exerting influ“We can’t put higher demands on Swedfund than ence on the shareholders to respect principles. on other investors when it comes to profitability. “All industrial manufacturing has a negative However, Swedfund can in a good way show that it’s environmental impact but poor countries must have possible to combine business and long-term sustainthe chance to develop their natural resources and build ability. In this context many companies can learn from up a prosperous society, just like we did. With PRI, the how Swedfund evaluates and starts up projects.” investors have got a framework to develop their work What could one do then as an investor in a country with ESG issues, while being able to compare with, where the risks are high, should one completely avoid and get inspired by, other companies. investing? No, she says: The companies and funds that act ethically often “I think one should try investing in difficult countries. get more criticised than those that don’t act at all. But Getting engaged is the only way to achieve a positive Carina Lundberg Markow says that this can also be development in the long term. However, you should do it turned into something positive: with great caution; if corruption is widespread it’s “Of course this can sometimes be interpreted as important to view it as a risk from the outset and clearly unfair, but you can also take the criticism as some kind communicate the principle of zero tolerance. Particular of a free audit that contributes to making things caution should be shown in countries where there are change for the better.” military conflicts. At the same time, what differentiates So what can Swedfund do better within the ESG? clever companies from others is not whether something Put forward our failures, according to Carina Lundgoes wrong or not, but whether they have thought berg Markow: through the risks from the beginning and know how to “Most often you only look at things that have gone deal with them once they appear.” swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 35 OUR INVESTMENTS Swedfund’s Portfolio portfolio before write-downs (book value before Swedfund’s portfolio is divided into equity, loans and depreciation, including the undisbursed commitments) funds. Swedfund’s focus is on equity investments in the totalled SEK 2.7 billion at year-end (2.6)1, divided into range of SEK 20–100 million per investment. Through 91 investments (90). By year-end, 13 of these investlending we can help finance larger companies together ments were within the framework of the European with other DFIs. Fund investments enable Swedfund to Financing Partners (EFP), four were joint investments reach more and smaller companies cost-effectively in within the Climate Change Facility framework. In countries that would otherwise have been difficult to 2012 nine (7) new investments were entered into and work in without local presence. The value of the eight were exited (10). Portfolio by region (acquisition value): Portfolio by instrument (acquisition value): Africa 49 per cent (47) Equity (directly owned) 49 per cent (44) Asia 26 per cent (33) Loans 29 per cent (34) Latin America 1 per cent (1) Funds (indirectly owned equities) 21 per cent (22) Eastern Europe 16 per cent (12) Guarantees 1 per cent (0) Middle East 3 per cent (2) Globally 5 per cent (5) Compilation of the Board’s and Managing Director’s decisions, contracts and disbursements Jan–Dec 2012 Quantity Total amount SEK millions Decisions 19(16) 451.4(268.8) Contracts2 20(13) 258.8(338.8) Disbursed3 77(89) 360.3(342.7) photo: swedfund photo: swedfund Raffia. GMI. 36 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 1 Of the portfolio value, SEK 0.8 billion has been written down. DIRECT INVESTMENTS ( EQUITIES AND LOANS) INDIRECT INVESTMENTS ( FUNDS) Contracted amounts, fully amortised loans and income from exits by country The amount shown in concluded loans indicates the initial value of the loan4 Country/region Contracted equity investments, Contracted loans/guarantees Fully amortised loans/ Sales full or partial new and follow-on investments new and follow-on investments guarantees SEK million SEK million SEK million SEK million Africa5 50.1 48.3 0.2 Azerbaijan 30.8 Bolivia 0.0 Ethiopia 5.4 India 0.1 Iraq 33.2 8.1 Kenya 81.6 4.5 China 0.2 0.1 Latvia 5.3 Liberia 8.5 Rwanda 0.4 Russia 5.6 0.2 South Africa 16.7 8.3 South Sudan 5.2 Tanzania 0.1 Uganda 0.4 Ukraine 0.5 Total 175.6 73.1 50.8 14.2 2 The amount and quantity include both new and follow-on investments. 3 A decision can lead to more disbursements. 4 Information about each single investment newly contracted can be found in press releases published on our homepage during the year. 5 Company with businesses in several countries. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 37 Addax Bioenergy, Sierra Leone S ierra Leone is one of the world’s poorest • Improved infrastructure by building new roads. countries and is still strongly affected by the • Employment both directly with about 2,000 jobs civil war that raged in the country between and indirectly in the supply of services etc. 1991 and 2002. However, since the end of • Capacity building through an education centre for the war many efforts have been made to staff, Farmers Development Programme and educaincrease the growth rate. In 2011 Swedfund invested in tion in modern agricultural methods at Farmer Field Addax Bioenergy together with seven other developand Life Schools for the villages concerned. ment finance institutions. Apart from Addax & Oryx • Diversification of the country’s industry through the Group (AOG), other investors include the Dutch creation of export incomes by processing local raw Netherlands Development Finance Company (FMO), materials. the UK-based Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund • Climate compensation provided that the renewable (EAIF), the German Deutsche Investionsund Entwickpower plant that is now registered also is classi­fied as lungsgesellschaft (DEG), the Belgian Investment Coma CDM project. CDM (Clean Development Mechapany for Developing Countries (BIO), the multilateral nism) is a part of a project under the Kyoto Protocol African Development Bank (AfDB), the South African that allows industrial countries to invest in projects photo: swedfund Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) and the ICF that will help decrease emissions in developing Debt Pool that is managed by the Canadian Cordiant. countries as an alternative to the more costly reducThe investment is an integrated agriculture and renewtion of emissions in their own countries. able energy project that includes the development of sugar cane fields, the establishment of a bio-ethanol The media and civil society organisations have on refinery and a renewable energy plant planned to begin different occasions been critical of Addax Bioenergy, production at the turn of the year. The availability of claiming that the company has not kept its promises electricity is a precondition to even start reaching that they had allegedly given. Swedfund takes all development results in Sierra Leone. The investment criticism seriously, but concludes that several errors will help produce renewable energy for the benefit of have been made in published reports about the number the entire country. The Sierra Leone government has of employees and how land expropriation had supposexplicitly named agriculture as one of the engines edly taken place. Addax has, throughout the entire driving the socio-economic growth and development. investment phase, held public meetings with the local The project is in line with the government’s development population and agreements have been reached in a strategy, which includes investing in the agriculture transparent and open way. Shareholders of Addax sector and processing local raw materials that create Bioenergy have also hired external consultants who employment and production of renewable energy. The followed up and continue to follow up and assess the purpose of the investment in Addax Bio­energy is to investment. contribute to this development process and at the same Addax Bioenergy has invested great resources into time increase the country’s exporting capacity. The making their business sustainable, inclusive and project is still at an early stage and it is too early to evalulong-term. The company has made extensive risk ate development results expected in the long term. analyses that the local population had a chance to Through the investment Addax Bioenergy contribcomment on. The company has measured the land in utes to the following expected results: order to give the original landowners a written and • Electricity supply with a significant addition of reneregistered proof of ownership, which they had previwable energy to the existing generated power in the ously not possessed. Regular dialogue and meetings country. The electricity will be sold to the national have been held with the local population and other grid in Sierra Leone and is expected to account for interest groups, where they have been informed about 20 per cent of the electricity production in the counthe project and the establishment of mechanisms for try. complaints. During the year Addax Bioenergy em38 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Swedfund’s investment contributes with about 2,000 direct jobs and also indirectly in the supply of services etc. ployed a gender and liaison officer with the responsiintentions of the investment. Addax Bioenergy has bility of setting up more mechanisms to obtain womdrawn up and introduced plans and processes, have en’s opinions. employed skilled staff to handle, reduce, supervise and Statistics from FAO show that only 20 per cent of report about relevant environmental and social issues, the country’s arable land is presently cultivated. Even including the grievance mechanism. after domestic food production needs are satisfied, Large-scale projects that are in the start-up phase FAO estimates that Sierra Leone will have two million continuosly develop and change, which is why plans hectares arable land remaining. Addax Bioenergy uses and processes must be adjusted accordingly. It takes 0.5 per cent of that land. time to get everything right, and Swedfund’s opinion is Swedfund’s ESG Manager Kristin Sjöblom visited that Addax Bioenergy is handling the sustainability Sierra Leone and the project area during a three-day issue in a satisfying way. visit in May 2012. She met with Addax Bioenergy staff, the civil society organisation SiLNoRF, FAO and the Deputy Minister for Agriculture in Freetown. In Addax Bioenergy addition, visits were made to the Farmers Development Business Integrated agricultural and renewable energy project in Sierra Leone Programme (FDP) and Farmers Field & Life School, to Year of investment 2011 a number of pumping stations, as well as to four Swedfund’s investment EUR 10 million in the form of equity capital villages in the area. During the meetings and visits to The most important effects • Energy supply from renewable energy sources the villages, issues such as access to water, availability on development • Employment of food, the FDP programme, employment conditions, • Capacity building the grievance mechanism, etc. were discussed. • Improved infrastructure (e.g. new roads) The external quarterly monitoring shows that the • Demonstration and spill-over effects project is managed and directed in a sustainable way, • Contribution to improved trade balance for the country and the conclusion after Swedfund’s visit is that the project is being implemented in accordance with the swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 39 Global Medical Investments GMI AB T he World Health Organisation estimates or where the demand is significantly higher than the that about 10 million people in the world treatment supply. are diagnosed with cancer every year, At the turn of 2012-13, GMI was a part owner of roughly half of whom live in low and five cancer treatment clinics in as many countries middle-income countries. Of those who die (Dominican Republic, Chile, Ecuador, Ghana, and from cancer about 70 per cent live in low and middleIndonesia). The clinic in Indonesia was put in operaincome countries. More than a third of all cancer cases tion during 2012. can be prevented and an additional one third can be As well as the investments in clinics contributing to cured if the illness is discovered at an early stage. the treatment of cancer patients, GMI’s establishment However, many developing countries have poor healthalso means a significant transfer of capacities and care systems where cancer treatment is not prioritised. technologies. The innovating financial systems that In 2009 Swedfund decided to start a joint investGMI was a part of creating can also be replicated to ment and project development company, Global other areas and can therefore serve as a model that will Medical Investments GMI AB (GMI). GMI’s business contribute to the development of the society in general. concept is, as a majority shareholder or biggest owner, Also read the interview with GMI’s chairman Jan to establish and run modern cancer clinics in developSundberg. ing countries that lack facilities for radiation treatment Global Medical Investments GMI AB Business Project development and investment company to establish and invest in clinics for cancer radiation treatment. To be a part of running the clinics by being active in local boards. Year of investment 2009 Swedfund’s investment SEK 70 million in equity capital and shareholder addition. Most important • That the cancer patients are treated and can return to productive work. development effects • Entire or part of the multidisciplinary (medicines, radiation therapy through Gamma knife, and linear accelerator) cancer clinics are set up in regions that are lacking in such effective treatments. • Doctors and other personnel in low and middle-income countries who get quality cancer treatment education abroad are given the possibility to move back home and utilise their acquired specialities. • That the clinics give locally educated medical personnel the opportunity of qualified work and additional education that bolsters the domestic knowledge and expertise in cancer treatment and gives a recruitment base for others who intend to start up state-of-the-art treatment centres. • In developing countries that have previously lacked advanced cancer treatment there is often also a lack of legislation (including permits and patient financing) that is required for medicationand radiation treatment. By GMI setting up cancer clinics in these countries, they contribute to the development of regulations and the establishment of additional clinics, not only during the establishment process. This contributes to additional availability of quality healthcare and jobs for qualified medical staff. • Through GMI’s initiative, an independent fund has been set up to give the people living under difficult conditions the possibility of treatment at the centres. The first fund, located in Ghana, has started fundraising and the photo: swedfund initiative was welcomed at government level. The goal is to promote the establishment of national funds in the countries where GMI operates. 40 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Global Medical Investments GMI AB establishes and runs modern cancer treatment clinics in developing countries where demand for cancer treatment services is significantly greater than the existing treatment provision. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 41 interview: jan sundberg »Swedfund’s goal is to contribute to creating some­ thing that is missing in the society structure.« J an Sundberg has many years’ experience of the banking sector and is Chairman of the Board of Global Medical Investments (GMI) jointly owned by Swedfund and Elekta. Elekta devel­ oped the radiation knife, Leksell Gamma Knife. Radiation is an established tumour treatment photo: Åse Bengtsson Helin method and, Gamma Knife is used specifically for radiation treatment of tumours the head and neck. Today GMI runs radiation treatment clinics in five countries, one of which is in the Ghana capital, Accra. “People who are well off can get their cancer treatment elsewhere. Through clinics we have the possibility to reach out to the group of people who Another way is the collaboration with labour would otherwise have no access to treatment. Our unions where a small part of the union fee is set aside business model entails people with few resources being for health care insurance. subsidised by those who are richer,” explains Jan So why are Swedfund’s investments needed for Sundberg. these kinds of investments? Well, to develop an entire Importing equipment does not necessarily need to be concept with similar clinics, an experienced partner difficult. However, getting new technology and a new committed to a long-term engagement is a necessity. clinic up and running is a great challenge. If the invest“I think that the Swedfund model is both exciting ment is going to work, the clinic has to be integrated and interesting. What they offer is a help to self-help into the country’s healthcare and insurance systems. concept to which we contribute with knowledge and “It’s about the combination of technology and skills. capital.” The work is built around good cooperation with the The investment can also indirectly contribute to the country’s leading hospitals that can diagnose patients development of new business models in other areas of and refer them on. In several countries local hospitals society: are also part owners of clinics,” says Jan Sundberg. “Swedfund’s goal is to contribute to creating What development results does GMI contribute with? something that is missing in the society structure and The most obvious are the transfer of technology and which later becomes a part of the entire health system. knowledge, the investment of capital, capacity building Jan Sundberg, who is currently engaged in about ten of local staff and new job opportunities for qualified companies and funds, came in touch with Swedfund medical staff (who would otherwise search for jobs abroad). through his work with risk management and venture The more unexpected one, albeit equally interesting in the activities in the bank formerly known as SE Bank. long term, is that the clinics supports the establishment of “I think that this is an incredibly interesting area to sustainable financing systems within healthcare. work with. Many Swedish companies work with “The countries in which we establish often lack a relatively developed products where it is important to functioning tax system like we are used to. This is why find new markets. At the same time, it can be rather in parallel to treatment we must also develop financing challenging to fully finance an investment through it’s systems adapted to the country in question. In Ghana own daughter company. This is why Swedfund’s role is we have also helped with the start-up of a foundation so important in that it helps carry out projects that are that financially supports the treatment of people who of great importance in developing the market in the cannot afford to pay themselves.” countries in which the investment is made. 42 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Exited investments S wedfund draws up an exit report for every improve the analyses of our new investments and exited investment. The exit report is an manage risks or even abstain from making some important part of Swedfund’s investment investments. Next year’s Exit report will be fully process when we reflect about experiences dadapted to the fundamentals Private Sector Deve­ and draw conclusions from earlier investlopment, Sustainability and Financial Viability. ments. Based on these experiences we can continue to The following investments were exited in 2012: Invested Exit Company Country Industry Type Form Share in % Dur. amount amount Profit Internal years in SEK Mill rate of return Access Bank Azerbaijan Microfinance Expansion Loan 4.0 30.8 42.2 11.4 10.2% BIM Bolivia Equity fund Establishm Equity 25.0% 15.0 0.6 3.7 3.1 21.5% BR Fuel Liberia Forestry Establishm Equity 9.9% 2.0 97.5 106.0 8.5 4.4% Micro Africa Africa Micro finance Expansion Equity 22.9% 10.4 3.9 8.4 4.5 7.6% TOL Tanzania Industrial gases Expansion Equity 4.0% 8.0 1.5 1.4 (0.1) (1.3%) Total 2.8 134.3 161.7 27.3 6.8% 1. Fixed rate of 9% in euro according to the contract with Vattenfall. 2. Figures for Micro Africa are based on when the fund Acacia (that Swedfund later took over) bought shares in the company. In this report we have chosen to give a few selected • BR Fuel – investing in renewable energy in a postexamples of results that have positively contributed to conflict country together with a Swedish company private sector development and the promotion of with high demands on ESG and demonstration effects. sustainable business in the respective country. Swedfund’s participation contributed to investment in • Access Bank – the first international bond both for renewable energy in a post-conflict country with the Azerbaijani issuer as well as for an individual microaim of creating job opportunities, increasing export finance institution. The bank received several awards incomes and revitalising rubber production, Liberia’s for its work with transparency and sustainability most important industry. During Swedfund’s invest(social, environmental and corporate governance), ment period, a lot of technology and knowledge was in 2009 it was awarded the Financial Times Sustaitransferred, and high requirements were demanded nable Banking Award, and in 2010 was named Most from the companies to meet the ESG standards. After Transparent Azerbaijani Bank by Standard & Poor’s. two years, Swedfund was bought out of the investment. Swedfund’s involvement contributed to meeting the • Micro Africa – successful expansion of microcredit high demand for financing from micro, small, and institution in East Africa. Swedfund’s participation has medium-sized companies, all of whom are important contributed to a successful expansion of this micro­ providers of employment outside of the public sector. credit institution with business in Kenya, Uganda, • BIM – contributed to the development of the finanRwanda and South Sudan. The establishment in South cial sector in Bolivia and also to the growth of stock Sudan is to be seen as a pioneer business for supporting trade on stock exchange markets (since the Presiprivate sector development in the country. The number dent nationalised a large number of companies in of employees has increased, and education on CSR is2006, progressed has gone backwards). Swedfund’s sues with focus on anti-corruption has been initiated participation contributed to the development of the with Technical Assistance support from Swedfund. financial sector in Bolivia, especially microcredit • TOL restructuring of a 50-year old Tanzanian institutions, as well as to the growth of stock trade. industrial gas company. Swedfund’s participation This has served as an example as there were few contributed to increased private ownership through actors who wanted to enter this market when the expertise and corporate governance support. Today opportunity for investment arose. the company has a workforce of 75. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 43 photo: swedfund Planning on site. Technical Assistance S wedfund has been given an approval by due diligence of Norsad in 2011, a need to strengthen the owner for special funds for Technical the E&S function in the company was identified. Assistance (TA) in order to finance projects Swedfund and Norfund have thereafter announced that are outside of the regular business in that this process could be carried out with help of our portfolio companies. These funds shall consultants within the framework of our technical only be used to improve the quality of existing investassistance programme. ments, primarily within ESG, or to follow-up and analyse previous, now exited investments. The Technical Assistance projects are initiated by Swedfund but can also be Technical Assistance finance a consultancy assignment developed in a dialogue with another partner company. with the following tasks: During 2012 Swedfund’s Technical Assistance commit• Together with the E&S Manager go through tee approved funds for 11 projects, one of which was Norsad’s loan portfolio and ensure that the categothe extension of a previous project. The project was risation of risks is in line with the company’s E&S primarily comprised of ”Quality Improvement in policies. Portfolio Company”. A more detailed review about • Develop processes in order to be able to evaluate how the funds have been used can be found in the ­potential risks in the portfolio companies with Appendix 4 on page 93. During the year SEK 7.5 ­regard to environmental and social factors. million have been approved. SEK 4.9 million of the • Give recommendations in order to limit the risks allotted funds are still available. Examples of Technical with regard to selected projects. Assistance projects: Quality Improvement in Portfolio • Capacity-build Norsad’s personnel in E&S issues, Company related to capacity building of E&S Managespecially the E&S Manager, but also to a limited ers (Environment & Social) as well as assessment of degree the Investment Managers. environmental and social risks in Norsad Finance Ltd’s investments. The project was initiated during 2012 and is estimated Together with other Nordic DFIs and development to run from January to April 2013. The overall cost of banks from 11 SADC countries (Southern Africa the contribution is estimated to SEK 462,000, of which Dev­elop­ment Community), Swedfund is a shareholder Swedfund will reserve maximum SEK 264,000. of Norsad Finance Ltd (Norsad), a financier of SME companies and financial institutions in southern Africa. During Swedfund’s and other shareholders’ 44 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 PERFORMANCE REPORT ON INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS A well-defined framework focuses on the four thematic areas that can be found in for performance reporting the IFC model, Development Outcome Tracking As of now, Swedfund is reporting on results of its System (DOTS). Within each respective area, a number operations within the three performance areas defined of indicators are used that include both qualitative and in the mission: Private Sector Development, Sustainquantitative results, as well as direct and indirect ability and Financial Viability. The indicators that have indicators. been selected within these performance areas are both • Financial performance (examples of indicators: qualitative and quantitative, direct and indirect, and ­Revenue, Profitability and Return) will be used throughout the entire investment cycle, • Economic results (examples of indicators: Wages, from the initial assessment of the incoming project, in Taxes, Direct and Indirect Employment Opportu­ the ongoing follow-up of the portfolio company nities) throughout the entire management phase, and finally • ESG results and improvements (examples of indicaduring the evaluation after the concluded (exited) tors: Resource Efficiency, reduced negative climate project. Efforts to monitor results of an operation are effects, introduction of environmental management under constant development. systems, improved working environment, improved The 29 portfolio companies that forms the basis of working conditions, introduction of policies, incluthe performance report below in areas Private Sector ding improvement of company management and Development, Sustainability and Financial Viability are management of corporate procedures) direct investments (equity investments and/or loans) in • Private sector development (examples of indicators: manufacturing and service sectors, and for example Transfer of Technology and Knowledge, Demonstracompanies within the hoteland healthcare sectors. tion Effects, Increased Competitiveness) Investments in financial institutions are not included in the selection, since we are currently developing tools During 2012 we have continued working with the for monitoring and performance reporting within this development and implementation of the model through sector. Portfolio companies in which operations have annual monitoring and reporting on concluded not yet started, or portfolio companies in which the projects. Among Development Finance Institutions operations have been completed during the year, are there is an established consensus regarding the method also not included in this report. for analysis, monitoring and reporting on development results. The methodology that Swedfund follows is Model for analysis also in line with how other DFIs are working. During During 2011, a new model for reporting on develop2012 Swedfund has participated in international ment results has been implemented. The model is initiatives ongoing between DFIs and that have the aim intended to be initially applied in the assessment phase to harmonise indicators, as well as their definitions, for of an investment in order to identify expected developanalysis of development results. ment results. Thereafter, during the management phase, the actual development results are compared to Results for Private Sector Development the expected results, and are then reported about in the At the end of 2011, the number of direct jobs created annual report on portfolio companies. Finally, during in the 29 portfolio companies amounted to 7,050. To the exit phase, an analysis of actual development this number shall also be added a great number of results is conducted, and a harmonisation with expectindirect jobs generated through the companies’ ed results is made. 2012 is the first year in which the distribution and supply chain. We do not monitor or new model has been applied in exit reports. The model report about the number of indirect jobs generated in swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 45 this way. IFC, however, estimates that the number of in the same sector. Capacity building of staff at a hotel indirect jobs created in IFC’s portfolio company is could with time e.g. lead to employees starting their 7–25 per direct employment (IFC Jobs Study – Assessown businesses that could then lead to creation of ing private sector contributions to job creation and employment for even more people. Therewith can the poverty reduction). IFC further concludes that many of effect of an investment become even greater than what those indirect employments are beneficial for uneduwas initially anticipated. cated and poor people. We therefore conclude that the effects on job creation are significantly greater than the Sustainability 7,050 direct jobs that were reported by the selected 29 Swedfund takes part in establishing companies in portfolio companies. several of the world’s most difficult environments. Company’s reported taxes amounted to SEK 50 Corruption, informal economy, illiteracy and lack of million (pertains to 22 portfolio companies). These governmental structures are only a few of the chaltaxes can be used to finance social and economic lenges that we and our portfolio companies are faced infrastructure in the investment countries, which will with. During the past year, resource investment in ESG benefit the country’s population. has therefore increased immensely and sustainability is The supporting documents for the reporting on a prioritised development and working field for taxes are taken from the latest available annual report Swedfund. Swedfund’s core values and development of (17 up until 31 December 2011 and the remaining five our policies (described on pages 20–23) shall now also from the split financial year 2012, or the latest finantrickle down into our portfolio companies. Just as cial statement from 2010). We have still not received before, it is important to formulate policy requirements some of the portfolio companies’ financial statements to be upheld in lending and shareholder agreements. from 2012. Of the 29 selected companies, seven are However, this is not enough. The establishment of excluded, since 2012 was their first business year and/ relevant policies in portfolio companies is a long-term or because Swedfund has not yet received their finanand painstaking process with capacity building as one cial statements. Due to the fact that the majority of the of its important tools. Development of policies is not companies do not report about the number of employenough either, which is why our follow-up and advoees in their annual reports, the information was taken cacy dialogue (described on page 49) is central for from our self-declaration Swedfund Self-Assessment reaching our target. We have now selected sustainabilSustainability Report. The data about the number of ity indicators that focus on some of the most difficult employees includes companies that have not yet been and important issues to properly manage in portfolio put into operation, but already have employed staff. companies, for example, corruption and environmental For five companies, the information about the number issues. This year’s annual ESG reporting – a new model of employees is missing. for ESG reporting – is a Baseline report that gives us a In order for competitive and sustainable companies starting point for the continued necessary work with to be able to develop and grow, it is not only capital follow-up and advocacy dialogue. and good partners in the cooperation country that are required. An equally important part in the work is an New model for ESG reporting active capacity building effort that is conducted in In last year’s Sustainability and Annual Report we dialogue with portfolio company’s stakeholders , and expressed the ambition to, in 2012 annual report give the portfolio company itself. details about the portfolio company’s data from the Apart from the Board expertise itself, through its ongoing fiscal year, and not, as in previously published part-ownership of the portfolio company, Swedfund annual reports, report on data older than the present can contribute with Swedish experiences regarding fiscal year. However, it turned out to be difficult to environmental issues, human rights, ESG management report on results from our very extensive Swedfund and experience of collaboration with the civil society. Self-Assessment Sustainability Report, since it was not This is also fully in line with Swedfund’s ownership specifically developed for such kind of reporting. This governance and the guidelines for Swedish developis why in 2012 Swedfund introduced a new routine ment cooperation. that requires annual reporting by our portfolio compaMany times, some of Swedfund’s portfolio companies about a number of ESG indicators. Swedfund nies serve as a model that can inspire other companies Portfolio Company ESG Key Performance Report is 46 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 the self-declaration that we sent to portfolio companies tal policies. Some environmental policies are detailed in order to report for Swedfund’s Sustainability and while others are concise. 3 companies that answered Annual Report 2012. Yes to the question but have not yet sent us any policy, This newly designed, shorter self-declaration with are reported as No. five questions focusing on performance reporting was emailed to the 29 portfolio companies. All companies Remarks have provided answers. This performance report, and In Swedfund’s portfolio there are companies with this year’s selection of indicators, is a pilot report and diverse activities, such as retail, healthcare and manumay change according to the decision that the Swedfacturing industries. This explains why different fund’s Board of Directors takes in 2013 about stratecompanies chose different focus for their policies, such gic sustainability targets. It should also be noted that as Environment, Health, Safety, Quality, Work the responses from the companies are self-declared and Environ­ment, External Environment or Sustainable have not been subject to independent review. Development. Variations in policy wordings are also The focus in this performance report is on policies, very large, ranging from simple “Statements” to groupresponsibilities and management. This focus has been wide comprehensive policy documents. It is, of course, chosen because such information provides a detailed not satisfactory that half of the companies do not have picture about how companies are working with policies on environment and sustainable business. sustainable business. Energy and climate issues have However, this gives us at Swedfund the opportunity to been prioritised because the focus in 2012 was premake a difference through our advocacy and to bring cisely on climate issues. The UN Rio Conference and about improvement. the World Bank report, Turn Down the Heat – Why a 4°C Warmer World Must be Avoided, illustrates the gravity of climate issues. Results for Sustainability YES NO 11 18 YES NO 14 15 Anti-corruption policy 2. Does your company have an anti-corruption policy (a policy to minimize the risk of management and employees engaging in corrupt practices, such as Sustainability or environmental policy bribery, kickbacks, fraud etc.)? 1. Does your company have a sustainability or an environmental policy (a document, preferably signed Results by the management, showing how the company 11 portfolio companies answered Yes and attached addresses environmental, social and governance issues their policies. 18 companies do not have a specific in its operations)? anti-corruption policy. Seven companies that answered Yes to the question, but did not send us any policies, Results were reported as No. The companies that have parts of 14 portfolio companies have an environmental policy the corruption issue aspects in other governing docuand 15 do not. Of those that answered Yes, two ments, as in e.g. a Human Resources Policy are decided to follow their parent companies’ environmenreported as No. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 47 Remarks often part of additional management responsibilities in The findings suggest there is a potential for improvethe companies. This result indicates that we need to ment. In this context it should be noted that most of know more about job descriptions and areas of responSwedfund portfolio companies are smallor mediumsibilities at the company itself in order to feel comfortsize enterprises. In smaller companies, as we know able that the ESG issues are actually given priority. from experience, working on development of policies is often not prioritised. Anti-corruption clauses are included and have also previously been included in Swedfund’s loanand shareholder agreements, in accordance with which portfolio companies certify that they have not acted and will not act in such a way that could be described YES NOT YES NO as corruption. CERT 2 17 10 Our portfolio companies shall, by adopting Swedfund’s new anti-corruption policy in the agreement, endorse and commit to follow its own adopted anti-corruption policy. With the Portfolio Anti-Corruption Policy Model that Swedfund is now providing to portfolio companies as support and “help to self-help”, we hope to improve these results already next year. Management system (ISO 14001, OHSAS, SA8000) 4. Does your company have a Management system in place to manage and monitor the significant aspects of sustainability, environment or health and safety in operations (i.e. ISO 14 001, OHSAS 18 001, SA 8000)? YES NO 25 4 Results Two companies have attached certificates regarding management systems for environment, health and safety. Apart from these, 10 companies responded that they have management systems, but that they are not certified (it is noted here that certain management systems, such as HAPPC, are not possible to certify ESG Manager externally). 17 companies answered No to the ques3. Does your company have a designated manager or tion, and thus have no management systems. board member specifically responsible for ESG issues? If so, please provide the name of this person. Remarks That only three companies established certified Results management systems is less noteworthy than that 25 companies answered that they do have an ESG two-thirds of companies actually have no established Manager and have provided their names. 4 answered management system at all. From Swedfund’s perspecNo, which means that they do not have a person with tive, systematic work with environmental, health and this designated responsibility. safety issues is a must. That a company at least complies with regulatory requirements and pushes for Remarks constant improvement, reduces environmental impact The companies have here reported that this responsiand improves the working environment is central for bility lies either at board level, management level or on sustainable business. Lack of management systems the operational level. Responsibility for ESG issues is means that there is a great potential for improvement. 48 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 YES NO NA 23 1 5 Report about energy consumption Follow-up and advocacy dialogue 5. Energy consumption. Please report energy used Swedfund’s core values and business ethic approach during the past 12 month period (indicate which that is expressed through adopted international months) in the table below. Include purchased electricframeworks, codes of conduct and policies, constitute ity as well as fuels burned on site (e.g. for generators). the platform for Swedfund’s overall business. SustainMeasurements can be taken from fuel bills/invoices ability (ESG) is one of the foundations of Swedfund and similar “paper-trail” records. and is crucial in reaching development of core values in portfolio companies. For more information about the Results frameworks and standards that Swedfund follows, see 23 companies have reported about their energy page 22. consumption during 2012, including both electricity In practice, IFC’s Performance Standards on and oil/diesel consumption. One company did not Environmental and Social Sustainability www1.ifc.org/ report and five companies stated that the issue of wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corenergy is not applicable to their business. porate_site/ifc+sustainability/publications/publications_ handbook_pps is the standard tool that Swedfund uses Remarks as a basis to identify risks in the due diligence process The fact that the companies actually measure and before an investment, as well as in the advocacy work report about their energy consumption indicates that we continue to pursue in dialogue with portfolio maturity in the perception about what impact their companies. The standards are used to prevent, reduce business has on the climate. Only after reporting and manage environmental and social risks and impacts. routines are established, realistic goals for energy IFC’s Performance Standards are eight in number: efficiency can be set. 1.Assessment and Management of Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts. 2.Labour and Working Conditions. 3.Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention. 4.Community Health, Safety, and Security. 5.Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement. 6.Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. 7.Indigenous Peoples. 8.Cultural Heritage. Read more on IFC’s website, www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/ connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_ site/ifc+sustainability/publications/publications_handbook_pps: swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 49 Self-declarations, risk analyses ing assignments. Based on the agreement signed with and monitoring of sustainability the companies and the self-declarations that they sent Swedfund’s monitoring of sustainability shows whethto Swedfund, the companies’ ESG status was checked, er a portfolio company follows responsible business verified, discussed and documented. Together with practices with regard to environment, social issues and company managers, agreements were reached about corporate governance in line with what has been specific time schedules for prioritised ESG activities. stipulated through the contract. In joint investments This work is ongoing throughout the management with other DFIs, another DFI other than Swedfund can phase with the ambition to contribute to steady be responsible for this monitoring. In order to follow improvements and development of values. up on portfolio companies’ Sustainability and ESG status, Swedfund, during 2011, further developed the Serious accidents/deaths tool that we use in our work. Swedfund Self-Assessin portfolio companies ment Sustainability Report is a self-declaration conSwedfund’s portfolio companies conduct their business taining 144 questions about portfolio companies’ under well-established safety procedures. Despite this, Sustainability and ESG efforts. The questions focus on accidents with severe consequences sometimes do happen. environment, human rights, working conditions, Two deaths after an accident were reported in two anti-corruption, business ethics, gender equality, companies, one in 2012 and one in January 2013. Both diversity and corporate governance. accidents occurred during road transportation. Obviously The self-declaration was emailed to portfolio these tragic deaths will increasingly sharpen requirements companies in spring 2012. In total, 29 manufacturing for routines. The goal is and always has been to comcompanies and companies working in the service pletely avoid accidents and work-related injuries. sector were sent the new self-declaration and responses were received from all but three companies, two of Results for Financial Viability which were under decommission from Swedfund One of the prerequisites for development results to be portfolio and one company reported in a correspondachieved at all through business is that the company is ing manner to another DFI. The answers formed the financially viable, that is to say, profitable. This is why basis for planning the 2012 ESG monitoring in the it is of course highly relevant to analyse and report on company itself. After the internal ESG analysis and its how companies perform financially. This is preferably anchoring with the respective Investment Manager at done for each company individually (which is done Swedfund, Monitoring visits and Audits 2012 were internally and is an important part of the work of the established and implemented as follows below. IM responsible), based on the companies’ specific Sustainability/ESG monitoring in the selected conditions in the markets in which they operate. At the companies were conducted by Swedfund’s ESG same time, it is interesting to collect financial data for Managers singlehandedly, or together with Swedfund’s portfolio companies in order to show the extent and Investment Manager in each company respectively. magnitudes that these companies stand for. We have External consultants were tendered for four monitorbelow chosen to report about the turnover, turnover Portfolio company Country On-site visit Internal/External ESG Manager Buchanan Renewables Liberia 18 March Internal follow-up K Sjöblom Addax Bio Energy Sierra Leone 7 May Internal follow-up K Sjöblom Prestando Wuxi Co. China 9 May Internal follow-up L-O Larsson Karlsson Spools Co. China 10 May Internal follow-up L-O Larsson HSF Wuxi Electro Mechanical China 8 May Internal follow-up L-O Larsson Emerald Addis Ethiopia 11 September Support by external consultants L-O Larsson Addis Quarry Ethiopia 12 September Internal follow-up L-O Larsson ACH Addis Cardiac Hospital Ethiopia 13 September Internal follow-up L-O Larsson Jacobi India India 11 October Support by external consultants K Sjöblom Jacobi Lanka Sri Lanka 16 October Support by external consultants K Sjöblom Athi River Steel Plant Kenya 6 November Support by external consultants K Sjöblom 50 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 growth and profitability on aggregated level for 22 bers is a continuous process, and trainings within a portfolio companies. These rates provide a sense of board are of high priority. During the fiscal year an overall development of these companies. inventory of the educational status has been made and The aggregate rates are difficult to analyse considerthree employees conducted certified courses. Two ing the fact that the companies are very different from employees were certified in DEG’s Board education and several perspectives: countries in which they operate, one by the Swedish Academy of Board Directors. Responphase of their maturity (newly established, mature sibility in a board is always personal. The basis for working companies, etcetera.), level of risk to operations, indusin a board is Swedfund’s mission, core values and policies. tries, currencies, markets, regulatory environment, There is a clear connection between our engageetcetera. Henceforth, Swedfund will also continue to ment in corporate governance of portfolio companies work on developing this part of the performance report. and sustainable business. This is why experience and The aggregate turnover in our reported selection of knowledge about corporate governance are an exportfolio companies at the end of the year totalled SEK tremely important part of Swedfund’s development 3,709 million and the average revenue growth per cooperation work. Since risk and business conditions company was 30 per cent compared to the previous are constantly changing, a board’s competence must year. Profit after tax on the aggregate level totalled SEK also evolve and adapt to new conditions. 182 million. Nine out of 22 companies reported In order to boost the development of our corporate negative results, since they are in their early developgovernance engagement in portfolio companies, Swedment phase. Given the level of risk and challenges in fund together with thirty other financial institutions the companies’ markets, this is not surprising. We adopted the Approach Statement on Corporate Governknow from experience that it takes time for newly ance. The aim is to harmonise assessments and proceestablished companies to generate positive net income. dures in order to establish and monitor corporate Turnover plus result after taxes is based on followgovernance in portfolio companies through a jointly ing financial statements: 16 companies’ financial adopted methodology, the Corporate Governance statement up until 31 December 2011 (currencies EUR, ETB, EGP, XOF, KES, CNY, LKR, USD, LTL, Corporate Governance Development Framework GHS, LVL och BYR), two companies’ financial A FRAMEWORK FOR INTEGRATING CORPORATE GOVERNstatement up until 30 June 2012 (currencies ETB och ANCE INTO INVESTMENT OPERATIONS KES), three companies’ financial statement up until 31 Each signatory of the Framework undertakes to: March 2012 (currency INR) and one financial state1. Integrate Corporate Governance (“CG”) in its investment ment up until 31 December 2010 (currency EGP) and operations has been exchanged from local currency into SEK a. Adopt CG procedures and tools in line with the Framework’s according to the exchange rate on the date of the methodology; financial statement. The turnover growth is calculated b. Where considered appropriate, conduct CG assessments of investee companies and develop CG action plans; in local currency. c. Monitor progress of the implementation of CG action plans. 2. Ensure internal responsibility Corporate governance in portfolio companies Identify and assign an internal function that is responsible for A central part of Swedfund’s operations is the work we the implementation of the Framework. do with companies’ corporate governance during the 3. Provide or procure training management phase that for an equity investment often Ensure capacity building and knowledge transfer to staff for lasts between five and ten years. Swedfund’s involvethe implementation and further development of the ment in portfolio companies’ corporate governance is Framework. of utmost importance for the way in which these 4. Collaborate with other signatories companies are governed, managed, achieve results and a. Share experience and resources in training and implementation; report. The starting point for an equity investment is b. Contribute to developing case studies and progress reports that Swedfund be guaranteed a place on the board of on the above. the company. Usually this is the investment manager, 5. Report on implementation but in some cases Swedfund engages external people to Report annually to the other signatories on the internal sit on the portfolio company’s Board on Swedfund’s implementation of the Framework. behalf. Professional development of our board memswedfund sustainability report 2012 | 51 Development Framework. A plan for this work was • Indirect jobs in distribution and supply chain through agreed upon in 2012 and managers have been appointed building contractors, food suppliers, restaurants, to start implementing this framework in 2013. tourist services, local crafts, other retail and service companies. Investing in the hotel industry as an example • Tax and VAT revenue for the country. In recent years, Swedfund has made several invest• Infrastructure for local, regional and international ments in the hotel sector. Are these really investments business people as well as for tourism. that contribute to poverty reduction? We think so, and • Inflow of foreign currency from businessmen and so does the World Bank and IFC, who believe that tourists. hotel investments in low and middle-income countries • Transfer of knowledge and skills. provide significant development results. Since 1956, • An improved local environment; reduces and limits IFC has invested about $ 2.5 billion in more than 250 the use of materials and products, minimises waste hotel projects in 83 countries, where hotel industry’s and water consumption, limits and optimises transport. direct and indirect effects on development are evident. In 2007, the World Bank carried out in-depth studies Since 2001, Swedfund has made five hotel investments, of two hotels, a four-star and a five-star hotel in Zambia. three of which were in operation and two under The direct development results were easier to measure construction at the end of the year. During the year, than the indirect ones. One conclusion was that the Radisson Blu Addis Ababa in the Ethiopian capital photo: istock hotels created 840 direct jobs in total (380 rooms and Addis Ababa was opened. The project was made 2.2 jobs per room, IFC Hotel Investments – Delivering possible through Swedfund’s equity investment in the Development Impact in Africa (2007)), 60 000 visiting real estate company Emerald Addis Hotels Private Ltd. tourists (2006), who paid USD 6 million in tax, sales Co., as well as through joint loans together with several tax and fees and spent USD 4 million in the local DFIs through Afrinord. The hotel, which has 208 rooms, economy. The four million in turn generated 400 jobs is located in central Addis Ababa and is operated by the and enabled the schooling of almost a thousand children. company Rezidor under the brand Radisson Blu. The World Bank also observed that the more stars a During the construction period, about 300 people hotel has, the more jobs are created and better develwere employed and currently the hotel employs 302 opment results are achieved. Four and five-star hotels people, of which one third are women. Prior to their with higher demands from guests, higher quality and employment, employees undergo a comprehensive higher service generate up to three jobs per room. training that includes Rezidor’s Code of Business These hotels have higher standards, which leads to Ethics, the hotel’s guiding document, and employee more employees with higher education. They generate handbook. A large part of the employees only had more tax and VAT revenues and also attract a greater elementary education when they were employed, but inflow of foreign currency. through their employment got a useful further educaHotel investments generate development and tion and then an ongoing training. development results such as: In September 2011, six months after the hotel • Direct employment during construction and operaopened, Swedfund conducted an external in-depth tion. analysis of how Swedfund’s ESG standards and photo: radisson blue hotel 52 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Swedfund is looking into different methods to compensate for the environmental impact that the company‘s air travel causes. For example, such methods include choice of airlines and flight routes, purchase of emission allowances, CDM projects and tree-planting projects. requirements are being implemented by the hotel’s business is expected to grow in the coming years. management company. The ESG inspection was done During 2012 Swedfund’s flights resulted in 215 tonnes with the help of external consultants. The conclusion of CO2 emissions (270 tonnes in 2011). However, the was that the hotel clearly met Swedfund’s ESG standdisparity among the years cannot be analysed due to ards and requirements. All necessary policy documents portfolio companies’ variation and the differences in and manuals were established to ensure a good work the nature of the operation. We will continue working environment for staff and a safe environment for on this issue and seek to relate environmental impact guests. The improvement proposals initiated through of air travel to comparative figures, such as number of the analysis were primarily related to remaining employees, number of new investments, investment property-related matters. volume or number of portfolio companies. Other questions that are going to be assessed in this context Swedfund’s CO2 footprint include fleet modernity, choice of routes to the destinaSwedfund’s main environmental impact is the one that tions, purchase of carbon offsets, CDM projects or for obvious reasons occurs in portfolio companies. tree-planting projects that could help reduce the However, the environmental pollution that occurs environmental impact that our air travel causes. when our employees travel to different places to complete their assignments is also something that we Award-winning environmental efforts need to reduce the effects of, or compensate in some Swedfund rents office space in Stockholm from real way. These trips are important for our business. To be estate company Hufvudstaden, a company with the on the spot and locally perform parts of our due best score of all Swedish companies in the Carbon diligence work prior to a decision on an investment, as Disclosure Project, a worldwide survey of the largest well as to actively participate in the management listed companies that examines how companies process in portfolio companies is of course necessary. analyse their greenhouse gas emissions and strategiWe strive to minimise air travel through teleconferenccally work with the climate issue. For the second year ing whenever possible. However, it is likely that our in a row, Hufvudstaden also received the highest score total travel will increase in the future, since Swedfund’s of all the Nordic real estate companies. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 53 swedpartnership S wedpartnership is Swedfunds offer to mum of EUR 200,000 (previously SEK 750 000). This Swedish smalland medium-sized compais an adaptation to the standard applicable to similar nies. The offer is unique on the Swedish support. A higher average amount is assessed to be market. With help of Swedish companies’ able to contribute to a bigger and more viable project, competence and investments, the purpose which is also expected to lead to more sustainable is, to develop the private sector in developing countries development results for local partners of Swedish and thereby contribute to development cooperation. companies. Since 2009, Swedpartnership has provided financDuring 2013, Swedpartnership intends to further ing to a total of 110 Swedish small and medium-sized develop the work on sustainability issues and continue companies’ investments in countries in which Swedmonitoring project development results. Swedpartnerfund operates. Support from Swedpartnership helps ship’s approach and performance monitoring follow companies set aside resources necessary to lay a solid the principles, tools and models that are used within foundation jointly with local partners for long-term Swedfund’s investment organization, however, with business partnerships. respect to the different character of financial instruSince Swedpartnership was formed in 2009, support ments and duration of the engagement. Important for has totalled a maximum of SEK 750,000 and a this year’s activities is also that the projects that maximum of 40 per cent of a project’s total cost. The Swedpartnership has supported in 2012 are now a part support is designated for Swedish companies and is of Swedfund’s reporting to the Open Aid. Below are intended for investment in skills transfer and equipthree examples of Swedish companies’ investments and ment related to business’ starting up new long-term partners that Swedpartnership financially supported. business partnerships with local partners. Swedfund’s knowledge and experience about what is necessary to successfully establish a business in an emerging market is the basis for Swedpartnership’s offer and the assessment of the applications that we receive. During 2012 Swedpartnership received a total of 32 requests for financial support compared with 50 during 2011, of which 25 (32) have been granted. In 2012, financial support was granted totalling SEK 23.5 million (SEK 20 million), divided into SEK 15.5 million (SEK 15.8 million) for investment in skills transfer and SEK 8.0 million (SEK 4.2 million) for investment in equipment. With an assumption that Swedpartnership accounted for 40 per cent of the project funding, this means that in 2012 Swedfund together with the Swedish companies invested roughly SEK 60 million, (SEK50 million) in skillsand technology transfer to private sectors in emerging markets. During spring 2013, Swedfund will continue adjusting Swedpartnership’s offer in line with the positive follow-up of Swedpartnership’s activities that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs carried out during 2011. According to a new government decree from 2012, Swedpartnership’s potential financial support per single company and project, amounts to a maxi54 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 Oscar of Sweden AB, Ukraina Partner: Luga PJSC, Ukraine Business: Manufacturing of shirts Project: Transfer of expertise in sewing techniques, cutting, fabric processing, production management and ergonomics on seamstresses, cutters, pattern designers and staff in the production management. Roughly 300 employees were involved. The project has enabled Luga PJSC to expand and upgrade skills levels in their operations, which has sharpened the company’s competitive edge. The project has also made it possible to introduce job rotation, which is expected to contribute to a lower rate of sick leave and more efficient operations. Luga PJSC can now fully meet the requirements that the Swedish partner has set and the Ukrainian company now has the opportunity of establish more customer contacts with similar Western companies. Composite Scandinavia AB, Vietnam Partner: Thanh Tai Gas Joint Stock Company Business: Production of composite pressure cylinders and sale of gas Project: The Swedish company received support from Swedpartnership to transfer knowledge to the Vietnamese company staff on dealing with a high-tech production line of composite cylinders. The advantages of composite cylinders over steel ones are many: they include visibility of gas level in the cylinder, which allows maximum use before the change. A composite cylinder is 4 kg lighter and therefore easier for customers to manage and reduces transport weight. The composite material includes less damage in the event of an explosion caused by fire, lower noise during handling and does not rust. A total of 41 people work in the cylinder-making plant: 24 operators, 3 technicians, 1 buyer, 10 in warehousing and logistics, 2 mechanics, 1 in charge of quality and chemicals and 1 seller. Check Point China AB, Kina Partner: Cixi Anderui Import and Export Co. Ltd, China (subsidiary to Check Point China AB). Business: Purchasing and quality assurance of industrial components Project: Transfer of expertise and investment in equipment, in order to build a local quality control, as well as to develop and streamline the management and control of operations. The completed project has significantly contributed to the strengthening and development of business cooperation between the two companies. A good example of this is the investment made in the measuring equipment, the jointly developed management system, clearer and more effective marketing communications, and that the Swedish company has introduced and implemented its Code of Conduct in the local company. All this has contributed to strengthening ties between the Swedish parent company and the Chinese subsidiary. swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 55 about this report J ust like all other state-owned companies, Limitations Swedfund is obliged to follow the Swedish Our business means that we invest in a number of new Government’s Guidelines for external reportprojects every year and sell others. This is why the ing by state-owned companies (from 29 portfolio is under constant transformation, which November 2007). These guidelines are availmakes comparison between years rather difficult. In able on the Swedish Government website. this year’s report we have changed our reporting routines for ESG results in a manner which we anReport profile nounced in our last year’s report. This change has to Like lasts year’s report, the 2012 report is a compilado with the timing of our reporting. Our portfolio tion of sustainability and annual report with regard to companies have previously been asked to report to the 2012 fiscal/calendar year. Swedfund by 31 March every year, which is also the This year’s annual report has a special focus on time when Swedfund is to report to its owner. This has various achievements starting with the owner’s clarifimeant that Swedfund earlier chose to convey informacation of the company’s mission with an extensive tion about our companies’ ESG results that was two follow-up on the drawing up of strategies and policies, years old. By using new reporting routines in this including an audit of Swedfund’s development of report, we are presenting ESG results from the current methodologies for measuring development results. This fiscal year, up until 31 December 2012. The new year’s sustainability reporting (which comprises one reporting routines are a pilot test and do not allow for part of this sustainability and annual report) is the fifth comparison with previous years. Our portfolio compain a row since the first one was written in 2008. The nies’ financial reporting is subject to audit and inde2008 Report won the Best Sustainability Report Award pendent assurance. However, the information about arranged by FAR, the institute for the accountancy ESG results that the portfolio companies presented in a profession in Sweden. Swedfund’s ambition is to self-declaration Portfolio Company ESG Key Perfordevelop our report in accordance with IIRC’s (Internamance Report, have not been independently assured. tional Integrated Reporting Council) Framework 1.0. Application level according to Scope and delimitation of the report GRI Guidelines This report mainly covers Swedfund and its portfolio Just like last year, we have chosen to apply Global companies, with a specific focus on companies in which Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) reporting framework for we have a Board representative, but we also report sustainability reports, version G3, including GRI’s about portfolio companies in which Swedfund is a Financial Services Sector Supplement. Our selected lender. Significant assumptions and methods for application level is C+ and the task to provide assurmeasuring are presented throughout the report. The ance on the sustainability report is given to PwC. data presented on an aggregated level regarding development results and other portfolio indicators UN Global Compact, Communication on comprises compiled results provided by portfolio Progress, COP companies in special self-declarations, as well as By adopting UN Global Compact, as Swedfund did in through financial and other reporting. We are conApril 2012, it is understood that Swedfund is to vinced that a transparent manner of reporting about annually report on progress in a Communication on development results benefits both development results Progress (COP). The company’s first COP will be and stakeholder relations. However for confidentiality submitted in April 2013, which is why we chose to reasons we do not have the possibility to report about integrate our first COP into this year’s sustainability individual portfolio companies’ performance. and annual report. In a special GRI/COP index we 56 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 decided to refer to information stipulated in the BASIC annual report, with first reporting in 2014 about the GUIDE Communication on Progress, GC Active Level, financial year 2013 (reporting to the PRI secretariat drawn up by the UN Global Compact. can be done online under the period of six months from October 2013 until March 2014). UN PRI By adopting the UN Principles for Responsible InvestContacts ment (PRI), which Swedfund did in August 2012, we The contacts for the sustainability and annual report have also committed to annually report about the are Elisabeth Mattisson, Financial Manager, and results of these efforts electronically to the PRI secreLars-Olle Larsson, Manager ESG Affairs. tariat directly and in the coming sustainability and swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 57 GRI/COP-Index The index below refers to GRI indicators and Global Compact’s ten principles. Fully reported Partly reported Relation to principles GRI Description Page Notes/Remarks in UN’s Global Compact 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 4-6 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation 60 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8, 60 Operational structure of the organisation including 2.3 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries 60, 65 and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 60 Number of countries where the organisation 2.5 operates 60 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 60 2.7 Markets served 36-37 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 60-87 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 60-61 No awards have been 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period received during 2012 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 56 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 30th of March 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle 56 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 57 3.5 Processes for defining report content 56 3.6 Boundary of the report 56 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 56 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures etc. 56 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements No significant changes No significant changes. Significant changes from previous reporting periods New reporting routines 3.11 in the scope, boundary or measurement methods regarding the portfolio companies’ ESG results. Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 58-59 Disclosures in the report Policy and current practice with regard to seeking The report is supported by 3.13 56 external assurance for the report PwC 4 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation 66-68 1-10 Statement in the case that the chairperson is also Chairperson of the Board is 1-10 4.2 the CEO not the CEO The Board is independent 1-10 4.3 Number of independent board members from the company management 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 67 Shareholders take part in the 1-10 58 | swedfund sustainability report 2012 4 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation 66-68 1-10 Statement in the case that the chairperson is also Chairperson of the Board is 1-10 4.2 the CEO not the CEO The Board is independent 1-10 4.3 Number of independent board members from the company management 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 67 Shareholders take part in the 1-10 provide recommendations or direction to the CEO annual meeting. Employees have the possibility to directly get in touch with the CEO 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 31-33 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 31 FS Supplement for the financial sector Policies with specific environmental and social FS1 20-23 components applied to business lines 1-10 Procedures for assessing and screening FS2 25-29 environmental and social risks in business lines 1-10 Processes for improving staff competency to FS4 21 implement the environmental and social policies Interactions with clients/investees/business partners FS5 regarding environmental and social risks and 45-50 1-10 opportunities Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 36-41, FS6 specific region, size and by sector 84-87 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess FS9 implementation of environmental and social policies 49-51 1-10 and risk assessment procedures Percentage and number of portfolio companies Own declarations regarding FS10 with which the organisation has interacted on 45-50 1-10 the key indicators environmental and social issues EC Economic performance indicators Shareholder contribution Significant financial assistance received from (SEK 400 million), including EC4 12-62 government funds for Technical Assistance and Swedpartnership Development and impact of infrastructure EC8 38-43 investments and services provided for public benefit Understanding and description of significant indirect EC9 43, 52 economic impacts EN Environmental performance indicators Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN17 53 weight 8 Labor practices and decent work performance LA indicators Total workforce by employment type, employment LA1 78-80 contract and region Diversity indicators for governance bodies and LA13 78-80 1, 6 employees HR Human rights performance indicators Percentage and total number of significant 20-23, HR1 investment agreements that include human rights 1-6 25-30 clauses SO Society performance indicators Percentage and total number of business units 29 of 91 companies have SO2 47-48 been selected for their selfanalysed for risks related to corruption 10 declarations. All 29 companies have answered swedfund sustainability report 2012 | 59 annual report Directors’ Report for Swedfund International AB Financial year 2012 The Board of Directors and Managing Director of cially, environmentally and socially sustainable. In Swedfund International AB hereby present the annual preparing and deciding on investments, significant report for the financial year 2012. importance shall be assigned to their expected contributions to the objectives of the Company’s operations, The Company’s objectives and focus according to the first paragraph of the section above. Business structure Choice of countries Swedfund International AB is a limited liability The Company shall invest in countries that qualify for company that is wholly-owned by the Swedish state. development financing according to the OECD The Company is a development finance institution Development Assistance Committee (DAC) definition. with a specific social responsibility. The Company’s Among developing countries, the Company shall give main office is located in Stockholm and it has a priority to investments in low-income and post-conflict regional office in Nairobi. countries. Investments in upper middle-income countries and territories, as defined by the OECD/DAC, Objectives may only be made in countries with which Sweden According to our Owner’s Instructions engages in bilateral development cooperation. The Company aims to contribute to the goals of For further information, please refer to “Swedfund Sweden’s Policy for Global Development (PGD): – A Development Finance Institution” on page 8 in the equitable and sustainable global development. The sustainability report. Company’s operations are based on two fundamental Swedfund’s complete Owner’s Instructions www. objectives. One, relating to international development swedfund.se/en/files/2012/04/Swedfund-Owners-Instruccooperation, is to help in enabling poor people to tions-adopted-20-April-2012.pdf and in Appendix 1. improve their lives. The other, concerning reform cooperation in Eastern Europe, is to bring about Swedpartnership strengthened democracy, equitable and sustainable Through the brand Swedpartnership, Swedfund offers development and alignment with the European Union financial support for small and medium-sized Swedish and its core values. enterprises for investments in Swedfund’s partner countries. This support is provided as a loan that can According to the resolution by the Annual General be converted into a grant when the project has been Meeting of Shareholders completed according to plan. These operations are According to a resolution by the Annual General financed entirely by the Swedish state through the Meeting (financial objectives), the Company shall allocation of separately-budgeted funds. A link to the strive to ensure that its average pre-tax return on ordinance which primarily regulates the operations: equity exceeds the average interest rate on Swedish www.riksdagen.se/sv/Dokument-Lagar/Lagar/ central government debt of one-year maturity. Return Svenskforfattningssamling/Forordning-20081272-omis to be measured over rolling seven-year periods. Swed_sfs-2008-1272/?bet=2008:1272 (in Swedish). Focus of the operations Results of operations in 2012 In cooperation with strategic partners, the Company and long-term financial objectives shall contribute to investments that are not expected to For information regarding Swedfund’s strategies, be achievable with commercial financing alone. sustainability objectives and the results of operations, Operations shall be conducted in a professional and please refer to page 18 of the Sustainability Report. business-like manner. The investments must be finanIn 2012, the Company incurred a substantial loss of 60 | swedfund annual report 2012 MSEK -217.6 (-60.8) as a result of major write-downs period, even though the companies will not be conductin the investment portfolio. The single largest writeing industrial operations. There are a number of legal downs refer to two companies, matters affecting the companies requiring attention, for which reason reservations have been made. For further Company Amount Operations information, please refer to the previous year’s Sustain(MSEK) ability Report under “Responsibility at a price”. Vietstar 51.8 Waste recycling in Vietnam Swedfund operates in some of the poorest countries Raffia 42.1 Manufacturing of cement sacks in various African countries in the world, which implies that major financial risks must be taken. Write-downs have been made in the annual accounts, in accordance with the accounting Raffia, which has contributed negatively to Swedfund’s principles described on page 76. results for several years, has now been dissolved Profit levels in companies which engage in developthrough transfers of the company’s assets and liabilities ment financing may fluctuate considerably over the and individual sales of subsidiaries. At the time of years, depending on the company’s achieved sales Swedfund’s initial investment, the operations were results and its prevailing investment phase. In the long based in Tanzania. The Kenyan operations had been term, the Company strives to cover its costs through developed as a greenfield and, in conjunction with income from the loan portfolio and liquidity. Sales of Swedfund’s investment, operations were acquired in shares, dividends and the net result of reversals and South Africa. These three entities have been sold to write-downs form the determining parameters for the two separate owners – the two entities in East Africa to Company’s earnings trend, in addition to the cost one owner and the operations in South Africa to coverage achieved through interest income. another. Operations are currently conducted in all The previous four years have all been unprofitable. three entities and the number of individuals employed As a result, the Company is no longer able to achieve its by the companies amounts to almost 1,000. long-term financial objectives. If the Company, in The sales process has been characterised by numercoming years, is to fulfil its financial objectives, a ous difficulties, such as administration related to the significant increase in profit is required, which can only sales process, the management and transfer of securibe achieved through sales of portfolio companies. The ties, as well as difficulties with fundraising in the wake Company is expected to have slightly positive results in of the financial crisis. These factors have entailed that the coming 2–3 years, which is not, however, sufficient to the process has drawn out somewhat, which has meet the long-term financial objectives in the same prevented the companies from conducting their period. Swedfund has been in an investment phase for a operations in an optimal manner. Consequently, the long time, which implies that there are a low number of companies lost momentum in their markets and also companies which have matured to an extent that makes witnessed the emergence of new competitors. The an exit a reasonable strategy. The Company generally current focus of the operations in Kenya, Tanzania and plans to keep companies in the portfolio for a period of 7 South Africa is to attain profitability in the near future. to 10 years. The investments, which has been completely written The Company’s tax assets amount to TSEK 34,819. down, will remain in Swedfund’s balance sheet for a Our assessment, based on analyses of future sales Year Return on opening Average return on opening Average interest on Swedish central Average interest on Swedish central equity per year equity, rolling seven year period government debt of one-year maturity government debt of one-year maturity, rolling seven year period 2006 12.32% 12.08% 2.76% 2.72% 2007 1.23% 9.34% 3.78% 2.93% 2008 6.29% 8.83% 3.74% 3.07% 2009 -4.45% 6.94% 0.51% 2.70% 2010 -4.05% 5.72% 0.74% 2.34% 2011 -2.24% 2.56% 1.68% 2.19% 2012 -7.34% 0.25% 0.96% 2.02% swedfund annual report 2012 | 61 figures, is to attain sufficient capital gains within one investments, the effects are reported in the annual investment cycle (7–10 years) to be able to utilise the report on the portfolio companies, while for completed tax assets. investments, the effects are reported in the exit report. Sales of shares, dividends and the net result of Swedfund works continuously to improve its procereversals and write-downs constitute the determining dures and reports referring to the work with developparameters for the Company’s earnings trend. ment effects. During the autumn, the Board concenThe table on the previous page shows the return on trated on clarifying the Company’s objectives and opening shareholders’ equity for each year and the focus, in order to facilitate improved governance and average return for the period, compared with the to refine the reporting of development effects. Refer interest on Swedish central government debt for the also to the section “Performance Report on Investment corresponding year and on average over the period. Portfolios” on page 45 of the Sustainability Report. Equal opportunities Business activities in 2012 The Company has fulfilled its equal opportunity targets established in the equal opportunities plan. Investment operations The gender distribution for various types of roles Of a total of twelve sales, eight constitute sales of and work assignments within the Company is wellparticipations in funds. Four shareholdings were sold balanced. Measures have been implemented to enable in their entirety. One company was sold after a retenboth male and female employees to combine work and tion period of approximately one year, due to the fact parenthood. that the strategic partner sold their holding. The sold shareholdings and participations in funds have resulted Financing operations in a net gain of a total of MSEK 14.2 (80.9). With the exception of Swedpartnership and funds for Three loans and two guarantees reached full technical assistance, the Company is financed entirely maturity. Two loans were converted into shares, either with shareholders’ equity. Long-term and short-term wholly or partially. loans are utilised to limit the Company’s currency risks Write-downs were carried out on shares, loans and and interest rate risks when lending in foreign currency. interest, in accordance with the valuation principles Refer also to the section on risks. described on page 75, for a total of MSEK 269.3 A total of MSEK 200 of the capital contribution (163.8). Reversals amounted to MSEK 11.0 (0). received by the Company in 2011 was earmarked for During the financial year, the reported value of the investments in Africa. The entire amount was used in portfolio, including guarantee commitments, decreased 2012 for investments in the region. marginally from MSEK 1,495.5 to MSEK 1,405.2. The Company’s current investments have yielded a return of 1.71% (2.80%). Sustainable development The Company has a sound financial position. The Environmental and ethical issues equity/assets ratio is 84.9% (82.5%). During the year, Through its investment activities, the Company shall the Company received a shareholders’ contribution of promote sustainable global development, a healthy MSEK 400. Current liabilities amount to 7.5% (6.0%) environment, a sound corporate culture and fair of total assets. working conditions. For further information, please The portfolio investments correspond to 37.4% refer to “Performance report on investment portfo(41.4%) of total assets. lios” on page 45 in the Sustainability Report. According to the balance sheet, the Company’s The Company prepares a sustainability report in liquid assets (the items Current receivables and Cash accordance with GRI’s reporting framework, the Finan­ and bank balances) amounted to MSEK 2,158. These cial Services Sector Supplement, application level C+. funds are distributed in accordance with Figure 1. As of 31 December 2012, the Company had surplus Development results liquidity of MSEK 665 for use in new investments. Assessed development effects are reported to the Board Contracted investments are sometimes paid out over a for each individual investment in conjunction with the number of years, and not all investments decided on Board’s decision on investment. For current direct and endorsed by the Board reach an agreement 62 | swedfund annual report 2012 Figure 1. Liquidity 2012-12-31 Sustainability Report. This section also includes information on the chosen analysis model and the 2000 Liquidity according manner in which classifications are determined. to the balance sheet SEK 2 158 million Political risks Definition: The risk of a fluctuation in profit as a 665 Accessible liquidity 1500 consequence of changes in a country’s political structure or political direction, or events caused by political 151 Reserved for existing portfolio, exchange rate fluctuations instability. 294 Board’s decision Policy: The risk is assessed in conjunction with the 1000 investment decision and regularly thereafter in conjunction with the monitoring of the investment. 381 Contracted Swedfund’s mandate – to operate in developing countries with an emphasis on the poorest states, 500 Africa, and post-conflict regions – means that the portfolio investments are exposed to political risks. 644 Pledged These risks can be addressed by, among other things, continuous monitoring of the investment country and 23 Sida, TA, Swedpartnership by taking steps to mitigate the effects of political 0 instability. SEK millions Liquid assets are invested in accordance with Note 16. Business/Credit risks associated with business operations regarding payment. Liquidity must be reserved both Definition: Business risk is defined as the risk of for investments which the Board has decided on and reduced profit owing to a decline in volume, depressed endorsed and investments for which contracts have prices or competition. been entered into, to ensure that the Company has Credit risk is the risk that the borrower or guaransufficient funds to fulfil its commitments. The Comtor will be unable to fulfil their commitments. pany makes long-term liquidity forecasts taking into Investments in shares in portfolio companies, or account return flows, etc. loans to the same, give rise to both business risks and credit risks. Risks Swedfund invests in shares in portfolio companies and Policy: Credit risks shall not be hedged. Credit and grants loans to portfolio companies. The financing business risks are controlled by means of the commeroperations are undertaken solely to support the business cial control of the portfolio companies. operations. Swedfund’s operations give rise to business At the end of the year, the total investments in risks, credit risks, financial risks and operative risks. shares (net) in portfolio companies amounted to It is important to note that, as Swedfund invests in MSEK 994 (940), and net lending to MSEK 389 (549). developing countries, the possibilities of guarding against financial risks are sometimes less than optimal Financial risks and, in certain cases, do not exist. Factors impacting Interest risks this matter include corruption, legal frameworks and Definition: The risk that profit will be affected if the lack of a local financial market. interest rates go up or down. Swedfund’s interest risk derives largely from three Risks that the investments do not generate types of exposure: Lending to portfolio companies, development effects borrowing to finance lending to portfolio companies, The manner in which Swedfund achieves development and the investment of liquid assets. effects is described under the heading “Performance report on Investment Portfolios” on page 45 of the Policy: Swedfund shall minimise its interest risks. swedfund annual report 2012 | 63 Swedfund shall, whenever possible, raise and grant Swedfund shall not normally hedge currency risks loans of short duration, and shall invest liquid assets on contracted but not undisbursed commitments. on a short-term basis. To the extent that the business Surplus liquidity shall be invested in Swedish krona. operations require lending long term in nature, this shall be offset against long-term borrowing. Maximum permitted currency risks regarding lending to portfolio companies The average fixed interest term of Swedfund’s total (MSEK) Of which in: (counter value in MSEK) interest risk exposure may not exceed 18 months. USD EUR Other currencies At the year-end, the average term was nine and a Lending (net after write-downs) Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited half months. Borrowing for hedging purposes Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Currency risk Maximum -200<X<200 -100<X<100 -20<X<20 per currency Definition: The risk that profit will be affected by the volume <100 total (1) rise or fall in one or several exchange rates. (1) Total exposure is measured as the sum total of the absolute value The currency risk arises from both investments in of the total exposure for each currency. shares and lending, as well as from contracted but not disbursed commitments. Liquidity can also create The net exposure reported in the balance sheet at yeartemporary currency risks, for instance, the foreign end amounted to MSEK -14. The maximum permitted currency proceeds from the sale of an investment, or exposure was MSEK 100. Contracted but not disbursed that a process involving borrowing in a foreign commitments amounted to MSEK 381 (476). currency may have been initiated. Liquidity and credit risks associated with Policy: Swedfund shall not hedge currency risks on financial management investments in shares. Definition: Liquidity risk: The risk of not being able to Swedfund shall endeavour to minimise the currency sell a financial instrument at a reasonable price within risk on lending to portfolio companies. a reasonable period of time. Restrictions on investment of liquid assets Category Counterparty Instrument Lowest permissible rating (l) Limited criteria: Limited criteria: Per category counterparty Per individual counterparty Svenska Swedish state or Deposits, Max: Unrestricted Max:100% of the maximum securities guaranteed by interest-bearing Min:60% of total liquidity for the counterparty the Swedish state securities category Kommuninvest in Sweden Interest-bearing Long rating: Max:40% of total liquidity Max:100% of the maximum securities A+:Moody’s for the counterparty A1:Standard & Poor category Swedish municipalities and Interest-bearing A:Swedish Municipal rating Max:40% of total liquidity Max:15% of the maximum county councils securities for the counterparty category Swedish banks and Swedish Deposits Long rating: Max:40% of total liquidity Max:100% of the maximum housing institutions Unsubordinated A+:Moody’s for the counterparty interest-bearing A1:Standard & Poor category securities Swedish banks Deposits via Long rating: Ideal: Not to exceed notary account A+:Moody’s MSEK 3 A1:Standard & Poor per counterparty Foreign banks Deposits Max: SEK 200,000 Swedish companies Unsubordinated Short rating: Max:40% of total liquidity Max:15% of the maximum interest-bearing P-2:Moody’s for the counterparty securities A-2:Standard & Poor category K1:Nordic Rating 64 | swedfund annual report 2012 Credit risk: The risk that the counterparty will fail to At the end of the year, the borrowing risk (net) amountfulfil its commitments. ed to MSEK 162, allocated so that the maximum Liquidity and credit risks in financial management amount for any time period amounted to MSEK 48. arise in connection with the investment of liquid reserves. Counterparty risk Policy: Liquidity and credit risks in financial manageDefinition: The risk that the counterparty to a finanment shall be minimised. cial transaction will default. Swedfund’s liquid assets may only be invested in Counterparty risks arise only in conjunction with the Swedish National Debt Office, in interest-bearing the pledging of assets within financial management. securities or deposited in a bank, subject to the restrictions stated below. The investments shall be Policy: Counterparty risks shall generally only be liquid. Under normal circumstances, they shall be taken when the counterparty is the Swedish state or a convertible into cash within a reasonable period of state-owned company. time and at negligible transaction cost. Swedfund has, essentially, no counterparty risks, other than its exposure to AB Svensk Exportkredit Swedfund (the administrator) shall exercise prudence (Swedish Export Credit Corporation), which amountin its investments. In the event that the counterparty ed to MSEK 420 (520) at the end of the year. may be suspected of potential repayment problems, Swedfund shall refrain from executing the investment, Operative risks even if such suspicions are not, at that point in time, Definition: Risk of loss as a consequence of unsuitable or reflected in the counterparty’s rating. ineffective internal practices or systems, or on account of At year-end, liquidity amounted to MSEK 2,158 human error or external events, as well as legal risks. (1,975). The investment of liquidity is described in Note 16. Policy: Swedfund shall minimise operative risks whenever practically and financially feasible. Borrowing risk Definition: Risk of being unable to raise the loans Swedfund manages its operational risks by, among required at a reasonable cost. other things, adhering to the duality principle, docuSwedfund primarily finances its operations with mentation requirements, authorisation rules and back shareholders’ equity. Borrowing risk arises, therefore, up procedures. All agreements require the approval of only as a consequence of the planned borrowing of a lawyer. Swedfund has procedures for investigating foreign currency. (When the loan is raised, the equivapartners and co-investors with the aim of reducing the lent amount in SEK is pledged as security.) risk of being exposed to corruption and other criminal offences. Policy: Swedfund shall minimise borrowing risks whenever economically and practically feasible. Maximum permitted borrowing risk (MSEK) Maturity (Future payments received -+; future ongoing payments --) 0–6 mths 7–12 mths >1–2 yrs >2–3 yrs >3–5 yrs >5–10 yrs >10 yrs + Lending to portfolio companies in for. cur. (net) Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Borrowing from portfolio comp in foreign curr. Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Total: Max volume -100<X<100 -100<X<100 -100<X<100 -100<X<100 -100<X<100 -100<X<100 -100<X<100 Expected payments for contracted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted Unrestricted but not disbursed lending in foreign currency (1) (1) Expected disbursements for contracted but not disbursed commitments can only be covered at a reasonable cost in the event of serious concern that it will not be possible to gain access to borrowing in foreign currency. For this reason, the exposure in the policy is not limited, and each exposure should be assessed individually by the Managing Director. swedfund annual report 2012 | 65 Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance in Swedfund systems are applied in respect of the portfolio compaThe Swedish state owns 100% of the Company, which nies. belongs to the group of companies with special social The State’s ownership policy and guidelines for responsibility. Swedfund applies the State’s ownership state-owned companies (2012) make clear the cases in policy and guidelines for state-owned companies which these guidelines deviate from the norms in the (2012) (www.regeringen.se/sb/d/108/a/172250) which Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Swedfund includes the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance adheres, in all material respects, to all aspects of the (February 2010). Operations are governed by the Code. The Board of Directors has chosen to undertake aforementioned ownership policy and the applicable the duties which are otherwise the responsibility of the Owner’s Instructions as adopted at the Annual General audit and remuneration committee. Meeting. Under the Annual Accounts Act for listed compaThe State’s ownership policy does not apply to nies, state-owned companies are required to submit a those companies in which Swedfund is a partner. The corporate governance report. The report is to be Company holds, with two exceptions, only minority audited by the Company’s auditors. Swedfund has stakes in portfolio companies. Any wholly-owned chosen to include the corporate governance report in companies are in the process of liquidation and have the mandatory annual report, and it is therefore been incorporated in order to maintain development covered by the auditor’s audit. effects and protect the Company’s assets. Swedfund’s regulations, in the form of policies, are Information and documentation regarding corporate incorporated in shareholder agreements and loan governance can be found at www.corporategovernanagreements. In all other cases, foreign laws and norm ceboard.se/the-code/current-code Overview Corporate Governance in Swedfund Legal Requirements Policies, Instructions, Procedures, S TAT E T H R O U G H M O FA ANNUAL MEETING AUDITORS S TAT E ’ S O W N E R S H I P BOARD POLICY & GUIDELINES F O R S TAT E O W N E D COMPANIES CEO Templates, IT-systems etc. O WN E R ’ S IN S T R U C T I O N S INVESTING LAWYERS ECONOMY AND O R G A N I S AT I O N FINANCES RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNING DOCUMENTS S E L E C T S / D E S I G N AT E S / I N I T I AT E S INFORMS/ REPORTS 66 | swedfund annual report 2012 Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting. Both the auditors appointed The shareholders’ right to resolve on matters regarding by the Annual General Meeting and by the National the Company’s operations is exercised at the Annual Audit Office submit a summarised report of the audit General meeting, which is the Company’s highest to the Board once a year and to the Company managedecision-making body. The Annual General Meeting ment twice a year. makes resolutions regarding changes in the articles of association and presents new Owner’s Instructions for Board of Directors the Company’s business operations. Other issues The Board is responsible for the Company’s organisaresolved at the Annual General Meeting are the tion and administers the Company’s affairs on behalf adoption of the income statement and balance sheet, of the Owner. The Board shall regularly assess the discharge from liability for the Board and Managing Company’s financial position and ensure that the Director, the election of new Board members and Company is organised in such a manner that the auditors, remuneration to the Chairman of the Board, book-keeping, management of resources, compliance other members of the Board and auditors, and guidewith the Owner’s Instructions, etc. are controlled lines for salaries and other remuneration to senior satisfactorily. The Board determines policies and executives. instructions for such activities, and establishes a formal Members of the Swedish Parliament are entitled to work plan for the Board and terms of reference for the attend the Annual General Meeting and, in conjuncManaging Director. These documents outline the tion with this, to address questions to the Company. manner in which responsibilities and authorities are to The Annual General Meeting is open to the general be shared between the Board, the Chairman of the public. Board and the Managing Director. The Chairman is responsible for the evaluation of the Board’s activities The State through the and informs the Government Offices of the results of Ministry for Foreign Affairs this evaluation. The Owner appoints the Chairman of the Board, members of the Board and auditors, proposes fees for Managing Director the Chairman, other Board members and auditors and The Managing Director is appointed by the Board to evaluates the activities of the Board. The principles for manage the Company’s activities. In addition to the this work are described in the State’s ownership policy terms of reference from the Board, the Managing and guidelines for state-owned companies 2012. The Director must comply with the rules laid out in the document contains the State’s Ownership Policy, Swedish Companies Act and a number of other laws, Guidelines for External Reporting, Guidelines for ordinances and Owner’s Instructions from the State. Terms of Employment for Senior Executives in stateThe Managing Director is not a member of the Comowned Companies and the Swedish Code of Corporate pany’s Board. Management activities are coordinated Governance. www.regeringen.se/sb/d/15683/a/197214 by a management group consisting of the Managing Director, the Chief Legal Counsel, the CIO, the CFO, Auditors the Head of Investment, the Head of Business DevelopIn accordance with applicable legislation, the auditors ment and the Head of Strategic Development. are appointed by the Annual General Meeting under the guidance of the State’s ownership policy, normally Risk control for a period of one year. The auditors are accountable Risk control is undertaken by means of extensive to the owner at the Annual General Meeting and reporting to the Board and the Managing Director on submit an audit report on the annual report and the matters such as the investment portfolio’s performance, Board’s management of the company, as well as a liquidity, financial position, development results, review report on the sustainability report. The Swedish financial risks, environmental and social risks. The National Audit Office has exercised its right to appoint Company’s lawyers are actively involved throughout one auditor and one deputy auditor. The main responthe investment process, in order to protect the legal sibility of the National Audit Office is to audit and interests of the Company and to ensure that fair provide an opinion on the Company’s annual reports, practices and standards are complied with. with the same scope as the auditors appointed by the swedfund annual report 2012 | 67 Activity Time Activity Time Inaugural meeting/election of Deputy Chairman After AGM Financial risks Quarterly Authorisation instructions Annually Financial policy, instructions for investments Current liquidity status Each meeting and borrowing Annually Long-term liquidity status Quarterly Evaluation of Board activities Annually /Dec Project inflow Each meeting Review of portfolio activities/fund reports/ exit reports/ development results/ESG Annually Business plan/Activity plan and budget Annually Interim reports Quarterly Signatories Annually Annual report/Sustainability report/ Formal work plan for the Board/Terms of reference Corporate governance/ Internal control Annually Feb/Mar to the Managing Director Annually Guidelines for salaries and other remuneration Investment proposals Each meeting to senior executives/Salary review Annually Status report, investment portfolio Each meeting Strategy Annually Work of the Board 2012 Company Management The Board held eleven meetings. The work of the The acting Managing Director was born in 1959. He Board follows a structure constituting fixed and has been with the Company for seven years, the last recurring activities, mainly as in the table above. two of which as head of the Company’s investment The members of the Board are presented on the transactions and investment portfolio. His experience Company’s website www.swedfund.se/en/about-swedin international investment business includes work fund/organisation/board-of-directors-2 with 3i. He is currently a member of the Board of Totebo AB, an assignment which has been approved by Principles for corporate governance the Board of Swedfund. He has no significant business in Swedfund relationships/partnerships in any portfolio company The Company’s overall objectives (development and owned by the Company. financial) are described in further detail in the chapter on the Company’s objectives and focus (page 60). The Signatories development objectives take precedence over profitability The primary authorised signatory of the Company is the objectives. As a general rule, a profitable company acting Managing Director alone (external signatory contributes to achieving development objectives. In order appointed by the Board), although two members of the to ensure that investments are economically, socially and management group may sign jointly in the absence of the environmentally sustainable, the Company has a “Policy Managing Director, through power of attorney granted for sustainable development” which permeates the by the Board. According to the formal work plan for the operations. The work with that policy and the result we Board, the Managing Director’s authority to sign for the achieve is described in more detail in the Company’s Company is limited to commitments of MSEK 10 or sustainability report. below. The Managing Director’s authority to sign for the In order to maintain and enhance the quality in the Company for commitments in excess of MSEK 10 must portfolio companies as far as possible, work is actively be approved by the Board. Actions taken within the undertaken with, amongst other things, the monitoring remit of the acting Managing Director are reported to of development effects, ESG performance and financial the Board at the following meeting. When members of information, mainly in the companies’ Boards. The management have signed for the Company, this is reportCompany’s mandate includes taking risks in countries ed at the following meeting. In other cases, management in which we do business through making investments. has only limited authority to authorise costs. A large proportion of the Company’s resources is Practical reasons lie behind the implementation of this allocated to managing these risks. procedure. Many agreements and other actions require In order to be able to disburse payments, maintain the approval of an authorised signatory at short notice. adequate liquidity and grant loans in foreign currency, the Company must manage a number of financial risks. Remuneration to senior executives How this is done is regulated in a Financial Policy and in The Company applies the Government’s Guidelines for instructions for investment and borrowing. The main Terms of Employment for Senior Executives in state-owned philosophy underlying the financial policy is to minimise Companies. Remuneration and benefits to the Managing the financial risk as far as is economically feasible. Director and other senior executives are described in Note 1. 68 | swedfund annual report 2012 The Board’s report on internal control in financial reporting Background The Company’s financial risks are managed Under the Swedish Companies Act, the Board is according to the Financial Policy and instructions for responsible for internal control. investment and borrowing established by the Board This report has been prepared in accordance with and the Managing Director. the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section 6, and is Reports are submitted quarterly to the Board each limited to the internal control in financial reporting. quarter. The Company’s system for internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Control activities failing to reach business objectives and provides only Routines and processes are in place to ensure that the reasonable assurance against material misstatements or financial reporting is designed on the basis of the deficiencies in the financial reporting. duality principle in key control elements, and that control activities are documented and followed up. Control environment Internal control covers all departments and includes The Company has drawn up a framework for corpomethods and activities to safeguard assets, check the rate governance, the articles of association and the accuracy and reliability of internal and external formal work plan for the Board. The most important financial reports and ensure compliance with estabelements of the control environment in the framework lished instructions and guidelines include clear frames of reference for the Board, with a documented delegation of decision-making responsiProposed appropriation of profits bilities from the Board to the Managing Director, The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual organisational structure, employee competence, General Meeting (amounts in SEK): policies, routines and frameworks. The delegation of decision-making responsibilities Retained Capital Loss for the year Total unappropriated is documented in an authorisation plan which gives earnings contribution earnings clear instructions to department Heads. 2,374,700,550 400,000,000 -224,024,753 2,550,675,797 Employee competence and ability is prioritised by means of on-going training, practical experience and development. The Board proposes that the unappropriated earnings of SEK 2,550,675,797 be carried forward. Risk analysis For further information regarding the results of the The risks associated with the Company’s investment Company’s operations and financial position, refer to portfolio are evaluated quarterly by means of a the following income statements and balance sheets, financial assessment of the companies’ results. An statement of shareholders’ equity and cash flow in-depth review is carried out annually, in which statement, with associated notes and supplementary development and ESG are also evaluated. The investinformation. ment activities constitute the single largest risk of losses for the Company. The companies in which Swedfund is a shareholder are monitored regularly through active participation in their Board work by internal and/or external Board members. A review of investments under consideration and a follow-up of investments in which problems have arisen are carried out at each Board meeting. swedfund annual report 2012 | 69 financial result Income statement Expressed in SEK thousand Note 1.1. 2012 31.12.2012 1.1. 2011 31.12.2011 Sales of shares 4 Sales income 2 130 317 131 977 Acquisition costs 116 091 14 226 51 061 80 916 Share dividend 2 19 050 9 918 Interest and charges Income 2 44 000 39 506 Expenses 9 337 34 663 8 607 30 899 Net reversals and write-downs of portfolio investments Reversals 10 979 Write-downs 269 259 258 280 163 799 163 799 Services sold Income 2 2 055 3 348 Expenses 13 2 042 79 3 269 Other portfolio income 2 51 393 Other operating income 3 18 044 13 052 Gross Profit 170 204 25 351 Other external costs 3,6 29 107 30 346 Personnel costs 1,3 52 971 46 499 Depreciation of tangible fixed 5 350 434 assets Other operating costs 767 1 397 Operating profit 253 400 104 027 Financial items and results Other interest income and similar 7 36 835 43 751 profit/loss items Interest expenses and similar 8 1 033 557 profit/loss items Profit after financial items 217 598 60 833 Profit before tax 217 598 60 833 Tax on the profit for year 9 6 427 15 607 Profit for the year 224 025 45 226 70 | swedfund annual report 2012 Balance sheet Expressed in SEK thousand Note 31.12. 2012 31.12. 2011 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Equipment 10 395 678 Financial fixed assets Other long-term holdings of securites 11,14 1 825 1 542 Deferred tax claim 17 34 819 41 247 36 644 42 789 Total fixed assets 37 039 43 467 Current assets Investments in portfolio companies Shares 13,14 993 975 939 648 Loan claims 12,14 388 506 548 925 1 382 481 1 488 573 Current receivables Income taxes recoverable 5 513 4 115 Accounts receivable 14 50 022 36 711 Other receivables 14 35 470 19 332 Prepaid expenses and accrued 15 29 142 24 411 income 120 147 84 569 Current investments 14,16 2 101 565 1 933 962 Cash and bank accounts 14 56 545 41 481 Total current assets 3 660 738 3 548 585 TOTAL ASSETS 3 697 778 3 592 052 swedfund annual report 2012 | 71 Balance sheet Expressed in SEK thousand Note 31.12. 2012 31.12. 2011 Shareholders´ equity & liabilities Shareholders´ equity Share capital 50 000 50 000 Legal reserve 540 000 540 000 590 000 590 000 Retained earnings 2 774 701 2 419 926 Profit for the year 224 025 45 226 2 550 676 2 374 700 3 140 676 2 964 700 Provisions Provisions for endowment insurances 1 524 1 258 Long-term liabilities Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 14,18 267 178 397 114 Other liabilities 14 10 977 12 668 278 155 409 782 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, current 14 153 170 123 573 part of long-term liabilities Accounts payable 14 33 922 16 994 Other liabilities 14 70 737 50 487 Accrued expenses and prepaid 15 19 594 25 257 income 277 424 216 312 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS´ 3 697 778 3 592 052 EQUITY & LIABILITIES Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Expressed in SEK thousand 31.12. 2012 31.12. 2011 Pledged assets for liabilities to credit institutions Bonds and other securities 642 437 849 372 Bank accounts 1 249 419 Total pledged assets 643 686 849 791 Other pledged assets and securities Pledged endowment insurances 1 524 1 258 Contingent liabilities Guarantees issued for loan claims 22 670 6 882 Contracted, but not disbursed, portfolio commitments 358 567 469 048 381 237 475 930 72 | swedfund annual report 2012 Shareholders´ equity Total Share Restricted Profit carried Profit for shareholders´ Expressed in SEK thousand capital reserves forward the year equity Shareholders´ equity 50 000 540 000 2 087 503 3 253 2 674 250 31.12.2009 Appropriation of profit according to annual general 3 253 3 253 meeting: Capital contribution 100 000 100 000 Profit for the year 64 325 64 325 Shareholders´ equity 50 000 540 000 2 184 250 64 325 2 709 926 31.12.2010 Appropriation of profit according to annual general 64 325 64 325 meeting: Capital contribution 300 000 300 000 Profit for the year 45 226 45 226 Shareholders´ equity 50 000 540 000 2 419 925 45 226 2 964 700 31.12.2011 Appropriation of profit according to annual general 45 225 45 225 meeting: Capital contribution 400 000 400 000 Profit for the year 224 025 224 025 Shareholders´ equity 50 000 540 000 2 774 700 224 025 3 140 676 31.12.2012 The share capital consists of 50 shares each having a ratio value of 1 000. swedfund annual report 2012 | 73 Cash flow statement Expressed in SEK thousand 1.1.2012-31.12.2012 1.1.2011-31.12.2011 Ongoing operations Profit after financial items -217 598 -60 833 Adjusted for non-cash items 287 359 181 609 69 761 120 776 Tax paid -1 397 -1 232 Cash flow from current operations before changes in working capital 68 364 119 544 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in investment in portfolio companies -178 397 -212 727 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in investment in -34 123 -9 309 operating receivables Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in investment in 29 203 13 836 operating liabilities Cash flow from current operations -114 953 -88 656 Investment activities Acquisition of tangible fixed assets -67 -436 Investments in (-)/disposal of (+) financial fixed assets 206 433 -21 342 Cash flow from investment activities 206 366 -21 778 Finansing activities Capital contribution 400 000 300 000 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in loan liabilities -101 812 -71 392 Cash flow from financing activities 298 188 228 608 Cash flow for the period 389 602 118 174 Liquid assets at the beginning of the year 1 126 072 1 007 897 Liquid assets at the end of the year 1 515 674 1 126 072 Supplementary information to the cash flow statement Expressed in SEK thousand 1.1.2012-31.12.2012 1.1.2011-31.12.2011 Interest paid and dividends received Dividends received 19 050 9 918 Interest received 87 001 36 851 Interest paid -8 236 -8 236 74 | swedfund annual report 2012 Accounting Principles and Notes to the Financial Statements (Amounts in SEK thousands except where otherwise stated) General accounting principles Swedfund International AB´s annual report is made up in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and recommendations 1-29 with pertaining statements issued by the Swedish Financial Standards Council. The accounting principles are unchanged in relation to last year. To increase the readability of the income statement and give a true picture, the headings and items listed in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act or the recommendations for annual accounting issued by the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council have not been used. Costs directly ascribable to each item of revenue are net with specification of the items included in the net result. Endowment insurance is stated at it fair value on the asset side, as a provision as well as a pledged liability also at its fair valued. The company has received financial aid for Technical Assistance (T/A) and Swedpartnership from the Swedish government. The effect that has had on the income statement is shown in Note 3. Accounting and valuation principles Income Divestments of shares are recognised in the accounts when the shares have been transferred in accordance with the terms of the sale and in an amount that is expected to be received. Dividend income is recognised in the accounts when the right to dividend income has been established. Income from the sale of shares and dividends is related to the company’s shareholding. Interest income is recognised in accordance with the accrued interest principle and in an amount that is expected to be received. Interest income is attributable to the company’s lending. Related interest costs are attributable to borrowing to protect the company from exchange rate fluctuations. Assets and liabilities Assets and liabilities are valued at acquisition value except where otherwise specified. Bank accounts, accounts receivable and accounts payable, current and long-term liabilities as well as loans in foreign currency are translated at closing date rates. Currency differences are stated in the operating result. These currency differences amount to MSEK 10.0(5.1) and are included in Other operating income. Foreign currency transactions are translated at transaction date exchange rates. Lending in foreign currency has mainly hedged by the borrowing of corresponding amounts. Assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet either as a contingent liability or a pledge at the time of the conclusion of the agreement and are removed when obligations under the agreement cease to exist. In principle receivables and liabilities with durations of less than one year are classed as current. Securities with a longer duration can be included in the company’s current investments. The entire portfolio is classed as current owing to its high liquidity and short duration. Taxes The company applies the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council´s recommendation RR9 Income taxes. Total tax consists of actual tax and deferred tax. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance sheet method and is based on swedfund annual report 2012 | 75 periodization differences between the book and fiscal values of assets and liabilities. The amounts are calculated on the basis of how the periodization differences are expected to even out and using tax rates and tax rules decided on or announced by the balance sheet date. Depreciation principles for fixed assets Depreciation according to plan is based on original acquisition values and estimated utility periods. Assets are depreciated over five years except for computers, which are depreciated over three years. Other long-term holdings of securities Holding of securities are valued at their acquisition value. Their value is written down when a decline in value is judged to be permanent. Shares Shares in portfolio companies are to be regarded as investment holdings and are valued individually to the lower of the acquisition value and the net realizable value. By net realizable value is meant the market value of listed portfolio companies at the end of Swedfund´s financial year. For unlisted companies, it is deemed to be the net worth as stated in the most recently received accounts, see table below, or recognized a lower amount to be the net worth is expected to have deteriorated further since the last received accounts. Write-downs are provided in intervals of 25% as follows. Net worth as a percentage Book value a percentage of acquisition value of acquisition value Over 62.5% 100% 62.4-37.5% 75% 37.4-12.5% 50% 12.5-5.0% 25% Under 5.0% SEK 1 There is no write-down on holdings that have a duration of less than two years, unless there are special circumstances. In connection with write-downs of shares where Sida is responsible for either all or part of the investment, the share of the write-down that will be charged to Sida, is not stated as a cost in Swedfund´s accounts. The actual amount is instead stated as a write-down in the value of Swedfund´s loans from Sida, subject to Sida’s agreement. Write-downs in the value of unlisted portfolio companies are not reversed before the company has reported one profitable audited financial year. The maximum amount that may be reversed is the original acquisition value. The cost of administration of a fund is part of Swedfund´s portfolio commitments and the acquisition value of the fund. Loans Loans to portfolio companies are valued at the amounts that are expected to be received. Their values are written down successively in intervals of 25% after 12,18,24 and 30 months of non-payment alternate other lower amount if the borrower is deemed to lack capacity to pay. Current receivables Current receivables are valued at the amounts that are expected to be received, after individual valuation. Current investments Current investments are valued at the lower of the accrued acquisition value and the fair value. 76 | swedfund annual report 2012 Cash flow statement The cash flow statement is made up using the indirect method. By liquid funds is meant current investments and money at bank, excluding collateral provided for loans. Note 1 The Board, employees and personnel costs Gender division regarding the board, the Managing Director and other senior management personnel. of which of which 2012 men 2011 men Board of Directors 8 4 7 3 Managing Director 1 1 1 1 Other senior management personnel 5 3 7 3 Average number of employees of which of which Country 2012 men 2011 men Kenya 1.5 100% 2.0 100% Sweden 34.2 51% 34.0 49% Total 35.7 53% 36.0 52% Salaries, other remuneration and payroll overheads 2012 2011 Salaries and Payroll Salaries and Payroll remuneration overheads remuneration overheads 32 860 18 391 28 607 15 591 (of which pension (0) 1,2) (7 437) (0) 1,2) (6 301) expenses) Total 32 860 18 391 28 607 15 591 1) KSEK 873 (533 last year) of the pension expenses relate to pension insurance premium for MD and KSEK 504 relates to Acting MD. 2) For all employees, defined premium and comparable pension premiums are paid according to law and collective agreements, which is taken as cost for the year. swedfund annual report 2012 | 77 Salaries and other remuneration broken down by country and between members of the board and other personnel 2012 2011 Board Other Board Other and MD personnel and MD personnel Sweden 11 758 19 292 9 349 16 849 (of which remuneration (450) (428) to the board) (of which salary and (2 732) (1 854) severance pay to former MD) (of which salary to Acting (1 654) MD) (of which salary to other (6 924) (7 067) senior management personnel) Kenya, representative office 1 809 2 409 Total 11 758 21 101 9 349 19 258 Remuneration to members of the board, former members of the board and former Managing Director. Name Directors´ Directors´ remuneration remuneration portfolio companies Claes Ekström Chairman of the board Björn Börjesson V Chairman of the board 90 Renée Andersson Board member 90 Pernilla Bard Board member 90 Anna Centerstig Board member Bengt Kvarnbäck Board member 90 Anna Ryott Board member 90 Per Östensson Board member Tord Olofsson Former MD subsidiary 100 Olle Arefalk Former MD 217 Hugo Thelin Former Board member 40 A fee is paid to the chairman and other members of the Board in accordance with the AGM´s decision. Board members´ attendance record during the year. Board member 1/12 2/12 3/12 4/12 5/12 6/12 7/12 8/12 9/12 10/12 11/12 Lars Gårdö resigned X X X X April 2012 Mia Horn af Rantzien X X X resigned April 2012 78 | swedfund annual report 2012 Stina Mossberg X X X X resigned April 2012 Maria Norrfalk X X X X resigned April 2012 Elisabeth Westberg X X X X resigned April 2012 Claes Ekström X X X X X X X X X X X Renée Andersson X X X X X X X Pernilla Bard X X X X X X Björn Börjesson X X X X X X X Anna Centerstig X X X X X X X Per Östensson X X X X X X X X X X Bengt Kvarnbäck X X X X X Anna Ryott X X X X X X X Absence due to sickness Total absenteeism due to sickness amounted to 0.73% (0.81% last year) of the employees´ aggregate ordinary working hours. The company does not have any employees whose total absence due to sickness amounts to or exceeds 60 days. For integrity reasons sick leave statistics are not shown by age group and gender. Salary of MD and other senior management personnel, severance pay etc The Acting Managing Director (appointed January 11, 2012) has a fixed salary of SEK 133,333 per month. No variable component is paid. Appointment as Acting MD has a notice period of 1 month. Acting MD then returns to his previous ordinary employment. The former MD had at the termination by the company an agreement for severance compensation equivalent to all costs (salary during the notice period 6 months, 11 months severance pay, social security, etc.). The cost of MSEK 4.7 have been charged against the net result. In June, an agreement was reached with the communication manager to terminate her employment. The cost of MSEK 1.4 (severance pay and social security contributions) have been charged against the net result. The payment is in accordance with the agreement made in one single installment which is not in accordance with the Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Senior Executives in state-owned Companies. In those states that severance pay is payable monthly. Salaries of other senior management personnel Name Position Annual salary Eva-Marie Andersson Chief legal counsel 1 018 255 Oscar Carlsson Director of business development 886 375 Karin Isaksson Director of origination 1 020 221 Per Juth Director of strategic development 1 463 202 Maria Lannér Director of communications 1 478 595 resigned June 2012 Elisabeth Mattisson Director of finance and administration 1 057 076 For other senior management personnel, defined premium and comparable pension premiums, both statutory and pursuant to collective agreements are paid, and were booked during the year. The collective agreement rules apply when the company gives notice of termination. swedfund annual report 2012 | 79 Pension commitments The Former Managing Director is entitled to a direct pension secured by an endowment insurance owned by the Company. Payment is made via an annual premium. Note 2 Net turnover per geographic market and per line of business 2012 2011 Net turnover per geographic market Africa 143 937 26 122 Asia 26 671 16 761 Eastern Europe 21 195 140 414 Latin America 3 670 1 846 195 473 185 143 2012 2011 Net turnover per operational area Sales of shares 130 317 131 977 Share dividends 19 050 9 918 Interest income 44 000 39 506 Services sold 2 055 3 348 Other portfolio income 51 393 195 473 185 143 Note 3 S uppo rt fo r Te c hnic al As s is tanc e and S we dpartne rs hip 2012 2011 Heading in Income statements Of which Swedpartnership Other operating income 4 338 4 433 Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 4 338 4 433 Other external costs 1 588 1 677 Personnel costs 2 750 2 756 4 338 4 433 2012 2011 Heading in Income statements Of which Technical Assistance Other operating income 4 748 3 514 4 748 3 514 Other external costs 4 295 2 607 Personnel costs 31 409 4 325 3 016 80 | swedfund annual report 2012 Note 4 Equity investments sold/wound-up during the year 2012 2011 Total acquisition value of shares sold 116 974 72 879 Written-down prior to the financial year 883 21 818 Acquisition value of shares sold for the year 116 091 51 061 Payments received 130 317 131 977 Capital gain/loss for the year 14 226 80 916 Note 5 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 2012 2011 Equipment 350 434 Note 6 Auditors´ fees and remuneration 2011 2010 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit assignments 455 724 Other assignments 1 058 22 Swedish National Audit Office 119 Note 7 Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 2012 2011 Income from asset management 36 727 43 561 Income from bank balances 108 190 36 835 43 751 Note 8 Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items 2012 2011 Write-down, financial fixed assets 218 299 Other financial expenses 815 258 1 033 557 Note 9 Tax costs Reported in the Income Statement 2012 2011 Actual tax cost Tax for the period Adjustment of deferred tax claim because 6 427 15 607 of change in tax rate 6 427 15 607 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2 012 2 011 Profit before tax % 217 598 % 60 833 Tax as per current tax rate 26.3 57 228 26.3 15 999 Non-deductible costs and tax-free income -0.1 284 -0.6 392 Tax on current year's loss not posted as a -23.2 50 517 0 deferred tax claim -3 6 427 25.7 15 607 swedfund annual report 2012 | 81 Note 10 Equipment Accumulated acquisition value 2012 2011 Opening value 5 634 5 198 New acquisitions 138 436 Sales and disposal 443 5 329 5 634 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening value 4 956 4 522 Sales and disposal 352 Depreciation for the year on acquisition 330 434 value according to plan 4 934 4 956 Closing book value according to plan 395 678 Note 11 Other long-term holdings of securities 2012 2011 Shares in EDFI 118 108 Shartes in EFP 130 123 Shares in ICCF 53 53 Endowment insurance policies 1 524 1 258 Book value at year-end 1 825 1 542 Note 12 Loans Accumulated acquisition value 2012 2011 Opening book value 712 659 690 989 Lending for the year 259 683 174 311 Repayments for the year 201 824 144 306 Reclassifications 122 818 24 000 Currency rate/translation differences for the year 28 133 15 665 619 567 712 659 Accumulated write-downs Opening book value 163 733 83 779 Write-downs for the year 112 755 78 219 Reversed write-downs for the year 32 581 935 Currency rate/translation differensces for the year 12 846 2 670 231 061 163 733 Book value at year-end 388 506 548 926 3 loans have been converted to equity during 2012. Two of these loans to companies with operations in Kenya, representing 117.7 MSEK of the amount under classifications. The remaining 5.1 MSEK represents the conversion of a loan to a company with operations in Iraq. 53 MSEK is expected to be repaid in 2013. Closing date exchange rates are used for translating repayments in foreign currencies. 82 | swedfund annual report 2012 Note 12 Loans continued Break-down of the loan portfolio by country and currency Country Currency 2012 2011 Of which Of which writtenLoan amount Loan amount written-down down Africa USD 168 110 143 943 140 827 109 847 Africa EUR 19 352 169 13 359 Azerbadjan USD 17 204 Bangladesh USD 3 253 6 882 Bhutan USD 1 445 1 445 Egypt USD 6 505 3 253 13 763 Ethiopia EUR 26 673 6 668 30 750 Ghana USD 2 732 2 049 5 781 1 445 India USD 32 788 97 620 30 107 India EUR 64 426 66 850 Iraq USD 26 671 26 671 15 557 Kenya USD 976 976 47 828 3 097 China USD 10 252 5 126 10 846 China SEK 1 333 1 333 2 000 1 500 Congo (DRC) SEK 1 080 1 080 Latin America SEK 6 867 6 867 Latvia EUR 329 Macedonia EUR 1 160 1 160 1 203 1 203 Pakistan USD 64 240 74 757 Russia USD 985 985 1 042 1 042 Russia EUR 579 579 1 801 1 351 Russia RUB 3 243 Sri Lanka USD 7 058 8 533 South Africa ZAR 2 416 Vietnam USD 103 201 38 150 120 030 12 697 Belarus USD 71 327 20 645 Total 619 567 231 061 712 659 163 734 Convertible loans and profit-sharing loans Outstanding Borrower Currency loan amount in Interest and equvivalent Conversion right 000' Raffia Holdings Ltd USD 4 632 Interest Yes Al Quseir Hotel Company USD 1 000 Interest and royalty No S.A.E Addis Emerald Hotel EUR 3 105 Interest and share of profit Yes swedfund annual report 2012 | 83 Note 13 Portföljinvesteringar Portfolio investmentsaktier in equity Accumulated acquisition value 2012 2011 Opening book value 1 441 806 1 337 440 Investments for the year 160 368 168 350 Reclassifications 123 466 24 000 Sales for the year 116 974 87 984 1 608 667 1 441 806 Accumulated write-downs Opening book value 502 158 476 388 Reversed write-downs for the year related to sales 883 24 986 Write-ups for the year 10 138 Write-downs for the year 123 554 50 757 614 690 502 158 Closing book value 993 976 939 648 Share Share Acquisition Developing Countries category % value Africa ACACIA Fund, Kenya Ordinary 100.0 19 275.2 Addax Bioenergy S.A., Sierra Leone Ordinary 8.0 73 660.9 Addis Cardiac Hospital Plc, Ethiopia Ordinary 36.2 7 600.0 Addis Quarry Development plc, Ethiopia Ordinary 27.2 15 149.5 Afrinord Hotel Investment A/S, Africa Ordinary 20.0 470.1 Africap Microfinance Investment Company Ltd, Africa Ordinary 7.4 16 802.6 AMSCO, Africa Ordinary 5.0 4 656.9 Athi River Steel Plant Ltd, Kenya Ordinary 12.5 85 227.1 Cimbenin, Benin Ordinary 15.4 6 429.4 Deacons Kenya Limited, Kenya Ordinary 13.4 7 865.9 Energy Poverty Action, Africa Ordinary 252.6 EFPIFU, CareWorks, Africa Ordinary 0.2 EFP-Proparco, Scancem, Africa Ordinary 1 221.9 ECP Africa Fund I Fund units 2.7 26 558.3 ECP Africa fund II PCC Fund units 2.2 51 142.2 ECP Africa fund III PCC Fund units 3.3 66 508.5 Elgon Road Development Ltd, Kenya Ordinary 21.3 28 398.9 Emerald Addis Hotels plc, Ethiopia Ordinary 27.0 23 398.8 Gamma Knife Center S.A.F, Egypt Ordinary 24.3 6 755.5 Geratech Zirconium Beneficiation Ltd, South Africa Ordinary 9.2 27 984.9 Kinyeti Venture Capital Ltd,South Sudan Ordinary 49.7 4 951.1 Norsad Ordinary 18.6 50 052.1 Raffia Holdings Ltd, Africa Ordinary 100.0 285 353.5 Somalia Telekom Group, Somalia Ordinary 19.0 26 284.3 UAP, Kenya Ordinary 7.9 72 719.0 Total of Africa 908 719.4 84 | swedfund annual report 2012 Note 13 Portfolio investments in equity continued Asia Baring India Private Equity fund II Ltd, India Fund units 7.1 73 215.6 Belstar Investment and Finance Ltd, India Ordinary 7.3 3 304.0 China Environment Fund III Fund units 4.4 71 490.8 Green Investment Asia Sustainable Fund I Fund units 30.8 48 938.0 HSF Electro Mechanic Wuxi Ltd, China Units 40.0 16 684.1 Karlsson Spools Precision Machining Co Ltd, China Units 30.0 15 456.5 Kurdistan Medical Services, Iraq Ordinary 30.0 6 351.9 Mongolia Nord GmbH, Mongolia Ordinary 14.3 16 159.6 NS India Holding AB, India Ordinary 33.3 5 481.1 Oatly, China Ordinary 25.0 4 290.0 Prestando Co Ltd, China Units 40.0 12 000.0 Quanadil Al Rafidain Automotive Trading, Iraq Ordinary 49.0 33 581.6 Recupero AB, China Ordinary 24.4 2 597.9 SEAF Sichuan SME Investment Fund Fund units 13.3 11 389.3 Total of Asia 320 940.4 Latin America Central American Inv. Facility, Centralam. Ordinary 11.4 23.8 Central American Inv. Facility, Centralam. Preferred 23 761.9 Entel S.A., Bolivia Ordinary 0.1 1 003.8 Global Medical Investments AB, Latin America Ordinary 48.0 59 885.8 Ontur International S.A, Uruguay Ordinary 14.0 14 076.5 Total of Latin America 98 751.7 Eastern Europé Ambiente Furniture A/S, Ukraina Preferred 1 380.8 Shares in Askembla Growth Fund KB, Russia limited 6.6 45 932.1 partnership Belarusian Bank for Small Business, Belarus Ordinary 9.4 13 515.4 Eskaro Ukraine, Ukraine Ordinary 20.0 21 873.8 FJ Holding AB, Russia Ordinary 31.0 25 000.0 FMW/AS Fors MW, Estonia Ordinary 28.4 6 499.1 Komercijalna Banka AD Beograd, Serbia Ordinary 2.9 96 727.0 Mint GP Ltd, Russia Fund units 4.7 34 667.7 Pieno Zvaigzdes, Lithuania Ordinary 9.5 25 018.5 Troll Nursery, Latvia Ordinary 24.4 9 640.5 Total of Eastern Europe 280 254.9 Total acquisition value 1 608 666.5 Norsad is a development finance institution in southern Africa, which was formed through a collaboration between the four Nordic countries Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark and the member countries of SADC (Southern African Development Community). When Norsad was incorporated into Norsad Finance Ltd, Swedfund became a shareholder and received 1,496 shares in the company at no cost. The acquisition value and the reported value of these shares is therefore zero. Swedfund thereafter subscribed for 894 new shares in the company at a price per share of $ 8,279, in total $ 7,401,426, which is the basis for the reported value of Swedfund’s shareholding in the company. swedfund annual report 2012 | 85 Note 14 Fair values 2012 2011 Book and fair values of certain assets are Stated amount Fair value as follows Other long-term holdings of securities 1 825 1 542 1 825 1 542 Shares 993 975 939 648 1 045 563 1 109 567 Loan claims 388 506 548 925 388 506 548 925 Accounts receivable 50 022 36 711 50 022 36 711 Other receivables 35 470 19 332 35 470 19 332 Current investments 2 101 565 1 933 962 2 107 980 1 945 120 Cash and bank accounts 56 545 41 481 56 545 41 481 For other long-term holdings of securities the fair value is deemed to Swedfund International AB´s share of the Company´s equity in accordance with the latest annual accounts. The fair value of shares is the shares´ net worth in accordance with the latest recieved accounts. For listed companies, the fair value is the market value on the closing day. The fair value of current investments is their valuation at closing date market rates. As loan receivables, liabilities to credit institutions shortand long-term, and other long-term liabilities are mainly rolled over at new interest rates every third or sixth month the book value is considered to represent a close approximation to the fair value. In the case of accounts receivable, other receivables, cash and bank, liabilities to suppliers, and other current liabilities, the book value is considered to be a close approximation to the fair value. Note 15 Memorandum items Prepaid costs and accrued income 2012 2011 Prepaid costs 3 617 2 282 Accrued interest current investments 16 317 17 862 Accrued interest loan claims 13 732 8 893 Write-downs accrued interest loan claims 5 526 4 689 Other accrued interest 1 003 64 29 142 24 411 Accrued costs and deferred income 2012 2011 Prepaid income (Technical Assistance) 11 471 16 671 Accrued wages 2 914 2 995 Accrued payroll charges 3 214 2 457 Accrued interest liabilities to credit institutions 199 2 023 Other accrued costs 1 797 1 111 19 594 25 257 86 | swedfund annual report 2012 Note 16 Current investments Average Specification duration Fair Book Fair Book of security in years value value value value 2012 2012 2011 2011 Treasury bills 0.12 1 137 855 1 137 690 968 235 968 448 Government bonds 3.28 224 794 220 690 368 853 360 383 Bonds (government guarantee) 1.19 198 646 197 931 235 018 233 391 Secured bonds 0.51 320 104 318 721 313 129 311 859 Municipal Certificates 0.22 36 955 36 948 44 969 44 963 Bank-, Mortageand 0.03 189 625 189 585 14 916 14 918 2 107 980 2 101 565 1 945 120 1 933 962 Weighted effective annual interest rate for the portfolio is 1.19%. Interest rate risk in the event of 1% change in interest rates +/19 400 Note 17 Deferred tax receivables and liabilities Stated deferred tax receivable can be attributed to 2 012 2011 Machinery and equipment 117 112 Pension agreement for Managing Director 338 323 Deferred tax loss 2009 1 734 2 073 Deferred tax loss 2010 19 384 23 173 Deferred tax loss 2011 13 245 15 566 34 819 41 247 The company has losses brought forward totaling 372 715 TSEK, of which a deferred tax claim has been reserved for 156 198 TSEK. The Company considers that likelihood of the recognized deferred tax assets will be utilized for future taxable profit. Note 18 Other liabilities to credit institutions 2012 2011 Due date1-5 years from balance sheet date 411 641 410 907 Due date more than five years from balance sheet date 9 045 109 779 420 686 520 686 The sustainability report (page 4-66) is made up in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards for state-owned companies (guidelines for external financial reporting), the information provided agrees with the actual conditions and nothing of material importance has been omitted that could affect the picture of the company created by the sustainability report. The annual report (page 67-100) is made up in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards for state-owned companies (guidelines for external financial reporting), the information provided agrees with the actual conditions and nothing of material importance has been omitted that could affect the picture of the company created by the annual report. swedfund annual report 2012 | 87 Stockholm, 18 March 2013 Stockholm, 18 March 2013 Claes Ekström Renée Andersson Pernilla Bard Chairman Claes Ekström Renée Andersson Pernilla Bard Stockholm, 18 March 2013 Chairman Claes Ekström Renée Andersson Pernilla Bard Björn Börjesson Chairman Anna Centerstig Bengt Kvarnbäck Björn Börjesson Anna Centerstig Bengt Kvarnbäck Anna Ryott Per Östensson Björn Börjesson Anna Ryott Anna Centerstig Per Östensson Bengt Kvarnbäck Anders Craft Anders Craft Anna ActingRyott Managing Director Per Östensson Acting Managing Director Our audit report was submitted on 19 March 2013 Our audit Anders report was submitted on 19 March 2013 Craft PricewaterhouseCoopers AB PricewaterhouseCoopers Acting Managing DirectorAB Peteraudit Our report was submitted on 19 March Nilsson 2013 Henrik Söderhielm Peter NilssonPublic Accountant Authorised Henrik Söderhielm Authorised PricewaterhouseCoopers Authorised AB Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant appointed by the Swedish National Office Public Accountant appointed by the Swedish National Office Peter Nilsson Henrik Söderhielm Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant appointed by the Swedish National Office 88 | swedfund annual report 2012 Appendix 1: Owner’s Instructions for Swedfund International AB (Swedish Corporate id no. 556436-2084 AB) § 1 Functions of the Company The Company shall: a) contribute to the goal of Sweden’s Policy for Global Development (PGD): equitable and sustainable global development. The Company’s operations have two objectives. One, relating to international development cooperation, is to help in enabling poor people to improve their lives. The other, concerning Sweden’s reform cooperation in Eastern Europe, is to bring about strengthened democracy, equitable and sustainable development and alignment with the European Union and its core values; b) ensure, in cooperation with strategic partners, that the Company takes part in investments that are not expected to be achievable with commercial financing alone. Competition with commercial financial players must be avoided. Assessment of the Company’s additional role shall be carried out ahead of investment decisions; c) ensure that operations are conducted in a businesslike manner. The investments must be financially, environmentally and socially sustainable. In preparations for and decisions on investments, crucial importance shall be assigned to their expected contributions to the aims of the Company’s operations as defined in the second paragraph of §1a) above; d) ensure that activities are guided by the principle of untied aid, with the exception of ‘Swedpartnership’; e) ensure that the investments take place in accordance with international norms and principles for responsible investments, and within sound, clear corporate structures that do not contribute to tax evasion, money laundering or financing of terrorism; f) invest in countries that qualify for development financing according to the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) definition. Investments in ‘Low Income Countries and Territories’ and post-conflict countries shall be given priority. Investments in ‘Upper Middle Income Countries and Territories’ according to the DAC definition should take place only in countries with which Sweden is engaged in bilateral development cooperation; g) refrain from taking part in investments through intermediary jurisdictions that have been assessed within the framework of the OECD Global Forum Peer Review Process and that have thereby failed to gain approval in Phase 1 or been deemed ‘partially compliant’ or ‘non-compliant’ in Phase 2. § 2 Reporting The Company shall: a) besides meeting the statutory reporting requirements, assist in the implementation of the ‘transparency guarantee’ in Swedish development cooperation, in order to enhance openness in Swedish development cooperation, by such means as actively increasing public access to information about the Company’s operations; b) to fulfil what is required under §2a) above, the Company shall systematically and continuously assess, and report externally on, the overall results from the investments and their contribution to the aims of operations listed in the §1a) above. A summary report must be included in the Annual Report, based on measurable indicators and with investments classified as ‘current’ and ‘exited’. Reports on activities shall also be sent to the International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI), the OECD DAC and the OpenAid.se information service; c) in its Annual Report, report separately on financial objectives adopted at the annual general meeting of shareholders. § 3 Validity These Owner’s Instructions supersede the former owner’s instructions adopted at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 27 April 2011. These Instructions apply until the AGM decides otherwise. Adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2012. swedfund annual report 2012 | 89 90 | COMPANY BUSINESS SECTOR COUNTRY YEAR INSTRUMENT Acacia Fund Various Kenya 1997 Equity Addax Bioenergy Production of Ethanol & Bioenergy Power Plant Energy & Agriculture Sierra Leone 2011 Equity Addis Cardiac Hospital Hospital Healthcare Ethiopia 2006 Equity Addis Quarry Development Quarry Natural Resources Ethiopia 2008 Equity Advakom Data Cables ICT Russia 2001 Debt AfriCap Microfinance Investment Company Microfinance Fund Finance Africa 2007 Equity Afrinord Hotel Investments Hotel Infrastructure Africa 2005 Equity and Debt Al Quseir Hotel Hotel Infrastructure Egypt 2001 Debt Ambiente Furniture Furniture Factory Industrials Ukraine 2005 Equity AMSCO Employment Agency Services Africa 1990 Equity Askembla Growth Fund Fund Various Baltics 2003 Equity Athi River Steel Plant Steel Plant Industrials Kenya 2009 Equity Baring India Private Equity Fund II Fund Various India 2005 Equity Belarusian Bank for Small Business Microfinance Institution Finance Belarus 2007 Equity and Debt swedfund annual report 2012 Belstar Microfinance Institution Finance India 2010 Equity Bhutan Dairy Dairy Agriculture Bhutan 2004 Debt CAIF Fund Various Central America 1996 Equity CEF III Fund Various China 2008 Equity Cimbenin Cement Production Industrials Benin 1991 Equity Deacons Kenya Retail Chains Consumer Products Kenya 2010 Equity ECP Africa Fund I Fund Infrastructure Africa 1999 Equity ECP Africa Fund II Fund Various Africa 2006 Equity ECP Africa Fund III Fund Various Africa 2008 Equity EFP two loanagreement DFI Co-Financing Facility Various Africa 2006 Debt Appendix 2: Portfolio companies Radisson Nairobi Hotel Infrastructure Kenya 2008 Equity Radisson Emerald Addis Hotels Hotel Infrastructure Ethiopia 2008 Equity and Dept Energy Access Partnership� Model for Energy Production Energy South Africa 2010 Equity Engro Energy Gas Power Plant Energy Pakistan 2007 Debt Entel S:A Telecom Operator ICT Bolivia 2011 Equity Eskaro Paint Factory Industrials Ukraine 2010 Equity FJ Holding AB Vehicle Components Industrials Russia 2011 Equity Fors MW Engineering Industry Industrials Estonia 1995 Equity Gamma Knife Center Radiosurgery Clinic Healthcare Egypt 2000 Equity Geratech Zirconium Production Chemical Industry South Africa 2005 Equity Global Medical Investments Project Development and Investment Company Healthcare Multiregional 2009 Equity and Debt Green Investment Asia Sustainable Fund I Fund Cleantech Asia 2007 Equity Haripur Power Power Plant Energy Bangladesh 2003 Debt HSF Wuxi Components Industrials China 2006 Equity Ilac Hotel Uvira Hotel Infrastructure Congo 2010 Debt Interact Climate Change Fund/Facility DFI Co-Financing Facility Various Africa 2010 Debt VMG Industry Wood Industry Industrials Belarus 2011 Debt Izma Reindeer Meat Foods Company Agriculture Russia 2004 Debt Jacobi Carbons Chemical Industry Chemical Industry India 2008 Debt Jacobi Carbons Lanka Chemical Industry Chemical Industry Sri Lanka 2010 Debt Karlsson Spools Hydraulic Valves Industrials China 2005 Equity and Debt Kinyeti Capital Fund Various South Sudan 2012 Equity Komercijalna Banka Bank Finance Serbia 2009 Equity KurdMed Eye Hospital Healthcare Iraq 2008 Equity and Debt Gamma Knife Center Radiosurgery Clinic Healthcare Egypt 2000 Equity Geratech Zirconium Production Chemical Industry South Africa 2005 Equity Global Medical Investments Project Development and Investment Company Healthcare Multiregional 2009 Equity and Debt Green Investment Asia Sustainable Fund I Fund Cleantech Asia 2007 Equity Haripur Power Power Plant Energy Bangladesh 2003 Debt HSF Wuxi Components Industrials China 2006 Equity Ilac Hotel Uvira Hotel Infrastructure Congo 2010 Debt Interact Climate Change Fund/Facility DFI Co-Financing Facility Various Africa 2010 Debt VMG Industry Wood Industry Industrials Belarus 2011 Debt Izma Reindeer Meat Foods Company Agriculture Russia 2004 Debt Jacobi Carbons Chemical Industry Chemical Industry India 2008 Debt Jacobi Carbons Lanka Chemical Industry Chemical Industry Sri Lanka 2010 Debt Karlsson Spools Hydraulic Valves Industrials China 2005 Equity and Debt Kinyeti Capital Fund Various South Sudan 2012 Equity Komercijalna Banka Bank Finance Serbia 2009 Equity KurdMed Eye Hospital Healthcare Iraq 2008 Equity and Debt Mint II Fund Various Russia 2004 Equity Radisson Blu Ulaanbaatar Hotel Infrastructure Mongoliet 2010 Equity Nordrus Hotel Hotel Infrastructure Russia 2003 Equity Norsad Finance Credit Institution Finance Africa 2012 Equity Artheon Battery Company Battery Manufacturing Industrials India 2010 Equity and Debt Oatly Hong Kong Holding Co Dairy Agriculture China 2011 Equity Ontur International Port Terminal Infrastructure Uruguay 2005 Equity Phoenix Basra Co. Ltd Anti-Corrosion Treatment Industrials Iraq 2012 Equity Pieno Zvaigzdes Dairy Agriculture Lithuania 2001 Equity Polygenta Textile Industry Industrials India 2009 Debt Prestando Vehicle Industry Industrials China 2007 Equity and Debt Quanadeel Al Rafidain Components Industrials Iraq 2010 Equity and Debt Raffia Packaging Products Industrials Africa 2005 Equity, Debt and Guarantee Recupero Aluminum Recycling Cleantech China 2007 Equity and Debt Sacombank Bank Finance Vietnam 2011 Debt Sanghi Industries Heating Plant Energy India 2007 Debt Sichuan Investment Fund Fund Various China 2001 Equity Small Enterprise Foundation Microfinance Institution Finance South Africa 2006 Debt Somalia Telecom Group Telecom Operator ICT Somalia 2007 Equity and Debt Sweden Ghana Medical Center Cancer Clinic Healthcare Ghana 2008 Debt Swedmilk Makedonija Dairy Agriculture Macedonia 2006 Debt Troll Nursery Products Consumer Products Latvia 2004 Equity UAP Insurance Company Finance Kenya 2012 Equity Vietstar Waste Recycling Cleantech Vietnam 2008 Debt Vireo Renewable Energy Energy Belarus 2012 Debt swedfund annual report 2012 | 91 Appendix 3: Swedpartnership, approved projects in 2012 company country business cooperation Farm Mac AB Ukraine Sale of agricultural machines and equipment Subsidary Alutrade AB Turkey Delivery of aluminum profiles Supplier Check Point China AB China Sourcing and quality assurance of industrial components Subsidary Energy Save Nordic AB China Products and systems for energy conservation Supplier Soft Touch AB China Wholesale of protection equipment, hand gloves and protection clothes Supplier SolarWave AB Tanzania Production of water purification products Subsidary Miris AB Bangladesh Development and sale of instruments for milk analysis Distributor SweModule AB Botswana Production of solar modules Distributor Emric AB Indonesia System support for credits Subsidary Triggerfish Holding AB Nepal Data programming Supplier Öhlins Racing AB Thailand Production of bumpers Subsidary Teroc AB Bolivia Technical consultancy Distributor Contac Solutions AB China Contract manufacturing of electronic products Subsidary SPI Nordic Play & Leisure AB Turkey Design, production and sale of play facilities Distributor Tovenco AB China Production of cooker hoods and ventilation systems Subsidary Bactiguard AB China Production and sales of medical devices that prevent infections Distributor Fastdev AB Kenya Data programming Subsidary Wenmec AB China System deliveries of construction machinery and other industrial products Subsidary Sweden Power Chippers AB Zambia Pellet production machine Distributor AB Svenskt Konstsilke China Production of technical yarns Subsidary AB Trätälja Tanzania Trade with wooden products Distributor Kristallen i Lannavaara AB Namibia Sanding and sale of gemstones Supplier Mattias Lägermo Bygg & Snickeri AB Kenya Contracts, repairs and services in the construction sector Distributor Comptech i Skillingaryd AB China Metal foundry Subsidary Grafiska Punkten i Växjö AB Ghana Printing company Subsidary Arjeplog Test Management AB China Automotive testing Subsidary Bonitas AB India Asissted living Distributor Centigo AB China Management consultancy company Distributor Projektengagemang Byggprocesstyrning AB Nigeria Technical consultancy business Distributor Bröderna Nyman AB China Industrial confection Supplier Progresslead Scandinavian Management AB China Organisational consultants Distributor Svensk Pallrekonditionering AB Iraq Trade with packaging, etc. Distributor Röjdåfors Skogs AB Nicaragua Forestry contractors Joint-venture Rudhäll Industri AB China Metal processing Subsidary Ewes Stålfjäder AB Bosnia Metal industry Subsidary Verisec AB Serbia Development and sale of products for IT security Subsidary 92 | swedfund annual report 2012 Appendix 4: Technical Assistance, TA list, Project 2012 Region Activity Sector Type of TA-funds Project-no Project name Middle East Consultancy assignment to conduct a market study Financing Quality-increasing support 820075 Financing company Iraq Africa Consultancy assignment for a company analysis Hospital Quality-increasing support 820076 Forensic Audit in Addis Emerald Africa Consultancy assignment for a company analysis Agriculture/ industry Quality-increasing support 820077 Buchanan Renewables Fuel Africa Consultancy assignment to conduct a market study Hospital Quality-increasing support extension Extension of the decision 16/2011 All regions Consultancy assignment for ESG audits All sectors Quality-increasing support 820078 External ESG audits Africa Consultancy assignment for quality assurance Hospital Quality-increasing support 820079 Addis Cardiac Hospital Docent Wiklund Africa Consultancy assignment for education assignments Finans Quality-increasing support 820080 Kinyeti Capital Middle East Consultancy assignment for development of financial statements Hospital Quality-increasing support 820081 KurdMed Financial statement Middle East Consultancy assignment for medical support Hospital Quality-increasing support 820082 KurdMed Support medical equipment Middle East Consultancy assignment for education Transport Quality-increasing support 820083 Education for Qanadeel, Irak Africa Consultancy assignment for education Financing Quality-increasing support 820084 Education of E&S Manager at Norsad swedfund annual report 2012 | 93 Appendix 5: Abbreviations and glossary ADB African Development Bank NORFUND Norwegian DFI BIO Belgian’s DFI (like SBI) OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and GNI Gross national income Development BNP Gross national productBruttonationalprodukt OeEB Austrian DFI BRIC countries Brasil, Russia, India, China OFC Offshore Financial Centre CC Concept Clearance OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Standard CDC UK’s DFI PGU Swedish Policy for Global Development CDM Clean Development Mechanism PRI Principles for Responsible Investment Civil society is the part of the society in which people help each other without the involvement of the state. PROPARCO French DFI Code of Conduct SA Social Accountability COFIDES Spain’s DFICOP Communication on progress SADC Southern African Development Community CO2 Carbon dioxide SBI Belgian DFI (liksom BIO) CSR Corporate Social Responsibility SEF Small Enterprise Foundation DAC Development Assistance Committee SEK Swedish kronor DD Due Diligence SEK Swedish Export Credit Corporation DEG Germany’s DFI Sida Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency DFI Development Finance Institution SIFEM Swiss DFI DOTS Development Outcome Tracking System SIMEST Italian DFI EDFI European Development Finance Institutions SME Smalland Medium sized Enterprises EFP European Financing Partners EIB European Investment Bank SOFID Portuguese DFI EKN Swedish Export Credits Guarantee Board TA Technical Assistance ERP system Enterprise Resource Planning USD US Dollar ESG Environmental Social Governance UN United Nations ESHIA Environmental, Social, Health Impact Assessment VD Managing Director FAR Swedish Trade Association of Accountants, WHO World Health Organisation Auditors and Advisers FAO Food and Agriculture Organisation FINNFUND Finlands DFI FMO Dutch DFI GRI Global Reporting Initiative HACCP Hazard analysis and critical control points, food standards HIV/AIDS Human immunodeficiency virus/ Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome HR Human Relations alternatively Human Rights ICT Information Communication Technology IFC International Finance Corporation IFU Denmark’s DFI ILO International Labour Organisation IM Investment Manager IMF International Monetary Fund ISO International Standards Organisation ISO 9001 Certifiable quality management system ISO 14001 Certifiable environment management system Mezzanine financing is a form of financing that is between equity capital and loans NMC Swedish Association of Environmental Managers 94 | swedfund annual report 2012 Appendix 6: 10 years in brief swedfund annual report 2012 | 95 Auditor’s Report Auditor’s reporton(translation) review of Sustainability Report To the readers of the Swedfund annual meeting International of the shareholders of AB Sustainability and Annual Report 2012 Swedfund International AB, corporate identity We have been engaged by the management of Swedfund International AB (“Swedfund”) to review the number 556436-2084 Sustainability Report for the year 2012. Our review covers pages 8-59 of the Swedfund Sustainability and Annual Report 2012. The Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsible for the company’s activities regarding environment, health & safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, Report and for the onpreparation the annualand accounts presentation of the Sustainability Report Report in accordance on other legal with applicable and regulatory criteria.requirements Our responsibility We have auditedis thetoannual express a conclusion accounts of Swedfund on the Sustainability AB for Report based on our review. International In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we have examined the the year 2012. The annual accounts of the company are included in the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and the The scope printed versionofofthe thisreview document on pages 67-100. administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of We have performed Responsibilities our Board of the reviewof accordanceand in Directors withtheRevR 6 Assurance Swedfund ofInternational Sustainability Reports AB for issued the year 2012. by Far. A review consists Managing Director for theinquiries, of making primarily of persons responsible annual accounts for the preparation Responsibilities of the Board of the Sustainability of Directors and the Report, and applying analytical and other review The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for procedures. A review is substantially Managing Director less in scope than an audit conducted the preparationin accordance with IAASB’s and fair presentation Standards of these annual on inAuditing and accounts Quality The Board Control is of Directors and other generally responsible accepted for the proposal for appropriations accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is performed consequently do of the company’snot enable profit orus to loss, obtain and assurance the Board that and the of Directors we would become Managing responsible in anareaudit. Director for administration under the necessary to enable theaware of allofsignificant preparation annual accounts matters thatfree that are might be identified Accordingly, we do not Companies Act. express an audit opinion. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s on which our review is based are the parts of the Sustainability The criteriaresponsibility Auditor’s responsibility Reporting Guidelines G3, published Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on by the Our Global Reporting responsibility is to express Initiative an opinion on (GRI), whichaccounts these annual are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit and on the based on our audit. accounting We conducted and calculation our audit that principles in accordance the companywith has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing suitable for standards the preparation in Sweden. Those standards Sustainability of therequire Report. that we comply with accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, As reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts are free from included theopinion e.g.our a basis for followingon theprocedures: Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit, we examined whether the material a. update misstatement. of our knowledge and understanding of Swedfund’s proposal organization and activities, is in accordance with the Companies Act. An b. audit involves performing assessment of suitabilityprocedures to obtain audit and application evidence of the about criteria regarding the for stakeholders’ As a basis need for information, our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts. The procedures addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we examined significant c. interviews with management in order to assess if the qualitative selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of and decisions, quantitative actions taken and information circumstances stated in the in order to of the company the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts, whether due Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers Managing Director is liable to the company. We also examined whether internal control relevant d. examination the company’s of tointernal preparation and external and fair documents in order to assess any member the information if Board of the of Directors or stated in theDirector has, in the Managing presentation of the annual accounts in order to design audit procedures any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of sufficient, Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. expressing e. an opinion evaluation of on the the effectiveness design of selected company’s of thesystems andinternal processes used to obtain, manage and validate sustainability control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and information, accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as well as f. analytical evaluating procedures the overall of the presentation information of the stated in the Sustainability annual accounts. Opinions Report, g. assessment of the company’s declared application We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and level according to We recommend to theguidelines, the GRI annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. h. assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability administration Report, and its format, report taking and that into consideration the members of the Board of Directors the consistency of the stated information with applicable criteria, Opinions and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance Conclusion with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, Stockholm 19 March 2013 Based the on our financial review, position of Swedfund has come AB nothingInternational to asour attention of 31 December that causes us to believe that the information in the 2012 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria. then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate PricewaterhouseCoopers AB governance statement has been prepared. The statutory administration report and corporate governance statement are consistent with the other Stockholm, parts March of the annual 19th, 2013 accounts. Peter Nilsson Henrik Söderhielm We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant the income statement and balance sheet. Riksrevisionen PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Nilsson Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of Far 96 | swedfund annual report 2012 Auditor’s Report on review of Sustainability Report To the readers of the Swedfund International AB Sustainability and Annual Report 2012 We have been engaged by the management of Swedfund International AB (“Swedfund”) to review the Sustainability Report for the year 2012. Our review covers pages 8-59 of the Swedfund Sustainability and Annual Report 2012. The Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsible for the company’s activities regarding environment, health & safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. The scope of the review We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. The criteria on which our review is based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, included e.g. the following procedures: a. update of our knowledge and understanding of Swedfund’s organization and activities, b. assessment of suitability and application of the criteria regarding the stakeholders’ need for information, c. interviews with management in order to assess if the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, d. examination of internal and external documents in order to assess if the information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, e. evaluation of the design of selected systems and processes used to obtain, manage and validate sustainability information, f. analytical procedures of the information stated in the Sustainability Report, g. assessment of the company’s declared application level according to the GRI guidelines, h. assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability Report, and its format, taking into consideration the consistency of the stated information with applicable criteria, Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria. Stockholm, March 19th, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Nilsson Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of Far swedfund annual report 2012 | 97 Board of Directors Anna Centerstig, member of the board Born: 1975 Claes Ekström, ordförande Board member since: 2012 Born: 1958 Education: Master of Political Sciences, Stockholm Board member since: 2008 University. Education: Graduate Engineer, Chalmers; Bachelor of At present: Deputy Director, Department for Aid Economics and Law studies at the University of Management, Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Gothenburg. At present: Partner, Altor Equity Partners. Bengt Kvarnbäck, member of the board Board appointments: Northstar (Chairman), Papyrus Born: 1945 (Chairman), Max Matthiessen (chairman), Orchid Board member since: 2012 Orthopedic Solutions (member), Norsk Gjenvinning Education: Master degree in Materials Engineering, (member) and many more non-profit commitments; Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm (1970). Mentor (preventing drugs), Karolinska Institutet, At present: Industrial Advisor, Altor Equity Partners. Stella and Worldchildren Prize. Board appointments: Ålö AB (chariman), Q-Matic AB, Atlas Copco South Africa (Pty) Ltd (chariman). Renée Andersson, member of the board Former board appointments: Nimbus Boats Holding Born: 1947 AB, Relacom AB, Dynapac AB, Volvo Penta AB, Board member since: 2012 Kalmar Industries AB, Industriförvaltnings AB KinneEducation: Medical Secretary and autodidact. vik, Invik AB, Korsnäs, AB, Atlas Copco Airpower bv At present: Manager of Ethics and Environment, (Belgium), a large number of companies within the Indiska Magasinet AB, Honorary doctor at the TechniAtlas Copco Group, etc. cal Institute of Lund. Board appointments: Steering committe of Sweden Anna Ryott, member of the board Textile Water Initiative (STWI). Ethical Advisory Board Born: 1972 of Robur, Swedbank (member), Blichta Association, Board member since: 2012 Leprosy village, Addis Abeba, Ethiopia (member and Education: MBA, Stockholm University. treasurer). At present: Secretary General SOS Children’s Villages Former board appointments: Member of the Advisory Sweden. Board for Industry and Development (2010–2012), Former board appointments: World Childhood Foundation. GLP-school, Dhaka, Bangladesh (Chairperson 1994– 1998), Swedish-Yemeni Association (member 1992– Per Östensson, member of the board 1994), Swedish-Ethiopian Association (member and Born: 1959 editor 1992–1994), Adoption Centre (member Board member since: 2010 1979–1984). Education: Technical College, MBA (Stockholm School of Economics). Pernilla Bard, member of the board At present: Director, Ministry of Finance. Born: 1967 Former board appointments: Nefco, Swedish Export Board member since: 2012 Credit (SEK). Education: Master of Science from the Stockholm School of Economics. At present: Founder of Social Initiative. management Board appointments: Social Initiative Norden AB. Anders Craft Acting MD, +46 8 725 94 18 Björn Börjesson, member of the board Eva-Marie Andersson Born: 1951 Chief Legal Counsel, +46 8 725 94 05 Board member since: 2012 Oscar Carlsson Education: Bachelor of Laws. Investment Director, +46 8 725 94 13 At present: Consultant. Karin Isaksson Board appointments: Kommuninvest i Sverige AB Investment Director, +46 8 725 94 21 (chariman), Tredje AP-fonden (Vice Chairman). Per Juth Former board appointments: UC AB (chariman), Strategic Business Development, resigned from Subsidiaries in the Handelsbanken Group. management at the end of the year and from corporation 2013-03-31. Elisabeth Mattisson Director, Finance and Administration, +46 8 725 94 04 98 | swedfund annual report 2012 swedfund 10 years in brief 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 No. of countries in 32 26 28 30 31 33 33 36 43 36 33 which Swedfund has portfolio companies No. of portfolio 67 61 54 55 66 67 69 71 81 93 90 companies at the beginning of the year No. of new portfolio 6 5 9 14 6 8 15 13 17 7 9 companies No. of divestments -12 -12 -8 -3 -5 -6 -13 -3 -5 -10 -8 No. of portfolio 61 54 55 66 67 69 71 81 93 90 91 companies at the end of the year Four of the new investments are within the framework of the INTERACT CLIMATE CHANGE FACILITY S.A (ICCF) initiative. At the year-end, 13 of the investments co-financed within the framework of the EUROPEAN FINANCING PARTNERS S.A (EFP) initiative. At the year-end, 4 of the investments co-financed within the framework of the INTERACT CLIMATE CHANGE FACILITY S.A (ICCF) initiative. swedfund annual report 2012 | 99 Swedfund International AB Sveavägen 24-26 • POBox 3286 • SE-103 65 Stockholm • Sweden Phone: +46 (0)8-725 94 00 • Fax: +46 (0)8-20 30 93 | www.swedfund.se 100 swedfund sustainability report 2012
