CONTENTS 4 THE COMMITMENT 5 About PTTEP 8 CEO Statement 12 PTTEP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CONTEXT 13 Overview on Sustainability and PTTEP Business 16 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT AT PTTEP 17 Our Sustainable Development Philosophy 18 Sustainable Development and Our Business 22 SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION 23 Governance, Risk Management and Compliance 31 Responsible Operation 53 Optimum Returns on Capital 59 Wealth Contribution 66 Technologically Advanced 71 High Performance Organization 84 SD PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 85 Environment 87 Health and Safety 88 Human Capital 90 Corporate Social Responsibility 91 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 92 ABOUT THIS REPORT 93 Preparing the Sustainability Report 95 Contact Point 96 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 97 GRI CONTENT INDEX 103 READERSû FEEDBACK PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 1 2 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability of PTTEP at a Glance At PTTEP, we believe that business prosperity alone cannot bring our company towards sustainability. However, protecting the environment and contributing to the society will help propel both PTTEP and our nation closer to the stage of sustainability. We aspire to overcome every challenge in terms of difficult locations, smaller reserves, knowledge development, innovation and technology, and social license to operate. However, the biggest challenge is to find the right balance between exploring energy production, protecting the environment and contributing to the wider society. Therefore, we commit to provide energy security in parallel with environmental protection and social contribution. This commitment forms our DNA as çPassion to Explore with Responsibilityé and the PTTEP way çFrom Natural Treasure to Intellectual Wisdom and Environmental Conservationé. MISSION PTTEP operates globally to provide reliable energy supply and sustainable value to all stakeholders. VISION Leading Asian exploration and production company driven by technology and green practices. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 3 4 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 ABOUT PTTEP PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP) VALUES is a publicly listed company on the Stock Exchange of Thailand and is majority owned by PTT Public Company Limited, a national EP SPIRIT oil company. PTTEP has a mission to provide reliable energy Explorer supply from operations globally and to provide sustainable value Passion to all stakeholders. Therefore, we have set our vision to be Synergy a leading Asian exploration and production company driven by technology and green practices. Performance Excellence Innovation In order to shape the behaviour and culture of the company in Responsibility pursuit of our vision, PTTEPûs values, çEP SPIRITé, which reflect Integrity and Ethics PTTEPûs DNA çPassion to Explore with Responsibilityé are the Trust and Respect key success factors of our business and PTTEP expects them to be embedded in every employee. PTTEP is moving towards 600 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (KBOED) of petroleum production which 900 KBOED of petroleum production is our aspiration to fulfil our mission to be a provider of reliable energy, in order to meet national demand. To achieve production growth to this aspirational 900 KBOED by 2020, our continued domestic operations will contribute to approximately one third of the production target. A further third will be met through our current international assets as described in the following page. The final third will be through merger and acquisition activities. Best Safety Performance in 15 years Revenue Growth 0.19 LTIF +24% *Lost Time Injury Frequency Operating in Four Continents, We are a Team of 4,080 Employees PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 5 PTTEP has current investment in 44 exploration and production oil and gas projects in 12 countries, including Thailand, Indonesia, Cambodia, Myanmar, Vietnam, Oman, Algeria, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Kenya and Mozambique CANADA Following are PTTEP operating assets active in 2012. Exploration ë G9/43 OMAN Employees ë A4/48, A5/48 and A6/48 M: 55 F: 6 ë L21/48 and L28/48 ë L22/43 ë L53/43 and L54/43 Production ë B10, B11 ë B15, B16, B17, G12/48 ë PTTEP 1 Project ë Arthit Project ë S1 Project During the reporting period we do not have inactive projects or decommissioning project. North America East Africa This region, and in particularly Our recent acquisition of Cove Proved Reserves: 901 MMBOE Canada presents opportunities for Energy brought with it several Reserves Life Index: 8 Years us to develop oil sands as part of licenses to explore offshore and Reserves Replacement Ratio: 0.91 our balanced portfolio going forward onshore reserves in Mozambique F&D Cost: USD 8.97/BOE into 2020 but brings along with it and Kenya. The Rovuma basin off significant technical challenges and the coast of Mozambique is one of environmental concerns. Key to the most exciting natural gas finds success will be effective project this century and has a resource management and financial controls. potential of up to 65 trillion cubic feet. We have an 8.5 percent stake in the area and expect production to come on-line by 2018-2019. East Africa offers a great opportunity for further successful exploration. 6 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 PTTEP employs a workforce of over 4,080. From WHQ in Bangkok, we operate 18 offices across 4 continents including solely own operation, joint management and partners. MYANMAR THAILAND Employees Employees M: 66 M: 2,340 F: 34 F: 1,233 Other International Employees M: 54 F: 16 AUSTRALIA Employees M: 217 F: 59 Myanmar Thailand Australia We have been operating in the We are fully committed in The Montara field is targeted for Union of Myanmar for over 20 continuing strong and sustainable production in 2013 and will continue years. During 2012-2013, we focus domestic operations. These making significant contributions to on development of Zawtika natural operations provide us with a stable output targets over the next few gas field which is expected to come production output and offer years. We are aware of the Montara on stream by early 2014. We opportunities for further exploration. incident in the past which we continue to conduct extensive We are proud of our legacy assets have intensive biodiversity study exploration activities both onshore in domestic operations, our programs to ensure that impact is and offshore and are confident contribution to the national minimized and we will use it as that the operations in the Union economy and to providing energy our lesson learned to improve of Myanmar, will be a significant security for current and future our operation and contractor part to help us achieve our growth generations. management across the group. target in 2020. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 7 Message from the President and CEO çA good global corporate citizenship E&P company who delivers reliable energy supply and sustainable value to all stakeholdersé Over the past years, our fundamental business performances have been strong and our revenue is expected to be increasing from production activities in several projects. This leaves us in a good position to expand our business to meet 600 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (KBOED) of petroleum production by 2020 with our aspiration to achieve 900 KBOED. However, we understand that the future of the company is not just about business. To sustain the company in the future is about integrating environmental and social consideration while we pursue our business goal and are committed to have all our personnel return home safely and nobody gets hurt in our operations as our aspiration of achieving the LTI free organization. This will make PTTEP the exploration and production company of choice for host government, joint venture, communities and employees. 2012 Highlights This report represents our achievements over the course of 2012, and illustrates the compelling case of our contribution towards the sustainable development of the environment and society along with our business sustainability. PTTEPûs sustainability highlights for 2012 include: ë We contributed more than USD 1,892 million back to the government and society through tax payment, loyalty and concession fee and social investment; ë We had outstanding Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 0.19 and Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 1.87 which marked our best safety performance in 15 years; ë We issued our Sustainable Development Policy and Guideline to provide direction for all personnel and our first greenhouse gas emission reduction target was set; ë We are developing our marine biodiversity baseline study program and building artificial reefs in the Gulf of Thailand; ë Our Montara environmental monitoring program with the independent scientific researchers continued to build the body of quality data on the marine life and eco-systems of the Timor Sea. Looking Ahead Apart from illustrating our achievements to date, our Sustainability Report is also looking ahead of how we prepare ourselves for the future challenges in terms of sustainability. PTTEP is fully aware that the world is changing faster than before in business, environmental and social dimensions. Petroleum reserves today are concentrated in difficult locations in terms of sensitive environmental area, and high political risks or technically challenging conditions. Nevertheless, our mission to serve national energy demand is still the same which energy demand is likely to be increasing due to growing population. 8 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Our newly formulated Sustainable Development Policy or the G.R.O.W.T.H. Policy defines the frame for our sustainability management at PTTEP and our commitment to continuous support the United Nations Global Compact and challenging ourselves to be ranked as a top quartile performing company as measured by the credible international ratings program to reflect our practice and performance against the global perspective. We will explore for not only petroleum reserve but also the way to be the E&P company of choice for our stakeholders including our host government, joint venture, suppliers and contractors, communities and employees. We must continue strengthening our commitment to sustainable development and improving our performance to realize our vision. I want to thank our employees, suppliers and business partners as well as shareholders, agencies, community and wider society for supporting us to create values in a responsible manner and live up to the commitment to sustainable development. Mr. Tevin Vongvanich President and Chief Executive Officer PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 9 10 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 11 12 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 OVERVIEW ON SUSTAINABILITY AND PTTEP BUSINESS World Energy Situation According to the International Energy Agency in their World Energy Outlook 2012 report, global energy demand will grow by almost one-third as we approach 2035. It is predicted that the global community will achieve success in meeting societiesû thirst for cheap and accessible energy. Fossil fuel use from oil and gas reserves will continue to dominate the current global energy mix forecast up until 2020; however, beyond this period, it is expected that a shift in utilization will occur marked by significant increases in approaches of unconventional and alternative extraction. Many of the worldûs rich and untapped reserves tend to be concentrated under very deep oceans, landscapes of thick ice, located in ecologically sensitive environments, or in regions of political instability and uncertainty. Competition within the industry to win the rights to access these reserves can only be expected to intensify. Greatest competition will exist for those reserves where efficient operating costs can be achieved and regulatory costs minimized, for example accessing reserves with low carbon dioxide content, therefore limiting exposure to possible future carbon tax liabilities. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 13 PTTEP as the World Corporate Citizenship PTTEP is committed to contributing to the energy security of Thailand. PTTEP currently contributes 28 percent of energy demand. We have a target to continue to achieve this level of contribution at 30 percent for 2020 and beyond. It is expected that over the next decade, the economic growth in Asia will exceed that experienced in any other region of the world. Moreover, strong growth in domestic GDP signaling creation of wealth and a prosperous future for its people will require PTTEPûs due diligence in delivering affordable, clean energy sources. Increase in population will also result in increase in consumption and demand. Depletion of natural resources and the rate of environmental degradation will likely to be unavoidable if we do nothing to ensure that our future generation can fulfill their needs. Therefore, PTTEP commits to be a responsible company and contribute to the sustainability of the economy, environment and society everywhere we operate. Our business plan to acquire new reserves also drives us into remote and environmentally sensitive locations, Safety, security, health and environmental excellence, coupled with proactive management of social issues will remain important aspects of energy companiesû long-term profitability. Climate change is still the top issue at the global scale. 14 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 APPROACH TO DEFINE OUR PRIORITIES PTTEP uses a process called çmateriality assessmenté in accordance with Technical Protocol: Applying the Report Content Principles along with AA1000 AccountAbility Principles standard 2008 to identify our priorities. From the identified material issues, PTTEP categorizes those issues into six areas namely Governance, Risk Management, Compliance; Responsible Operation; Optimum Returns; Wealth Contribution; Technologically Advance; and High Performance Organization. For this Sustainability Report, PTTEP has leveraged our approach on materiality assessment to be more comprehensive. We are continuously enhancing our materiality assessment process to include more primary data analysis of our diverse stakeholders to ensure our understanding of the materiality of our sustainability factors. Priority Matrix for Sustainability Reporting Significant to PTTEP Governance, Risk Management and Compliance (page 23) Corporate Governance, Business Ethics and Compliance, Transparency, Enterprise Risk Management, Stakeholder Engagement Responsible Operation (page 31) Operational Eco-efficiency, Biodiversity, Climate Strategy, Integrated Water Management, Supply Chain Management Optimum Returns (page 53) Growth Strategy, Operation Excellence, Capital Project Management Wealth Contribution (page 59) Social Impact on Communities, Issue Management, Social Investment, Employee Volunteer Technologically Advance (page 66) Unconventional Resource, Execution Challenges (Tech, Safety, Co2, Energy, People) High Performance Organization (page 71) Occupational Health and Safety, Human Capital Development, Talent Attraction, Diversity, Employee Engagement Not Material Not Relevant Significant to Stakeholders PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 15 16 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PHILOSOPHY At PTTEP, we define Sustainability as our approach to conduct our business in pursuit of our vision that optimizes stakeholderûs value by managing risks and capitalizing on opportunities associated with environmental and social issues. Therefore, sustainability at PTTEP consists of two areas: Business Sustainability and Organization Sustainability as outlined in the following picture. The focus of Organization Sustainability is to build a solid foundation for sustainable growth from becoming a High Performance Organization (driven by performance excellence in every business aspect such as operational excellence; enterprise resource planning; capability development; technology; knowledge management; risk management; control and compliance; and safety, security, health and environment management), Corporate Governance and Care-Share-Respect. Business Sustainability is the execution of the business strategy to be BIG (increasing size, growth, span and financial strength); LONG (ensure longevity through improvement of integration, synergism, globalization and networking); and STRONG (strengthen the organization by inspiring and sustainable, high performance and innovation) Business Sustainability Organization Sustainability ùBIGû Production çOE, ERP, ë 600 KBD in 2020 (Base case) HPO Capability/Technology/ Knowledge, SSHE, Risk, ë 900 KBD aspiration by 2020 (Stretch case) Control/Complianceé ùLONGû 10+ yrs Reserves Life 40+ yrs Resources Life Green Practices ùSTRONGû Corporate Care-ShareGovernance Respect ROCE above industry average çGood Governance, çGreen Practices, and maintain the current Code of business Environment Protection, credit rating conduct, ethicé Social and Community Contributioné PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND OUR BUSINESS Sustainable Development Governance at PTTEP The highest governance body to oversee sustainability of PTTEP is the Sustainable Development Council (SD Council) chaired by the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The SD Council is responsible for defining direction and approving key sustainability related documents, for example SD Framework, SD Policy, SD Guideline, PTTEP SD Roadmap, and PTTEP SD Action Plan. CEO Sustainable Development Council SD Directions, Policy, Framework Sustainable Development Working Team Strategy, key performance indicators, action plan, guidelines & tools including performance monitoring, supervising compliance Diversify Background Meetings: Quarterly The SD Council consists of Executives from diverse backgrounds and functional groups and divisions to provide a balanced view on SD approach. To help the Council with the execution of SD initiatives, the Sustainable Development Working Team is formed consisting of representatives from multiple functions. The Working Team is responsible for defining strategy, roadmap, key performance indicators, action plan, guidelines & tools; performance monitoring; supervising compliance; and reporting to the SD Council. In 2012, there were 4 Sustainable Development Council meetings to review and approve of SD Roadmap, SD Policy and SD Guideline. 18 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 To ensure the implementation of SD initiatives, the SD initiatives and SSHE Action Plan have been integrated together to become a SD-SSHE plan and KPI, resulting from a number of performance indicators. The SD-SSHE Index was created in 2012, which is targeted to be implemented in 2013. The SD-SSHE plan and KPI, a company KPI which is endorsed by CEO, are cascaded down to each functional group for performance evaluation. 6 1 GRI Rating (A+ level for 2013) Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) SD-SSHE Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 2 5 Carbon Footprint Reduction Index Major Hydrocarbon & Chemical Spill Rate 4 Accident Rate (MAR) 3 *Major accident rate is defined as any accident having a real severity level 4 (Major) and above in SSHE risk matrix, measured per million man-hours. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 19 Sustainable Development Management at PTTEP Sustainable Development Roadmap (SD Roadmap) of PTTEP is the master plan for engineering a sustainable company. The SD Roadmap provides short and long term goals along with milestones and key enablers. PTTEP defines Sustainable Development Policy (SD Policy) or the G.R.O.W.T.H. Policy in 2012 to demonstrate our commitment and to unify the understanding of our employees, contractors and other stakeholders on our approach towards sustainable development. The SD Policy consists of six principles and Chapter 4 of this report is structured in the same way. PTTEP Sustainable Development Roadmap 2012 2013 2014 2015-2020 End SD Policy SD Strategy SD Policy & Guideline Implementation and Monitoring Short Term & Guideline Roll out Benchmark ë GRI A+, 2013 ë DJSI Listed Business Long Term Roadmap Aspiration Leading Asian CSR E&P SD Roadmap Roadmap Implementation and Monitoring ë Technology ë Green Practice Green Practice Roadmap Communication Roll out Policy Plan & Guideline Maintain SD Culture SD Create SD Culture Communication SD Day Gap Closing & DJSI Gap Questionnaire DJSI Listed SD Benchmarking GRI A+ GRI A+ GRI A+ GRI A+ & Assurance ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14064-1 ISO 14064-1 ISO 14064-1 Sustainable Development Policy is publicly available on PTTEPûs website. 20 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 In addition, PTTEP issued the Sustainable Development Guideline (SD Guideline) as a set of expectations regarding sustainable performances and behaviors for PTTEP and for any party engaging in business with PTTEP, to ensure the achievement of our vision. Based on our materiality assessment, the SD Guideline consists of 24 expectations in the Business, Environment and Wider Society Dimensions applied to PTTEP and subsidiaries; contractors of PTTEP and subsidiaries; and Joint Ventures under PTTEP operational control. Joint Venture companies not under PTTEP control are encouraged to adopt similar standards. Sustainable Development Guideline Component y r Societ de Strategy Develop Human Righ Wi Socia n Risk a l Imp Cor Sta ts d Cri por keh old act M sis M ate ment Bus Cor er Go por Eng anag anag ver ine Bus na ate age ss E emen Our Citi emnt t urity nmen me nce zen , Sec Enviro nt t ship Gree n Tec and Safety h and Healt iness hnolo Phil gy ant s hro thic py E) (SSH Green Supply Ch ain ital Human Cap ement ntractors Manag ing Suppliers and Co Decomission ent em ana losure t g emen M isc anag ge t paren te M d-U se led emen tD Trans Was nage anag P) Kno an dL M w ent an Env ment pac t and E sity iron al Im (PR ogy ver m ted R ment ess chn nment Bi odi to the isk M Env i r o n tion P r oc ol Te ro a iza nvi Energy Efficiency ase nge a l Rele r Rela Re Climate Cha ject The Wate Pro E PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 21 22 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE PTTEP believes that conducting its business guided by rigorous good corporate governance and business ethics along with comprehensive risk management framework, are vital for generating the ultimate success of its operations both efficiently and sustainably. Further details on board composition, qualification, performance and ownership structure are disclosed in our annual reports or PTTEPûs website. Our Board of Directors PTTEP has a mechanism to ensure the effectiveness of the Board of Directors through a nomination process, limitation on other mandate, Board of Directors meetings requirements and evaluation of the Boardûs performance. PTTEP believes that diversity of the Board of Directors will provide creativity and different perspectives to ensure a comprehensive and balanced direction. PTTEP has multiple requirements to ensure diversity of the Board of Directors that is used for consideration in the nomination process including a requirement for diversity of skill, experience and background; a requirement that half of the Board of Directors be independent directors; and a requirement that at least three directors are from private sector. As the Director poses great power and great responsibility, PTTEP limits the number of listed companies in which its Directors can serve as either directors or management to not more than five companies. In addition the attendance of the Board of Directors is required to be publicly available while the Directors who are absent from three consecutive meetings without due reason are implicitly expressing their wish not to remain Directors. PTTEP employs three methods of performance evaluations that are individual self-assessment, cross-assessment for individuals, and the entire Boardûs assessment. The performance is assessed against the performance assessment forms. In addition, all sub-committees are evaluated by both the committee member themselves and other directors as well. The Chairmenûs performance is also assessed by all directors. These assessments are conducted using the evaluation forms defined by the Nominating Committee. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 23 External Participation PTTEP participates in the Board of the Year Initiative of the Thai Institute of Directors Association (Thai IOD) in collaboration with six leading private sector organizations, namely the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET), the Board of Trade of Thailand, the Federation of Thai Industries, the Thai Bankersû Association, the Thai Listed Companies Association, and the Federation of Thai Capital Market Organizations. The objective is to evaluate efficiency and effectiveness along with commitment to transparency and to the interests of all stakeholders in line with Corporate Governance best practice. Enterprise Risk Management PTTEP effectively manages business, environmental and social risks through our three Lines-of-Defense and to protect our business and stakeholder values. PTTEP employs the ç3 lines of defenceé concept in its risk management oversight. The frontline management and staff, as the 1st line of defence, are directly responsible for managing risks. A dedicated risk management department was established, as the 2nd line of defence, to ensure risk management implementation and its quality. Internal Audit, as the 3rd line of defence, provides an independent assurance on the risk management activities implemented. 1st Line of Defence: 2nd Line of Defence: 3rd Line of Defence: ë All PTTEPûs business unit ë Committees and functions that provide ë Internal Audit management an oversight of the effective operation ë Provide independent assurance to board ë Fully responsible for risk mangement and and risk management and internal control and senior mangement on the internal control ë Responsible for drafting policies, manual, effectiveness of risk management and ë Have the best knowledge on the situation and procedures, provide implementation internal control system implemented by and are best positioned to identify, guidance and directions and ensure the 1st and 2nd lines assess, timely mitigate, monitor and the proper execution report risks 24 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Strategy and Policies Identity Report Risk Analyse Management Process Monitor Manage People, Change Management Technology & and Reward Information Infrastructure Culture and Behaviour PTTEPûs Risk Management Framework In addition to such 3 lines, PTTEP Risk Management Committee (RMC), consisting of 3 independent directors and the CEO, oversee the risk management implementation and culture cultivation. The Committee has established the Risk Management Policy, which exhibits PTTEP aspirations to (1) Safeguard all persons and protect the environment and communities where we operate; (2) Instill risk management in our day-to-day operation to ensure that all key risks impacting our business will be identified, assessed, and properly managed. Our risk management approach is based on ISO31000, a widely-accepted risk management standard. We apply such approach at all levels, including the corporate level, business unit level, key project and investment level, and business process level. Regular risk monitoring through Key Risk Indicators (KRI), an early warning signal, enables us elevate risk to management and respond swiftly to minimize the impact or even prevent the risk from materializing. At PTTEP, key risks are monitored and reported to our Management Committee, Operational Risk Committee, and the RMC on a regular basis. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 25 Business Ethics and Compliance Our people must adhere to the Good Corporate Governance and Business Ethics of PTTEP as the highest standard of practice and we expect equivalent conduct from our business partners. The bribing and corruption of private or public persons to obtain business advantage is a serious negative impact on the economic and political progress of the societies. Transparency is another key business ethic area, both transparency of political engagement and financial contributions. Our Business Ethics define our commitment to appropriate and ethical corporate practices. It provides the business principles in 13 main areas consisting of Respecting the Law and Political Neutrality; Internal Control; Human Resources; Confidentiality; Disclosure of Information; Use of Inside Information; Conflicts of Interest; Procurement and Contracts; Gifts, Entertainment, and Anti-Corruption; Accounting and Finance; Use of Information Technology and Telecommunications; Safety, Security, Health and Environment; and Corporate Social Responsibility. It is based on principles for Listed Companies in the Stock Exchange of Thailand of 2006 and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Principles of Corporate Governance since 2004. The business ethics are covered in Good Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Handbook which is publicly available on PTTEPûs website. Directors, managements and employees of PTTEP and subsidiaries are expected to comply with the Business Ethics. In addition, all contractors of PTTEP will be informed of our business ethics and we expect to work with a company with the same or equivalent standards. Corporate secretary office is responsible for maintenance of the business ethics those will be reviewed annually to ensure that emerging issues and risks are covered in the business ethics. All directors and employees are required to read and sign as an acknowledgement to comply and orientation and refresher trainings are provided for new and current employees which receiving business ethics training is also one of the conditions for employee promotion. In 2011 the standard CG course was adjusted to a half-day class Employees completed CG Training to accommodate shorter training hours. However, in 2012, PTTEP (persons per year) rolled back the standard course to a full-day class. In addition, 300 8 8 9 250 142 7 variety of complimentary CG courses are designed to match 200 4 different needs of employees, for example, induction class for 145 5 150 100 65 3 new employees, E-learning class designed for employees 128 1 50 52 97 revisiting the CG course, Management class for newly appointed 0 0 2010 2011 2012 executives, and CG visit a hand-on practical class.† PTTEP tracked Male Female Average and recorded these training hours for internally use and only (hrs/person) report the standard training hours in this sustainability report. 26 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Anti-bribery and Corruption Conflict of interest and anti-bribery and corruption are some of the areas of focus which we include as requirements in our business ethics, consideration for Board of Director nomination, training and annual submission of Conflicts of Interest Disclosure Form and Assets or Other Benefits Acceptance Form (if any). Failure to comply with the Business Ethics is considered as a serious breach of PTTEPûs policy and will be investigated, recorded and reported. It may result in disciplinary action, based on the degree of potential impacts. The Business Ethics is supported by PTTEPûs Whistleblower Policy. Our CG Hotline is the open channel to report instances of non-compliance and questionable conduct. PTTEP invites a neutral external party to undertake assessment every three years for transparency and discloses the findings to its shareholders and stakeholders. In 2012, four complaints received through CG hotlines are related with misconduct and unfair treatment. None of these cases involves discrimination, collective bargaining violation, child labor, forced labor, Human Rights. We have investigated and managed two cases to completion leaving two cases that are under investigation at the end of 2012. Details of these are disclosed both under 56-1 form and the Annual Report. To our knowledge, there was no corruptions, anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices cases filed against the Company either through our grievance mechanism or through external regulatory bodies. Transparency PTTEP is a neutral in political agenda and prohibited from supporting, either directly or indirectly to any political party or person. PTTEP share a belief that the prudent use of natural resource should be an important engine for sustainable economic growth that contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction. However, it has to be transparent to ensure that the wider society could be benefited from income from natural resource use. PTTEP, therefore recognizes that a public understanding of government revenues and expenditure over time could help public debate and inform choice of appropriate and realistic options for sustainable development. PTTEP publishes information of annual direct contributions to the Governments in countries we operate in our financial report. These payments include all material license payments, fees, royalties and taxes. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 27 Stakeholder Engagement As much as we strive to serve energy demand needed to propel the economic development, we take to heart that we will explore with responsibility. PTTEPûs business activities are no longer bounded by geographical limit of the country. Our expansion increase interactions with a wide range of stakeholders, for which we have potential impacts and benefits across our operation lifecycle. Our fast growth and increasing complexity of global issues also bring with them an array of intricate challenges. Not only that it is our nature to care for people and to always be open for collaboration; we also truly believe that the answer is all around us in people and ideas, that through a combination of vision, ability to learn and sheer perseverance › will turn into solution. These are the reason why we put in a lot of effort to listen to what stakeholders have to say and respond to their needs and wants through diverse communication channels for internal and external stakeholders. GOVERNMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES SHAREHOLDERS & REGULATORS AND WIDER SOCIETY AND CAPITAL OWNERS ë Energy policy position advisory and ë Public hearings ë Formal meetings: Annual discussions; Energy and Petroleum ë Seminars, conferences, lectures at shareholdersû meeting, quarterly associations; industry groups; universities webcasts with shareholder advisory councils; ë CSR activities participation, dialogue with analysts ë Public hearings ë External evaluations/assessments ë Investor relations: Telephone/ ë Seminars/conferences ë Site visits, community visits e-mail consultations, conferences, ë Information sharing/meetings ë Partnerships, sponsorships Investor meetings ë Responses to surveys ë Activities through Petroleum ë Website postings associations ë Speech with stock market ë CG hotlines; surveys; research; focus institutions, Credit rating meetings groups; websites; publications ë Concerns and Expectations ë Environmental Impact ë Returns on investment ë Tax Management ë Sustainable Growth ë Regulatory requirement ë Community Development ë Good Governance ë Effective Issue Management PTTEPûs 2012 Responses Undergo operational activities in Respect the rights and interests performance for shareholders by compliance with local regulations. of the communities by listening to acquiring, developing and operating Fulfil tax paying duty and obligation them, understanding their needs and assets efficiently. Growing reserves to deliver energy security to host managing the environmental, economic and value-creating ventures sustainably. countries while endorsing transparency and social impacts of our activities. principles. For details, read about our For details, read about our For details, read about our ë ESHIA and Green Practice ë SD-SSHE Workplan Growth strategy ë Corporate Governance ë Green Practices Roadmap ë CSR Programs Deliver outstanding financial 28 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 We focus our engagement efforts on groups and individuals directly Keys impacted by, or who have a direct impact on, our operations. Stakeholders Ways of engaging with our stakeholders External stakeholders help us identify issues most material to our Key issues of interest for our business operations. Integrating societyûs multi-facets feedbacks allow stakeholders us to better align our financial, social, and environmental goals with the Our 2012 response/Objectives priorities of wider society, and improving our operations to do our part for 2013 in tackling those challenges. We commit to continually expand communication channels, reinforcing our ability to respond to stakeholder feedback. SUPPLIERS, CONTRACTORS EMPLOYEES NGOS, INDUSTRY AND PARTNERS ASSOCIATION AND MEDIA ë Technical exchange meetings ë Internal communications: ë Memberships: TBCSD, SPE, Thailand ë Occupational Risk Evaluation forum newsletters, events, intranet, Productivity Institute (FTPI), IPIECA ë Safety and health educations/ ë Meetings: meeting with CEOs SHAWPAT trainings ë Grievance, Employee Suggestion ë Active Engagement throughout the ë SSHE-Emergency Response Training box, CG help desk, Whistleblower year: OGP, CDP, TEI, PTIT, OSRL/ ë Green-procurement System ë Surveys: Employee Engagment IESG, Royal Thai Navy (Security), ë Site visits, associations, joint projects Port Authority, ë Business Directions and ë Career Management Program ë Climate Change/GHG Collaboration ë Security, Safety and Health ë Process Safety/Spill ë Safety, Security, Health and ë Compensation and Benefit ë Human Rights and Diversity Environment ë Oil and gas Industry challenges ë Eco Efficiency ë Water footprint ë Emergency Response Plan ë Biodiversity Respect the rights and interests of Workplace for our people by valuing Understand and Respect their concern. our business partners, by working their contribution, encouraging personal Work in partnership to mitigate collaboratively to create safe, valued development, recognising good industry wide sustainability issues. and rewarding partnerships. performance and fostering equal Deliver relevant solution and leading opportunity. performance in respond to those issues both today and into the future. For details, read about our ë Career Ladder and Talent ë Energy Challenge ë Supplierûs Code of Ethics Management Program ë Climate Strategy, Green Practices ë Green Procurement ë Employee Engagement ë Greening the Supply Chain ë Strategic Supplier Program ë Step Change in SSHE Create safe, creative, and rewarding PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 29 Our Green Practice A cornerstone of sustainability is a strong environmental performance. PTTEPûs approach to managing its environmental impacts concentrates on eco-efficiency and an aspiration of zero harm to the environment. PTTEPûs sustainable development framework consists of three aspects: business, social and environmental. çGreen Practiceé is the sustainability strategy for the environmental aspect as it emphasizes on environmental, social and governance excellence. Green Practice for PTTEP is aimed at mitigating environmental impacts from our operations, lowering our ecological, carbon and water footprints, increasing biodiversity, as well as creating value added processes to our business. Green Practice is designed to take into account both the value added processes to business operations such as decreasing operating costs, increasing operating efficiency, and enforcing PTTEPûs reputation, and the ways it could protect the environment and society from our business operations such as mitigating environmental impacts in operating areas; decreasing greenhouse gas emissions; increasing the efficiency of natural resource usages; and decreasing wastes being discharged from our operations into the environment and society. It is also considered as a çlicense to operateé since Green Practice ensures that we strive for eco-friendly operations. Greenhouse Gas Reductions Energy Efficiency Green in Operations Technology Green Supply Chain-Green Biodiversity Procurement, Green Logistics, and Land-use Green IT Environmental Impact and Management System Water Management Waste Management Decommissioning Management 30 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 RESPONSIBLE OPERATION PTTEP is committed to operating responsibly through environmental stewardship to mitigate potential impacts to the environment throughout business decision-making and management.† We have in place our Safety, Security, Health and Environmental (SSHE) Policy and Management System in which our environmental management system (EMS) complies with the international standard ISO 14001 certification. To ensure that our environmental impacts are mitigated and managed, the ISO 14001 system is implemented and certified for all domestic operating assets, most of which are ISO 14001 certified except for Greater Bongkot South Project (which was commissioned in 2012 and the ISO 14001 system is being put in place and expected to certify in 2014). PTTEP Safety, Security, Health and Environmental (SSHE) Policy is publicly available on PTTEPûs website. Our Green Practice program is one of the areas in our Sustainable Development Roadmap focusing on driving environmental related performance and initiatives. Together with SSHE MS, those two form a backbone for environmental 3 Consecutive years reduction in hydrocarbon and chemical spill rate management at PTTEP. Operational Eco-efficiency Striving to improve the environmental performance of our processes and operations is not only necessary to secure a license to operate but also to create sustainable economic value 100% Produced Water Reinjection through increased resource utilization efficiency. in our domestic assets Energy Efficiency Most of the energy we use in our operations is generated from the hydrocarbons we produce, mainly natural gas. Energy consumption is one of the indicators that PTTEP is tracking in order to find opportunities to lower environmental emissions that could help to reduce operating costs and additional productions. 5% improving in energy efficiency In addition, PTTEP has conducted benchmarking with peers in by 2020 the exploration and production industry through the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) to understand our position. PTTEP has set an energy efficiency improvement target of 5 percent by 2020. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 31 In 2012, energy consumption increased from 18.9 to 20.4 MGJ, a nine percent increase due to the commencement of production at Greater Bongkot South (GBS). On a short note, we are also improving our energy calculation methodology by using more specific-to-source parameters to be more precise in our data reporting. In addition, we have a plan in place to initiate energy consumption reduction throughout the company. We plan to conduct energy efficiency review according to the ISO 50001 at Greater Bongkot North (GBN), Arthit and PTTEPAA to define opportunities for energy efficiency improvement. Also, programs to increase PTTEP staffsû awareness of energy efficiency in their day-to-day operations via the implementation of Green Meeting and Green Training that will be launched from the Head Office. Additional reduction will be derived from the Green Procurement Program. Reducing Air Emissions Continuous flaring is a major source of air emissions from oil and gas production as it contains carbondioxide along with nitrogen oxides, sulfuroxide, non-methane volatile organic compounds Hydrocarbon Flare (NMVOCs) into the atmosphere. PTTEPûs approach to mitigate and adapt to climate change is to ensure that zero continuous 1.20 90 flaring in new significant impact operations is adopted and to Flared Gas Intensity 77.19 80 1.00 explore opportunity and economic feasibility to reduce flaring in Flared Gas (million tonnes) 59.94 70 0.80 60 existing operating assets in Thailand. 41.88 50 0.60 (tonnes per million tonnes production) 40 0.40 30 During 2012 our flared gas intensity increased to 84 percent to 20 77 tonnes per thousand tonnes production. Total hydrocarbon 0.20 0.74 0.48 1.02 10 flare was 1.02 million tonnes. 67 percent of this volume resulted 0.00 0 from a single newly commenced field. Vent data is not 2010 2011 2012 Hydrocarbon Flare Flared Gas Intensity specifically reported in 2012; however we will start to report this volume from 2013 onwards. 32 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Waste Management Reduction of wastes does not only reduce management time, Total weight of waste (tonne) costs and potential risks related with hazardous wastes, but also by type and disposal improve our operation efficiency. PTTEP tracks and manages operational waste streams with reduce, reuse, recycle and Hazardous Waste responsible disposal principle in mind. Majority of waste in Non-Hazardous Waste upstream operation are drilling mud and cutting waste which are 873 Reuse Recycle related to the amount of drilling activity, depth of well drilled, and 588 Incineration & Recovery 3% drilling technique. We have designed reusable drilling fluids which 96% 18,235 33,874 benefit both environment and economic objectives. Where Land fill feasible, slim-hole drilling is applied to reduce the volume of drill 1% 2011 2012 cuttings. Drilling fluids are seleted with waste minimization in mind. These waste minimization techniques are integrated into the drilling fluid system portion of the drilling plan. The quantity of onshore cutting waste is reported under hazardous waste management volume. We are enhancing our corporate database and will report this quantity in detail by 2013. Aside from drill cutting waste stream, PTTEPû activities disposes 34,747 tonnes of waste annually, of which 97 percent is hazardous waste.† While we experienced an increase in total waste generation, we identify and adopt reuse, recycle and recovery methods for hazardous waste management as much as possible. In 2012, 3 percent of our hazardous waste was managed through this route. PTTEP has also implemented stringent requirements and assessments for waste treatment and for disposal contractors who comply with all regulations and requirements, and also in operating responsibly and sustainably. Mercury is one of the by-products resulting from production activities in the natural deposit mercury areas like the Gulf of Thailand. This waste stream is mainly categorized as wastewater, sludge, spent absorbents and PPE, most of them were disposed, through the Retort process where residue mercury is recovered for further industrial and commercial use. By doing so, we opted for a specialized operator in Germany. In 2012 we shipped 429 tonnes to this operator under the Basel Convention. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 33 Produced Water Management Produced water is the highest volume of liquid discharge that is naturally present in the reservoir and generated during the production of oil and gas when extracted from the ground. It contains hydrocarbon and trace elements specific to each reservoir. To reduce the risk of environmental contamination and manage regulatory compliance, PTTEP has achieved zero produced water discharged overboard for three consecutive years at all domestic assets through the reinjection technique, by reinjecting all produced water back into reservoirs. We vigorously improve the Produced Water Management Produced Water Management System infrastructure to facilitate reinjection from all wellheads. 6 100 percent reinjection of produced water was achieved at all 5 operating assets in the reporting year. Produced Water Quantity 4 Zero Produced Water Discharged Overboard 3 (Million m3) Zero produced water discharged overboard can be achieved by 2 the reinjection of produced water into the depleted petroleum 1 reservoirs. However, it is not as easy as it sounds, especially for 4.61 4.61 5.18 5.18 5.53 5.53 offshore platforms where there is limited available space for 0 2010 2011 2012 reinjection techniques. Therefore, in order to achieve this goal, Produced Water Produced Water Reinjected Generated PTTEP designed a state-of-the-art produced water reinjection *Note: Exclude quantity of produced water process for very limited areas. Although the trend of produced at Arthit North which has no production in 2012 water generated has continually been increasing in accordance with production volume, PTTEP can still sustain asset integrity to achieve the target of 100 percent produced water reinjection. This best practice of 100 percent produced water reinjection was confirmed as PTTEP received the Environmental Award from BG in 2011. 34 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Biodiversity 100% PTTEP aims at a net of our exploration drilling and production projects positive impact on conducted Biodiversity Study as a part of EIA Studies biodiversity Not only are biodiversity and ecosystem conservation major global issues, they are also essential issues for the exploration and production industry, which explores energy in remote areas, to take into consideration during business decision making processes. PTTEPûs approach towards biodiversity is to understand the biological conditions in the targeted areas as early as possible to allow us to make an informed decision, to avoid sensitive areas or initiate mitigation measures, with the ultimate goal of positive return on biodiversity. Integration of Biodiversity Action Plan Environmental Environmental Impact Assessment Management System Project Development Biodiversity Action Plan PTTEP is in the process of developing the Biodiversity Management Guidelines to enhance the existing Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures and Environmental Management Plan (EMP), which includes PTTEP mitigation and monitoring programs. It is intended to carry out a review of PTTEPûs operations and activities in order to identify challenges relating to biodiversity in the different business areas, including those where PTTEP does or could make a contribution to conserve biodiversity. The guidelines will also elaborate on the Biodiversity Management Plan that is aligned with PTTEPûs PREP Process (Project Realization Process which is a project management tool, covering the whole project life cycle) including EIA studies and EMP. The guidelines will be launched in 2013. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 35 All of the 11 new E&P activities commenced in 2012 underwent biodiversity risk assessment as part of the PTTEP EIA guideline. Prior to development, PTTEP conducts environmental assessments, engages local stakeholders, and identifies sensitive ecosystems to develop suitable mitigation plans. At the end of the year, PTTEPûs 6 onshore operating sites covering approximately 21,871 sq. km, of which two sites are adjacent to protected areas according to local regulation, including 46 sq. km of zone E and A national forest conservation areas in Khon Kaen (L21/48 Project); and 0.96 sq. km of national park in Lankrabue (S1 Project). L21/48 Project is in the seismic stage where impacts to habitats are minimal. At the S1 site, as PTTEP completed the construction of the production station, the rest of the area that is located in the National Park has been filled, shaped and returned to the DNP for further management. This area has undergone land reformation and was converted to agricultural area except for the land under S1 concession where the original National forest status remains unrevoked. PTTEP has maintained several measures to ensure minimal impacts and offsets as described in our original management plan. This includes monitoring of 2 IUCN Red list species which exist in the adjacent habitats. None of the monitoring results show significant negative impacts on biodiversity from E&P activities. Both of the species remain in stable state. As of 2012, PTTEP does not have any sites that require licensing of operations to undergo environmental rehabilitation. Wastewater was treated and discharged without any impacts to biodiversity. The PTTEP biodiversity management guideline also applies to all operating sites whether or not the law requires it. Thaninthayi area located in Myanmar is another example of where PTTEP environmental mitigation and monitoring program was in effect last year. Significant areas of conserved rainforest were voluntarily monitored and managed. Location and size of land owned, leased or managed within or adjacent to protected areas or areas with a high level of biodiversity lying outside protected areas are shown on the adjacent page. 36 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 LKU Production Station, S1 asset L21/48 Onshore block Lankrabue, Kamphaengphet Khon Kaen and Udonthani Activities: Production Station, Pipelines, Office Activities: 2D-Seismic Petroleum Exploration Concession Size: 1,326 sq. km. Total Project Size: 826 sq. km. Overlapped area: 0.96 sq. km. Overlapped area: 46.36 sq. km. Adjacent Environment Location: Non Sa-ard district, Udonthani; Khao Suan Kwang, Nam pong and Surrounding Environment Muang districts, Khon Kaen Classification Nong Luang National Forest Classification National Forests: Samran, in 1982: in 1977: Ban Nayom, Ban Kut Duk, Current Nong Luang Forest underwent Huai Seo, Dong Mun, Land use: an agricultural land reformation except Pohsrisamran, and Tom Kha. for the area (0.96 sq. km.) which is still Management Ensure low impact to under PTTEPûs operation-the production Measures: agricultural areas. station. Compensation on crops in Management Ensure low impact to surrounding area. the Exploration route.† Measures: Maintain biodiversity monitoring study as of PTTEP EMP. Special 2 of IUCN Red List species Monitoring: For the S1 Project, the resulting environmental baseline studies concluded that there are a total of 10 fauna species that are Native to North of Thailand, Non-venomous registered as a protected species. Along with implementing Python and Mekong Snail-eating turtle, IUCN various mitigation measures to ensure low to no impacts to these Red List Species, co-habilitate in the rich sensitive species, we maintain close monitoring throughout our ecosystem around our S1 project since we project life by collecting data on mammals, wildlife and started activities in 1982. endangered species that may be seen in and around the project area related to their breeding habitat, and migration routes and provide to government and related to organization. Our monitoring survey on the two IUCN Red List species indicated that population of those two species is not declined and even increasing. Species NonMekong Black-winged Shikra Python Water monitor Monocled cobra Cattle egret Small Asian Yellowvenomous Snail-eating turtle kite (Elanus (Accipiter reticulates (Varanus (Naja (Bubulcus Mongoose spotted python (Python (Malayemys caeruleus) badius) (Asiatic salvator) kaouthia) ibis) (Herpestes keelback snake molurus) subtrijuga) reticulated javanicus) (Xenochrophis python) flavipunctatus) Significance Health and Population Size Protected species IUCN Red list Population stable-health and population remains at baseline level at project started. None of our operations located in Ramsar Site PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 37 Climate Strategy Climate change is a global issue requiring significant resources to meet complex energy, environmental, economic and political challenges. We are aware of the challenges associated with climate change and of our responsibility as a good global citizen 100% of our operating assets to help in reducing global emission levels and prepare ourselves covered in climate risk for the changing physical and regulatory landscapes. assessment Climate Change Risks Assessment We understand that climate change presents both risks and opportunities to the organization, our investors and stakeholders. Understanding of climate change implication is marked as the first and foremost step to be undertaken through climate change risk assessment for financial, regulatory and physical aspects. Such instruments to address risks and facilitate adaptation to 20% reduction of greenhouse climate change include tax based incentives, public concerns, gas from business legislation and policies, and research into national and regional as usual by 2020 strategies. is targeted PTTEP has operations in various countries. Some are subject, at a national level, to emission caps associated with the Kyoto Protocol. Although regulations concerning climate change are still developing, we do consider climate change risks and financial implications of operating in carbon-constrained countries. Our risk profile indicates the company is not yet exposed to significant climate change related risks. Nevertheless, PTTEP is further developing climate change strategy to be more in-depth and concrete in addressing risk in potential GHG reduction and financial opportunities. 38 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Areas being assessed for climate change risk While domestic operational emissions would not be subjected to direct regulation in the foreseeable future, we may experience increased costs if direct carbon taxes or mandatory emission caps are imposed. For these reasons, we remain committed to managing climate change risks and direct opportunities to improve the energy and carbon footprint of our production, business process and activities. In addition, PTTEP considers climate change as one of the companyûs environmental management focus as we believe climate change is real and PTTEP, as a good global citizen, should contribute to the fight against climate change for the benefit of mankind and nature. Fight against Climate Change PTTEP recognizes that we have an important role to play in reducing ourown contribution to climate change through a reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions associated with operations as stated in our SD Guideline. PTTEP has been collecting greenhouse gas data in systematic apporach. In 2011, we introduced accounting and reporting processes and conducted a gap analysis against ISO 14064-1. In 2012, the process requirements are being implemented in all domestic assets with a plan to expand to overseas assets in the future. In 2012, we defined our greenhouse gas reduction target to be at least 20 percent from business as usual by 2020. Climate change is one of the aspects in PTTEPûs Green Practice initiative that is included in our SD Roadmap. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 39 PTTEP has two approaches for carbon footprint reduction namely greenhouse gas reduction at sources, i.e. flare reduction and energy efficiency improvement; and greenhouse gas removal by reforestation at 200,000 Rais by the year 2020. PTTEP has set a short term and long term GHG targets of 3 percent reduction by 2013 and 20 percent reduction by 2020 from business as usual. GHG Emission Greenhouse Gas Emission GHG Intensity GHG Emission (million tonnes CO2e) 5.0 4.5 400 337 350 The total GHG emission trend in 2012 has increased 4.0 279 300 61.17 percent from 2011 (especially Scope 1 3.5 239 emission) because of increase in flare gas emissions 3.0 250 2.5 158 159 200 from the Greater Bongkot South project. The GBS (tonnes per thousand tonnes production) 2.0 150 1.5 project mainly consists of high CO2 fields that 100 1.0 3.428 2.751 4.432 produced copious amounts of CO2 upon production. 0.5 50 0.0 0 Breakdown of greenhouse gas emission is provided 2010 2011 2012 in Chapter 5 Performance Table. Total GHG PTTEP GHG Intensity OGP Average Emission From 2010 onwards, PTTEP has adopted and implemented reporting standards for exploration and production including IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions and API Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry 2009, as well as PTT Group GHG standard that was used to calculate GHG emission for all operations. 40 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Climate Strategy in Actions Energy Efficiency In 2012, the planning and development of the Heat Recovery Steam Generator Project was completed the project is to be implemented in 2013 at our S1 asset. This project is estimated to help reduce our greenhouse gas by 70,000 tonnes of carbondioxide equivalent (CO2e) per year and at the same time, reduce our operating cost for USD 0.3 million per year with the payback period of 7 years. Another outstanding and continuous endeavor of the PTTEP marine logistics operation during the past year was the implementation of çNew Marine Model Projectsé. This project aims at improving the as-is vessel management system to achieve a more holistic approach for all marine vessels in the Gulf of Thailand. The implementation of this initiative resulted in a reduction of chartering costs by USD 7 million per year and a reduction of fuel costs by USD 10 million per year or about 76,000 tonnes of carbondioxide equivalent (CO2e) per year. 2012 Direct Energy Consumption Total Energy Intensity (GJ per tonne production) Energy Consumption and Intensity by Primary Source Total Energy Consumption (Million GJ) 1.65 1.64 21.5 0.5% 21.0 1.60 20.5 Stationary 1.55 20.0 13.9% Combustion-Fuel Gas 1.55 1.57 1.52 19.5 Stationary 1.50 19.0 Combustion-Diesel 1.47 18.5 1.45 Mobile 18.7 18.9 20.4 18.0 85.6% Combustion Diesel/Gasoline 1.40 17.5 2010 2011 2012 Total Energy PTTEP Energy Intensity OGP Average Consumption Flare Gas Reduction PTTEP aims to reduce continuous flaring as much as possible through flare minimization initiatives and zero continuous flare for new operating asset. In addition, flare gas reduction guideline will be issued in 2013. Sao-Thien A Oil Field Flare Gas Recovery and Utilization Project in Sukhothai, Thailand This project is the development of recovering and utilizing the associated gas emitted from oil wells at Sao-Thien A oil field. In the absence of the proposed project, the associated gas would have been flared resulting in the release of GHG to the atmosphere. Our Sao-Thien GHG reduction project is currently under registration with CDM Executive Board. The project is estimated to reduce approximately 200,000 tonnes CO2e within its lifetime of 8 years. STN-A produces approximately 1.05 MMscfd of the associated gas as a byproduct of crude oil production. Using the CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) approach as a basis for operation is making the project economically flexible. Starting in January 2012, the project has been operated by utilizing the associated gas PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 41 that would otherwise be flared. Then, associated gas is separated from the oil and flows through a fuel gas skid system for liquid removal prior to gas filter. Average of 0.8 MMscfd of recovered gas is supplied to the Rachaburi Power Plant for power generation before distributing to the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) Grid. Meanwhile, approximately 0.25 MMscfd of flare gas is utilized as on site consumption. Delivered Value In 2012, the project recovered approximately 200 MMscf per year of flare gas, equivalent to 18,000 tonnes CO2e. Flaring Minimization in Australia We have committed to minimize flaring associated with our operations by flaring only when required for safety reasons or during short periods of maintenance. PTTEP believes it is crucial that we build environmental considerations into the design and operations of our new facilities.† In planning for Montara production, we developed Flaring Minimization Procedure in 2012. 42 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Reforestation PTTEP targets to reforest and maintain 50,000 Rais (8,000 hectares) annually for the next 4 years summing up to 200,000 Rais (32,000 hectares) of healthy forest by the end of 2020. 2008 32,720 Rais 2009 3,000 Rais 2010-2012 Maintaining Period of the Reforestation Areas 2013 50,000 Rais 2014 50,000 Rais 2015 50,000 Rais 2016 50,000 Rais = 5,000 Rais PTTEP has initiated a reforestation project, namely tree planting, of over 32,720 Rais (5,235 hectares) in 2008 and 3,000 Rais (480 hectares) in 2009; this accounts for more than 30,000 tonnes of carbondioxide equivalent which is expected to be verified in 2013. Partnership with peers in the industry under the leadership of the Department of Natural Fuel Foundation, PTTEP completed its three-year Mangrove reforestation commitment in Chantaburi province, planting and maintaining 746 Rais (119 hectares) of mangrove forest during 2009-2012. Once deteriorated from pollution, the rehabilitated Weru River mangrove now provides rich and secured sanctuary for marine larvae contributing to our low carbon initiative as well as coastal habitat conservation. For the rest of the 2020 greenhouse gas roadmap, PTTEP plans to reforest 50,000 Rais (8,000 hectares) annually for four consecutive years, with plans to maintain a healthy 200,000 Rais (32,000 hectares) accumulation until the end of 2020. The total area planted will sum up to 235,720 Rais (37,715 hectares). To read more about our Carbon Disclosure Project, visit our CDP response. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 43 Promoting Climate Change Awareness and Low Carbon Technology Development PTTEP also gives priority to building awareness of climate change amongst our employees and not just limited to operating assets. We introduced 67 Hybrid cars for company carpool and management transport. This campaign commenced in October 2011. After implementation, the average ratio of distance travelled per fuel unit consumed of the new car fleet is 11 kilometer per liter which is 35 percent higher when compared to 8.12 kilometer per liter before implementing the campaign. As a result, the total fuel saving is approximately 60,000 liters of gasohol (Gasoline with 10 percent ethanol) per year which accounts to 135 tonnes of carbondioxide equivalent reduction and a saving of USD 80,000. (*Source: www.epa.gov/climate leaders) We also realize the importance of, and invest in research and development of low-carbon technologies. Investing in these areas early has put us on an economically sensible path to meeting our long term climate change objectives. Instead of waiting for game-changing breakthroughs to emerge from laboratories to market, we invest in the acceleration and development of those technologies with greatest potential. Not only will this allow us to avoid a situation where we invest in the wrong technologies, which we then must scrap, it focuses our research and engineering capabilities on industries of the future which offer longer term prosperity. Green Technology Support and Monitor 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018+ Carbon Capture and Storage CO2 Recycle and Conversion Offshore Wind and Marine Energy Solar Power Feasibility Study Pilot Project Detail Design Implementation 44 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Integrated Water Management Exploration and production is not a typically a large water consumer when comparing to food processing or agriculture. WBCSD/ However, water related risks are increasingly identified in the recent period and it is closely related with climate change and potential water conflicts between industry, agricultural and IPIECA Global Water Tool for communities. Oil and Gas is adopted to assess our exposure With this awareness, PTTEP have developed a water of water related risks management programs including identification of assets in water-stressed areas, water footprint established, water consumption reduction program and prevention of water conflicts with stakeholders. Through our assessment, three out of forty four projects that we operate are located in regions with water stress potential, namely Oman and Algeria. Priority was given to apply intensive water management practices to mitigate the impacts in these areas by minimizing water withdrawal and efficiently reuse it. Whenever economically feasible, alternative sources of water such as saline groundwater are selected to ensure balanced needs of the communities, ecology and our business. The three assets aforementioned withdraw about 100-309 m3 per day on average from local water source, a rate at which their consumption is not considered significant withdrawal. Domestically, our onshore assets acquire fresh water from tap and groundwater, while our offshore facilities use desalinating units to convert seawater to freshwater. Data on water withdrawal for oil and gas production of each asset is regularly reported to the Corporate SSHE in accordance with our procedure on environmental performance reporting. In 2012, we withdrew about 69.9 mega cubic meters of fresh water in our assets. The increase from 2011 was related to seawater withdrawal for water utilities, water maker (desalinating units) and commissioning of water-based firefighting system at Greater Bongkot South. Water management initiatives were conducted in 2012 by minimizing tap water usage in every site. In addition, total tap water supply decreased by 16 percent in 2012. PTTEP currently conducts water stress mapping by using the WBCSD Global Water Tool for Oil and Gas in all PTTEP operating assets to construct a water risk portfolio. Water related risk assessment is expected to be conducted in 2013 with organizational water footprint assessment targeted to be completed next in line by 2014. Total Water Withdrawal (m3) 2012 Water withdrawal by source (m3) (excludes once through cooling water) Volume of once through Cooling water 3 70 Water Withdrawal (Million m3) 68 2.5 68 14% 2 1% 65 66 1.5 63 1.51 1.77 (Million m3) 64 1 0.81 0.81 million 0.5 62 85% 0.30 0.31 0.25 0 60 2010 2011 2012 Once Through Water Supply Ground Water Sea Water Water Supply Ground Water Sea Water cooling water PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 45 Supply Chain Management As the Company set sails into global expansion, we have developed a number of partnerships with oil and gas companies, service companies, and contractors to escalate technical capabilities and initiate access to the regions in which we have never operated before. Our procurement established business relationships with over 4,194 active suppliers, broken down to 3,337 domestic and 857 international companies. Embark on Sustainability Journey Green supply chain consists of green procurement, green logistics and green IT with objectives to promote procurement of environmentally friendly products, enhance information technology, facility management and logistics management to reduce energy consumption resulting in a lower carbon footprint. Environmental Social and Governance policy with reinforced Human Rights and Diversity inclusion focus will also be in the picture. In 2012, we enhanced our supply chain management approach with a vision to establish positive social and environmental footprint in the value chain. Our people contributed from various angles from Supply Chain Management to formally stating our position against Human Rights abuse through a supplier contracts clause, initiating of a SD taskforce to develop a Green Supply Chain through the Green Procurement roadmap. We conferred with TBCSD and TEI to get our vision off the ground. Our strategy for prompting contractors and suppliers to address sustainability issues includes: ë Open-Equal opportunity Vendor E-Registration. Increase efficiency in sourcing for both candidates and the company. We ensure equal opportunity, transparency and fairness of the process by providing access on the internet where candidates and suppliers can complete a self-assessment questionnaire to help us identify performance risks. Visit our Supplier management system at pttep.com/vendorportal ë Pre-Qualification assessments on top of technical competency and commercial fit, assessing candidates on sustainability risks, and commitment to ethics, social and environmental responsibility helps us select a partner and prioritize on how we engage with suppliers through our supply chain Pre-Qualification program. 713 new vendors underwent pre-qualification assessment in 2012 including SSHE pre-qualification audits for new vendors. In 2012, we carried out a SSHE pre-qualification audit for 22 new vendors. ë Capability building Through the Expediting Manual, we help suppliers to get up to speed faster. Further technical forum and partnerships with training partners, governmental organizations and suppliers, we facilitate knowledge management and work to improve people and process safety performance throughout the supply chain. Behavioral based Safety Training for contractors is scheduled for 2013. Read our SSHE Forum case for more information. ë Measuring performance Our Contract Holder Audit Program and supply chain performance measurements help suppliers to discover issues and opportunities. This process encourages suppliers to improve sustainability performance by identifying target areas of concern effectively. Suppliers with high-risk activities work closely with PTTEP through daily morning meetings and third party assurance program. At the end of the contract, individual suppliers and contractors receive a Performance Appraisal. This is to ensure performing venders remain in the list of preferred vendors for future contracts. 46 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 ë Stakeholder engagement We engage with our suppliers to understand and respond to issues of concern regarding supply chain sustainability through various communication channels, vendor relationship management activities and annual SSHE contractor forum. See our Stakeholder Engagement page for more information. A journey towards a greener supply chain has just begun. We will continue to monitor the emergence of new issues and consider how best we can contribute to a positive change in our value chain. 62% Our suppliers and contractors are bound to PTTEP Good Corporate Governance and Business Ethics, which is founded on the of contracts incorporate principles of the UN Global Compact, UN Human Rights Clauses Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization. We stress the importance of Human Rights protection by including clauses underlining our position in contracts. All standard contracts issued from 24 August 2011 have a clause endorsing 397 Human Rights. By the end of 2012, we have signed a total of 397 new contracts with such clause out of a total of 636 contracts. The of our 636 contracts additional training curriculum was prepared are updated to reflect relevant to staffûs responsibility in managing our Human Rights Human Rights in supply chain. commitment Through Supply Chain Plus, we derived 6.95 percent savings, worth USD 110.5 million in 2012 and totaling USD 324.4 million, exceeding our planned savings at USD 300 million when we initiated the program in 2009. Recent strategic supply chain management successes includes: ë Supply boat logistic plan optimization rendered a 33 percent reduction in costs. ë Implementation of çOil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) Pipe Managementé, a consignment inventory system with a local services company resulted in USD 253,333 savings. ë Improved material inventory management through the new Material and Equipment Standards and Codes (MESC). ë Low-cost Country Purchase program from China and domestic procurement. One contract sourcing from a new supplier from China procurement saved us USD 4 million. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 47 ë Developing the corporate procurement standardization and global procurement contract strategy to gain competitive price, reduce risks and progress to lean management. ë In 2012, the wellhead platform standardization design and bundled phases long-term contract with local contractor alone yielded USD 111 million savings over the 4 year project, with added benefit of 16 months quicker on the EPCI tendering process. Despite the successes, our endeavor goes on. We commit to deliver sustainable supply chain, improve returns on the bottom line, as well as increase alternative sourcing to expand the pool of qualified vendors local and international. 2013 challenges are foreseeable but we will strive through all difficulties to achieve these objectives. >2,949 $1.5 BILLIONS 250 preferred Contracts awarded spending contractors we shared to our suppliers and in Thailand direction and contractors commitment through annual forum Standards we expected In addition to the fundamental Technical, Commercial and SSHE qualifications, we expect our suppliers and contractors to achieve and maintain high standards throughout the value chain. We ask them particularly to regard to the following: Ethics and Behave professionally, ethically, transparently and with Anti-Corruption integrity and fairness. Social Maintain high standards in the labor practices, respect diversity, Practices treat people equally, and contribution to society. Recognize their role in reducing environmental impacts Environmental and play their part in seeking to achieve best practices in Responsibility environmental protection. Local Content Encourage policy contributing to local development by local Practice sourcing of materials and services and supporting the development and employment of local workforce. For further information, please visit PTTEP/ethics for our çGood Corporate Governance & Business Ethicé 48 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 In 2012, we suspended 22 contractors due to their performance falling below expected competency. None of them were suspended on ESG violation. Safety, Security, Health and Environment (SSHE) Collaboration with Contractors Safety at work is a top priority for our industry at all times. By stating so, we mean for everyone on our site. Contractor workforce comprises 75 percent of our operations and their safety practices and performance pose significant impacts to PTTEPûs. We have made it clear through communicating our Lost Time Injury (LTI) Free commitment to our contractors and suppliers, including SSHE clauses in the contract terms and conditions and emphasizing on integrating contractorsû performance to represent overall PTTEPûs SSHE KPIs. Aside from regular risk assessment and SSHE contractor management trainings, a series of SSHE Contractor Forums have been arranged to share knowledge and learning among our Top-Spending-Contractor network. Each year we recognize best performers showcasing excellent practices in LTI, Hydrocarbon and Chemical Spills, Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) target and the Transparency of Incident Reporting categories. We awarded 37 prizes in 2012. Since inception in 1999, copious use of best practices, cases and initiatives have been shared. This awareness and collaboration constitutes our Behavioral Based Safety (BBS) culture, rewarding us back with 5 times decrease in Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF). At the end of 2012, contractor LTIF was 45 percent reduction from previous year a rate directly contributing to PTTEPûs exceptional performance. Jointly committing to the last phase of our LTI Free challenge by 2013, PTTEP and its contractors have signed up to the Step Change in SSHE program since 2011. Our plan next year includes extending SSHE MS audit coverage to contractors in four high SSHE risks disciplines, i.e. Logistics, Drilling, Maintenance and Construction. In 2013, we have a plan to conduct BBS training for contractors as a train-the-trainer program. Journey on SSHE is publicly available on PTTEPûs website Do you know? PTTEP SSHE Audit Plan 20,272,483 Man-hours of work covers all safety, security, health and environmental aspects e.g. SSHE MS gap analysis, ISO 14001 and OHSAS in exploration and production 18001 internal audits, Operational activities each year Technical Review (OTR), and security audits, etc. 100% of operation covered by 26 SSHE Corporate Audits PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 49 Contribution to Local Economic Growth Being a National oil company, we always prioritize the importance of contributing to the local countryûs economic growth and $732 Local Procurement millions creating human competency to propel development. Everywhere we operate, we contribute to national wealth creation in many forms from employment, GDP benefits, tax and payment to Spending governments and local content practice. While our procurement policy adheres to fairness, integrity and transparency, we promote procurement of local products and services in certain categories we perceive in-country capacities such as manpower, 53% of Total Spending seismic vessel/drill ship, air transportation fleet, and platform construction. USD 732 million or 53 percent of our 2012ûs procurement expense was awarded to 2020 national suppliers, from which further economy distribution was made. 732 In Thailand, we have seen our local spending increase 10 percent year on year since 2010. While the number of local candidates with capabilitiesto compete in the high technology arena is increasing, it is the nature of the oil and gas industry to keep With 10% increasing year on year raising the bar for technological advances and level of integrity. *as of 11 December 2012 Depending on the readiness and availability of technical workforce, we will strive for creating similar contributions in other countries we operate. We will continue to support and strengthen suppliersû competitiveness through collaborative operation workshops, capacity building programs, including educational funding programs in countries with limited pools of local candidates through our corporate citizenship policy. * suppliers and contractors are classified as çLocalé when they are listed in host companies of operation. The values reported here represent operations in Thailand only. To achieve our goal of growing business with green practice, we are developing the Green Procurement policy and guideline which will source more environmentally preferred products and demand optimized logistics in our value chain. This program, we believe, will champion more local content in our supplier bases. 50 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Bundled Phases Engineering Procurement Construction and Installation (EPCI) for Wellhead Platform Working with Nippon Steel to pilot our Bundled Phases sourcing strategy, we expedited our process by 16 months and saving USD 111.2 million For the 2010-2014 domestic expansion plan, PTTEP schedules the construction of approximately 8-10 wellhead platforms per year. To ensure the highest safety and integrity of the diversely designed assets, the procurement team decided to tender separately 3-4 wellhead platforms per phase, on a phase by phase basis with 6 phases in a roll. This EPCI tendering process normally last 5-6 months per phase which makes the process last 36 months to completion. On track to enhance operational excellence in our growth strategy, this process was re-engineered through the concepts of wellhead platform standardization and bundled phases contracting initiative. As we introduced the strategy combining 22 Wellhead Platform construction contracts needed during this four-year project at Bongkot and Arthit fields, Nippon Steel & Sumikin Engineering, bid and won the contracts with unique combination of technical capability, experiences and competitive price. Listed in Thailand, Nippon Steel shares our beliefs in hiring and building competency of local workforce. A year spearheading our strategy together the contractor proved to deliver exceptional standard of work, commitment and real value enhancing operation, skillset of local workforce and maintenance efficiency as well as reducing lead time and cost. The project, again, underpinned our confidence in competitive capabilities of our local contractors and suppliers where we will continue to promote further support in local procurement practices. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 51 52 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 OPTIMUM RETURNS ON CAPITAL PTTEP has a mission to operate globally to provide reliable energy supply and sustainable value to all stakeholders with a strong vision to become a leading Asian E&P company driven by technology and green practices. Our strategy is to balance three fundamental elements. Firstly, Production Growth: Under the current strategic plan, PTTEP has high confidence to increase production to 600,000 BOED by 2020 and has strong aspirations to achieve 900,000 BOED by 2020. Secondly, Sustainability of Petroleum Reserves: to ensure proved reserves life of at least 10 years and resources life of at least 40 years. Thirdly, PTTEP intends to retain Return of Capital Employed (ROCE) above industry average and maintain the current credit rating to sustain competitive performance. Growth Strategy In pursue of our aspiration to be a leading Asian exploration and production company defined by 900,000 barrels of oil equivalent production per day (900 KBOED) and reserve replacement ratio over 10 years, PTTEP defines our Growth Strategy in two approaches: Asset Value Maximization and Strategic Investment. Asset Value Maximization PTTEP intends to continuously maximize the value of our existing both domestic and international assets and accelerate the development of existing projects to be delivered as plan to meet the energy needed of the country. Vital to PTTEPûs sustainable growth, Exploration Assets increase both proven reserves and future production capacity. We ensure appropriate proportion of exploration projects, expediting high petroleum reserve potential fields to realize the Reserves Replacement Ratio, manage project risks and continuously seek Strategic Partner. In 2012, we have made the largest discovery through expediting 7 out of 9 wells at Algeriaûs Hassi Bir Rekaziz field (HBR), originally planned for late 2011 to early 2013 schedule. The sixth wellûs First-Exploration-Phase tested at 5,243 BOED and 5 MMscf of gas, the biggest find we ever made. The 1st to 5th wells are also confirmed with successful discovery of crude oil and we are waiting for the results of the 7th well at the end of the year. Proving successful, the HBR block is shaping up to be a key future producer. In the South East Asia region, we partner with Total E&P Myanmar and JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration (Myanmar) Limited in M11 joint venture projects in order to manage risks especially in deepwater exploration. The strategic partnership adds to our experiences, knowledge and technology sharing, as well as increases opportunities for future ventures. Development Assets: We focus on completing the development phase and initiating production according to plan in order to generate revenue to the company in the near future and promptly replenishing any declining production curve. This year we focused our efforts to restore PTTEP Australasiaûs capacity, mobilizing the Montara asset through development and execution of the Operational Efficiency action plan. PTTEP AA also sponsored a research and long-term environmental impact monitoring program in the Timor sea. The Myanmarûs Zawtika project construction is also progressing and the production is expected according to plan. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 53 Producing Assets: Focus on sustaining current productivity and enhance recovery. We logged another record breaking productivity at the S1 project, the countryûs largest onshore field. S1 gradually ramped up daily production from 20,000 barrels when it started back in 1985 to 22,000-27,000 barrels level last year and hit 35,000 in December 2012. In addition, Bongkot South delivered 320 MMscfd of gas and 9,000 BOED of condensate, raising the overall productivity of the Bongkot project to 900 MMscfd, a level single handedly fulfilling 20 percent of the countryûs natural gas demand. Additional boost up came from our international assets through a successful drilling campaign of Munhamir fieldûs development and Shams-E Southûs appraisal wells added up the overall production of Oman 44 Project from 1,500 BOED to 5,000 BOED, and also natural gas production at around 50 MMscfd. Further growth in our capacity will be achieved organically through to 2020 as we bring online significant new installations, providing us with the potential for almost doubling todays output. To achieve this we will continue to build strong and long lasting partnerships within the industry, with international governments and with communities to invest strategically in both new exploration acreage and through M&A adding on both Conventional and Unconventional reserves. Current operations, together with robust organic growth projections provides PTTEP with an enviable balance sheet and cash flow to fund M&A activity which is expected to further support the drive for a global market presence as the foundation to access next generation assets. Merger & Acquisitions Strategy We strive to grow and further extend our range of operations and their geographic accessibility. In addition to organic growth, we actively monitor opportunity to acquire profitable reserves in production phase that strengthen our businessûs capital flow and support our growth vision. Acquisitions are an important element of enhancing our ability to develop and increase the reserve replacement rate. To immediately realize proven reserve and production volume, recognize revenue and free up capital for future reinvestment, our M&A strategy focus on acquiring projects in the early production phase or development phase. We also target projects in the strategically important area with potential for major oil discovery to build up our Growth Platform e.g. in Myanmar, East Africa, and potential fields in Thailand with remaining concession below 10 years. Recent Strategic Achievements We finalized COVE acquisition whose estimated gas resources are up to 60 trillion cubic feet and an oil prospect in the blockûs Black Pearl structure. The acquisition gives us access to two significant gas discoveries in Mozambique, the Rovuma field and Area 1 field. PTTEP also gains access to seven Kenyan offshore blocks. This world class major gas field will serve as PTTEPûs critical building blocks to East African exploration, as well as an initiation of FLNG technology. In Myanmar, we won 2 exploration blocks in the PSC-G and EP2 onshore petroleum blocks. 54 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Operational Excellence Asset Reliability and Integrity Management Apart from SSHE MS, PTTEP Asset Reliability and Integrity Management (ARIM) is a key process to assure safe, predictable and sustainable production while managing integrity as a way to control the level of major incident risks. ARIM consists of 10 Elements, 13 Standards and 15 Guidelines to govern, manage, track & monitor, and continuously improve our People and Process to ensure that safety critical and production critical equipment (the Plant) is always operated within its design capability and performing within its intended function. The ARIM standard details the minimum responsibilities that Asset Owners shall achieve to comply with the Company Asset Reliability and Integrity Management (ARIM) Policy i.e. to demonstrate that the risks of functional failure to staff, third parties, physical assets, the environment and Company reputation are demonstrably maintained as low as reasonably practical (ALARP). Guidance to Asset Owners and practitioners on defining, implementing and maintaining an Asset Reliability and Integrity Management System that complies with the requirements of PTTEP is given in the ARIM Guideline and other ARIM related Standards and Guidelines as per the ARIM Document Hierarchy. Key Elements to Success Leadership Shared vision and consistent understanding across organization People Plant Processes Communication Competency Software Management of Change Attitude and Hardware Audit and Review Accountability Technology Risk Management The three pillars above are identical to the SSHE Management System. ARIM and SSHE are therefore fully integrated and aligned to achiveve sustained Operational Excellence. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 55 Emergency and Crisis Management With full awareness that E&P is a high-risk business, together with requirements of the SSHE Management System, PTTEP has developed the Emergency and Crisis Management plan that outlines a systematic structure to ensure its readiness for emergency situations at all operating sites. The Corporate Emergency & Crisis Management Standard and Plan set a key structure which links the Emergency and Crisis Management plans of all (existing and new) operating assets (domestic and international) to the key support center at the corporate head office. Emergency and crisis management is classified into 3 tiers depending on the severity level and the response capability of each asset and it covers all scenarios, i.e., Safety (fire, explosion, well pressure controls, etc.), Security (bomb & terrorist threats, thief, etc.), Health, Illness, injury, MEDEVAC and Environment (spills, complaints, etc.) The Emergency & Crisis Plans at all assets and corporate are tested and exercised on a regular basis. Results and feedback from all exercises are systematically provided to both the asset and corporate sides for continuous improvement of the plans and competency of the resources. Major Accident Event (MAE) Prevention Demonstrating Risk Control Using Bow Tie Analysis MAEs are accidents that have high impact but may have a low likelihood of occurrence e.g. blowouts. They are identified and risks are mitigated using a number of techniques. Hazard Identification studies are the first stage in identifying MAEs. Bow Tie diagrams are used to graphically show the prevention and recovery barriers that need to be in place to control hazards. The continual effectiveness of the barriers that are identified in Bow Ties is achieved by Asset Integrity and Reliability Management. A holistic approach is taken when preventing Major Accidents. It starts with ensuring that safety is taken into account at concept selection, through engineering and construction, to operation and abandonment. Various techniques are used such as HAZIDS, HAZOPS, safety studies, Bow Ties to identify Safety Critical Elements and QRA. PTTEP also have a requirement to develop Safety Cases for main Project, Assets and Activities. Safety Cases are systematic documented evidences to demonstrate that major risks are identified and managed to ALARP. They also link with the Asset Reliability and Integrity Management System (ARIMS) to ensure that Safety Critical Equipments are property managed. Regular Audits and Reviews programs are implemented to ensure compliance of the system to prevent Major Accident Events. In addition, specialist techniques are used to ensure that risks from oil and gas processing which can be significant are eliminated (inherent safety) or reduced to acceptable levels by applying the principles of Process Safety. This includes Hazard and Operability studies, Safety Integrity Level assessments, layout reviews, Pre Start-up Safety Reviews etc. 56 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Defining MAE Indicators and Targets Key Risk Indicator (KRI) Target Tolerance To achieve our Target Zero (nobody gets HPIR 12 months rolling average ≤ 0.7 + 10% hurt in our operations), SSHE and Key Risk LOPCR tier 3 12 months rolling average ≤ 8.0 +10% Indicators (KRI) and targets are defined, ARIM completion 100% -10% covering both leading and lagging % Completion of corrective action 100% -10% indicators responsible by the relevant (High risk items: PTR 1-4, OTR) within agree heads of functional group. time frame Our performance against the defined KRIs in 2012 is shown below: 12 Months Rolling HPIR, LOPCR Frequency rate (Case/Million hours worked) 0.80 0.74 0.73 0.76 0.69 0.72 0.69 0.70 0.69 0.67 0.62 0.64 0.65 0.60 0.49 0.50 0.40 0.30 0.29 0.25 0.24 0.23 0.27 0.23 0.20 0.19 0.18 0.20 0.17 0.17 0.12 0.10 0.00 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 HPIR LOPCR Hydrocarbon & Chemical Spill Spill is defined as any loss of containment Spill volume (tonnes) 23 22 (hydrocarbon and chemical spill) that reached the 21 20 environment. Our spill rate has been significantly Spill8.01graph 10 9 8.92 decreasing from the year 2010. There was no major 8 7 spill that occurred in 2012. PTTEP continually commits Spill Rate (tonnes per million tonnes production) 6 5 4 21.18 6.00 5.87 to maintain and improve this good performance. 3 2 1.63 1 0.5 0.43 0 Our Asset Reliability and Integrity Management (ARIM) 2010 2011 2012 PTTEP Spill Volume (tonnes) plays a key part to support SSHE MS in preventing of PTTEP Spill Rate (tonnes per million tonnes production) OGP Spill Rate (tonnes per million tonnes production) significant incident from occurring. Collaboration with Our Contractors on Process Safety PTTEPûs expectations of contractors are clearly defined and communicated to our contractors via several channels, including SSHE Contractor Forum, in wich the MAE Prevention Program is one of our experations. PTTEP Contractor SSHE Requirements MAE Prevention ë Contractors shall demonstrate positive MAE prevention leadership and commitment. ë Contractors shall provide details of their MAE prevention programs as part of Contractor Selection. ë HAZID, Contractor SSHE Plan, SSHE Monitoring Plan are required during the Contract Execution. ë Contractors shall communicate risks to personnel e.g. Job Safety Analysis (JSA) at Safety Meetings. ë Contractors shall participate in MAE prevention process e.g. HAZIDS, SimOps. ë Contractors shall develop Safety Cases to demonstrate MAE ALARP for activities, e.g. drilling, etc. ë Bridging documents between PTTEP and Contractor SSHE MS shall be developed. ë Contractors shall develop Inspection and Maintenance Program on their assets. ë Contractors shall develop audits and management visits program that focus on MAE prevention. ë Contractors shall help compile MAE Indicator data. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 57 WIDER SOCIETY With PTTEP way çFrom Natural Treasure to Intellectual Wisdom and Environmental Conservationé, we have long invested in the community development programs. We are striving to work as partner of local stakeholders to help improving people quality of life and education, whilst preserving environment and culture. By PTTEP Way, our corporate responsibility approach is structured around three areas, which reflect the key priorities of our business and our stakeholders. Enriching our communities Investing in people Conserving heritage We play an important role in driving We contribute to support societyûs We promote sustainable well-being by economic capacity in the communities human capital to propel the sustainable conserving natural and cultural heritage where we operate. development. in parallel through technology and knowledge management. 9 THB for every 1 THB invested 13 THB for every 1 THB invested 17 THB for every 1 THB invested in Reforestation in Thai Heritage World Heritage in Artificial Reef Our Contribution Investment in Heritage We sponsor key biodiversity conservation program as Investment in Community well as supporting the management and enhancement Sponsorship of community programs and Donations of world heritage sites in Thailand through long term to organizations and voluntary groups increase to USD commitment. Our supporting sites range from rich rain 4.67 million in 2012. forest, marine park, and historical site. Investment in People Reforestation Apart from scholarship support in key development areas, we focus our effort in creating knowledge base community through Educational Center, Fundamental Research and Baseline Study and Educational Community Materials. This is how our people, communities and Plantation wider society educate ourselves and share knowledge about natural and cultural heritage. Thai Heritage Thai Heritage World Heritage World Heritage Wildlife (Nature) (Culture) Sanctuaries Mangrove Plantation Bank Knowledge Center Fishery Farm Visitor Center Marine Heritage Khao Yai Mini Farm 74 I Nature Songkhla Lake Trail Conservation 58 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 WEALTH CONTRIBUTION PTTEP faithfully values socially responsible business conduct that incorporates the welfare of all concerned parties not only within all its exploration and production areas, but also within the larger society in order to achieve economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development. PTTEP takes care of the surrounding communities because we believe we are a part of the communities in which we operate our business. PTTEP adheres to its strong commitment to corporate social responsibility under the concept of çFrom Natural Treasure to Intellectual Wisdom and Environment Conservationé. Social Investment Strategy To deliver our commitments, PTTEP developed an SI Strategy in three areas in 2012. The objective of the strategy is twofold: (1) to build its brand and reputation and strengthen its relationships with key stakeholders, and (2) support positive socio-economic and environmental benefits for communities (and broader society). PTTEPûs SI Area Objectives Strategy Society Enhance brand and reputation Society and conserve culture and environmental resources Community Community Strengthen relationships with community members and improve local socio-economic conditions Employee Employee Cultivate CSR mindset and provide opportunities of employees to contribute in a positive way to communities Social innovation increasingly requires social enterprises to collaborate with multiple partners. Developing and sustaining multifaceted relationships with government, corporate partners, and philanthropic funders often requires an initial leap of faith from both not-for-profits and businesses. But the benefits can extend way beyond traditional ROI measures. Social Investment Social investment (SI) refers to the voluntary contributions made by companies to help communities (and broader society) sustainably address their development priorities1. When done well, it can contribute to longterm community improvements and help create an environment that is conducive to a companyûs operations2. We aim to make our social investment projects beneficial to society in measurable ways and to be sustainable beyond PTTEPûs involvement. 1 International Finance Corporation. 2010. Strategic Community Investment Guide. 2 Social investment should be designed to complement a companyûs efforts to mitigate its environmental and social impacts, not replace its mitigation obligations. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 59 Social Return on Investment (SROI) describes the social impacts (or changes) resulting from a companyûs SI done by comparing the social impacts usually in terms of monetary value to the financial cost of the investment. It is one of the tools for identifying the SI program that provide good returns for company, society and the environment. Our success as a business is inextricably linked to the well-being of our employees and our communities. Social investments at PTTEP aim to foster economic stability and improve quality of life. They are delivered through participatory partnerships that build foundations for positive, lasting results. We invest in health, education and economic development. In 2012, we contributed approximately USD 6.49 millions in social investment to help build programs that we believe can make a sustainable local impact even after we no longer operate. PTTEP spent around USD 1.95 million for philanthropic funds. The following section illustrates key social investment projects of PTTEP and summarizes the project inputs (i.e. resource and effort), outputs and outcomes (the changes that have occurred as result). Environment 31% Community Investment Philantropy 31% 30% Education $6.5 Millions 8% Arts/Culture 3% Management Cost Philantropy 26% (Donation) Health Commercial and Safety Initiative 50% 2% 13% Local Economic Development 6% Thai Heritage World Heritage PTTEP has launched a Thai Heritage World Heritage program, in recognition of the important values that are housed within World Heritage sites in Thailand. The program aims to protect and conserve, as well as increase community awareness and understanding about Thai Heritage World Heritage sites, in particular Thung Yai Naresuan Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuaries and Dong Phayayen Khao Yai Forest Complex. PTTEP has funded a number of projects, the outputs of which have included interpretation materials, two new improved visitor centers, eight nature trails, training for Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Consevation staff, increased support for community volunteer networks and hornbill and tiger research programs. It is anticipated that the program will not only enhance community appreciation (through increased visitation to the Thai Heritage World Heritage sites) but also support the protection and conservation of key biodiversity values, such as the hornbill and tiger. 60 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 In addition, the program includes opportunities for PTTEP staff to volunteer at the sites. Project Input Output Outcome SROI (impact) Thai Heritage ë Interpretation system ë Development of ë Increased awareness Return of 13 THB for World Heritage ë Nature trails and visitor interpretation materials and understanding every 1 THB invested centers ë Establishment of ë Improved protection ë DNP officer training nature trails and conservation ë Promotional materials ë Research program ë Enhanced visitor ë Volunteer program ë Trained DNP officers experience ë Ecological research ë Enhancement of visitor ë Increased focus on centers tiger and hornbill research ë Improved reputation and brand Artificial Reef In collaboration with a local community, PTTEP is in the process of establishing an artificial reef system, the funding for which has been raised through local fundraising and a donation by PTTEP. 1,000 cement blocks per year, over a three year period, are being placed on the seabed. This will form the reef. Over time the reef will attract fish to the local area. The long-term goal is to support the sustainability of the local fishing industry. A side benefit has been an increase in the income amongst local fishermen, which has primarily been attributed to a reduction in fuel costs. Also, as a result of the project, PTTEP has strengthened its relationships with local communities. Project Input Output Outcome SROI (impact) Artificial Reef ë Cement blocks ë Establishment of new ë Increased income and Return of 17 THB for ë Management/staff reef system reduced travel costs every 1 THB invested costs ë Improved fish stocks for local fisherman ë Travel costs ë Increased marine flora ë Improved sustainability and fauna of local fishing industry ë Increased biodiversity ë Enhanced relationships with community Reforestation PTTEP is planning to invest the reforestation project. The project will contribute towards global warming mitigation measures by removal of carbon dioxide from the environment. This will largely be done through reforestation of approximately 200,000 Rais (32,000 hectares) by 2020 according to our SD roadmap, which will be supported through on-going maintenance and development of a water supply dam. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 61 In addition to reducing carbon emissions, the project will enhance local biodiversity values by creating new habitat and establish a food source for local communities. Project Input Output Outcome SROI (impact) Reforestation ë Reforestation and ë Reforestation of ë Reduction in carbon Return of 9 THB for maintenance approximately dioxide every 1 THB invested ë Survey of potential 200,000 Rais ë Increased awareness sites (32,000 hectares) and understanding ë Research ë Development of ë Enhanced biodiversity ë Management promotional materials ë Habitat creation ë Evaluation ë Establishment of dam ë Establishment of for water storage income for local communities Issue and Stakeholder Management PTTEP has to work with many groups in carrying out its business operations. Some of them are those affected by the companyûs business operations, while others have influence on the companyûs operations. These groups are considered PTTEPûs çstakeholdersé. Engaging with local communities is a vital element of our work. At our local sites, we aim to establish and maintain open communication with local communities. Where appropriate, this includes setting up formal grievance channels and using a variety of engagement techniques from workshops and meetings to distributing literature. Different stakeholder groups take an interest in different elements of the value chain, and impacts may either be direct or indirect. PTTEP will need to seek feedback on how it has described the contributions that it is making and consider incorporating additional socio-community metrics in the future. A conventional evaluation tool has been developed. The tool helps to assess whether the objectives (or intended outcomes) of an investment have effectively and efficiently been achieved. Conventional Evaluation Develop Establish targets and Collect Evaluate the objectives indicators relevant data outcomes 62 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 PTTEP invests in a variety of programs and initiatives. These programs range from large scale projects to local community activities. Area of Output/Impact Project Beneficiaries Outputs/Impacts Education ë PTTEP Scholarships ë Students and teachers within ë Create career opportunities ë PTTEP Tutor Camps and outside operation areas for high school students ë PTTEP Smart Center ë Increase educational skills to students and teachers Health and Safety ë PTTEP We Love Sports ë Children ë Increase awareness about ë Sports Professional Promotion ë Agriculturists safety ë Futsal Competition ë General people ë Promote sport activities ë Helmet School ë Improve health and well-being ë Promoting Reflex Tags for ë Improve in healthcare service Safety Driving and access ë PTTEP Health Care ë Reduce in health related ë Healthy Garden expense Community ë Childrenûs Day ë People in communities ë Create career opportunities ë Love Your Neighbors within and outside operation for communities ë Fishery Career Development areas ë Promote good relationships in 5 Districts between people in ë Sustainable Agricultural communities and staff in Career Development PTTEP ë Water Reservoir at Wang Ya Environment ë Biodiversity Indicator Station ë People in communities ë Enhance PTTEPûs reputation Lang Suan and Sawee within and outside operation ë Promote activities in the ë Mangrove Conservation areas communities Learning Center ë Increase awareness about ë Research Underwater reserving natural resources Learning Center ë Get better environmental ë Mini-farm conditions ë Water Bank ë Songkhla Lake Conservative ë Increases Marine Organism ë Energy Seed PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 63 Operating in Myanmar çMyanmar is a country with high potential of energy capacity that hasnût been developed. PTTEP is aware of the importance of sustainable growth and investment in Myanmar; as a result, PTTEP wishes to make Myanmar a second major operation base, apart from Thailand. PTTEP also has attention on the social and environmental aspects through CSR projects within and outside operating areas and aims to increase the recruitment of the locals. Even though operating in Myanmar is very challenging in many ways, the foundation of our operation is based on our commitment, honesty, and transparency which would enable PTTEP to gain trust from the stakeholders and successful in the business.é Kanok Intharawijitr, Senior Vice President, Myanmar Asset Myanmar is a land endowed with natural resources, pristine environment and preserved cultural heritage. Its estimated oil production capacity in 2010 was at 21,000 barrels a day and natural gas production of 11.54 billion cubic feet. The first time we set foot in Myanmar was in 1989 through the joint venture gas pipeline project running 410 kilometers cross border. Since then, we have operated three offshore and two onshore blocks in addition to the original two joint venture assets at Yadana and Yetagun. After years engaging with a score of communities neighboring our assets we came to understand Myanmarûs complex environment while accumulate experiences dealing with political instability, volatile regulations, transparency risks, and potential Human Rights abuses. PTTEP promotes the employment of local communities as security personal. Recognizing these latent risks, strategic responses and initiatives were developed and strictly implemented to respond and mitigate the identified risks in order to maintain Myanmar in our list of growth engine in the Asia Pacific region. Corporate Shared Value Despite recent reforms and increase in regulatory development, the regulations for oil and gas sector in Myanmar do not require EIA, public participation nor local community contribution for an exploration and production project. Adhering to our standard practices and inclusiveness philosophy, PTTEP conducted a voluntary environmental impact assessment studies for our operations following Corporate EIA guidelines. Whether in Myanmar, Thailand, or Australia, we recognize the value to implement a stringent standard as safeguarding policy. Apart from ensuring our license to operate, we also consider the stakeholder engagement and CSR operations as a process to help us recognize and manage risks effectively ahead of time. Our commitment to the process applies both at our operating assets and at joint venture operations. Following the engagement guideline, we establish connection to community early on the project to inform of our operating procedures. Communityûs needs and concerns are assessed and integrated into our operating plan and CSR projects to ensure identified concerns are eliminated and our positive contribution answers actual needs of the communities. The engagement process repeats throughout our project phase with performances evaluated through expert survey and public involvement activities. Furthermore, we support the evolution of Human Rights, democracy and leadership by creating mechanisms for community representatives to design CSR programs and vote on the most critical communities to receive the development projects for the year. While our intention is to maintain operations with zero harm and make positive contributions, we make it a priority to ensure adequate, available and accessible grievance channels for stakeholders to voice their concerns and comment regarding impacts from our operation. All inputs from stakeholders are managed through Complaint Handling and Grievance Procedure until resolved. 64 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 PEOPLE CAPACITY Our People Higher Education Assistant for Development PTTEP IMA employs 100 employees. 10 Scholarships per year in the areas of medical doctor, teaching, nursing, midwife, and technical. One third within the business are female. Promoting Education We provided similar induction and During 2012, PTTEP IMA supported 14 students and disadvantaged families, to gain access to higher training for all employees including CG, education previously been inaccessible to them. health, safety, Anti-bribery corruption and Human Rights protection. Our scholarship holders serve as community tutors for local children and adolescent, thereby providing Job related training as well as employee much needed educational support and literacy for children. sclolarship are also allocated for our Myanmar staffs. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Voluntary EIA & Follow up Zawtika Construction phase Daminsek Dawei: Agricultural and Communities Dawei Boundary: Pristine National Reservation Forest Conducted the additional ESHIA study and report preparation for rerouting onshore pipeline COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Conducted the EIA of abandoned soil disposal area of Zawtika Metering Station (ZMS) Public Infrastructures and Special Project Conducted the ESHIA compliance audit as stated in ESHIA Zawtika Support with critical infrastructure for communities: onshore gas transportation pipeline (both mitigation measures and Utilities, Electricity and Clean Drinking Water for School Children monitoring measures). There is 1 environmental site representative Renovate/New school building, ridge, Roads, Hygiene Toilets. conduct the daily environmental checklist and prepare the daily environmental report. Village Development Committee Participated in the Executive Workshop on conceptual framework Mechanism in managing social investment project. The mechanism of Tanintharyi Nature Reserve require community leaders to form a committee and work on defining intrinsic needs for their own communities, designing appropriate solution fits with culture and way of lives and finally vote to select which community shall receive the funding or the developmental program for the year. This mechanism is our effort to foster and promote Human Rights within communities we operate in. Developmental projects in which the Village Committee worked on successfully in reporting year are listed on our website. HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Public Health Health commitment is extended to communities focusing on improving the health of children and increasing the number of children surviving their first five years. The program consists of three parts: the health projects involve immunization, establishment of health care units; and the water and sanitation projects aiming at ensuring food safety at school. In 2012, the PTTEP IMA invested USD 1 million in public healthcare center. Infectious Diseases Surrounding our operations in Thailand, Myanmar and Indonesia, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB) and malaria are infectious diseases that are risks to employees, their families and the local community. Through the PTTEP Health program, our people receive training, prevention, counseling, diagnosis and treatment. Parasite Free School To uplift the health condition of populace in the community as well as to promote personal hygiene and health knowledge, medical check up, Intestinal parasitic infection diagnosis and treatment and Health Education Training were organized at Kanbauk area, Yephyu Township, Dawei District, Tanintharyi Division. 2,906 children received vaccination. So far we have protect 5,502 children around the vicinity. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 65 TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED Technologies supplying energy from Unconventional Resources (i.e. oil sand, shale oil/gas) and Deepwater could profoundly transform not just the worldûs energy supplies, but also its geopolitics. With growth in energy demand and supply comes great stresses on the environment, not least in respect to climate change. This presents significant practicality and technical challenges for our industry. While energy resources remain relative in abundance, these concerns must be considered. Unconventional Resource Source: GSB CSAnalysis (2011) based on EXP, WoodMackenzie, IHS, DOE data Technology advances in exploration and production today have created an opportunity for the industry to access oil and gas deposits and extract the once inaccessible resources. Though presenting us with many complex challenges, more and more focus is being placed on the development of unconventional reserves, including oil and gas shales, tight sands and coal-bed methane. PTTEP has started our venture into exploring unconventional assets by operating in joint ventures at a major oil sand reserves in Canada. With this structure, we have developed the capability essential to tap into a vast accessible resource potential and continue our growth strategy. We have contributed not only in operating this asset but also initiating technology and operating solutions to ensure continuous improvement in operating efficiency, and management of health, safety and environmental risks associated with unconventional assets. Setup E&P Technology Center 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unconventional Technology Conceptual Basic Execute Integrated Technology Identification Selection Engineering Facility Oil Sand Re-locatable SAGD Technology and Upgrading Technology Development Deepwater M11 Myanmar Mozambique Malunda Indo Develop Deepwater Technology Drilling Development Drilling Project at M11 Myanmar Deepwater Knowledge Acquisition and Building Experience PTTEP Technology Development Roadmap of Unconventional and Deepwater 66 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 OILSAND DEEPWATER One of the greatest challenges when It is estimated that around 10 percent of world considering unconventional energy reserves is proven oil reserves exist in deepwater reserves. the ability to access the highest grade and most This represents roughly 100 billion barrels. accessible deposits and to produce energy with As indicated by the name, these reserves are the greatest energy efficiency. Efficiency in located further out to sea and deeper under the extracting oil from bituminous reserves in the ocean floor than conventional oil reserves. ground (referred to as oil sands, or tar sands) Previously neither the technology nor the has seen some material improvements since economic incentive has been present to access the first generation facilities with currently these reserves, but this is gradually changing. levels of efficiency reaching low 80 percent Both these aspects bring significant levels of levels. risk to any deepwater opportunity. Firstly, technology is still in its trial phase, with Oil sands extraction requires energy for steam incidents such as that in the Gulf of Mexico injection and refining. The process is energy demonstrating the challenges faced in avoiding intensive and as a result generates around 12 accidents, and then responding to crisis percent more GHG per barrel than conventional situations. Moreover, an unstable oil price means oil production. However, global reserves are that a viable project one day may turn out very considered significant and will make up a vital unattractive the next. PTTEP is currently proportion of future global energy supply. engaged in exploration of deepwater reserves and expects to partner with experienced PTTEP is currently engaged in planning for the industry leaders in developing deepwater development of oil sand operations in Canada. opportunities over the next few years. PTTEP is also currently monitoring technological developments with shale gas but only considering exploring opportunities with shale energy post 2020. Execution Challenges The challenge to execute our growth strategy into the deepwater and unconventional resources are foreseeable. PTTEP anticipates these challenges in two dimensions: delivering the growth proficiently and managing the potential increase in our footprints to environment and society effectively. Meeting that challenges requires PTTEP to make a step change in the way we work and communicate. Starting from vigorously applying our Asset Reliability and Integrity Management (ARIM) to our Project Realisation Process (PREP), the stage-gate capital project management model that environmental and social consideration are fully integrated throughout project development cycle. This will help us identify risks related to environment and social such as political risk, financial liability from climate change, as well as public concerns over management of environmental issues from planning stage. Strengthen SSHE Management System (SSHE MS) will protect our people and the environment in harsher and resources intensive operation. On top of these, a matching technology and human capability development roadmaps as well as organizational alignment are in plan to facilitate the evolution into our new phase of exploration and production. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 67 Capital Project Management 100% We commit to Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for a new project of exploration and production, or when there are any significant of our new project deviations from the activities and details of social included in our impact assessment are also addressed in the environmental and approved original anywhere we operate even social assessment though it is not required by local law The exploration and production business is known as the risk-takers. However, the difference between a successful company and substantial company is the ability to recognize risks related to capital project development, including determination the acceptable level and implementing avoidance or mitigation of such risks. At PTTEP, we employ the holistic approach of the stage gate model, Project Realisation Process (PREP), throughout the capital project lifecycle. The nature of influence over cost over the project lifecycle is high at the beginning and decreases throughout the project development. Therefore, PTTEPûs PREP has comprehensive stage gates at the beginning of the project to allow informed decision making at the point where influence is significantly over cost. Environmental and social measures are also integrated in the earliest stage to understand environmental and social context and identify risks and risk mitigation measures. Impact Assessment and Planning Key elements in managing impacts on the environment and local community are assessment and planning in order to understand the potential and actual adverse impacts and effective community engagement program in order to understand their concerns and expectations. PTTEP defines our procedure on Environmental Impact Assessment which is adopted from World Bank and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines. The procedure covers seven steps throughout the project lifecycle and is fully integrated as one of the stage gates in the PREP Process; the mitigation measures are also integrated into the asset SSHE Management System and corporate SSHE audit program. 68 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Over the past year, PTTEP has undergone 11 EIA* which involved 22 formal public participations in the communities we operate. Environmental and Social Impact Management Total Capital 11 Active operating sites in Thailand Projects 2012 Projects 100 percent Public Participation coverage 100 percent of operations undergoing EIA (We have undergone voluntary EIA and PP in Myanmar) Projects in None is under decommission neither is any in the process of decommission in the next five years Decommissioning Project in Biodiversity 2 sites Project in Social sensitive areas Neither of PTTEP domestic sensitive areas such as indigenous communities operations locate in or adjacent or of cultural heritage value to where indigenous communities are present nor involve interaction with indigenous communities as defined by relevant UN agreements. Non-technical risks Please see our biodiversity Water Bank Working in our community identified and section. mitigations Recognizing water stress Some of our operations, as listed concerns in the new concession out on page 6-7, overlapped with (Water Stress, block, PTTEP has voluntary agricultural areas. There was Biodiversity, Indigenous started a long term program neither relocation nor involuntary communities, and constructing a network of resettlements that took place in Involuntary resettlement) small scale reservoirs as water 2012. PTTEP had no significant bank for the communities. disputes with local communities in 2012. Underwent the As we commenced our operation, Regular ongoing meetings with stakeholder public no water deficiency impacts communities. Complains are participation with results occur due to our operation. recorded and described on page Communities derive direct 70. All compensations for the benefit from the reservoir. use of communitiesû area are completed. * çUN Definition of indigenous: practicing unique traditions, they retain social, cultural, economic and political characteristics that are distinct from those of the dominant societies in which they liveé We operate in countries where the indigenous are present. As a result, our political risks categorizes and identifies potential risks in this area as a part of risk management. Domestically, none of our operations involve interaction with indigenous communities. 5 km from S1 site, we identify a community maintaining an ethnic culture of Thai Song Dam. PTTEPûs activities do not interfere with the communityûs way of life. All assets adopt the PTTEP EIA Guidelines and are asked to report any incidents of indigenous rights violations. No such incidents were reported in 2012. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 69 Community Engagement in Capital Project Development PTTEP places highest priority on community engagement and understanding of the community concerns and expectations. We engage local stakeholders early in capital project development stage to understand their expectations and concerns for all capital project development unless there is the concern for safety and security of our employees or our contractors. The PTTEP Issue and Stakeholder Management Planning Process consist of stakeholder analysis, issue analysis, stakeholder mapping and engagement strategic planning. All of these processes happen prior to commencing exploration activities. We continue to implement, assess and improve the community development activities and the mitigation measures alongside with companyûs E&P activities throughout the project life. This process applies to all of our domestic assets and is replicated to other international operating sites under the Issue Management Process. For various stakeholders which include the required stakeholders in accordance with the EIA, we provide multiple channels to ensure timely and accurately information are communicated. These channels include through formal hearing, CSR activities, publicized through the local media, and organized exhibitions. Through these channels, the following are top three concerns we received from stakeholders across regions: 1. The company has measures to prevent impacts on the environment. 2. The company keeps supporting community development activities and solving the issues effectively. 3. The company adheres to transparency in information disclosure and provides them through channels which are easily accessible by communities. Once the asset enters the production phase, comprehensive community engagement program is implemented including an on-going stakeholder engagement, community development program based on local communitiesû needs and channels for filing grievances at the local level. Villagers near our onshore supporting center in the district of Songkhla related to our community relation staffs during the community surveys that majority of their communities are welled informed of PTTEP operations and gain more understanding on the companiesû activities. They also proactively suggest to us to: ë Have a measure to prevent waste from leaking in transit, ë Strictly follow Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan (EIMP) requirements, ë Increase support in community relations activities in their community. We perceived the recommendations from communities as an evidence of their understanding of potential impacts, as well as understanding of their right to be treated appropriately. We commit to continue the engagement activities like this as a reflection of our performance in community impact management. In response to the above recommendations, we improved Emergency Response Plan particularly for the event of hydrocarbon and chemical spills to sea and plan to invite surrounding communities to participate in PTTEP annual emergency drills. Moreover, permanent boom was installed around the port area where external partiesû vessels make frequently visits. On the community development side, we also increased engagement with Bantalaynok communities resulting in 5 intensive socioeconomic projects developed for Bantalaynok. 70 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 HIGH PERFORMANCE ORGANIZATION PTTEP believes that the most important factor to propel the company towards being a high performance organization is its people. Therefore, we invest in developing our people as well as seeking the best available talent to join us. However, the most important aspect we hold above other is safety, security and health of our workforce and maintaining good environment in all areas. Safety, Security, Health and Environmental Management PTTEP strives to achieve excellence and a position of leadership by having an injury-free workplace, being a leader in safety, security, and health management and 100% >40% a good neighbor of surrounding of our operating assets reduction per year communities and the environment. comply with our SSHE in Lost Time Injury PTTEP also participates in Management System Frequency Rate for the industrial groups and acts as an two consecutive years active member of the OGP, with representations on: Safety Committee, Security Committee, Health Committee, Standards Process safety Committee, Well Expert Committee and Process Safety indicators introduced Task Force. Industry initiatives developed by OGP are implemented in PTTEP for example, Process in Corporate KPI Safety indicators and Life Saving Program. Thus, we learn from our shared industry best practices. Step Change in SSHE was introduced in 2011 and 2012 illustrated yield for the implementation. SSHE Management at PTTEP 2 Policy and Strategic We have a Safety, Security, Health and Environmental Policy (SSHE Policy) as our commitment and our SSHE 7 Objectives 3 Organization Resources Management System (SSHE MS) is the core of SSHE management and PTTEPûs ability to deliver our vision Audit and Documentation and Review 1 Leadership and and commitment in SSHE. There are seven elements of SSHE MS along with 27 Standards. Implementation and Monitoring Commitment 4 Evaluation and SSHE MS in Actions Element 3 Organization, 6 5 Risk Management Resources and Documentation Safety Leadership and SSHE Awareness Course Planning and Operational Control PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 71 PTTEP launched Safety Leadership workshop in 2012 as an interactive session designed to enhance safety leadership for leaders to get a common understanding on safety leadership for all managements of every functional group to create inspiration in safety awareness and provide leading by example to their subordinates regarding safety practice. For all staffs, PTTEP also launched SSHE awareness course to build SSHE awareness including general regulations and rules in the work place. The course is designed as face-to-face training with evaluation test at the end of the course. There are also advanced SSHE training courses to fulfill specific job competency requirements. In addition, Greater Bongkot North, S1, PTTEP 1, PTTEP Core Research Center, Petroleum Support Base at Songkhla and Arthit projects received certifications for Environmental Management System Standard from AJA Registrars under the United Kingdom Accreditation Services (UKAS) for PTTEPûs domestic operation units. In 2012, PTTEP implemented the ISO 14001:2004 one common system for all certified sites to improve the efficiency of the Environmental Management System. Step Change in SSHE Life Saving Program In 2012, PTTEP introduced the Life Saving Program that is based on the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP). Life Saving Icons which includes 18 safety best practices based on analysis of industry incidents that lead to fatalities and serious injuries. The Life Saving Program is implemented organizational wide where each locationûs potential hazard are identified based on risk assessment to define specific Life Saving icons. The implementation is not only limited to operation areas only but also to our headquarter office in which 4 life saving icons are identified. These are the Seat Belt, No Drugs or Alcohol, No Phone and Obey Speed Limits and Journey Management Plan Life Saving icons. 72 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 In addition to the commitment and management system, PTTEP has SSHE Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to assign SSHE accountability throughout the organization from CEO to management, employees and contractors. SSHE KPIs are taken into account when determining variable compensation from 10 to 20 percent of overall performance. PTTEP has a strong aspiration and intention to maintain our çgo home safelyé goal at the end of each working day. There are both leading indicators that are the percentage of SSHE plan completion, and lagging indicators as shown in the following table. 2012 SSHE KPI Unit Base Stretch Results Case Case Target Target Lost time injury frequency rate › no. per million 0.42 0.00 0.19 employees and contractors man-hours Total recordable injury rate › no. per million 2.00 1.68 1.87 employees and contractors man-hours Loss of primary containment rate no. per million 0.78 0.58 0.23 man-hours Spill rate ton per million 3.60 0.00 0.43 tons production In 2012, a total of 8 recordable injury cases were reported Lost Time Injury Frequency for employees and 52 cases for contractors. Reported lost workday cases (6 cases compared to 9 cases in 2011) improved 0.8 significantly and there was no fatality in 2012. 0.59 0.6 The trend of TRIR is continuously decreasing towards our 0.42 0.43 0.4 aspiration to be an injury-free work place. PTTEP continued to 0.35 further improve our performance in this area through our çStep 0.2 Change in SSHEé initiative. 0.19 0 PTTEP SSHE Incident Management Standard does not only cover 2010 2011 2012 safety incident but also covers near misses, occupational illness, PTTEP LTIF OGP Overall LTIF security, environmental incidents and complaints to ensure that we get all the information from those cases for continuous Total Recordable Injury Rate improvements. 3 2.43 2.06 1.87 2 1.76 1.68 1 0 2010 2011 2012 Total Recordable Injury Rate OGP Overall TRIR PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 73 Occupational Health PTTEP Occupational & Health Management Standard was developed and rolled out in 2011. With the introduction of this new standard, we engaged all stakeholders to ensure that Occupational & Health Management is implemented in the same direction. Our activities focus on health risk assessment in the workplace (HRA), employee health assessment, medical emergency management, medical and healthcare services, and community engagement to improve social determinant of health. Key highlights of our program are: ë Preparedness: We have considered specific health risks potentially incurred due to expansion into malaria/HIV/Tuberculosis/Japanese Encephalitis/Influenza regions. ë Emergencies: The enhanced Medical Emergency Management improves our overall healthcare services to reach our people working in remote environments when needed. The improvement in on-line and off-line supports prove our commitment to keep everyone safe at work and return home healthy at the end of the day. ë Providing Medical and Healthcare Services: The site medical and healthcare services guideline has been issued. The guideline provides minimum requirements for all operating units in managing ill-health at the workplace to ensure that all workers, either PTTEP staff or contractors, are well taken care of when needed. ë Supporting Community Health Determinant: S1 team has a health support program for health promotion Hospital, Tambon Nongtums. The team has identified the needs of the hospital with regards to medical equipment and subsequently made a donation of medical equipment. S1 has made commitment to the hospital to provide continuous support in promoting the well-being of the people in the community. In 2012, a total of 2 occupational health cases were reported which was lower than 3 cases in 2011. Both cases were related to physical ill-health. Security Practices Security of our people and assets are one of our top priorities which is one of the components in our SSHE MS. However, PTTEP also takes into account the potential human rights conflic issue. Therefore, we issued the Working with Armed Security Forces Guideline for security force anywhere we operate including government or non-government agencies. The guideline is in line with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For the Yadana and Yetagun natural gas projects, PTTEP, as a joint venture partner, strongly encourages the compliance to our security standard and guideline to ensure that all staffs and contractors apply the highest moral and ethical standards, particularly where the issue of human rights is concerned. We have also continually promoted the employment of local people as a security workforce. 74 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Human Capital Management 2012 Achievements 1. Long-term Manpower Provision and Performance-Driven Culture Placement of the Critical Job Positions At PTTEP, we consider ourselves to be high performers. Our 2. Succession Plan for Top Management senior leaderships have built PTTEP into a place filled with 3. World-class Leadership Development passions of explorers who see and seek opportunities to thrive, Program Framework and fulfill duties earnestly, ensuring energy security with deep 4. Capability Building Master Plan responsibility to people and the planet. Today, that culture is the 5. Employee Joint Investment Program unifying force for our people and operations around the world. (EJIP) for Long-term Engagement Diversity Performance The value I contribute dictates my career Every employee regardless of function receives individual progress, not my gender, nor my color. capacity development support and coaching throughout his or her career. Every key position has succession planning to which successors receive long-term mentoring. This is to ensure†knowledge, and 12% Growth of our workforce experiences are passed on generation to generation. from previous year >20% Increasing in average employee training hours from previous year Engagement $3 MILLIONS we invest in our people The voice of reason. Our people help us make the best place to work. Results from engagement survey are turned to action plan on the consecutive year. This make us stronger as a through training and R&D company and keeps talents with us longer as a family. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 75 Global Employee Growth Male Female Employees 78% Permanent Staffs 1,063 276 285 1,160 1,348 3,573 507 61 1,088 100 22% 70 Temporary 618 Staffs 2,114 2,055 2,479 2,732 2010 2011 2012 Thailand Australia Oman Permanent-Male Temporary-Male Permanent-Female Temporary-Female Myanmar Others Create Capable Global Workforce and Leaders PTTEP commits to build human capabilities, attract and retain talents with an attractive compensation and benefits program. In the past three years, PTTEPûs workforce has grown 33 percent to 4,080 globally while delivering 55 percent growth to companyûs revenue. We are now operating 18 offices globally employing 507 staffs oversea, 12 percent of total workforce. With approximately 80 percent under permanent contracts, women comprise a third of our workforce both from permanent and temporary contracts. Human capital was identified as a critical success factor of PTTEP. PTTEP sets our course to truly internationalize our business via exploring and acquisition of new regions beyond Asia Pacific. Our growth aspiration requires us to focus our efforts on preparing PTTEPûs workforceûs Capability and Leadership Readiness, together with establishing effective global organizational and business processes to be ready for future growth. We invest in people and activities that promote desired workforce behaviors and a culture that in turn will lead to creating the desired capabilities and competencies for the successful implementation of PTTEP Corporate Strategy. In the course of 2012, we have accomplished 3 key milestones in strategic human capital as follows: 1. World-class Leadership Development Program 2. Growth Capability and Technology Development Roadmap 3. Long-term Employee Engagement through Employee Joint Investment Program (EJIP) 76 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Build a Highly Motivated and Capable Global Workforce and Leaders Provision of Long-term Review and Implement Development of Implement Employee Manpower and Achieve Succession Plan of Top Capability Building Engagement Placement of the Critical Management Positions Master Plan Improvement Plans Job Positions Build Framework of Establish Employee a World-class Leadership Joint Investment Development Program Program Develop Generic Operating Model and Governance Framework for International Expansion Establish Growth Capability and Technology Development Roadmap to Ensure its Capability and Technology to be Able to Support Organizational Growth to Achieve the Strategic Goal Harnessing Experience and Knowledge through Age Breakdown a World-class Leadership Development Program 909 1,148 In order to achieve aspirational growth, PTTEP needs to face 740 challenges in accelerating capability building and managing 1,768 2,004 2,102 attrition of experienced personnel. With all the successes in the 307 329 323 past years, PTTEP is under strong leadership of management 2010 2011 2012 constitutes one fourth of organization. While we recruit and grow our workforce at all level, leadership proportion needs to be Age over 50 years old maintained to ensure competitive advantages and success. Age 30-50 years old Depending on external talent is not sustainable, as a result we Age below 30 years old initiated program to ensure that senior staffs are reaching retirement age with assurance that the younger generation will be ready to take their places. In 2012 PTTEP established and reviewed succession and replacement plan to ensure the company has adequate future qualified workforce and accelerate Executive 9 2% people competency to serve growth capability and technology. Middle 267 23% Through readiness assessment center, PTTEP defines Management Management Success Profile which includes competency, Senior 560 39% personal attributes, organization knowledge and experience. Key Employee 395 36% positions are identified and managed under a systematic succession planning adopting the above mentioned success 0 500 1,000 1,500 profile under supervision of the Career Review Board Committee. Male Female % of Total With this program, our key positions and senior leaderships have identified their successors and completed mid and long term mutual developmental plans to ensure experience and knowledge are passed on to the future leadership. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 77 Growth Capability and Technology Development Roadmap PTTEP believes that the appropriate design of a competency based-development program will serve company sustainability. By having capabilities awareness and good development preparation, PTTEP will be more competitive and be ready for future challenges. To attain the recruitment of highly competence workforce, the company has established a Competency Management System (CMS) to accelerate the competency development of all staff. The CMS annual assessment review process will systematically drive individuals on gap development to meet business requirements in order to achieve PTTEP technical excellence as a whole. This approach of competency model design is therefore embedded to strengthen the capability on the new business aspiration i.e., Exploration, Deepwater, Unconventional Resources, FLNG, etc. Annually, all staffs will undergo a reviewing of their competencies and identification of competency gaps in order to customize training and development programs as per individualsû need. Conduct Review Gaps Analysis ICDP Self Assessment Self Assessment Job Family Development Implementation Soft Skill Assessment Individual Development Staff N+1 N+1 N+2 JFM Staff N+1 Staff Line Supervisor Line Supervisor Technical staff Job Family Masters* Line Supervisor Job Family Committee* Actions Assess against Job Competency Profile (JCP) Identify Competency Gaps Staff: Learn and Develop and Development Plan Line Sup.: Mentor and Coach Plan An individual competency development plan (ICDP) is a Structured Development Program designed to close specific employee competency gaps to improve employee performance in the present position and/or to prepare the employee for new roles. Internal Training Hours and Scholarship Training Coverage 100 2.67 3.0 4,000 66% 60% 70% 2.56 2.03 2.5 3,500 60% 80 61 2.0 3,000 40% 50% 60 49 2,500 40% 43 1.5 40 1,500 30% 1.0 1,000 20% 20 54 74 41 49 52 43 0.5 500 10% 0 0.0 0 0% 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Female Male Trained Female Trained Male Scholarship ($ Million) Average Not Trained Female Not Trained Male Coverage 78 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 We believe developing our people is an investment with clear return, as a result. We allocate development budget according to that priority which includes both company provided training, and employee selected external courses. A wide variety of training opportunities both on-the-job and classroom training for are offered to employees at all levels in the organization. In 2012, USD 2.7 million was awarded under employee scholarship supporting our people to pursue advanced degree in relation with their competency development plan. Internal-training-wise, average training hours per employee increased from 43 to 49 hours per person per year. While our training cover 60 percent of our employee with an equal breakdown in numbers of female and male employees taking class, we observe a six percent decrease in coverage rate. With new exiting courses coming in 2013, an uplift trend is expected. PTTEP established a Technology Center to provide employees with opportunities to pursue creative new ideas including basic research that take full advantage of their talents and professional passions in a way that encourages successful future exploration. The Technology Centerûs initiatives encourage our employees to further develop creative ideas into new exploration and production solutions. Participants will receive a dedicated work time, development expenses and necessary equipment as appropriate. Successful outcomes are encouraged through an incentive program, however they are not subject to penalty if they donût achieve their goals. We are planning for more full-time staffs in this section to ensure forward preparation on technology roadmap that will gear-up PTTEP to explore and succeed in developing the unconventional resources and challenging frontier environment in the future. Reward and Recognition of Peopleûs Contribution PTTEP is among the top Thai companies with regards to compensation package. We create competitive remuneration through balancing the 3 mechanisms of (1) Internal equity where similar value of work, responsibility and working condition result in similar compensation. We adopt the Hay system to ensure appropriate evaluation of a jobûs value. (2) External equity where compensation package are benched against other oil and gas companies in Thailand and adjusted on an annual basis. (3) Individual Motivation by rewarding individual performance and competency through annual compensation adjustment scheme. Through these mechanisms, our people are competitively rewarded and motivated to align their individual goals in supporting the companyûs endeavors spanning from business, SSHE, and sustainability. In addition to basic salary, PTTEPûs variable compensation scheme can increase up to 6 times of the monthly basic salary. This remuneration is based on a clear framework, taking into account employee performance as well as the companyûs as a whole. The assessment is conducted twice a year to agree on individual Key Performance Indicators to be evaluated. Gender and nature of employment do not dictate compensation. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 79 Basic Salary range shows equal remuneration between gender for each level and competitiveness within industry $ 14,000 Male Female Benefits for employees well-being cover $ 12,000 all employees from day one. $ 10,000 $ 8,000 ë Medical Care During Service and After $ 12,348 $ 10,600 $ 6,000 Retirement $ 3,223 $ 3,018 $ 4,000 $ 6,888 $ 5,897 ë Special Rate Loans $ 2,000 $ 1,266 $ 1,313 ë Service Year Award and Gifts $ë Allowances Executive Middle Senior Employee Management 2012 Average monthly basic salary of 3,573 Thailand based employees. Complimenting with basic compensation, PTTEP emphasizes on benefits that assist our employees to achieve balance in their personal well-being goals throughout their pace in life being it home loan interest subsidy, long-term educational leave option, employeesû child education assistance, and retirement preparation program. PTTEPûs employees enjoy health benefits and coverage that extends care to family members, and extends beyond. In addition, our voluntary defined benefit plan allows employees to opt in contributing from 2 percent to 15 percent into the plan and PTTEP will contribute 15 percent of monthly basic salary. Newly initiated in 2012, the Employee Joint Investment Program (EJIP) entitle employees to share long-term ownership by stock option at 2 to 10 percent of basic salary and the company will contribute with the same amount. All in all, we are proud to live by our principles in sharing values, delivering equal opportunities, and creating a rewarding workplace for our people to spend a lifelong career with us. The aggregate totals of plan coverage are available in the Annual Report. Lifelong employment with PTTEP is an enriched experience through a rewarding career path, developmental program that respects individualûs choice, transitional management plan from junior to retirement. Equal opportunities are provided at any age and gender. PTTEP is supportive of employees in parenthood through leave option and maternity facilities at our head office. 2012 New Hire Male Female 100% 100% 168 59 15 15 14 14 2 131 152 Male Female 19 Number of employee returned to work after parental leave Age over 50 Age 30-50 Age below 30 years old years old years old Number of employee taken parental leave 80 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Diversity in Workplace çWe believe diversity of our employees bring richness to our work environments. Diverse perspectives enhance the companyûs line of sight to risks and opportunities, increase creativity and ultimately strengthen our competitive advantages as a sustainable organization. PTTEP is committed to diversity and to equal opportunity in all aspects of employment. We do not tolerate discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, age, national origin, disability, or under any category protected under the laws of communities in which we do business.é Yupawadee Valayapetre, Senior Vice President, Human Resources Division PTTEP believes that building an inclusive culture that embraces differences will contribute in a high performance organization and innovation, and diversity in the leadership group will enhance the decision-making process. Diversity will also promote a better connection with people and authorities in areas where we operate and strengthening our global presence. Our business ethics spell out non-discrimination due to the similarity or differences in terms of race, gender, age, religion or any other status unrelated to operation of work. Gender wise, female workforce remains approximately one third of our total workforce in the past three years. Similarly, non-Thai employees constitute 2 percent of PTTEPûs workforce. While we do not set specific diversity target, we are fully support equal opportunity and will track percentage of female in management. 2012 Thailand Employee 2,500 36.53% 40% Age over 61 19% 33.66% 50 years old 35% 2,000 789 30% 1,500 21.21% 25% Age over 656 31% 30-50 years old 20% 13.64% 1,000 15% 272 1,371 10% 500 84 Age below 516 45% 536 5% 30 years old 9 312 57 0% Executive Middle Senior Employee 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 (Level 17 up) Management (Level 12-13) (Level 11 (Level 14-16) and below) Male Female % female Male Female PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 81 Employee Engagement PTTEP believes that an engaged workforce is critical for the execution of our strategy. Engagement is about creating a motivated working environment, where employees are aligned and energized to contribute to the companyûs success. PTTEP conducts an employee engagement survey every other year. The questions in this survey were structured to address factors analysis, supervisor practice, job satisfaction, work environment, leading organization, work collaboration, work focus, total reward practice, reward communication and organization culture. In 2011, over 1,800 employees completed the online and paper surveys and through focused groups. This represents a very high response rate of 70 percent. PTTEP conducts benchmarking with average score of companies in Thailand, Fortune 100 and the oil and gas industry. While 2011 Employee Engagement Index was measured at 4.18 out of 5, we dedicated 2012 to build on plans and improved areas employees identified as major concerns. Top priority was to enhance total reward practices towards pay per performance. We initiated two parallel programs to answer this concern. 1) Establish a program to ensure that each and every employee set individual KPI effectively as a basis for individual evaluation. 2) Encourage continuous coaching mechanism to ensure that team leaders provide constructive coaching & feedback throughout the year to gain mutual understanding on expectations and performance. By the end of 2012, 85 percent of permanent staffs set individual KPIs. Our next Employee engagement survey is scheduled for March 2013 with the continuing theme on Total Reward Practice. Our next Employee Engagement Survey is scheduled for March 2013 with the continuing theme on Total Reward Practice. 82 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Ability of PTTEP to Attract and Retain Best Talent in Thailand There is increasing competition of skilled workers and specialists as a result of growth in the industrial sector, especially in the chemical and petroleum business. Until now, PTTEP has not been directly affected by the competition for the best talent available. Our pool of employees has been increasing year on year and our strategic recruitment plan meets with our expectations. Our approach to attract and retain the best talent available consists of ë Define Technical Career Ladder (TCL) for specialist by focusing the technical job families as a priority including geosciences & reservoir engineering, drilling & well engineering ë Implement a long term strategic hiring plan in accordance with our business strategy in exploration and production to prevent skill shortage ë Provide stock options for employee to build ownership Since 2011, our workforce grew to 4,080 or 12 percent increase. Our voluntary turnover rate increase from 6 percent in 2011 to 7 percent in 2012 comparing to 8.87 percent of another oil and gas company which known for high turnover rate of skilled employees. Our recruitment activity is still strong in 2012 with 531 new employees being recruited. We also rolled out our equity plan for our employees to share the future with PTTEP through the EJIP program. Turnover Rate New Hire 250 7% 700 18.4% 20% 5.8% 6% 600 200 5.1% 14.9% 5% 500 15% 4.5% 13.5% 150 4% 400 10% 100 3% 300 2% 200 5% 50 1% 100 0% 0% 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Male Female Turnover Rate Male Female New Hire Rate PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 83 84 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 ENVIRONMENT 2012 2011 2010 Hydrocarbon production Production from domestic operating asset (BOE) 96,282,937 84,441,888 90,508,275 Production from domestic operating asset (tonnes) 13,151,813 11,531,232 12,266,548 Energy consumption Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 20,377,244 18,886,907 18,642,201 Indirect Energy Consumption (in term of primary 29,231 29,440 29,910 energy source) (GJ) Energy Intensity (GJ/MBOE) 212 224 206 Energy Intensity (GJ/tonne production) 1.55 1.64 1.52 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (GJ) Stationary Combustion Fuel Gas (GJ) 17,445,015 16,129,024 16,512,166 Stationary Combustion Diesel (GJ) 101,366 201,955 142,484 Mobile Combustion Diesel / Gasoline (GJ) 2,830,864 2,555,928 1,987,550 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (GJ) Electricity purchased (GJ) 29,231 29,440 29,910 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) GHG Intensity (tonnes CO2 equivalent/KBOE) 46.0 32.6 37.9 GHG Intensity (tonnes CO2 equivalent/tonne production) 337 239 279 Direct total GHGs (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 4,431,143 2,749,333 3,426,599 Flare (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 2,799,173 1,354,428 2,003,372 Stationary Combustion (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 1,266,652 1,082,547 1,140,732 Mobile Combustion (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 208,510 186,163 144,836 Fugitive emission (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 152,171 126,196 137,658 Fugitive of fluorinate gas (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 4,638 -† -† Indirect total GHGs (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 1,649 1,675 1,455 Other relevant indirect GHG Emission (Scope 3) 12,817 10,978 7,623 Flare Total Flaring (MMscf) 44,050 20,812 31,982 Hydrocarbon Flaring (tonnes) 1,015,134 482,983 735,314 Hydrocarbon flaring Intensity (tonnes/KBOE) 10.5 5.7 8.1 Acid gases and VOCs Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (tonnes) 15,264 7,194 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (tonnes NO2) 9,228 7,587 Sulphur oxides (SOx) (tonnes SO2) 571 517 Ozone-depleting emissions CFCs/halons/trichloroethane (tonnes) Hydrochlorouorocarbons (HCFCs) (tonnes) PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 85 2012 2011 2010 Hydrocarbon & Chemical Spill and Discharges Operational significant spills number, volume (tonnes) 7,5.87 14,6.00 13,21.18 (Domestic = 5, 0.12 / International = 2, 5.75) Hydrocarbons volume (tonnes) 7,5.87 13,0.75 12,21.18 (Domestic = 5, 0.12 / International = 2, 5.75) Non-Hydrocarbons (tonnes) 0 1,5.25 1,0.000001 (Domestic = 0 / International = 0) LOPC case, rate (per million man-hours) 4,0.23 (Domestic : case 3, rate = 0.21 / International : case = 1, rate = 0.58) Water Water withdrawn excluding once through cooling 1,772,324 1,133,491 1,132,319 water (cubic meters) Once Through cooling water (cubic meters) 68,214,995 63,136,840 64,663,784 Total water reuse (cubic meters) 7,440 7,300 5,850 Produced water injection (cubic meters) 5,559,511 5,330,736 4,609,101 Waste disposal Hazardous waste (tonnes) 33,874 18,235 19,563 Drilling mud and cutting waste (tonne) 32,430 16,999 16,795 Other hazardous waste (tonne) 1,444 1,236 2,768 Non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 873 588 532 Transported hazardous under the Basel 429 515 972 Convention (tonnes) Investing in managing our environmental $5.96 $4.45 $6.21 impacts Treatment and Disposal expenses (USD million) $3.77 $2.44 $4.66 Protection, Management and Investments (USD million) $2.19 $2.00 $1.55 Percentage of Prevention Cost in total environment 37% 45% 25% expense Investment in Renewable Energy Legal compliance Fines, penalties and settlements 0 0 (Number) Domestic only Fines, penalties and settlements 0 0 (USD million) Domestic only Remarks: Material ë This indicator related to the amount of hydrocarbon produced from well which is reported as Hydrocarbon production. Emission to Air ë Other relevant indirect GHG emission (scope 3) included domestic (Thailand) air travelling and production transportation at S1. ë Volume of hydrocarbon flaring was calculated using generic hydrocarbon production factor that resulted in overestimated figures. Specific calculation methodology will be applied in 2013. ë Ozone depleting substance data are being verified and will be available in the upcoming year. Water ë Water reuse from canteen were used for gardening at S1. ë No produced water discharge during 2010 2012. Waste ë Waste from non-routine operation (e.g. construction, spill clean-up) cannot be separated. ë Onshore drill cutting is reported as part of EN22 (Hazardous waste disposal). We are in process to enhance data consolidation system. This indicator both onshore and offshore (i.e. GBN, GBS, Arthit) will be reported in full in 2013. Spill ë Spill included domestic and international projects. 86 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 HEALTH & SAFETY 2012 2011 2010 Workforce Exposure (Hour) 32,026,853 25,575,703 16,848,738 (Domestic = 23,977,929 / International = 8,048,924) Employees 7,610,834 4,532,404 3,544,555 (Domestic = 6,150,859 / International = 1,459,975) Contractors 24,416,019 21,043,299 13,304,183 (Domestic = 17,827,070 / International = 6,588,949) Fatalities Total number 0 0 1 (Domestic = 0 / International = 0) Employees 0 0 0 (Domestic = 0 / International = 0) Contractors 0 0 1 (Domestic = 0 / International = 0) Fatal accident rate (FAR) 0 0 5.93 (Domestic = 0 / International = 0) Injuries Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 1.87 2.07 2.43 (Domestic = 1.38 / International = 3.35) Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) 0.19 0.35 0.59 (Domestic = 0.17 / International = 0.25) Restricted Work Case (RWC) 24 14 11 (Domestic = 10 / International = 14) Medical Treatment Case (MTC) 30 30 20 (Domestic = 19 / International = 11) Near Miss 142 127 228 (Domestic = 85 / International = 57) Illnesses Total recordable occupational illness frequency (TROIF) 0.06 0.23 0.17 (Domestic = 0.08 / International = 0) Illnesses per million working hours (employees only) Absentee rate in hours per million work hours PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 87 HUMAN CAPITAL 2012 2011 2010 Male Female Male Female Male Female Workforce Total Workforce 2,732 1,348 2,479 1,160 2,055 1,008 PTTEP 1,191 665 1,099 589 972 530 PTTEP Services 1,149 568 1,067 487 896 417 Staff by Employment Type Permanent (All Full time) 2,114 1,063 1,957 953 1,671 826 Fixed term 735 340 689 319 565 261 Staff by Region Thailand 2,340 1,233 2,166 1,076 1,868 947 Australia 217 59 186 43 122 33 Oman 55 6 59 6 50 8 Myanmar 66 34 29 23 15 20 Other international 54 16 39 12 New Employee Hire by Age Bracket <30 years 152 168 194 141 140 111 30 50 years 131 59 181 54 81 33 >50 years 19 2 26 1 14 1 Total 302 229 401 196 235 145 New Hire (Percentage of Total) 12.9% 18.6% 18.5% 18.2% 12.6% 15.3% Turnover by Age Bracket <30 years 33 51 28 47 23 30 30 50 years 74 19 48 18 29 23 >50 years 27 2 20 3 17 5 Total 134 72 96 68 69 58 Turnover rate Percentage of Total 5.7% 5.8% 4.4% 6.3% 3.7% 6.1% Turnover by Type Voluntary Resignation 127 72 86 66 62 55 Dismissal 0 0 0 0 0 0 Retirement 5 0 10 2 6 3 Death not related to work 2 0 1 0 0 0 Parental Leave Employees entitled to parental leave 2,109 1,221 1,950 1,074 1,650 945 Coverage 77% 91% 79% 93% 80% 77% Employee taken parental leave 15 29 23 32 18 16 Employee returned to work after parental leave 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Average Training Hours Average All Employees 52.0 43.3 40.9 48.6 53.9 73.5 PTTEP 58.3 55.1 38.3 62.3 44.0 80.7 PTTEP Services 45.6 29.5 43.5 32.0 64.8 64.4 88 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 2012 2011 2010 Male Female Male Female Male Female Composition of Governance Bodies Board of Directors 14 1 14 1 15 1 Executives 57 9 45 8 38 6 Middle Management 312 84 282 70 261 9 Senior and Professional 536 274 478 234 400 188 Employee 1,435 866 1,361 764 1,169 694 Basic Salary Executive $12,348 $10,600 $12,026 $10,048 $11,142 $10,259 Middle Management $6,888 $5,897 $7,207 $5,577 $6,800 $5,241 Senior and Professional $3,223 $3,018 $3,190 $2,958 $3,120 $3,017 Employee $1,266 $1,313 $1,236 $1,269 $1,212 $1,253 Average $2,734 $2,072 $2,669 $1,982 $2,603 $1,909 2012 2011 2010 Number % Number % Number % Gender diversity Women in workforce 1,233 35% 1,076 33% 897 32% Women in professional positions 274 34% 234 33% 188 32% Women in management positions 84 21% 70 20% 9 3% Women in senior leadership positions 10 12% 9 13% 7 12% Ratio basic salary women/men 0.76 0.74 0.73 Male Female Male Female Male Female Integrity Training hours concerning Human Rights, 784 1,170 208 260 1,024 1,149 Anti-Bribery, and Corruption PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 89 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 2011 2010 Total Contribution $6.37 In Kinds (USD million) In Cash (USD million) $4.67 Volunteerism (USD million) Management Overhead (USD million) $1.70 Social investment by region Estimated voluntary social investment (USD million) $4.67 Estimated social investment spend outside of Thailand $0.71 $0.81 $0.82 (USD million) Myanmar Social investment by contribution type $4.67 Economic development $0.23 Education $0.27 Public Infrastructure development including Health and Safety $0.08 Access to energy Environmental Conservation $0.45 Art and Culture $0.10 Other Spending including philanthropy $3.54 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 2012 2011 2010 Total Revenues (USD million) 7,021 5,685 4,532 Employee total compensation and benefits* (USD million) **109.4 151.42 114.57 Operating expenses (USD million) 706 625 458 Payments to governments (USD million) 1,886 1,615 1,303 Payments to providers of capital (USD million) 766 683 443 This table is based on data contained within the 2012 Annual Report and Form 56-1. * Includes pension and other post-employment benefit costs. ** In 2012, compensation (salary, bonus, and contribution to the provident fund) of PTTEP and its subsidiaries (PTTEP Siam)û employees and wages of seconded workers totaled USD 109.4 million (3,291,102,103 baht) (only PTTEP and PTTEP Siam and bonus paid in January 2013) 90 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 During the reporting year, PTTEP received the following awards: International Recognition Thailand Recognition 14 Sep 12 2012 Thailandûs Top Corporate Values as 22 Nov 12 çTop Corporate Governance Report Awardé the Top company value of 401,875 Million Baht from SET Awards 2012 by the Stock Exchange of in Thailand and Industrial Resources sector for 2 Thailand and Money and Banking Magazine consecutive years 21 Feb 12 Board of the Year Awards 2010/11 10 May 12 The Environment award of BG Chairmanûs Awards in 2012 for Environmentally Responsible for 30 Jan 12 Security Analystsû Association çSAA Award Produced Water Management for the Bongkot Field for Listed Companies 2011é 30 Mar 12 The 2nd Asian Excellence Recognition Awards 2012 for outstanding performance of Best Investor Relations for the listed companies PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 91 92 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 PREPARING THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Reporting Practices This Sustainability Report highlights PTTEPûs economic, social and environmental activities for fiscal year 2012, which ran from January 1, 2012, through December 31, 2012. The most recent report, the 2011 Sustainability Report issued 2012, March, are available electronically on our website as well as historical data. Some important events that took place after the close of 2012 are also covered here; their inclusion reflects the impact or influence the events may have on PTTEPûs future direction. Sustainability practices, new initiatives in operations and other opportunities are described under each chapterûs performance. PTTEP continues to seek quality and transparency in our management and reporting. All information contained in this report is based on materiality assessment by PTTEP 2012 Sustainability Report Working Committee (detail is provided in Chapter 2). Various data points are confirmed internally through staffs and systems established to collect and review data quarterly and externally through third parties expert review. PTTEP used numerous data measurement techniques in responding to the GRI Indicator Protocols. Where data is not provided will be noted and explained. The quantitative financial information, environmental and social investments and expenditure meet the accounting standards assured by the Board of Directors, Internal Audit Committee, and external auditors. We use the framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to measure and report on economic, social and environmental performance. GRI G3.1OGSS Index for fiscal year 2012 indicators is located on page 97-100 of this Report. For enhanced reliability, this report has been verified by PricewaterhouseCoopers ABAS Ltd. (PwC), a third-party assurance agency. PricewaterhouseCoopers conducted a limited assurance review of 8 GRI indicators. The assurance statement can be found on page 96. PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 93 Scope and Boundary During the reporting period, Bongkot Southûs production commenced in February 2012. PTTEP production. PTTEP also successfully acquired the entire shares capital of Cove Energy Plc. with. An overview of the operational structure, legal form as well as market serves are available in our Annual Report, Form 56-1 form and on our website: www.pttep.com/en/aboutPttep Consistent with our previous reporting, for 2011, we focus primarily on activities and data related to the domestic operating assets, which comprised approximately 56 percent of PTTEPûs reserve at the end of 2012. Except where noted, this report does not cover information related to PTTEP oversea operations. All PTTEPûs financial results, however, are reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles at which joint venture and affiliate operations are consolidated through an equity basis. While the scope of this Report is restricted to our operations in Thailand, we acknowledge our impacts extend through international operations including the exploration, development and production. In order to benchmark with OGP (the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers), Health and Safety including Spill statistics for overall PTTEP (includes both Thailand and International Assets) are reported in page 57 and 73. The scope and boundary comprises all international assets and Thailand operations, which includes following projects: Bongkot Project (Concessions; B15, B16, B17, G12/48), Arthit Project (Concessions; B14, B15, B16, G8/50), S1 Project (Concession; S1), PTTEP 1 Project (Concession; PTTEP 1), B6/27 Project (Concession; B6/27), L22/43 Project (Concession; L22/43), L53/43 and L54/43 Project (Concessions; L53/43 and L54/43), L21 and 28/48 Project (Concessions; L21 and 28/48), A4, 5 and 6/48 Project (Concessions; A4/48, A5/48 and A6/48), PTTEP Petroleum Development Support Base (PSB) (Songkhla and Ranong) and PTTEP Head Office at the Energy Complex. Separate statistics of Domestic and International Assets with overall figures are available in SD Performance Summary part. However, for other Environmental performance the scope and boundary comprise Bongkot Project, Arthit Project, S1 Project and PTTEP 1 Project. We strive to provide qualitative content as appropriate. Going forward, the majority of the companyûs growth is expected to come from the international operations. As a result, we establish a goal of incorporating performance of all operating companies into our efforts and reporting. Stakeholder Engagement PTTEP believes that effective engagement and partnerships with stakeholders in the wider society will lead the organization to continue on its path to sustainable growth, hand in hand with the growth of the community, society and the global community. Stakeholders are defined as entities or individuals that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the organizationûs activities, products, and/or services; and whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the organization to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objectives. This includes entities or individuals whose rights under law or international conventions provide them with legitimate claims in relation to the organization. 94 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Stakeholders can include those who are invested in the organization (e.g., employees, shareholders, suppliers) as well as those who have other relationships to the organization (e.g., vulnerable groups within local communities, civil society). Re-statements of information Unless otherwise specified, all re-statement of information, data, baseline performance deviate from those of the previous report are provided within context together with annotation. All human resources for 2012 is all reported on the basis of aforementioned boundary differentiate from 2012 report that has both PTTEP and PTTEP Services. There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods. Minor changes are provided in annotation within context. CONTACT POINT This report aims at communicating our commitment and performance to all our stakeholders. We have changed the way we report our sustainability performance to relate the opportunities and challenges we face, as well as to clearly state our position. In order to evolve more insights, we welcome your inputs and feedback. This report is designed for our stakeholders at large. Further detailed information is available through our websites, prints, and communication channels as follows: 1 2 Investors & Shareholders Students & Professionals Contact the Investor To learn more about: Relations team, go to: http://www.pttep.com/en/investorRelations.aspx Careers at PTTEP, go to: www.pttep.com/en/Career.aspx Exploration and Productionand related challenges and issues, go to: www.pttep.com 3 To Learn More About the PTTEPûs Corporate Responsibility 4 go to: http://www.pttep.com/en/CorporateSocialResponsibility.aspx For any Other Questions Call: +66 (0)2 537 4000 or go to: www.pttep.com PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 95 96 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 GRI CONTENT INDEX Strategy and Profile GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) 1.1 CEO statement 8 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 8, 24 2.1 Name of the organization 5 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 6-7 2.3 Operational structure Web1 2.4 Location of organizationûs headquarter 7 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 6-7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Web1 2.7 Markets served AR37 2.8 Scale of the company AR26 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR27 2.10 Awards 91, Web2 3.1 Reporting period 93 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 93 3.3 Reporting cycle 93 3.4 Contact point 95 3.5 Process for defining report content 15, 93 3.6 Boundary of the report 94 3.7 Limitations on the scope/boundary of the report 94 3.8 Basis for reporting on other partners 93 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculations 93 3.10 Re-statements 95 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 94 3.12 GRI content index 97-102 3.13 Independent assurance 96 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 97 GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) 4.1 Governance structure 23, Web3 1-10 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Web3 is executive officer 4.3 Members in the highest governance body Web3 4.4 Mechanisms for providing recommendations 95, Web4 1-10 4.5 Linkage between compensation and performance 19 4.6 Conflicts of interest Web5 4.7 Qualifications of the governance body members Web3 4.8 Mission or values, codes of conduct and principles 3, Web6 4.9 Procedures to identify and manage of ESG performance 18 4.10 Evaluating board effectiveness 24 4.11 Precautionary principle 25 7 4.12 External initiatives on economic, environmental and social 25, 31, 32, 1-10 49, 71 4.13 Memberships in industry associations 28-29 4.14 Stakeholder groups 28-29 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 28-29 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 28-29 4.17 Stakeholdersû topics and concerns 28-29 Economic GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach Economic 53-54, 59, 1, 4, 6, 7 66-67 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 89, 90 SE4, SE13 EC2 Implications of climate change 38 7 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 80, 89 EC4 Financial assistance Not Applicable EC5 Ratio of standard entry level wage to minimum 80 1 local wage EC6 Locally based suppliers 50 SE5, SE7 EC7 Local hiring 88 SE5, SE6 6 98 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) EC8 Indirect economic impacts 89 SE4 EC9 Description of direct economic impacts 59-65 SE6 OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves 59-65 AR and production Environment GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach Environment 20-21, 31 7, 8, 9 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Not Applicable 8 EN2 Percentage of materials recycled Not Applicable 8, 9 EN3 Direct energy consumption 31, 85 E2 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 85 E2 8 OG2 Renewable energy investment 86 OG3 Renewable energy generation Not Applicable EN8 Water withdrawal 86 E6 8 EN9 Water sources affected by water withdrawal 34 E6 8 EN10 Water recycled and reused 86 E6 8, 9 EN11 Location of land adjacent to high biodiversity areas 35-37 E5 8 EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity 35-37 E5 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 35-37 E5 8 EN14 Strategies and plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 35-37 E5 8 OG4 Operating sites with biodiversity risk assessment 35-37 EN15 IUCN Red List species 37 E5 8 EN16 Direct and indirect GHG 85 E1, E4 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG 85 E1 8 EN18 Initiative to reduce GHG 40-41 E1 7, 8, 9 EN19 Emission of ODS 85 E7 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other emissions 32, 85 E7 8 EN21 Water discharge 86 E9 8 EN22 Waste disposal 33, 86 E10 8 OG5 Volume of formation or produced water 34, 86 EN23 Spills 86 E8 8 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 99 GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 85 OG7 Amount of drilling waste 86 EN24 Weight of transported Waste under Basel Convention 33 8 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Not Applicable 7, 8, 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and packaging reclaimed Not Applicable 8, 9 OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulfur content in fuels Not Applicable EN28 Environmental fines and sanctions 86 8 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 86 7, 8, 9 Labor Practices and Decent Work GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach Labor Practice 20-21, 75-83 1, 3, 6 LA1 Total workforce 76, 88 LA2 New hires/turnover by age, gender, region 76, 83, 88 6 LA3 Benefits for employees 80, 89 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining Not Applicable 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice for operational changes Not Applicable 3 LA6 Workforce represented in health and safety committees Not Material HS1, SE16 1 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, fatality 49, 73, 87 HS3 1 LA8 Training regarding serious diseases 74 HS2 1 LA10 Employee training 75, 88 SE17 1 LA12 Employee performance review 78-79 SE17 1 LA13 Composition of governance bodies 89 SE15 1, 6 LA14 Men to women salary ratios 89 1, 6 LA15 Return to work 88 Human Rights GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights 20-21, 74 1-6 HR1 Agreement that include human rights clauses 46-47 SE8, SE9 1-6 HR2 Suppliers/contractors undergone HR screening 46-47 SE8, SE9 1-6 100 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) HR3 Employee training on HR issues 26, 89 SE8 1-6 HR4 Non-discrimination 27 SE18 1, 2, 6 HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 27, 37 1, 2, 3 HR6 Child labor 27, 37 1, 2, 5 HR7 Forced and compulsory labor 27, 37 1, 2, 4 HR9 Violation involving rights of indigenous people 69 1, 2 HR10 Human rights review and/ or impact assessment 68-69 1, 2 OG9 Operations where indigenous are present or affected 69 HR11 Grievances related to human rights 27, 69 1, 2 Society GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach Society 20-21, 59, 69 SE1, SE2, 10 SE3, SE4, SE5 SO1 Programs on impacts of operations 69 SE1, SE2, SE3, SE4, SE5 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 26 SE11, SE12 10 SO3 Anti-corruption training 26, 89 SE11 10 SO4 Response to corruption incidents 26-27 SE11 10 SO5 Public policy on lobbying 28-29 SE14 1-10 SO6 Political contribution Not Applicable SE14 10 SO8 Fines/penalties for non-compliance 27, 86 SO9 Operations with potential/actual impacts 69 SO10 Preventions and mitigations measures 69 OG10 Significant disputes with local and indigenous peoples 69 OG11 Numbers of sites that have been decommissioned 6 OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place 69 OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 55-57, 75 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 101 Product Responsibility GRI Description Page IPIECA/OGP UNGC Index (Principles) DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach Product 20-21 1, 8 Responsibility PR1 Life-cycle stages evaluations of products and services Not Applicable HS4 1 PR3 Product information requirements Not Applicable HS4 8 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws on marketing 86 HS4 PR9 Fines/penalties for noncompliance with product use laws 86 OG14 Biofuels produced and purchased Not Applicable Information response to these indicators appears on our website: 1 http://www.pttep.com/en/aboutPttep_PTTEPGroup.aspx 2 http://www.pttep.com/en/aboutPttep_AwardsRecognitions.aspx 3 http://www.pttep.com/en/aboutPttep_Overview_2.aspx 4 http://www.pttep.com/en/ContactUs.aspx?Section 5 http://www.pttep.com/en/CSR_CorporateGovermance_CodeofBusinessConduct.aspx 6 http://www.pttep.com/en/aboutPttepVisionAndMission.aspx 102 PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 READERSû FEEDBACK Your suggestions will be used as inputs to improve the quality of the Sustainability Report. Please be a part to our development 1. Please rate your satisfaction in the contents of PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 Completeness High Medium Low Dissatisfied Topics High Medium Low Dissatisfied Interestedness High Medium Low Dissatisfied Easy to understand High Medium Low Dissatisfied Report design High Medium Low Dissatisfied Overall satisfaction of the report High Medium Low Dissatisfied 2. Please rate your interest in the contents of PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 The Commitment High Medium Low Not interested PTTEP Sustainable Development Context High Medium Low Not interested Sustainable Development Management High Medium Low Not interested at PTTEP Governance, Risk Management High Medium Low Not interested and Compliance Responsible Operation High Medium Low Not interested Optimum Returns on Capital High Medium Low Not interested Wealth Contribution High Medium Low Not interested Technologically Advanced High Medium Low Not interested High Performance Organization High Medium Low Not interested SD Performance Summary High Medium Low Not interested About This Report High Medium Low Not interested 3. What additional contents would you like to find in PTTEP Sustainability Report 2013? ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. Please provide additional comments to improve our report. ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. Please provide personnel information Gender Male Female Age Less than 20 20-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 Higher than 60 6. Please specify types of readerûs perspective? Shareholder/Investor Governmental agency Media Supplier Employee Research/Academic institution Student NGO Communities surrounding PTTEPûs operation areas Other. Please specify: ................................................................................................................................................................................... PTTEP would like to thank for your cooperation PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 103 „∫Õπÿ≠“µ‡≈¢∑’Ë ªπ (π) 3225 ª≥».®µÿ®—°√ ∫√‘°“√∏ÿ√°‘®µÕ∫√—∫ ∂â“Ω“° àß„πª√–‡∑»‰¡àµâÕßºπ÷°µ√“‰ª√…≥’¬“°√ °√ÿ≥“ àß ∫√‘…—∑ ªµ∑. ”√«®·≈–º≈‘µªî‚µ√‡≈’¬¡ ®”°—¥ (¡À“™π) ΩÉ“¬‚§√ß°“√‡æ◊ËÕ —ß§¡ »Ÿπ¬å‡Õπ‡πÕ√å¬’Ë§Õ¡‡æ≈Á°´å Õ“§“√ ‡Õ 555/1 ∂ππ«‘¿“«¥’√—ß ‘µ ·¢«ß®µÿ®—°√ ‡¢µ®µÿ®—°√ °∑¡. 10900 Printed on recycled paper with soy ink
