Communication on Progress 2013 UN Global Compact Report Read on >> UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Contents Statement of Support 3 BCD Travel 4 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Principles 4 Responsible Travel Management 5 Human Rights 6 Our Commitment 6 Our Systems 7 Our Activities 9 Our Performance 10 The onboard logo is a marque that represents the pathos of our Corporate Social Responsibility. It celebrates the culture that we Labor Standards 13 strive to instill in our day-to-day business dealings as well as our Our Commitment 13 personal commitment to becoming better global citizens. Our Systems 14 Our Activities 15 Our Performance 16 Environment 17 Our Commitment 17 Our Systems 18 Our Activities 20 Our Performance 21 Anti-Corruption 24 Our Commitment 24 Our Processes 24 BCD Travel Our Activities 24 Europalaan 400 Our Performance 24 3526 KS Utrecht The Netherlands Partnerships for Development 25 Our “Making a Difference” Foundation 25 www.bcdtravel.com Haiti Project 26 Growth and Emerging Markets 28 2 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Statement of Support The Haiti Project is just one outgrowth of BCD Travel's commitment to the principles of social innovation that business organizations do not operate in What a difference a year makes! After a turbulent 2011 full isolation of other parts of society, but are tightly linked to people and of social, economic and political chaos, expectations were communities. As a global company, we know that business decisions can have far-reaching effects. While our financial performance serves as an important set high for 2012 -and it was certainly an eventful year. indicator of success, it is not the sole compass guiding our company. Improving the lives of people, particularly business travelers, is at the core of what we do. For BCD Travel, 2012 was an important year, not only in terms of how Leveraging our business strengths to improve the society in which we operate global events affected our operations, but also in terms of milestones is an essential part of business success. In 2013, we are institutionalizing these and achievements. We celebrated our Silver Jubilee and used the occasion principles and identifying opportunities to fulfill our commitment to communities. to acknowledge our strong global partnerships and the importance relationships play in our overall success. In 1987, Dutch financier John Just as corporate social responsibility is good for business, successful business Fentener van Vlissingen founded our company with the vision of serving performance is essential to our ability to provide social benefit. Last year we corporate travelers around the world. Twenty-five years later, that vision set upon a new strategic direction for the company, focusing on our essential lives with BCD Travel, a global leader in the business of corporate travel. purpose as a company and the value we provide our customers and partners. We revisited our core mission and vision to codify values we already embodied As employers, we want to bring on board people who understand partnerin our corporate culture. Together, the mission and vision bring focus and clarity ship, and help them thrive and grow professionally in a challenging global to both our present responsibilities and our future goals. Kathy Jackson environment. For our corporate customers, we're trusted advisers, positioning ourselves where we're needed. We are committed to their strategic Our updated global online strategy includes new use policies and guides that Executive Vice President allow our people to communicate responsibly and confidently, using new Global Client Management growth while championing the well-being of their travelers. With suppliers, technological tools and communication channels. If properly used, social media & Advito / onboard we work together to bring the travel industry forward in all markets. may be powerfully deployed in service of corporate social responsibility. The Executive Sponsor We believe that as a responsible private global corporation, we are first step is information security. Our mandatory security awareness training is . better positioned than governments to drive the kinds of social innovations part of a program to protect customers and employees from security threats. that make the greatest impact on people's lives. We continue to focus on In some ways, we have come farther than we imagined in our first 25 years in issues around sustainability, transparency, personalization and authenticity business. That success now allows us to set our sights on loftier goals in terms in our obligation as a corporation. Since joining the United Nation's Global of profit, innovations and contributions to society. Our new vision statement Compact in 2008, BCD Travel has internalized its principles and we have will help us focus our efforts to promote global business growth and positive embraced our identity as a global citizen. social impact by improving our clients' performance, their travelers lives and Last year we launched the Haiti Project, our first global employee fundraiser communities worldwide. As a a global citizen, we are committed to this in support of the construction of a school in Mirebalais, Haiti. The school endeavor through our socially responsible activities, by maintaining an ethical will house 500 children, offering each the opportunity of an education. The code of business and by meeting our obligations towards the environment. school received financial backing from our shareholders and partners. John Snyder However, we are most gratified that the Haiti Project received significant John Snyder Kathy Jackson Global President & support from our employees. Their participation reaffirms our belief that Global President & Executive Vice President Global Client Chief Operating Officer the greatest successes result from the collective efforts of many. Chief Operating Officer Management & Advito / onboard Executive Sponsor 3 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report BCD Travel  Our Commitment to Ethical Business Practices The expert in travel for a growing global work force, BCD While BCD Travel’s business practices must be consistent with the business Travel is the world’s third largest corporate travel management and social practices of the communities in which we operate, we believe company. Our mission is to simplify and streamline travel that honesty is the essential standard of integrity in any locale. Although local customs may vary, BCD Travel’s activities are to be based on honesty, services and strategic business management to benefit integrity and respect. our clients’ organizations on every level, from the bottom Our Commitment to People line to the business traveler. Our commitment to service BCD Travel is committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination and innovation means that some of the largest and bestwhere all employees can fulfill their potential based on merit and ability. We strive to deal with everyone in a fair and open manner and embrace known companies in the world entrust us with their travel and accept differences in others. We are committed to being an agent of management services. positive change in the communities in which we live and work. Our Commitment to the Community Our Corporate Social Responsibility Principles BCD Travel is committed to being an agent of positive change within our wider communities. We encourage our employees’ efforts to support BCD Travel’s voluntary commitment to a high level of social responsibility the communities in which they live through social investment, business is the foundation of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Principles. relationships, and participation in charitable endeavors. As one of the largest corporate travel management companies in the world, we deem it vital to maintain our social activism at a level that Our Commitment to the Environment matches our economic capacity. BCD Travel is committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our employees. We are conscious of our responsibility to Together with our shareholders, BCD Holdings N.V., we regard a conserve resources and continuously look for ways to more efficiently use commitment to and investment in improving our local and global resources to reduce the environmental burden of waste generation and communities as an investment in our (and their) future – we believe in emissions to the air, water, and land. building for the “next next” generation. Our Commitment to Privacy/Data Protection Our CSR Principles focus on five key areas: ethical business practices, Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information can result in BCD Travel people, the community, the environment and privacy/data protection. and our customers failing to comply with industry best practices, compliance or legislative requirements. These events impact customer retention and result in financial or reputation damage. BCD Travel takes great care and responsibility with customer data and information systems. 4 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report BCD Travel Responsible Travel Management As a company, BCD Travel helps customers to align their travel program with their larger CSR goals. We deliver cost-effective results and environmental, social and ethical protection for local and global communities. Our strategic approach moves beyond the “greening” of travel. We offer comprehensive responsible travel management solutions that focus on both: Sustainability Measuring the environmental impact of business travel and taking steps to minimize the program’s carbon footprint. Solutions include: • Carbon emission reporting • Carbon off-setting Accountability Improving traveler wellbeing and security and promoting responsible standards throughout the travel supply chain. Solutions include: • Travel risk management • Traveler tracking • Medical repatriation Charity luncheon in Singapore for Jamiyah Home 5 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Commitment Our employees are the back bone of our business. Their dedication, productivity and experience make it possible for us to remain innovative and competitive. BCD Travel’s continued success is dependent upon our ability to meet the needs of our global and diverse workforce. BCD Travel is committed to user privacy in its products and services and seeks to provide a secure business environment for the protection of employees’ and customers’ private information. Security measures are BCD Travel is committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination employed regardless of the media on which information is stored (paper, where all employees can fulfill their potential based on merit and ability. overhead transparency, computer bits, etc.); systems which process it We strive to deal with everyone in a fair and open manner and embrace (personal computers, voicemail systems, etc.); or methods by which it is and accept differences in others. moved (electronic mail, face-to-face conversation, etc.). Information is also protected in a manner consistent with its classification. BCD Travel is committed to being an agent of positive change within our wider communities. We encourage our employees’ efforts to support In addition, BCD Travel ensures that our employees: the communities in which they live through social investment, business relationships, and participation in charitable endeavors. • are aware of their own human rights and respect the rights of others; BCD Travel is committed to providing a violence-free workplace. Acts or • have a substance-free working environment, which is free of threats of physical violence, including intimidation, harassment, and/ harassment; or coercion, that involve or affect the company or that occur in the • receive a fair compensation and benefit program and have a flexible workplace or in the conduct of company business off company property, workplace that serves the requirements of both the Company and the will not be tolerated. This prohibition against threats and acts of violence individual; applies to all persons involved in company operations, including, but not • have the opportunity to voice their complaints or concerns regarding limited to, BCD Travel personnel, contract workers, temporary employees, human rights abuses; and anyone else in the workplace or conducting company business off • have the opportunities and resources needed to enhance their company property. competencies and performance. 6 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Human Rights • BCD Travel works with suppliers and sub-contractors who are encouraged to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and SubOur Systems contractors, which stipulates our policy on human rights issues. BCD Travel operates the following systems and procedures • The human rights of our community at large are equally important. to ensure that our commitments to human rights issues Pertaining to the “Community” pillar within our CSR Principles, we are addressed. believe in being an agent of positive change through: BCD Travel operations: – Local Empowerment – Investment in our community begins with the • Our statements on human rights issues are clearly outlined within individual and we encourage our employees to initiate and support our global CSR Principles document, which has been distributed to all efforts to improve our local communities. employees and is also available on our Web site. Human rights policies are also highlighted on local intranet sites and in local employee and – Making a Difference – We proudly support our shareholder’s HR manuals. In the event that local laws are more restrictive than BCD organization-wide Making a Difference Foundation that is focused on Travel’s standards, employees must comply with the more stringent, supporting children’s causes around the globe. See page 25 for more applicable local laws. information. • BCD Travel has established a dedicated CSR Committee to provide – The Haiti Project – In partnership with the Great Commission Alliance, leadership and resources to help raise awareness of CSR issues BCD Travel created a fundraising program to support the future of (including human rights, labor standards, the environment and antithe children in Haiti by building the BCD School of Hope. See page 26 corruption) throughout the organization. This committee is made up for more information. of staff members from various functions across the globe who meet virtually each month to plan and harmonize current initiatives and – Talent Management – With our Talent Management initiative, we explore ways to further raise CSR awareness throughout the company. aim to achieve recognition as the “employer of choice” among competitors, increase employee engagement and satisfaction. • The majority of our locations around the world have a dedicated contact person to whom employees can turn for advice on human rights abuse – Emerging markets – Our partnership with licensees in emerging issues. markets helps these businesses and their employees secure their future role in a global marketplace by providing access to training, • Annual employee satisfaction surveys are carried out by a third party technology and opportunities for business growth. See page 28 for on a global scale. These surveys are one way in which employees voice more information. their opinions and raise any important issues. • BCD Travel regards with paramount importance the human rights of – Working with suppliers – BCD Travel works with suppliers and our internal staff to ensure that their data is protected and secure at all other business partners to encourage joint in-kind contributions to times. community initiatives. 7 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Human Rights Services for our clients: We also endeavor to protect our clients’ travelers by offering the following BCD Travel values its client relationships, taking great care and services: responsibility to manage and protect client data. As a result, BCD Travel recognizes that: • Travel Risk Management & Traveler Security Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information can result in BCD BCD Travel’s innovative risk management technology enables our Travel and our clients failing to comply with industry best practices, client to monitor their travelers’ security anywhere in the world. Our industry compliance, or applicable legislative requirements and DecisionSource platform provides crisis management reporting, preregulations. trip and on-trip compliance reporting, risk assessment and destination intelligence. The application offers instant access to accurate travel and Unscheduled downtime of the services and applications BCD Travel security information. In the event of a crisis, a plan can be immediately uses to process client information or that we provide to our clients executed to get travelers out of a high-risk area quickly. It monitors risk negatively affects our performance, reputation and client retention. across the globe, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, generating e-mail alerts to keep travelers informed and aware. These events can cause severe financial or reputation damage. • Medical Repatriation BCD Travel has taken extensive measures to protect corporate and Bringing home travelers who become sick or are injured while on a customer data which comply with legal provisions and BCD Travel’s business trip is a highly specialized and sensitive business, requiring international security standards, such as ISO 17799, ISO 27001 and PCIknowledge of both travel and medicine. BCD Travel works with a thirdDSS, from loss, manipulation, unauthorized access and falsification of data party specialist that gets patients home with the maximum of care and and information. minimum fuss. 8 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Human Rights Our Activities • Steered by our CSR Committee, BCD Travel has developed a set of CSR • Certified Security Professionals are dedicated to protecting assets in the Principles, which is made available in a variety of ways to our employees care of BCD Travel. These professionals maintain cutting-edge technical worldwide. These principles include detailed information on the expertise and professional designations such as Certified Information protection of human rights and have been endorsed at the highest level Security Manager (CISM) and Certified Information System Security in the company. Professional (CISSP). Information protection is integrated with BCD Travel operations and business alignment is maintained using steering • The CSR Committee carries out a yearly audit to ensure that our global and advisory committees and risk assessments. entities comply with human rights standards and the standards outlined in our CSR Principles document. • We have set up the Travel Disruptions pages on our homepage, a dashboard for clients experiencing travel disruptions. Customized for • All Regions report quarterly on their activities and progress within each region, these pages feature widgets for information about airport our CSR Principles, which covers data protection and security for both delays, weather links, local forecast and government alerts. employees and clients. • Crisis Management / Travel Risk Management is a fast moving, mutating • The Information Protection & Security Governance Committee target. In 2011 BCD Travel established a Global Crisis Management includes management from various parts of our organization. Human process on the premise that travelers, travel management, support resources, legal, operations, finance, information technology, internal entities and technology form a continuous stream of communication audit, industry relations and security management review the security and preventive action to provide traveler well-being. program frequently. Regional steering committees define the local impact and coordinate the implementation of the security program. • With publication of intelligence pieces and White Papers on topics such as Building a Travel Risk Management Plan and Responsible Travel • A number of our locations carry out audits of all work spaces through Management, BCD Travel fulfills the Duty of Care objective by providing an external company specializing in safety and ergonomic standards in clients sage advice on destination and security. the workplace, to ensure that our employees are working in a safe and comfortable environment. • The Global Crisis Management team coordinates all BCD Travel internal responsibilities and resources to monitor the world through multiple • Personnel are the foundation of the Information Protection and Security media sources: 24/7/365 for incidents that happen globally, and Program. Information security is included in job responsibilities. A incidents that have a direct or indirect impact on travel. During crisis formal, mandatory screening process is used along with confidentiality mode and after incidents, the team identifies potentially impacted agreements and ongoing training and awareness programs. Background travelers by pulling reports on global data through DecisionSource, BCD checks are performed on potential employees and contractors. Travel’s travel risk management and intelligence & analytics tool. 9 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Human Rights Our Performance • Our systems, processes and actions above ensure that our employees’ • Our data centers ensure that customer data remains secure while stored and travelers’ levels of satisfaction and security are raised. In addition we on BCD Travel production information systems. In 2012, BCD Travel help travelers stay informed, productive and safe while on the road. was re-certified for the internationally recognized standard Information Security Management ISO 27001:2005 which provides a framework for • Our CSR Principles document is provided to employees via local best practices in the management of information security. We were also intranet in six languages – English, Dutch, French, German, Spanish re-certified with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCIand Portuguese. New employees are provided with a copy of our CSR DSS) at EMEA Data centers in Germany, hosted by T-Systems. Principles document to ensure that they are aware of our commitment to support international human rights standards. We continue to promote • BCD Travel America successfully achieved PCI Compliant Merchant status our CSR Principles throughout our organization through training. in 2011 and has since continued to aggressively pursue PCI Compliant Service Provider Status. IP&S in the U.S. completed re-certification of its • Our global employee satisfaction survey was conducted in 2012, with PCI-DSS Merchant certification for Purchase Express (American Express 72.6% of the employee base participating up from 71.7% in 2011. With card) and Evalon (MasterCard, Visa, Diners Club and Discover cards). the increase in participation we also saw an improvement in all of the 19 categories evaluated. The company’s Overall Satisfaction score jumped • With a focus on enhancing the security awareness and training of U.S. and from 74.9 to 77.3, a significant improvement year over year, meeting our Canadian employees, our Information Protection & Security department enhanced strategic focus on PEOPLE. A further statement to that is the promoted Cyber Security Awareness Week. This campaign included online Engagement Index, which went up from 77.8 to 80.2. These results are contests to bring attention to the dangers of social engineering and social the voice and sentiment of our employees, a proclamation we take very networking sites. seriously and to heart; therefore, we will now conduct employee surveys every second year, allowing more time between evaluations to further • Our IP&S department added staff for compliance, fraud management, ISO assess the results and work on action plans and initiatives stemming from certification management and client management. the responses. All regions are required to put in place a detailed course of action for their employees based on the results from the survey, and are • BCD Travel successfully completed the ISAE audit and received the SSAE held accountable for carrying it out through the course of the year. audit report for 2012. 10 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Human Rights . & • The 2012 Global Security Summit was hosted by IP&S in the U.S., with the attendance of 20 participants from EMEA and APAC joining the U.S. team. Break out sessions covered in depth discussions on 35 security areas affecting BCD Travel and included brainstorming on strategic initiatives for 2013. Plenary sessions included presentations by ARC's Fraud Department and security technology provider FishNet and SourceFire. • With the growing need for security oversight in the APAC market, a dedicated resource along with security enhancing initiatives are in active execution within the market. Key preliminary initiatives include new hire security awareness training, risk assessments on key technologies and partner relationships as well as gap analyses aligning to ISO 27001. A work plan and strategy have been developed to manage efforts throughout 2013. • Encryption is used when possible to secure data during collection, transit and storage. BCD Travel is currently pursuing an end-to-end encryption strategy. 11 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Human Rights According to our December 2012 internal CSR audit and quarterly reports… • We continue to maintain the 81% global CSR awareness level that we • The percentage of BCD Travel countries with written policies dealing achieved in 2011. with the following human rights issues (over and above the company’s global policy) are: • Although BCD Travel has a global policy on human rights issues (highlighted in the “People” section of our global CSR Principles – Anti-discrimination 93.8% document), 83% of BCD Travel countries have an additional written – Employee health and safety 98.4% human rights policy in place. – Workplace and sexual harassment 97.9% – Working hours 98.1% • 94% of our locations around the globe have a dedicated person in place – Fair compensation and benefits 97.3% whom employees can contact regarding complaints or concerns about human rights abuse. • Our Information Protection & Security team continues to provide guidance and leadership for security awareness and response. Along with security awareness training, BCD Travel employees also receive security updates via bulletin alerts, intranet communications and security-related articles in our quarterly internal magazine focus. • Database encryption and a new generation intrusion detection system have been implemented, allowing for better protection of employee personal data. 12 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Labor Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Our Commitment BCD Travel respects employees’ right to collective bargaining. BCD Travel also requests that suppliers recognize their employees’ right to chose whether or not to associate with or establish any organization including labor organizations. Forced or involuntary labor is not tolerated by BCD Travel. This includes background of each of its employees. BCD Travel will not discriminate work on a forced contract, slavery and other forms of work against one’s (or tolerate discrimination by its employees) against any applicant or will or choice. BCD Travel does not accept employment through feeemployee based on age, gender, race, color, religion, national origin, charging employment agencies, or in any other way which confines the ancestry, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, veteran status and employee in unreasonable debt bondage. sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, and other specific conditions), or any other characteristic protected by law. BCD Travel respects children’s right to development and education. Therefore, we do not support child labor and do not use children as All employment decisions related to new hires, transfers, promotions part of our workforce. We will assist education systems, where we can, and compensation are based on experience, skills, qualifications and in providing work placements or internships as part of university or responsibilities. BCD Travel will strive to achieve the full potential of all vocational courses of study. employees. We operate in a fair and open manner and embrace and accept differences in others. We are committed to being an agent of BCD Travel employs individuals of different ages, genders, ethnicity, positive change in the communities in which we live and work. physical and mental abilities and lifestyles and values the unique 13 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Labor Standards Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Systems • BCD Travel endeavors to be a fair employer and to provide employees with a healthy and safe working environment, compensation and benefits in line with market standards, working hours aligned with local country labor laws and strict rules against child labor. Each employee is provided with written terms of employment stipulating the number of working hours per week, monthly salary and other terms and conditions concerning overtime, etc. • Through the development of activities employing our own workforce to attract new employees, our Talent Management team is working • BCD Travel respects the rights of the employees to form works councils, towards refreshing our employer brand – with company-wide which allow a greater degree of employee input into the company. recognition and Recruiting Management System (RMS) programs. Several works councils are currently in place in European countries and By developing a customized on-boarding plan for new employees conform to local country and European Union laws. and expanding the use of technology and social media practices in recruiting, BCD Travel’s Talent Management team looks to enhance • Our statements on labor standards are clearly outlined in our global employee on-boarding experience via new technologies and create a CSR Principles document under the “People” section, which has been more comprehensive talent pipeline program. distributed to all employees and is also available on our Web site. Human rights and labor policies are also highlighted on local intranet • BCD Travel works with suppliers and sub-contractors and encourages sites and in local employee and HR manuals. In the event that local them to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sublaws are more restrictive than BCD Travel’s standards, employees must contractors, which stipulates our policy on child labor, forced labor, comply with the more stringent, applicable local laws. collective bargaining and discrimination. 14 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Labor Standards Our Activities • CSR Audit – A CSR audit was conducted to measure how issues • Training programs – BCD Travel is dedicated employees’ professional surrounding labor standards fared across our BCD Travel countries of development to hone their skill levels and advance with the company. operation. These figures will be used to highlight areas for improvement Training content is developed internally for BCD Travel-specific training and measure our future progress. needs and purchased externally for universal content. • Work Placements – Work placements allow students to gain real 2012 Americas experience in an industry or a particular function that he or she is Training programs offered 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 YTD TTL interested in. BCD Travel has accepted various placements around the Instructor-lead programs 09 99 95 98 401 globe, working in close partnership with the students’ educational Online programs 119 117 169 153 58 institutions. BCD Travel has provided practical experience and Employee attendance 6,468 4,687 6,909 9,365 27,429 mentoring to help the students complete necessary course work while on placement. 2012 EMEA Training courses: 557 classroom & webinar +15164 Permanent Staff Training • The Competency Modeling for a number of the job roles that cross the Average duration: 1,14 day company globally is underway. Currently, the global roles of Account Number of training days: 623 Management, Sales, Project Management and Operations Management Number of participants: 3,743 roles have developed standard job profiles that will cross regional boundaries. Competencies have been identified for each role and the 2012 APAC process is underway to assess gaps in employee skills compared to the Training courses: 20 courses/sessions target level of each competency. Average hours: 8hrs/course Number of training days: 36 days in total across AU, IN, SIN,HK and CN • Performance Solutions developed the BCD Travel Intern Program to Number of participants: approx. 250 across all sessions hire and train entry level travel consultants for BCD Travel. The program consists of: The IP&S team successfully completed the roll out of Phase III (EMEA) and Phase IV (UK, IE and Nordics) of their first annual Global Security Awareness Classroom training and controlled environments Training, facilitated by SAI Global. The following are the participation levels: Mentor Program for operational support during classroom training; North America: 91.0% EMEA: 94.5% controlled environment for one month after completion. APAC: 99.0% UK/IE: 90.0% 15 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Labor Standards Our Performance Percent Contribution to the Region Global Norm Overall Score In addition to continuing to carry out the above activities over the last year, our CSR audit of operating countries has shown the following United States 38.3% progress during 2012: Canada 1.1% • The percentage of BCD Travel countries with written policies dealing Mexico 4.7% with the following labor standards are: – opposition to child labor – 77% Europe 46.3% – opposition to forced and compulsory labor –73% – freedom of the association and right to collective bargaining – 73% South America 3.2% • Our 2012 Global Employee Survey showed an increase in the overall Asia and Australia 6.4% satisfaction from 74.9% to 77.3%, which is the highest satisfaction score in the history of the company and significantly higher than the Global Norm Score* of 73 for the year. Many factors may have contributed to this increase, and as all may not stem for the targeted initiatives to raise the satisfaction level, the strong positive sense that comes from actually having a job in today’s economy is considered part of the reason. • 41% of audited countries include the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-Contractors in supplier contracts. • An online training course to help increase internal CSR awareness among employees was developed in 2012 and will be rolled out globally in 2013. * The Global Norm Score is an average overall satisfaction score based on data obtained over the last 10 years from several service companies in various geographical regions. See opposite. 16 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment BCD Travel is committed to protecting the environment and promoting greater environmental awareness. We are conscious of our responsibility to conserve resources and continuously look for ways to use resources more efficiently to reduce the environmental burden of waste generation and emissions into the air, water and land. 17 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Environment Our Systems BCD Travel operates the following systems and procedures to ensure that our above commitments to environmental issues are addressed. BCD Travel operations: • We establish and continuously improve our policies, programs and • We inform suppliers and other industry business partners of our practices for conducting our business in a safe, environmentally sound environmental principles and encourage the adoption of environmental manner and in accordance with relevant safety and environmental management practices aligned with these principles. legislation and regulations. • We conduct formal reviews of the company’s activities to ensure • We incorporate environmental considerations into our planning compliance with environmental regulations and internal practices. processes, with special attention to environmental issues during our selection and management of business locations and facilities. • We encourage learning from and working with industry suppliers who incorporate a high level of environmental responsibility into the • We conduct our operations in a manner that is committed to recycling, products and services they offer. conservation of resources, prevention of pollution, and promotion of environmental responsibility among our employees. • We provide products and services to our internal and external customers that promote environmentally sound travel management practices; focus on the efficient use of resources; and minimize the creation of waste, and reduction of harmful emissions to the air, water, and land. 18 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Environment Services for our customers: Our comprehensive CSR solutions focus on sustainability to evaluate and • Advito – Advito provides a range of consultative services to diagnose and reduce the environmental impact of travel activities and accountability improve travel program environmental and social impacts, including: to improve traveler well-being and security and promote ethical business standards throughout their travel supply chain and stakeholder network – Responsible Travel Program Diagnostic. To help travel and procurement managers determine the contribution their program To help our customers find solutions for their broad CSR needs, BCD Travel makes to the company’s overall CSR program and help to achieve works with our consulting arm, Advito, as well as with industry partners, the right balance of traditional travel management and CSR associations and experts. objectives. – CSR Travel Strategy Workshop. To help clarify corporate • Carbon Emission Reporting – Our carbon emission tracker calculates requirements and stakeholder expectations and constraints for emissions produced by air travel and reports on this information at sustainable and accountable travel management through single or company, departmental and individual traveler levels. The tool is multiple stakeholder workshops. incorporated into our information management solution, DecisionSource, – Travel Avoidance Program. To help customers to successfully which provides intelligence to targeted audiences throughout the travel implement trip avoidance programs through an integrated and reimbursement lifecycle. DecisionSource calculates emissions in approach that considers all key stakeholder requirements. accordance with the methodologies of both the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) – Sustainable and Accountable Travel Procurement. To design Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and DEFRA (the and manage supplier Request for Proposals (RFPs) that are aligned United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). with the organization’s sustainable and accountable procurement We offer two credible, transparent and consistent structures to provide principles. our customers with maximum flexibility in integrating business travel – Meeting Location Optimization. To address the environmental emission reporting with their broader internal CSR initiatives. impact of meetings through sustainable sourcing, ‘environmental housekeeping’ and a total trip perspective. • Carbon Off-setting – Carbon off-setting can help compensate for – Off-Setting Advisory. To provide the customized advice needed the environmental impact of travel programs by allocating funds to address the key questions on carbon off-set partner selection commensurate with the emissions produced through business travel. and implementation. That money is then invested in climate protection projects that generate – Travel Risk Management Consulting. To help to assess exposure emission-free energy, reduce demand for energy or absorb emissions to travel-related safety and security risks and recommend changes that have already occurred. BCD Travel’s global carbon off-setting partner, to operational programs, travel security initiatives and risk Atmosfair, conforms to the Gold Standard for emissions calculation, management providers. project selection and funds allocation. 19 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Environment Our Activities • Paperless (or almost) Processes: North America offices maintain a listing • North America accounting will soon be implementing a new online of processes that have become paperless. In years past, most of our Accounts Payable/Check Request initiative to eliminate paper requests business was very paper intensive and we continually work to reduce and invoices. paper and automate or go online with our processes. • Since 2006 North America employees submit expense reports and • Central Support Processes in Canada: The Canadian Central Support invoices electronically, reducing the use of paper, storage requirements Department has now completely stopped printing e-tickets. and shipping. • O  nline New Hire Portal: In February 2011, the U.S. and Canada • B  CD Travel offices continue to increase the number of employees implemented an online portal for the delivery of new hire paperwork to working from home. This saves gasoline and CO2 emissions as well as New Hires. This saves approximately 140,000 sheets of paper (700 time and provides a better work-life balance. Additionally, this adds new hires x 200 sheets) or 16.8 trees per year. flexibility to supporting the needs of the business or disaster recovery. Current numbers: • Annual Open Enrollment for Benefits: Effective in 2009, the U.S. U.S. 47.3% discontinued mailing Benefit enrollment packages and moved the Canada 49% process online. This saves approximate 437,500 sheets of paper (3,500 Results also in reduction of office space (sq. ft) costs/CO2 emissions. people x 125 sheets) or 52.5 trees per year. • BCD Travel supports a number of key initiatives that align with our • Online Pay Stubs for Direct Deposit: In 2003, the U.S. implemented company’s values, such as publications like Green Bulletin, focus and an online system for viewing bi-weekly pay stubs. This has saved Essentials. CSR newsletters are also distributed via e-mail/Intranet. approximately 91,000 sheets of paper (3,500 people x 26 sheets) or 10.9 trees per year. Additionally, 96% of our employees are paid by direct deposit, therefore, avoiding the issuance of a paper check. • T ravel Operations continues to remove paper from all of the processes listed below. We are working to implement a tracking process for each of our offices to calculate the number of trees saved per year by eliminating ticket stock, ticket jackets, invoice/itineraries, bills /invoices and record keeping of commissions. 20 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Environment Our Performance • Our processes, systems and activities detailed above enable a greater • Our headquarters in Atlanta is working towards achieving ISO 14001 understanding of environmental liabilities linked to business travel certification, which is planned for Q1 2013. among our employees and clients. The steps we have taken count towards reducing the carbon footprint of our travelers and educating • BCD M&I takes a personalized and flexible approach to incorporating our community at large on being more environmentally-responsible. responsible travel initiatives in meetings and events programs by focusing on issues and objectives surrounding energy consumption, • We will continue to encourage local BCD Travel countries to raise waste management, community involvement and sustainable transport, environmental awareness amongst our staff and implement new thus integrating events with an organization’s larger CSR goals. measures to ensure that we offer environmentally-friendly processes, technologies and services to the best of our ability. • Green Meetings are quickly becoming a priority for many companies while major event organizations are encouraging their members • All of our offices in Germany and the Netherlands are certified to the to take a greener approach to their events. According to the environmental management standard ISO 14001:2009. Re-certification Convention Industry Council, a green meeting or event incorporates of both these countries took place in Q1 2012 with certification valid environmental considerations to minimize its negative impact on until 2014. BCD Travel UK’s office also achieved ISO 14001 re-certification the environment. BCD Travel is proud of our commitment to the in October 2012. environment by supporting the BCD M&I Green Meetings initiative through recommendations to our clients such as selecting an appropriate location to reduce unnecessary travel, requesting hybrid cars, planning to conserve energy, reduce waste, recycle, buy earth-friendly products and to use an online registration process, etc. • Our BCD M&I San Francisco office and Chicago Headquarters are LEED certified buildings, as well as the offices in Phoenix and Woburn. • One World Partners ‘Footprints’ Program, whose goal is to make a difference in every community where they work, is under evaluation for future incorporation into BCD M&I’s CSR platform. • Our recent CSR audit details numerous steps that our offices have taken across the globe to become more environmentally friendly. Overleaf are some specific examples of how our staff has given back to the environment and community. 21 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Environment According to our December 2012 internal CSR audit… Sharon Dirks, Global CSR Coordinator and Thomas Diekmann, • Germany maintained their 40% share of environmentallyManager, FM/IS friendly Eco-Easy products in 2012. In Belgium, 62% of office supplies North Central Europe and 60% in the Netherlands are green products.  • 100% of all paper purchased in the Netherlands in 2012 was environmentally-friendly, an increase of 10% over 2011. In Germany, the percentage of environmentally-friendly paper purchased increased from • In Costa Rica, an environmental weekly breaking news message delivers 96% in 2011 to 98.6% in 2012. key tips to improve recycling activites and help protect the environment. • Square footage of office space was reduced by 3% in the U.S. and Canada • BCD Travel Germany has extended their contract with the eco-friendly in 2012, resulting in a reduction of 39% since 2009. provider NaturEnergie until 2015. By working with them, our annual country-wide electricity usage of 1,298,340kWh comes with a number of • 47% of employees in the U.S. and 49% in Canada are virtual employees, ecologically-friendly advantages compared to other electricity providers which saves travel costs and office space, therefore also CO2 emissions. -such as avoidance of 641,380 kg CO2/year and avoidance of 909 gr. of radioactive waste a year. These CO2 emissions equal: • Server virtualization in our IT department in the U.S. has had a significant the production of 246,685 steaks environmental impact by reducing energy costs and reducing annual 4,227,950 kilometers of car travel CO2 emissions required to power physical services. In addition, a positive 6,062,192 kilometers of air travel impact on capital and operating expenses was achieved. VItualization Using NaturEnergie, our kWh results in zero kg CO2/year. technology is currently being used to meet the growing remote workforce. 6% of all desktops have been converted to date with more • BCD Travel Germany won first place for sustainable purchasing (Easy Tree expected in the future. Awards Staples Advantage) from our office materials supplier Staples. • Travel itineraries for employees now contain CO2 emission statements • Environmental award die Grüne Flötte 2012 (Green Fleet) from VW for air, car, rail and hotel travel segments. A new option to print just the Leasing GmbH and NABU (Naturschutz Bund) for ecologically responsible pertinent travel information with a printer-friendly link has been included car fleet management. to reduce paper printed. • The CSR Committee in Mexico created an environmental policy to carry • Our U.S. and Canada offices are tracking green initiatives at our 31 major out activities around the country. A recycling program is in place and locations, allowing us to look for opportunities to improve and share best bi-monthly reports are generated to set effective reduction targets. Staff is practices. also trained on waste separation. 22 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Environment Earth Day / World Environment Day BCD Travel carried out a number of activities in support of Earth Day on April 22nd and World Environment Day on June 5th. These activities included planting trees and vegetables, collecting batteries, mobiles and electronics for recycling, grow cards, recycling plastic, shut down of all unnecessary electricity, implementation of trash separation and collection. Paperless Documentation BCD Travel endeavour to produce screen friendly documents that are easy to read and navigate on screen avoiding the need to print them out. This not only helps us reduce our paper consumption but also that of our customers and suppliers. “Green” Activities Environment Capsule: labeled cans were placed in each break room of the multiservice center for “Glass, Cans, Tetra Pack, Paper & Organic Disposables.” A weekly newsletter called Environment Capsule provides Earth Hour updates on progress and offers advice for promoting recycling. Increased employee awareness on environmental causes and locally supported activities in regional and country intranets. For example, Staples Office Supplies converted the “green” office supplies for the U.S. a marketing bulletin making employees aware of Earth Hour on March 31st offices from Jan through Sep 2012 using the Environmental Defense Paper was published on local intranets. The aim was to encourage employees to turn Calculator to provide these results: off non-essential lights for one hour to raise awareness about the need to take action on climate change. Global Handwashing Day BCD Travel encourages all employees to support the CSR initiative, Global Handwashing Day, on Oct. 15. Posters are distributed and placed in many offices to encourage proper handwashing with soap and e-mails are sent to employees with information about the benefits of handwashing to prevent diseases at the workplace and at home. This effort also supports the Global Soap Project. Energy Saving More offices are adopting tighter policies on energy efficiency. The goals include to open windows to allow sunlight, switching off lights during lunch hours, optimize energy settings in computers, using power strips, using compact fluorescent light bulbs. 23 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Processes Our Commitment BCD Travel is committed to upholding high moral and • Our stance on anti-corruption is clearly stated within our CSR Principles, which has been distributed to all employees across the globe and ethical principles and specifies the basic norms of behavior available for download on our Web site. for those employees undertaking business on its behalf. • BCD Travel suppliers and sub-contractors are encouraged to sign up to While BCD Travel’s business practices must be consistent Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-contractors, which stipulates that: “Corruption and bribery are recognized as some of the barriers for with the business and social practices of the communities sustainable development. BCD Travel does not accept these practices in which we operate, we believe that honesty is the essential and does not, therefore, offer or accept any kind of undue payment. BCD Travel expects suppliers to act the same way.” standard of integrity in any locale. Although local customs may vary, BCD Travel’s activities are to be based on Our Activities See above. honesty, integrity and respect. Kickbacks, fees, commissions, or any form of payment intended to Our Performance induce or reward favorable decisions and actions are unacceptable and • BCD Travel understands that anti-corruption issues may be larger in some prohibited. Employees of BCD Travel may not, in violation of any law, pay markets than others. As a result, BCD Travel encourages local inititatives or offer to pay or give anything of value to induce or reward favorable to help employees understand the broader issues surrounding anti-corruption action in any business transaction. These provisions are not intended and ensure all forms of corruption and bribery are prevented. to apply to routine, reasonable business entertainment or gifts of minor value, customary in local business relationships, provided full disclosure • BCD Travel aims to standardize the use of the Code of Conduct for is made to an immediate supervisor and do not violate any law or Suppliers and Sub-contractors across all operating countries and ensure organization policy. they sign up all suppliers to this code. 24 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Partnerships for Development In addition to the activities that directly support the principles of the UN Global Compact, BCD Travel engages in a range of partnership projects that support broader CSR principles, demonstrate good corporate citizenship and underscore the company’s commitment to positive change. Actions Taken In accordance with the “Community” pillar of our CSR Principles, we In order to support the community at large, BCD Travel offices support are committed to nurturing the communities in which we operate, numerous charity organizations and regularly organize fund raisers to and support social investments in the form of financial and in-kind support those less fortunate than ourselves. As well as monetary aid, contributions to various charitable organizations. We also invest in core our staff provides in-kind donations and personal time contributions. business partnerships in emerging markets to contribute to economic Our preferred partners also get involved and kindly donate prizes growth, implement social, environmental or ethical standards, and allow that are raffled within our offices, with all proceeds going towards the these markets to provide services using a well known global brand. chosen charity. Our “Making a Difference” Foundation The Global Soap Project recovers discarded soap from hotels, BCD Travel proudly supports our shareholder’s organization-wide Making reprocesses it into new bars and distributes it to vulnerable a Difference Foundation, which pinpoints grass-roots level programs populations throughout the world. BCD Travel supports the efforts that make a direct difference in the lives of children and reinforces the of this organization through the fundrasing carried out by employees charitable instincts of BCD Holdings employees across the globe. for the Haiti Project: $10,000 collected from this effort will be donated to the Global Soap Project to sponsor a container of soap According to the chairman of BCD Holdings and the Making a Difference that will be distributed to children in Haiti. Foundation, John Fentener van Vlissingen, “Making a difference that can be felt by children living on all continents requires vision on both a The Haiti Project: BCD Travel and the John and Marine van Vlissingen global and local level. We are delighted to invite our company’s staff from Foundation are funding the construction of a school in Haiti for 500 underall corners of the globe to help improve the world for children. As an privileged children, providing them with the opportunity of receiving an organization, we are dedicated to being an agent of positive change and education and the promise of a bright future. Employees around the world truly benefiting children.” contributed to this effort with cash donations and fundrasing events. 25 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Partnerships for Development The BCD Travel Haiti Project BCD Travel and the John and Marine van Vlissingen Foundation partnered with the non-profit Great Commission Alliance to launch the Haiti Project in 2012. Our mission is to fund the construction and operation of the BCD School of Hope in the town of Mirebalais, Haiti, offering 500 underprivileged children the opportunity of receiving an education and the promise of a bright future. BCD Travel employees took this project to heart by holding fundraisng events, selling baked goods and other efforts to raise cash. The goal of $160,000 USD was reached, with the added support from our clients and partners. The construction will be completed in October 2013. 26 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Partnerships for Development Country-specific charity events: Country Charity Type Argentina Fundacion Filovitae Youth program According to our December 2012 internal CSR audit… Canada On the tips of the toes Children's charity Our global offices support a wide variety of charitable events: Colombia Soñando por ti & por mi Children's charity Contributions reported Städtisches Kinderheim Children's home Region (cash and in-kind) Germany Aschaffenburg U.S. & Canada US$ 94,330.25 Germany Streetlife/Mädchencafe Youth program LatAm US$ 3,783.50 Germany FRÜZ e.V. Children's school EMEA/UK US$ 26,472.63 Germany Anton Schrobenhauser Stiftung Children's home APAC US$ 2,016.15 Singapore Jamiyah's Children Home Children's home Total US$126,602.53 UK & Ireland 70 Squadron Air Cadets Youth Program UK & Ireland Re: Charge Children's charity IV/AIDS foundation U.S. Hope House Day Care for children U.S. Niles Home for Children Children's home The Creative Planet School of U.S. Youth program the Arts (CPSOA) U.S. Thumbuddy Medical equipment for children 27 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < > Back to Index > UN Global Compact Report Partnerships for Development Growth and Emerging Markets Actions Taken The BCD Travel Partner network currently numbers over 70 independent • 19-21 September: Jubilee meeting in Atlanta (EMEA and LatAm partners). travel agencies around the world who each have an exclusive contract to use • Hub meetings were held in Abu Dhabi (MENA countries) and Moscow (CIS). the BCD Travel brand in their markets. The benefits are mutual and the aim • New Global Partner IT Strategy started to roll out products to 45 partners. is to integrate the partners as closely as possible and ensure that our clients • Partner-specific reservation software introduced in Tunisia, Ghana, receive a seamless service throughout the world, whether they are in Eastern Madagascar, Qatar and Algeria. and Central Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, or Latin America. • Account Management training held in Warsaw, Spain, Turkey and Algeria. • Kazakhstan: 10 day program of client events and training. To deliver this service, and ensure that standards are maintained and • 14 national operational reviews / audits by our operations team who visit constantly improved, the focus is on training, introducing new technologies and work with partners on site. and products, streamlining processes so that the agency can generate • An African review undertaken to strengthen presence in Africa. efficiencies and cost savings, which can then be passed on to all their clients, • 5 national operational reviews undertaken by our audit team who visited local as well as multinational. and worked with partners on site (Algeria, Ghana, Lebanon, Spain and Tunisia). • Relaunching OBT support center in Mexico for super-regionals. • Regional product updates are now available in Spanish for Latin America. • Implementation of iSight training options in Spanish. • Conducting training sessions for regional and local account managers and for key market management in Latin America. New partners in 2012 Partners from LatAm and EMEA at BCD Travel Partner Algeria, Jordan, Oman, Sudan and Curaçao. Summit & Jubilee event in Atlanta, September 2012. Impact of Partnership Our relationship with partners helps to secure their future role in a global marketplace by aligning themselves with a company that understands the importance of combining global reach and purchasing power, with local expertise and flxibility for its customers. 2012 continued to be a difficult year for the countries affected by political unrest in the Middle East and by the economic crisis in Spain, Greece and Portugal. Latin America continues to grow due to increasing corporate demand and continued limited capacity. While Brazil marked a record growth, other economies remain threatened by political challenges and increased insecurity. 28 | UN Global Compact Report © 2013 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved < Back to Index >
