Corporate Responsibility Highlights 2012 3.3 billion gallons of water recycled or reused 20 % reduction in lost-time injury rate $1.7 billion in total giving 444,000 patients utilizing merck’s u.s. patient assistance programs corporate responsibility A bou t M e rck At Merck, we’re applying our global reach, financial strength and scientific excellence to do Merck* is an innovative, global healthcare leader more of what we’re passionate about: improving that is committed to improving health and wellhealth and improving lives. being around the world. Co r p o r at e R es p o n s i b i l i t y at M e rck The categories in which we have products include heart and respiratory health, diabetes, At Merck, corporate responsibility is our daily infectious diseases, animal health, consumer commitment to discovering innovative solutions care and w ­ omen’s health. We continue to focus to the world’s biggest health challenges. It is this our research on conditions that affect millions simple promise that informs all of our actions as of ­people around the world — diseases like we apply our global resources, our talents, and Alzheimer’s and cancer — while expanding our our scientific and operational expertise to some of strengths in areas like vaccines and biologics. the most significant health, social, environmental and economic challenges in the world today. This We also devote extensive time and energy to commitment helps us to discover better ways increasing access to medicines and vaccines to deliver greater value to both shareholders and through far-reaching programs that donate and society. Through innovative research, grounddeliver our products to the people who need them. breaking partnerships and smarter processes, we are focusing on four priority areas: Access to Health, Environmental Sustainability, Employees, and Ethics & Transparency. A bou t Ou r R e p o r t i n g As part of our commitment to be open and transparent about our business activities, we report on our corporate responsibility performance annually. This brochure contains highlights from our complete 2012 online responsibility report, merckresponsibility.com, in which you can find detailed performance data and key performance indicators from our worldwide operations. We continue to use several external guidelines and measurement frameworks to guide our reporting, including the Global Reporting Initiative, the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, the UN Millennium Development Goals and the Access to Medicine Index. *Merck is known as MSD outside of the United States and Canada. 1 message from the ceo stakeholders. This report, which also serves as our annual Communication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact, is one of the ways in which we increase our transparency. We continue to deliver long-term returns by pursuing opportunities where the need is great and where we have unique capabilities to make a real difference in people’s lives. But the challenges, too, are great. Of the 7 billion people alive today, 6 billion live in emerging and developing markets. We believe we have an obligation, as well as an opportunity, to help meet their unmet health needs by advancing effective and safe medicines at affordable and Kenneth C. Frazier Chairman, President and sustainable prices. Chief Executive Officer In the developed world, the costs to treat chronic diseases are large and increasing. Today these At Merck, corporate responsibility costs represent approximately three-quarters of all healthcare expenses, and two-thirds of underscores our steadfast the increase in healthcare spending is due to the increased prevalence of treated chronic disease. commitment to help the world be well. The global economy continues to be uncertain, an Merck people share an unwavering commitment ongoing challenge to pharmaceutical companies to our mission to save and improve lives around that can invest a billion dollars or more over the 10 the world, and to uphold the highest standards of to 20 years it takes to bring a new drug to market. ethics and integrity. But we are determined to advance our mission, We believe that innovative and productive and, in 2012, we made progress through a research and development is the only sustainable number of important initiatives: way to create true and enduring value for all of our stakeholders, and we are focused on tackling • Expanding our product portfolio, as well as our some of healthcare’s most daunting challenges. local development and distribution capacity, By continuing to invest in the discovery and through important joint ventures development of medicines and vaccines, we believe Merck can have a profound impact on • Developing new partnerships to reduce people’s lives for years to come. maternal mortality through Merck for Mothers, our 10-year, $500 million initiative In addition, we are resolute in our promise to that is applying the company’s scientific develop and reward our employees, protect the and business expertise — as well as its environment and support the communities in financial and human resources — to address which we work and live. Furthermore, we are this issue around the world operating ethically and transparently in order to earn and retain the trust and confidence of our 2 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 6 billion people • Celebrating the 25th anniversary of Merck’s MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) Donation Program and its success in contributing to the goals of eliminating river blindness and lymphatic filariasis live in emerging • Strengthening the impact that Merck and developing markets employees have on communities throughout the world by recently increasing paid time off, from 20 to 40 hours per year, for employee volunteerism; throughout 2012, Merck employees volunteered through a variety of programs, resulting in more than 221,000 total volunteer hours • Emphasizing the importance of raising ethical and compliance-related concerns through an updated mandatory training program, which provides additional guidance on the Merck The world is changing, but Merck’s focus Code of Conduct on pursuing the best science and building a sustainable business is steadfast. And even • Identifying and implementing major projects to more important, our people remain deeply cut water use, protect water quality and reduce committed to our mission and our company. operating costs through improvements to water and wastewater infrastructure Know that we take very seriously our special responsibility to provide genuine and enduring We are proud of our progress but remain value to customers, patients, employees, focused on the work ahead. We have made communities and shareholders for generations progress in meeting the objectives identified in to come. Merck’s Access to Health Guiding Principles, but we must address the ongoing challenge Be well, of creating a companywide strategy to expand access to our discoveries in both developed and developing markets while continuing to build a sustainable business. To do this, I believe that healthcare companies, Kenneth C. Frazier regulators, payers, governments and other Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer stakeholders must work collaboratively to bring July 2013 safe, effective, affordable medicines and vaccines to the world’s people. It is critical, therefore, that Merck continues to take a leadership role in the pharmaceutical industry, building partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders to advance R&D, enable access to medicines and vaccines, and help improve quality of life across the globe. 3 we focus on four areas to deliver value to our shareholders and society. 4 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 5 6 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 access to health The issues that affect access to health are varied and complex. Through our business operations, public policy and outreach efforts, Merck aims to address the health needs of people in all circumstances by developing and fostering broad access to our innovative products. KPIs / Research & Development 2012 Merck’s Access to Health Statement of Top 20 global burdens of illness Guiding Principles directs our global efforts. addressed by our products and pipeline1 55% It defines a comprehensive approach founded on innovation, discovery and collaboration. We strive to embed these principles into our GCP/PV audits by regulatory activities and strategies, and we leverage our agencies or clinical trial investigators that led to significant fines, penalties, 0 strengths and accelerate our progress by engaging warning letters or product seizures partners around the world. To learn more, visit merck.com/Statement-of-Guiding-Principles. Initiated (new) licenses for new technologies 61 The Guiding Principles focus our work on: Narrative of compounds provided to • Research and development that reflect the needs online Product Development Partnerships2 of developing countries and emerging markets • Expansion of local manufacturing and supply capabilities • Expedited product registration to meet countryspecific public health needs • Implementation of differential pricing approaches • Investment in communities, as well as partnerships, to provide direct access to our medicines and vaccines where needed and to build capacity locally $86.3M $66.0M $50.9M 2010 2011 2012 m e rc k m e d i cal out r e ac h pro g r a m VA LUE O F M EDI CI N ES , VAC CI N ES A N D CO N SU M ER C A R E P RO D U C T D O N AT IO N S 7 Focus i n g o n U n m e t N e e ds T h roug h R& D KPIs / Manufacturing & 2012 Supply In 2012, Merck announced a $90 million, seven-year partnership Product recalls in the to create the California Institute for Biomedical Research (Calibr). United States 4 Calibr is an independent, not-for-profit organization created to accelerate the translation of basic biomedical research into Countries we innovative medicines. By leveraging the drug discovery expertise currently supply with our products 140 and resources of Calibr, academic researchers from around the world will have the opportunity to maximize and expedite the potential therapeutic value of their research. When new discoveries Local and regional manufacturing partnerships3 84 are advanced to the preclinical proof-of-concept stage, including those that can help meet the needs of people in least-developed countries, commercial partnerships will be sought for further Products available development. The Calibr initiative complements our established via local and regional manufacturing 34 R&D collaborations. To learn more, visit EngageZone.merck.com. partnerships Bu i ld i n g Loca l M a n u fac t u r i n g a n d D i s t r i bu t i o n Ca pac i t y To build local capacity in the development, manufacturing and distribution of our medicines, Merck formalized partnerships in two fast-growing emerging markets. In Russia, we established a licensing agreement with R-Pharm to conduct clinical development and commercialization of a new hepatitis C medication. Also, through a manufacturing agreement with Russian pharmaceutical producer Akrikhin, we are expanding the availability of Merck medicines that treat conditions such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol. In Brazil, we announced a joint venture with Supera Farma Laboratorios S.A., a pharmaceutical company co-owned by two leading Brazilian healthcare companies, Cristália and Eurofarma. Supera will market, distribute and sell a portfolio of innovative pharmaceutical and branded generic products from Merck, Cristália and Eurofarma in the Brazilian retail sector. Collaborations like these are helping Merck fulfill our commitment to broaden the availability, accessibility and affordability of our products through country-specific strategies and partnerships. And they are driving our business expansion in emerging markets, which are expected to fuel 90 percent of the world’s ­pharmaceutical growth over the next decade. 90 %o f the world’s pharmaceutical growth over the next decade is expected to come from emerging markets. 8 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 A d d r ess i n g mat e r n a l m o r ta l i t y KPIs / Registration 2012 Maternal mortality remains one of the world’s most New product and pressing health challenges. Merck for Mothers is our 10-year, device registrations 4, 5 437 $500 million initiative to address one of the world’s oldest and most preventable health tragedies — the death of a woman from Local regulatory agency complications during pregnancy and childbirth. Our work focuses GCP/PV training requests fulfilled that will help on three key areas — product innovation, access to affordable care, strengthen agency online and advocacy and awareness. Since its launch in September 2011, capabilities with their we have pledged more than $105 million to initiate over 30 projects GCP/PV compliance in more than 20 countries, collaborating with more than 75 impleoversight role6 menting partners and advocacy organizations. Products submitted that have achieved In June 2012, we joined with the U.S. and Norwegian governments and advocacy organizations to establish Saving Mothers, Giving Life, WHO prequalification 10 (cumulative) a public-private partnership designed to quickly and dramatically reduce maternal mortality in districts of Uganda and Zambia. Merck for Mothers, in partnership with Population Services International, KPIs / Commercialization 2012 also launched its first country program in Uganda to explore how Products for which we private health providers and businesses can improve the delivery have access pricing7 19 of affordable, quality maternal healthcare. This effort provides the foundation for additional programs in India, the United States, Countries where at least one product has intraZambia and Brazil in 2013. To learn more about Merck for Mothers, visit merckformothers.org. country pricing of public 49 and private sectors8 Investment in patientand provider-education $91.1M programs KPIs / Community 2012 Investment Healthcare workers trained through major programs 38,166 W o r k i n g i n Pa r t n e r s h i p to I n c r e as e and partnerships9 A ffo r da b le Acc ess Investment in partnerships for Merck is committed to working with partners to make innovative activities to address vaccines available and affordable to those who need them. In 2012, underlying barriers we partnered with Uganda’s Ministry of Health to support a new to health, such $23.8M vaccination program against cervical cancer. Cervical cancer is as health system the most frequent cancer diagnosed among women in Uganda, strengthening and capacity building10 with incidence rates about three times the global average. In the first phase of a national rollout, Merck is donating 460,000 doses People reached of GARDASIL® [Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6,11,​ through our major 16,18) Vaccine, Recombinant] to 12 districts in Uganda, enough programs and 269M to vaccinate approximately 140,000 eligible girls over a two-year partnerships9, 11 period. For additional details on Merck’s partnerships and programs to expand access to GARDASIL and other vaccines, visit merckresponsibility.com/vaccines. 9 the MECTIZAN ® Donation Program 10 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 In 2012, the MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) Donation Program (MDP) celebrated 25 years of scientific discovery, visionary leadership and extraordinary commitment to advance the control of river blindness, or onchocerciasis, in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Yemen. Merck first made its unprecedented commitment in 1987 to provide MECTIZAN for the treatment of river blindness to all who need it, for as long as needed. Since then, the MDP’s success has B e yo n d t h e N u m b e r s revolutionized the program’s vision: from control But the impact is more than numbers. Its heart of the disease to global elimination. is in the stories of individuals like Mageniano Caidedo, who lives in the village of Atahualpa In 1998, we expanded the MDP by integrating in Ecuador. Now 93 years old, Mageniano efforts to advance the prevention of lymphatic explains that he was a farmer until river blindness filariasis (LF), or elephantiasis, with established claimed his sight. He is a survivor from what’s river blindness programs in African countries remembered as the dark days, when too many of where the diseases co-exist. his family and the village suffered the intense and unrelenting agony of itchy, swollen skin and many Throughout 2012, we celebrated the MDP’s more would die blind without knowing the cause. 25th anniversary, acknowledging the remarkable Those days, just a generation past, are becoming commitments of our many partners and contria memory — the rewarding result of the MDP’s butions of communities, renewing Merck’s success, not only in controlling river blindness but commitment to continue donating MECTIZAN in its approaching elimination. as we advance toward the goal of elimination, and applauding the program’s ­accomplishments, which include: T h e Lo n d o n D ec l a r at i o n • Preventing an estimated 40,000 cases of Building on our commitment, Merck joined blindness annually 12 global pharmaceutical companies, as well as governments, leading foundations, including the • Interrupting transmission — meaning no new Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and health cases have been identified — in parts of Africa organizations, in signing the London Declaration, and Latin America a collaborative effort to accelerate progress • Verifying the elimination of river blindness in toward controlling or eliminating 10 neglected Colombia early in 2013, the first country to tropical diseases (NTDs) by 2020. The World achieve that milestone Health Organization (WHO) describes NTDs as “the ancient diseases of poverty.“ They affect more than one billion mostly impoverished The magnitude of the distribution of people, including some 500 million children. MECTIZAN in endemic areas, with presently To guide the effort against NTDs, WHO unveiled more than 100 million doses approved each a “A Roadmap for Implementation” in 2012 that year, represents an achievement simply outlines strategies and sets clear targets to control unimaginable 25 years ago. or eliminate them. Dr. Bjorn Thylefors In accordance with WHO’s goals, we are working Merck MECTIZAN Award winner, 2011 toward the elimination of river blindness by 2025 and lymphatic filariasis by 2020. 11 environmental sustainability The growing demand for the world’s scarce resources represents a risk to the health and security of people around the world. Merck respects and cares for the environment because our mission is to help the world be well, and a healthy planet is essential to the well-being of people and the success of our business. KPIs12 2012 Greenhouse gas emissions (million metric tons of CO2e) 1.98 807 Emissions of volatile organic compounds (metric tons) Water usage (billion gallons) 9.1 Waste generation (metric tons) 179,000 Waste recycling rate 52% 9.6B 9.1B 9.1B 2010 2011 2012 WATER USE (G A L LO N S) 12 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 13 M ak i n g Pro g r ess o n ou r C r e at i n g Sus ta i n a b le Sus ta i n a b i l i t y Goa l s Wat e r So lu t i o n s Our vision for environmental sustainability As a signatory to the UN Global Compact’s focuses on innovative products and packaging, CEO Water Mandate, Merck is committed to sustainable operations and a sustainable supply achieving sustainable water management within chain. Our road map sets out 2015 and 2020 our operations and supply chain, and to helping goals to help us concentrate our efforts on the reduce the impact of waterborne illness as part critical global challenges where we can have of our efforts to improve health globally. Our the greatest impact. water policy and strategy, introduced in 2011, underpin our efforts. Our commitment to water is We are already showing progress on a number of increasingly important because Merck’s business our goals. We have: and manufacturing networks are expanding into regions of the world where many people do not • Reduced GHG emissions by 10 percent since have access to clean water and sanitation. 2009, which meets our goal three years ahead of schedule Sav i n g Wat e r I n Ou r O pe r at i o n s • Reduced water usage by 4 percent since 2009 Water is critical to making our products. We have • Reduced volatile organic compound (VOC) identified and are implementing major projects emissions by 26 percent since 2009 to cut water use, protect water quality and reduce • Improved wastewater quality — specifically, operating costs through improvements to water chemical oxygen demand (COD) — by and wastewater infrastructure. For example, at 57 percent, and nitrogen and phosphorus our facility in Brinny, Ireland, we upgraded our by 13 percent since 2009 wastewater treatment system, a $4.3 million investment that saves 30 million liters (7.9 million Visit our website at merckresponsibility.com/ gallons) of water per year and reduces our annual environmental-sustainability for full details of operating costs by $635,000. our progress against our goals. a recent World Economic Forum report identified the water supply crisis as the #1 societal risk. The water supply crisis is the decline in the quality and quantity of fresh water combined with increased competition among resource-intensive systems, such as food and energy production. WEF’s Global Risks 2013 Report 14 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 Saf e Wat e r A rou n d t h e W o r ld In partnership with the Safe Water Network, we launched a three-year, $1.5 million initiative in 2012 to increase access to safe water and reduce the impact of waterborne disease among ­impoverished communities in Andhra Pradesh, India. The Safe Water Network is a not-for-profit organization committed to developing locally $1.5 owned and operated water-purification systems that achieve lasting health impacts. This initiative addresses a critical need in India, where an estimated 70 to 80 percent of the total burden of disease is related to water contamination and poor sanitation. million initiative to increase ACCESS TO safe water 15 employees At Merck, we all share an extraordinary sense of purpose: to help improve health and wellbeing around the world. We seek to foster our employees’ passion by providing rewarding opportunities, diverse experiences, and a steadfast commitment to ethics and integrity. KPIs / Diversity & Inclusion 2012 Executive roles held by women13, 14 31% Women on the Board 17% Underrepresented ethnic groups on the Board 25% Underrepresented ethnic groups in the workforce (U.S.) 24% KPIs / Well-Being 2012 Response rate to Merck and MSD Voice Survey 77% Employees who completed the health assessment (U.S.) 58% Overall turnover rate15 11% Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR)16 0.24 Recordable Injury Rate (RIR)16 0.59 77% 64% 63% 2010 2011 2012 e m ploye e e n g age m e n t response rate to merck and msd voice surve y 16 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 17 Fos t e r i n g a Cu lt u r e o f Su pp o r t i n g t h e N e e ds Pro f ess i o n a l D e v e lo pm e n t o f t h e U n d e r s e rv e d Our aim is to promote a culture of professional The Richard T. Clark (RTC) Fellowship for development that will support our employees’ World Health provides selected employees growth while aligning their career aspirations a unique career opportunity to support with Merck’s strategic priorities. Career Maps, humanitarian organizations while expanding our new professional development tool, was their understanding of the critical needs of designed for this purpose. With this new tool, underserved populations. Throughout 2012, employees have increased visibility into the key 15 Merck employees completed three-month competencies and skills for roles across the field placements with one of our partner organizacompany. The competencies within Career Maps tions, including The Centre for Development are linked to learning resources, empowering and Population Activities; International Centre employees to focus their professional developfor Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh; ment on building and enhancing skills and helping Population Services International; and Safe Water them develop a plan to achieve their personal Network. RTC Fellows served in Africa, India and career goals. Bangladesh to improve health literacy, increase access to health services and education, and improve health outcomes. “I will cherish my [RTC] Fellowship experience for a lifetime. I am proud of the work we did to further Safe Water Network’s mission and support Merck’s purpose of improving and saving lives.” Swapna Purani Associate Director, Marketing Pictured below: An Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) teaching the importance of iJal safe water to children at the local Angadwadi centre in Gorikothapally Village, in Warangal district, in Andhra Pradesh, India. 18 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H igh l igh t s 2 012 24,000 KPIs / Volunteerism 2012 Employees who took release time according to the global policy 15% on employee volunteerism17 Volunteer hours17 221,000 employees joined our online brainstorm S t r e n g t h e n i n g M e rck t h roug H Some 24,000 employees from around the Em ploy e e E n g ag e m e n t globe contributed more than 16,000 comments and ideas. These were sorted into eight themes, Knowing that our employees have a wealth ranging from operational improvements in of ideas that can help transform Merck into a everyday productivity and enhanced employee stronger, more innovative company, we created collaboration, to patient initiatives meant to create an opportunity for collaboration among thousands opportunities in healthcare access and innovation. of global colleagues. Over three days, employees Action items are being developed and will be engaged in an online brainstorming forum to rolled out during 2013. For example, one involved tackle some of our company’s greatest transforimplementing a new platform for virtual meetings, mational challenges, including improving global addressing the themes of improved productivity health, meeting customer needs, and advancing and collaboration. scientific innovation. The round-the-clock format was designed to break down traditional divisional and geographic barriers and engage and inspire participants from all levels of the organization. 19 20 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 ethics & transparency Merck aspires to be the most trusted healthcare company in the world. Our business is sustained by our unwavering commitment to values and integrity. Through this promise, we gain the confidence of customers, partners, employees, the public and other stakeholders. KPIs 2012 Employees trained on our Code of Conduct 92% Substantiated allegations to concerns/issues raised 60% Reported concerns regarding privacy practices, breaches of privacy, and losses of personal data and devices that were substantiated18 23% Central & Eastern Europe, 5% Middle East & Africa 6% The Americas 16% Asia Pacific 46% United States 26% European Economic Area w h e r e w e c on duc t c l i n i cal t r i al s (percentage of patients) 21 Pro m ot i n g E t h i ca l B e h av i o r E n h a n c i n g C l i n i ca l T r i a l T r a n s pa r e n cy a n d Eff ec t i v e n ess The Merck Code of Conduct, Our Values and Standards, is the foundation of our company’s People count on us to make medicines and success. Available in 26 languages, our Code vaccines that have well-documented safety applies one standard of conduct to all employees and effectiveness profiles and offer meaningful worldwide, with ethical business practices serving value to patients. Clinical trials (also known as as a key measure in all annual performance clinical studies) are a critical step in this process. evaluations. In 2012, we introduced an updated, mandatory training program to provide additional Consistent with the trend in the pharmaceutical guidance, emphasizing the importance of raising industry, more than half of the patients particiethical and compliance-related concerns. pating in our clinical trials are enrolled outside the United States, in more than 70 countries. As a Merck’s Office of Ethics is a conduit for result, we strive to obtain information in diverse employees who want to discuss work-related populations, which ensures a thorough evaluation issues confidentially and without fear of of the safety and efficacy of our medicines and retaliation. When Merck substantiates allegations vaccines. We have a commitment to the study of of ethical misconduct, it imposes disciplinary diverse patient populations, including minorities, actions on those responsible that may include women and children, in all regions of the world. dismissal, written warnings or financial penalties. These efforts allow us to seek regulatory We also take appropriate steps to address any approvals throughout the world and thereby needed improvements in organizational and offer our medicines globally to patients who process controls. need them. To support our commitment to transparency, we are reporting on two new metrics for 2012: the number of employees separated related to substantiated corporate policy violations, and the number of employees who received written warnings as disciplinary actions resulting from a substantiated concern. To learn more, visit merckresponsibility.com/office-of-ethics. we introduced updated training on the importance of raising ethical and compliance-related concerns. 2 2 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 Our clinical trials are designed, conducted and M e rck Ra n ks #1 fo r P o l i t i ca l monitored according to the same standards, Accou n ta b i l i t y a n d D i sc losu r e whether they take place in the United States or elsewhere around the world. In conducting The Center for Political Accountability (CPA) and clinical trials, we also adhere to the guidelines of the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research The International Conference on Harmonisation at the Wharton School provide a comprehensive of Technical Requirements for Registration of portrait of how the top 200 public companies in Pharmaceuticals for Human Use. the S&P 500 are disclosing political spending. We are also committed to the timely registration For the second consecutive year, Merck ranked of clinical trials in patients and disclosure of those #1 in the 2012 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate clinical trial results regardless of their outcome. Political Disclosure and Accountability with a To learn more, visit merckresponsibility.com/ score of 97 (out of 100). Among our transparency clinical-trials. initiatives, we improved access to information by disclosing the costs and key issues associated with our lobbying activities in the EU and the U.S. We also post online semiannually Merck’s U.S. corporate and political action contributions, categorized by state, candidate and amount. #1 ranking on the cpa-zicklin index 23 awards & indices Merck has been recognized for our commitment and performance worldwide on various aspects of our corporate responsibilities. Please visit merckresponsibility.com/awards for the full listing of our awards. Merck ranked No. 4 on the 2012 Access to Merck ranked No. 16 on DiversityInc’s annual list Medicine Index, which assesses and ranks of the “Top 50 Companies for Diversity,” making pharmaceutical companies on various criteria it the company’s 10th consecutive appearance related to global access to medicines. on the list. This list is the leading assessment of diversity management in corporate America as well as globally. For the fourth year in a row, Merck has placed on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, which is based on a thorough analysis of corporate economic, environmental and social performance. Merck was recognized with the 2012 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for its continued improvement of energy performance and leadership in energy management in both the pharmaceutical and industrial sectors. Merck has been an ENERGY STAR partner since 1996 and has been recognized by the EPA for seven consecuMerck is a FTSE4Good constituent member. tive years — twice as the Partner of the Year and The FTSE4Good Index Series measures the now, for the fifth time, for Sustained Excellence. performance of companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. For the second consecutive year, Merck has placed on the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Indices — an innovative series of environmental, social and governance (ESG) equity indices that are based on a transparent selection process. 2 4 / m erc k c o r p o r at e r es p o ns ib il i t y H ig h l igh t s 2 012 Financial highlights 2012 revenues (in billions) $8.8 $5.1 10.8% Japan 18.6% Other $47.3 Billion in 2012 worldwide sales $7.9 $20.4 43.1% United States $13.0 27.5% Europe, Middle East & Africa Billion in 2012 r&d expenses* *Excludes restructuring and acquisition-related expenses notes NA: Not available. 1 As defined by the World Health Organization and excluding accidents, premature births and self-inflicted injuries. 2 For information on product-development partnerships, visit the “Partnerships” tab at: www.merckresponsibility.com/focus-areas/access-to-health /research-and-development/home.html 3 The number of partnerships decreased in 2012 following the evaluation of the manufacturing capabilities needed to support and sustain our Access goals. 4 Data includes new products and new indications. 5 For information on new registrations by region, visit: www.merckresponsibility.com/focus-areas/access-to-health/product-registration/home.html 6 For information on local regulatory agency GCP/PV training requests, visit: www.merckresponsibility.com/focus-areas/access-to-health/research-and -development/clinical-research/home.html 7 Differential pricing intended to facilitate access for the at-need population. 8 Countries with an MSD trading equity. 9 “Major” is defined as an investment by Merck’s Office of Corporate Philanthropy and/or The Merck Foundation of more than $300,000 per year and/or an engagement with a national government. 10 Includes investments by Merck’s Office of Corporate Philanthropy and/or The Merck Foundation; also includes funding for nutrition and access to clean water. 11 Includes treatments approved for river blindness and lymphatic filariasis through the Merck MECTIZAN ® Donation Program. 12 For more details on our environmental data, please download the Excel spreadsheet on our Downloads & Media page on www.merckresponsibility.com. 13 Beginning with 2012, data reported for women are global; previously, these data were limited to the U.S. 14 “Executive” is defined as the Chief Executive Officer and two structural levels below. 15 Overall turnover incorporates all types of turnover, including restructuring. 16 LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology. 17 Figures are based on data collected, reported and estimated worldwide. 18 Privacy concerns include all concerns escalated to the Merck Privacy Office about the company’s privacy practices. Substantiated concerns are those that are determined to be inconsistent with Merck privacy standards or that involve loss of, theft of or unauthorized access to personal data. Office of Corporate Responsibility WS 2A-55 One Merck Drive PO Box 100 Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889 USA Forward-Looking Statement This communication includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to, general industry conditions and competition; general economic factors, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation in the United States and internationally; global trends toward health care cost containment; technological advances, new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approval; Merck’s ability to accurately predict future market conditions; manufacturing difficulties or delays; financial instability of international economies and sovereign risk; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck’s patents and other protections for innovative products; and the exposure to litigation, including patent litigation, and/or regulatory actions. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Merck’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC’s Internet site (www.sec.gov).
