Communication on progress Report (COP) PERIOD COVERED: 24th of May 201223th of May 2013 AGENCY: Human Rights Network Uganda CONTACT PERSON: Mr. Ndifuna Mohammad CONTACTS: executive@hurinet.or.ug/ info@hurinet.or.ug Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) I am pleased to confirm that Human Rights Network Uganda reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corru Corruption. In 2012-2013 2013 our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders s using our primary channels of communication. ………………….. Yours sincerely, Mr. Ndifuna Mohamed Chief executive officer Over view of Human Rights Network Uganda The Human Rights Network Uganda (HURINETU) was established in 1993 by a group of eight human rights organizations and was formally registered as an independent, non-partisan and not for profit organization in 1994. The identity of HURINET-U lies with its diverse membership of over 40 NGOs. Membership is drawn from organizations that are committed to a wide range of human rights issues which are complementary in terms of areas of focus including; civil and political rights, economic social and political rights, child rights, gender and women’s issues, peace building and conflict resolution, prisoners’ rights, refugee rights and labour rights. Members range from purely Ugandan NGOs to international organizations. Vision “A society free from human rights abuse” Mission: To foster the promotion, protection and respect of human rights in Uganda HURINET-U’s work is guided by the following objectives: 1. To promote and protect human rights as provided for in the regional and international instruments that Uganda is party to and as provided for in the Constitution of Uganda; 2. To encourage close collaboration and networking among human rights organizations in Uganda; 3. To encourage optimum sharing of information and resources both human and material among human rights organizations in Uganda; 4. To continually assess a collective impact in the Ugandan society occasioned by several programs of human rights organizations in Uganda; 5. To build the professional capacity of human rights organisations though training, research and technical skills acquisition; 6. To adopt strategies necessary for an effective and coordinated human rights advocacy in the country; 7. To develop policy guidelines for the effective, proper, transparent and accountable conduct of human rights organisations in Uganda; and 8. To provide a frame work for regional collaboration and exchangefor the sharing of experiences and strategies and the analysis of specific needed advocacy skills thus making human rights organisations more effective in the on-going human rights education and information. Implementation: Human Rights Network -Uganda under its project on Economic, Social and Cultural rights framework, implements activities on UN Global Compact Principles with emphasis on human rights pillar. It was observed that, human rights is one of the areas of soft assessment under the UN global compact mechanism, the challenge was that many organizations or institutions that have acceded or otherwise taken on interest in this mechanism had not received sufficient exposition to rights based framework and tools to be used not only to mainstream human rights in the corporate practices but also to monitor and track the human rights indicators. Below are the activities HURINET-U implements in collaboration with the existing UN global compact local network Assessment policy and goal:  Human Rights Network Uganda exists to foster the promotion, Principle 1. Businesses protection and respect of human rights in Uganda through linking and should support and strengthening the capacity of member organizations at national, respect the protection regional and international level of internationally  HURINET-U conducts campaigns that are aimed at mobilizing proclaimed human corporate institutions to mainstream the UN global compact principles rights; and into their daily activities.  HURINET-U convenes UN global compact local committee meetings with the aims of electing a new board. The committee is always Principle 2: make sure comprise of five members and current in operation is composed of that they are not complicit chair (ENHAS), vice chair (HURINET-U), secretary (FUE), mobilizer, in human rights abuses Treasurer and two committee members. For the first time an NGO was elected on the board an effort that will enhance the promotion of human rights under the global compact campaign  The institution is involved in the publication and dissemination of IECs i.e. “Common Questions and Answers about UN Global compact” were reproduced and distributed to members of the UNGC-local network to increase awareness on UN Global compact in Uganda.  HURINET-U in collaboration with Federation of Uganda Employers always organize a UN Global Compact outreaches aimed at mainstreaming, popularizing, and reporting on UNGC principles.  The outreaches have always targeted local network members, potential participants to the UN Global Compact in Uganda, and Civil society organizations. Four resource persons from the UN office of the high commission and experts from Switzerland, Coca cola Bottling Company and NEMA among others are always invited to share with the participants on the different measures that have been adopted to address the UNGC principles. The outreaches attract between 50 -70 participants who at the end equipped with knowledge on the UNGC principles. Left: Mr. Georges Tytens, Chair LN steering committee and Eng. Martin Kasekende FUE Chairman during the COP event.  HURINET-U conducts capacity build trainings for its members and other CSOs in the areas of human rights and other pillars of UN global compact. The trainings are more relevant in enabling proper application of human rights principles in respective institutional programming. Different partners that benefitted in the training are able to pass messages to the communities. Measurement of outcome  HURINET-U developed a code of conduct, gender equality policy, operational manuals, and article of association, human rights training manuals and many other human rights publications. These are all aimed at harmonizing the relationship at the working place. The publications can be accessed at HURINET-U website: www.hurinet.or.ug  Improved capacity among the CSOs, government official on human rights matters  There is improved involvement of the population in the process of development of the bills, laws and policies that address human rights issues.  There is improved respect for human rights as a result of the campaigns  As a result of this publication a number of institutions have joined the local network.  HURINET-U has been in constant consultation with the international and regional bodies dealing with human rights issues.  For the easy monitoring of human rights violations, HURINET-U has mobilized and hosted a number of coalitions, i.e. coalition on Economic, social and cultural rights, freedom of information, police accountability, civil and political rights  HURINET-U has conducted a number of researches to get evidence used for the advocacy purposes  All the employees of HURINET-U have medical insurance and formally communicated on the staff contracts.  HURINET-U staff gets annual fully paid leaves.  To improve the RBAP, all the Network organizations seat for an annual general assembly with the aim of reviewing the progress on promoting, protecting and respecting human rights as a result of the training  All members of the organizations are entitled to social forum to celebrate their achievements. The event is organized once in year and improved to be a motivating event for the members to perform better  HURINET-U has clustered its members in accordance to their areas of operations, i.e. clusters on Economic, social and cultural rights, child cluster, women cluster, civil and political cluster and each of these clustered is managed by the convener, who takes responsibility of leadership of the cluster  The existence of the UNGC committee, has improved the coordination of the network hence strengthening the members  Periodic review of results by senior management  External audits of Human Rights performance labour: Principle 3: Businesses Assessment policy and goal: should uphold the Human Rights Network Uganda exists to promote, protect and respect freedom of association human rights of its employees, communities and the country at large. and the effective recognition of the right Implementation. to  HURINET-U conforms to international labor convections. The collective bargaining; organization does not employ children as alluded to by the ILO law  HURINET-U runs a project and coalition on Economic, social and Principle 4: the cultural rights, where issues regarding the trade unions are addressed elimination of all forms through trainings and national dialogues of forced and  HURINET-U is a member of the social security coalition hosted by compulsory labour; platform for labor action who is a member of human rights network Uganda. The social issues are shared through the stated platform Principle 5: the  The organization has put in place security mechanism, such as the effective abolition of Cameras, and medical insurance to ensure security and welfare of child labour the institution and employees  The organization has gender equality policy, Rights based approach to programming, which prevents discrimination in the organization Principle 6: the  At the institutional level, there are a number of labor laws being elimination of implemented at the secretariat, i.e. right to maternal leave, NSSF discrimination in remission, employees have been provided with contracts in respect of employment accordance to the employment act. and occupation  Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination  HURINET-U published and disseminates IECs related to labour issues in the country  capacity building / training on the Labor rights are conducted in different parts of the country  HURINET-U has a clear structure that enables proper communication in the organization.  HURINET-U has conducted awareness raising for its employees and member organizations on labor rights and policies  HURINET-U has its strong values/norms of transparency, nondiscrimination, justice, equity and equal opportunity, collective action  HURINET-U provides all its employees with job description and contract in accordance to the employment law.  HURINET-U uses Human Resource policies and procedures in the daily running of the activities Measurement of outcomes: Demographic of management and employees by diversity:  HURINET-U employs both women and men. Currently the female employees are more than men. The staff comprise of different ethnic groups from the different parts of the country Incidence of violence of the labor right,  The cases of violations, Staffs follow the organizational structure which is composed of general assembly, Board of directors, Chief executive officer, progamme manger, finance and administration manager, programme officers, project officers, project assistants; volunteers while following cases of violation.  While solving the cases of violation, the management liaises with the relevant authorities to solve the problems of violations. But can also be handled internally, by the board of directors, and the management  Investigations: HURINET-U is a Network of human rights organizations, among the members are those running labor rights issues, in case of any violation , the members are mandated to investigate, the legal cases, rulings, fines among others  Periodic review: From the institutional organ gram, the senior management do conduct monthly meetings prior to the annual general meetings to assess the results Specific progress made:  HURINET-U has conducted a number of capacity building trainings for its staff and the members organization including ESCR coalition members  Implements the ILO convections, conducts audits of the ILO convections that East African countries have adopted, in the Universal periodic review, the organization was able to represent the labour laws in the civil society report where a number of recommendations were given the state to put into consideration  The organization has been able to provide trainings on diversity and pluralism for both its staff and members organizations  The organization has conducted analysis of the different ILO conventions and briefs were made for the government official  HURINET-U conducts External audits of its member organizations, and the global audit of its self Environment:: Assessment policy and goal HURINET-U exists to protect, promote and respect human rights in Uganda  Principle 7: in accordance to international instruments. Businesses should support HURINET-U is a non government organization, existing to promote and a precautionary protect human rights in the country. HURINET-U does not involve in the approach to production. Its activities do not pollute the environment. environmental The company has no written policy on environment, but can only address the challenges; issues of the environment through its project on Economic, Social and  Principle 8: Cultural Rights. undertake initiatives to promote greater Implementation: environmental  HURINET-U promotes responsible use of natural resource responsibility; management such as land and oil and  Externally, the organization has intervened in the areas of resource based conflicts, where the frontline communities have been involved in  Principle 9: activities that damage sustainability of the environment, and in encourage the response a number of trainings have been conducted on the development importance of conservation and diffusion of  The organization conducts trainings on right to water with the main aim environmentally of making the public aware of the issues related to water and survival. friendly ‘’common saying that water is life’’ and the state has the obligation to technologies. provide, protect water sources  The organization has installed solar systems as one measure to present pollution from the generators  Through the existing UN global compact Network, Human Rights Network Uganda has been able to gather the information and share with others companies on the good practices that are used by the companies, internally and externally.  The organization also conducts trainings on the mushrooming government activities as oil has been discovered in different areas in the country. The intervention s is aimed at avoiding future pollution and destruction of the environment.  It is also in the institutional policy that, the tress are planted around the organization compound  The organization has also introduced the culture of recycling to avoid littering of the wastes Measurement of outcomes:  HURINET-U owns a policy on disposal of records  Installation of dustbins where rubbish is exposed  The institutions have installed dustbins in the compound where all the wastes are disposed  Increased use of laptops, that are run by the invertors and this prevents pollution from the generators  Increased use of e-mails for communication to avoid paper usage which is sometimes littered  other progresses include the existence of the disposal and recycling policy, planning of trees at the compound, installation of the solar systems  Senior management always meet once in the month to discuss progress in the environment  Audit reports are in the place Ant-corruption Assessment policy and goal:  Principle 10: HURINET-U exists to protect, promote and respect human rights in Uganda Businesses in accordance to international instruments. should work against One major area of continued concern is the scourge of corruption which corruption in all has severely permeated the current government bureaucracy. Measures its forms, have been put in place by government to deal with corruption but they have including not addressed the problem. However, there is a collective fight against extortion and corruption and HURINET-U implements a number of activities geared bribery. towards fighting corruption in the country Implementation:  HURINET-U is engaged in the monitoring of corruption cases in the country  Documenting and reporting anti-corruption cases  Development of antifraud laws and policies  The organization is supporting the civic actors on the anti-corruption initiatives, through the black Monday campaign and there has been introduction of a black Monday magazines which runs every Monday  HURINET-U enforces anti-corruption policies/laws  HURINET-U follows up court cases, to ascertain their status  At the institutional level, the organization has put in place policies manuals that are followed by the staff to avoid corruption cases  The organization has transparent structure ranging from the general assembly, board of director, Chief executive officer, programme manager and administration and finance manager, programme officers, project officers, project assistants, volunteers and then interns Measurement of outcomes:  HURINET-U has anti-corruption fraud  Black Monday magazine which runs every Monday, with anticorruption information  Introduction of a black Monday magazine  Annual report and audits  Evaluation reports on anti-corruption  well built structure
