Responsibility begins with me CSR Report 2011 Casinos Austria AG and Österreichischen Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. Facts & Figures Facts & Figures Casinos Austria AG in millions euro 2009 2010 2011 Total revenues (inland) 284.8 267.4 279.7 Tax payments (inland) 128 112 102 Employees* 1,695 1,640 1,580 Casino guests (in millions) 2.33 2.36 2.36 Gaming tables 237 230 233 Gaming machines 1,861 1,885 1,933 * Annual average full-time equivalent (FTE), incl. CAGAST, CAST, CCB & CALL. Facts & Figures Österreichischen Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. in millions euro 2009 2010 2011 Sales Total 2,633.70 2,642.45 2,899.60 of which: Lotto “6 aus 45” 601.32 582.02 654.94 Toto and Torwette 12.19 12.19 11.25 EuroMillions 187.22 180.46 299.31 Bingo 11.35 11.51 11.52 ToiToiToi 17.15 18.18 16.53 Zahlenlotto 1–90 4.29 4.21 3.80 Joker 178.03 173.68 191.36 Rubbellos 123.00 118.65 125.56 Brieflos 27.91 26.51 26.24 Klassenlotterie 34.16 33.87 31.77 win2day.at (incl. Keno) 1.069.09 1,074.97 1,125.15 win2day.at Poker 6.53 6.34 5.77 WINWIN (Video Lottery Terminals) 361.45 399.86 396.40 Tax payments incl. gaming-related taxes and taxes from ordinary income and other taxes and duties 421.19 398.43 459.21 Sports sponsoring in acc. with Section 20 Austrian Gaming Act 71.34 79.01 80.00 Employees* 461 479 491 Sales network Lotto/Toto sales outlets 3,852 3,820 3,817 Instant lottery distribution network (Rubbellos and Brieflos) 6,161 6,045 Rubbellos points of sale 6,543 Brieflos points of sale 6,521 * Annual average full-time equivalent (FTE) 2 Contents Facts & Figures Product and Game Developments Facts & Figures Casinos Austria AG 2 at Austrian Lotteries 50 Facts & Figures Österreichischen Lotterien Austrian Lotteries Products 51 Gesellschaft m.b.H. 2 Austrian Lotteries Economic Indicators 52 Contents 3 Environment Reporting Period/Profile of Report 4 Energy Optimization 56 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact 5 Energy Optimization at the Rennweg 44 Site 58 Foreword by the Management Board 6 Waste and Packaging Management 60 Introduction by the CSR Director 7 Employees Introduction by the CSR Officer 8 Health 64 Casinos Austria Corporate Principles 10 Casino & Lotteries Academy 64 Austrian Lotteries Guiding Principles 11 “Work and Family” Audit Certification Legal Foundations 12 for Austrian Lotteries 65 Management Casinos Austria Training Initiative 66 Ownership Structure and Companies 16 Casinos Austria Employee Statistics ­ 68 Group Management Bodies 18 Austrian Lotteries Employee Statistics 70 Group Organizational Structure 22 Commitment to Society and Social Causes 74 Our Stakeholders 24 CSR Activities in our Casinos 78 Management Systems Sponsoring 80 Anti-Corruption 25 Other Guidelines and Policies 25 UN Global Compact Communication Risk and Opportunity Management 25 on Progress (COP) Financial Risk Management 26 Casinos Austria Goals 86 Guest and Data Protection 26 Austrian Lotteries Goals 88 Prevention of Money Laundering and GRI-Index 3.1 90 Criminal Activities 27 Affiliations 28 Imprint 97 Responsible Gaming Responsible Gaming at Casinos Austria 32 Responsible Gaming at Austrian Lotteries 33 Responsible Gaming at win2day 34 Responsible Gaming at WINWIN 34 Responsible Gaming at tipp3 34 Responsible Gaming at Ural Loto 34 Responsible Advertising 35 Responsible Gaming Academy 2011 35 Cooperation Partners/Counseling Facilities 36 Economy Legislative Developments 40 Human Rights 41 Casinos Austria Purpose of Business 42 Casinos Austria Products and Services 42 Casino Operations as Regional Value Creation Centers 43 Casinos Austria Economic Indicators 46 Austrian Lotteries – Purpose of Business ­ 50 CSR REPORT 2011 3 Reporting Period/ Profile of Report This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report has been prepared and produced for the benefit of all internal and external stakeholders of Casinos Austria AG (“Casinos Austria”) and Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. (“Austrian Lotteries”). It covers the year 2011 and contains information about the per­ formance of both companies as well as their important economic, environmental and social activities and challenges in Austria. It is the sixth CSR report published by Casinos Austria and the fifth such report produced by Austrian Lotteries. Casinos Austria published its 2010 CSR report in June 2010, the same month in which Austrian Lotteries published its 2010 interim CSR report. Since a new corporate structure which came into effect from 1 October 2008 has brought the two companies closer together from both an organizational and a geographical perspective, the directors of Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries decided in 2011 to produce their first-ever joint CSR report. Further information on each company’s products and services can also be found in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Annual Reports for 2011. This CSR report has been compiled in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines, which ­stipulate indicators for the three pillars of sustaina­­­bi­ lity: economic, environmental and social. It also serves as UN Global Compact progress report for Casinos Austria AG and Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H.. The content of the report was selected by the CSR ­officer in consultation with the directors and in close cooperation with all affected Business Units and ­Corporate Functions. The data supplied by the individual Business Units and Corporate Functions for this report was selected by the responsible subject matter experts from the documentation and statistics they have diligently compiled and maintained for many ­years and was verified for correctness and accuracy by their respective line managers. 4 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact At the core of the UN Global Compact lie ten principles derived from various international declarations. Human Rights Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employPrinciple 1 ment and occupation. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Environment Principle 2 Principle 7 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Businesses should support a precautionary approach abuses. to environmental challenges; Labor Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmenPrinciple 3 tal responsibility; and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Principle 9 bargaining; encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Anti-Corruption labor; Principle 10 Principle 5 Businesses should work against corruption in all its the effective abolition of child labor; and forms, including extortion and bribery. Friedrich Stickler Karl Stoss Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dietmar Hoscher CSR REPORT 2011 5 Foreword by the Management Board Our companies are not companies like every other. In our field of business – gaming – there is only a fine dividing line between fun pastime and worrying vice. ­­Our high level of active responsibility ensures this threshold is never crossed in the way we do business. Society thus has every right to expect that a gaming operator will apply and adhere to particularly strict business principles and that social responsibility and sustainability will be fundamental aspects in everything it does. The Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group has always taken this responsibility very seriously. Responsible gaming and player protection have been established practice across the group for many years. Our companies are recognized leaders in the international gaming industry in the implementation and development of responsible gaming programs and methods. For us, sustainability also means providing active support for projects in all areas of society. Through their extensive sponsoring activities and partnerships with numerous different organizations, the companies in our group support not only a wide variety of sports and cultural initiatives, but also a diverse range of social projects and concerns. This sustainability report offers a very good illustration of the broad significance and meaning of responsible gaming in our group. Our employees assume responsibility every single day. They, in turn, form the basis of a group of companies who are responsible members of Austrian society and whose ultimate goal is to ensure that all Austrians benefit f. l. t. r.: Friedrich Stickler, Karl Stoss, Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Dietmar Hoscher from their actions and business activities. Over the last few years, we have not only brought Casinos Austria, Austrian Lotteries and their subsidiaries physically closer together, we have also implemented a new organizational structure for the group. As a consequence, we are now in a position to produce a joint CSR report for the group for the first time. Friedrich Stickler Karl Stoss Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dietmar Hoscher 6 Introduction by the CSR Director We live in a time in which the gaming industry is coming under constant scrutiny across Europe. NGOs and the media increasingly uncover cases of scams involving all manner of fanciful illegal gaming offers, while stories of gambling addiction and inadequate player protection frequently make the headlines. In Austria, it is the slot machine sector in particular that has come into the crossfire of criticism in recent years – criticism that has ultimately led to a radical amendment to the country’s gaming law. The European Commission has added the online gaming sector to its agenda and has set itself the objective of developing proposals for stricter regulations at European level. It also wants to extend regulations to combat money laundering to all forms of gambling. Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries welcome these developments. The fact that society is increasingly demanding greater integrity and more ­responsibility from gambling operators has to be seen as clear progress. For many years now, the companies in our group have led by doing and serve as a practical example of how the highest standards of social responsibility can be successfully implemented in a sensitive sector like ours. Casinos Austria has also assumed a pioneering role here on the international stage: we have implemented a systematic approach to CSR management, publish annual reports on our CSR activities and continue to extend our commitment to social responsibility and sustainability. Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries both joined the UN Global Compact in 2011 – in January and February respectively. Founded by former UN Dietmar Hoscher Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the UN Global ­Compact is probably the world’s most important CSR platform. The sustainability principle is apparent in all areas of our business. It is as integral a part of our approach to responsible gaming as it is to our efforts to be a decent employer and business partner or to our support and commitment to sports, culture, the arts, social issues, ecology and climate protection. This report is designed to offer an overview of our extensive CSR efforts. I hope you enjoy reading it. Best regards Dietmar Hoscher Director of the Management Board of Casinos Austria CSR REPORT 2011 7 Introduction by the CSR-Manager Have you looked in the mirror yet today? Of course you have! You’re Corporate sustainability management is even more dependent than other functions in a company on already on page 9 of the everyone pulling together. ­Casinos Austria/Austrian That’s why we at the Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group are proud of the progress we’ve made in Lotteries Group’s CSR rerecent years in involving staff in CSR activities. They all show a great deal of active commitment, be it in port, which means you’ve their own contributions to protecting the environment or in their support for social causes, e.g. by already passed the cover. volunteering to cook at a homeless shelter run by ­Caritas in Vienna. This is a particularly good example “Responsibility begins with of the fact that social responsibility in our companies is not just “an order from above”, it is something me” is the theme we have ­everyone does and supports. This naturally applies above all to our core business, where extensive chosen for our first joint training initiatives have made responsible gaming – the most important pillar of our comprehensive CSR report, because a CSR approach to sustainability – a matter of course and a core corporate principle. Our responsible gaming concept is essentially only policies and measures far exceed any legal requirements. This is an important point, because a ­modern as good as the people who understanding of CSR begins precisely with a com­ pany’s approach to its core business. Doing good is turn it into reality each and obviously a good thing, but a socially responsible company has to have first done its homework and every day. This might sound made sure its own products and services are marketed in a responsible, sustainable manner. like a truism, but the fact The fact that the Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries that they are understood Group has succeeded in doing so is clearly linked to this commitment on the part of our staff – but equally and practiced by everyone also to the fact that our directors understand and stress the importance of CSR and are fully behind in a company really is an our activities all the way. important benchmark for This report not only summarizes our achievements in 2011, it also forms the basis for our ongoing plans the sincerity and seriousand efforts in 2012. As CSR Officer, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the ness of CSR ­activities. management board and all the staff in our group ­for their continued efforts and support. Verena Proksch Head of Department CSR Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group CSR REPORT 2011 9 Casinos Austria Corporate Principles 10 guiding principles for a responsible coexistence 1. As a services company, everything we do centers on our guests and their individual needs and demands. Our behavior and the design of our products combine international standards of quality and service with the decisive “value added” of typically Austrian friendliness and charm. 2. We treat others the way we wish to be treated our­selves. 3. Our staff, works council and management are fully committed to a sustainable, socially balanced, fair and cooperative attitude that centers on our guests. 4. We are aware of and accept our responsibility to society. 5. Gambling can be a problem for some people. We therefore accept and are committed to the regulatory mandate of the Austrian authorities and strive in all our ­casinos to promote, encourage and offer the optimal level of responsible gaming for our guests. 6. We are aware of and accept our responsibility for our company. 7. In line with our corporate objectives, all our employees are empowered and required to assume responsibility, be innovative and show commitment. 8. We offer our employees a stimulating and supportive working environment. 9. Job descriptions, scope of authority and any associated responsibilities are clearly defined. This leads to informed, purposeful and motivated employees who provide our guests with optimal service. 10. We draw our strength from our clear focus on our guests and our markets. 10 Austrian Lotteries Guiding Principles Responsible – Innovative – Cooperative Austrian Lotteries is an internationally renowned ­gaming company with a responsible, innovative and cooperative approach. We offer a broad portfolio of high quality products for the adult gaming market. ­Responsible gaming forms the basis of all our business activities. This core attitude to our stakeholders is ­actively practiced by company management and by all our staff. Maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers and the licensing authority is central to all our efforts and endeavors. We combine regulatory responsibility with entrepreneurial commitment, live credibly by these principles and are an economic success with a clear financial basis and strength. Our business model embraces innovation. We develop and use modern technology to guarantee the best possible level of security in our gaming products. Our pioneering role can be attributed above all to our motivated, high performing staff, who are a cornerstone of our lasting success. We are committed to providing them with an attractive working environment that ­encourages open communication and supports a workfamily balance. We see ourselves as a good corporate citizen and support institutions and projects that serve the interests of Austria and its population. In line with the license awarded to us, we strive to make our products available across the whole of Austria. We work closely and responsibly with our sales partners and strive to ensure our customers always enjoy the best possible service. In doing so, we place a particularly strong emphasis on adherence to our responsible gaming principles. CSR REPORT 2011 11 Legal Foundations Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries provide the services and products covered by the state gambling monopoly in Austria. In Austria, the right to operate games of chance is reto any form of state regulation or control whatsoever. served to the State, whereby the Gaming Act [GlücksConsequently, legal gambling services must also be spielgesetz] provides for the transfer of corresponding promoted. A liberalized gambling market would also licenses. Pursuant to this provision, all 12 casino not bring about the desired results, since it would in­licenses for Austria were granted to Casinos Austria in evitably lead to an oversupply of gambling products due consideration of the legally established regulatory, – with dramatic effects for instance from a gambling social and fiscal policy objectives. Austrian Lotteries addiction perspective. holds the license in accordance with Section 14 of the Gaming Act to operate the lotteries defined in Sections The Federation can currently grant 15 casino licen6 to 12b of the Gaming Act, Federal Law Gazette [Bunses. The strict requirements a company must meet to desgesetzblatt/BGBl.] No. 620/1989, as amended in be granted such a license are defined in Section 21 of BGBl. I No. 76/2011. Furthermore, subsidiary and affithe Gaming Act, which stipulates that a license can, liated companies handle activities in the “international for example, only be granted to an applicant whose casino operations”, “sports betting”, “skill games” and shareholders do not have a controlling influence that “catering” sectors as well as for the internet ­gaming would prevent the necessary reliability from a reguplatform win2day and the Video Lottery Terminals latory perspective. Furthermore, said applicant must (VLT) sector. have a paid-up share capital of at least 22 million euro and provide evidence that these funds originate from a Under Austrian constitutional law, the legal framework ­legitimate source. for the regulation of the gaming sector is established by the powers of legislation and execution ­accorded The specific requirements regarding the reliability and to the Federation in the matter of ‘monopolies’. In economic potency of a casino operator justify such accordance with jurisdiction, the federal lawmaker a system. The potential negative implications and passed the Gaming Act, which stipulates that all forms risks associated with the operation of casinos provide of games of chance – with a few limited exceptions – further support for the notion that the number of casishall be operated by the Federation. The scope of the nos operated should be kept at a low level. These risks Federation’s gaming monopoly is defined in Sections 1 include, for example, the threat to a person’s economic and 2, and limited by the exceptions laid down in Secexistence that can arise from a passion for gambling, tions 4 and 5, of the Gaming Act. possible unlawful activities on the part of casino operators, or the potential penetration of the sector by Since the provision of games of chance as a leisure criminal groups. ­pastime is subject to particular social demands and requirements, special provisions must be made to reThe legal foundations likewise establish the basis upon gulate this provision. On a general level, these terms which Austrian Lotteries provides lottery games in serve to ensure that regulatory and socio-political Austria and constitute the rules for their provision. objectives are met. In Austria, this is achieved by meThe licensing authority controls adherence to these ans of a license system established in the Gaming Act, rules and monitors, for example, the number of games which only permits the operation of games of chance on offer and whether they are operated in line with under certain provisions. The lawmaker’s objective the regulatory objectives. By monitoring shareholder here is to steer the clearly immanent human desire to structures, the licensing authority ensures that crimigamble into orderly channels. nal elements do not penetrate the Austrian gaming market. It also authorizes every new product, making A total ban on games of chance would not be prudent – sure in the process that it meets the stipulated rules – because it would simply result in gambling being proviwhich also contain responsible gaming provisions and ded by illegal sources and thus no longer being subject concepts. 12 Ulrike Klari-Izundu Thinking in terms of opportunities also provides people with positive confirmation. It encourages them to continually recognize, follow and realize opportunities. Everyone has their own reservoir of particular abilities that help them to achieve their goals more quickly. When I notice such positive abilities, I like to mention them. Positive reinforcement of this kind makes people more aware of their abilities and increases the ­likelihood that they will use them – be it in their ­private or in their professional lives. They create confidence, give a sense of well-being, and are often the precursors to the seizing of an opportunity. The licensing authority clearly stipulates in Section Austrian Lotteries submitted a bid in the public tender 14 (2) 7 of the Gaming Act that a license may only be launched in June 2011 for the reissue of the lottery granted to an applicant who can be expected to exercise ­license. In the decision dated 10 October 2011, Austrian the license most effectively as a result of its particular Lotteries was successfully awarded the license to operaexperience, infrastructure, development measures and te lotteries pursuant to Sections 6 to 12b of the Gaming equity capital, as well as its systems and measures to Act, BGBl. No. 620/1989, as amended in BGBl. I No. prevent gambling addiction, protect players, prevent 76/2011, for the period through to 30 September 2027. money laundering and criminal activities, guarantee operational reliability, provide quality assurance, Over the last 25 years, Austrian Lotteries has impres­monitor its own activities and comply with any other sively demonstrated its ability to apply this license applicable provisions in the Gaming Act. effectively to all lottery games and shown its clear ­ ­reliability and high level of responsibility to society and Casinos Austria holds the 12 licenses currently issued the Austrian state in the organization and provision of for the operation of casinos at the following venues: the licensed games of chance. Baden, Bad Gastein, Bregenz, Graz, Innsbruck, Kitz­ bühel, Kleinwalsertal, Linz, Salzburg (Wals-SiezenBoth companies have their headquarters in Vienna, heim), Seefeld, Velden and Vienna. Austria. CSR REPORT 2011 13 Philip Newald I don’t kill ideas, I listen to suggestions. I do this every day with my staff. I motivate them to develop sales oriented, customer friendly ­processes on their own and then work with me ­ to fine tune them. If they are feasible from an organizational and business perspective, I make sure they are implemented quickly. CSR REPORT 2011 15 Management Ownership Structure and Companies Medial Beteiligungs GmbH UNIQA Vienna Insurance Group Raiffeisen Gruppe Bankhaus Schelhammer Münze Österreich AG Bankhaus Schelhammer Private Shareholders & Schattera AG & Schattera AG 38.3 % 33.2 % 5.3 % 23.2 % Casinos Austria AG 68 % The shares in the Lotto-Toto Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. are held by: • CLS Beteiligungs Gesellschaft m.b.H. (Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG, 100 % B & C Holding GmbH), Casinos Austria • RSV Beteiligungs-Gesellschaft m.b.H. International Holding (Erste Bank der oesterreichischen GmbH Sparkassen AG, RZB Holding GmbH, Österreichische Volksbanken-AG), • LTB Beteiligungs-Gesellschaft m.b.H. (BAIH Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH, BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeit und Wirtschaft und Österreichische Postsparkasse AG, Hypo-Banken-Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Erste Bank der oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG), • Österreichischer Rundfunk. 16 Lotto-Toto Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. Russisch Österreichische Österreichische Lotterien Lotterien Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. 32 % Gesellschaft m.b.H. 59 % 50 % 50 % Entertainment Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel Gesellschaft m.b.H. 100 % 000 Ural Loto 56 % 100 % 100 % Österreichische win2day EntwickGlücksund Sportwetten lungsund Betriebs­­ Unterhaltungsspiel Gesellschaft m.b.H. gesellschaft m.b.H. Betriebsges. m.b.H. Organizational chart: CASAG Shareholders and Shareholdings, as of 31.12.2011 CSR REPORT 2011 17 Group Management Bodies Casinos Austria Management Bodies Austrian Lotteries Management Bodies Executive Committee: Executive Committee: • Walter Rothensteiner, Director General • Walter Rothensteiner, Director General President of the Supervisory Board (Chairman) President of the Supervisory Board • Wolfgang Duchatczek, Vice Governor • Helmut Jonas, Director General (ret.) Vice President of the Supervisory Board Vice President of the Supervisory Board (1st Deputy Chairman) • Gerhard Starsich, Director General • Günter Geyer, Director Vice President of the Supervisory Board Vice President of the Supervisory Board (2nd Deputy Chairman) Members: • Maria Theresia Bablik • Maria Theresia Bablik Vice President of the Supervisory Board • Gerhard Baumgartner, University Professor (3rd Deputy Chairman) • Jochen Bottermann, Director • Erich Hampel Members: • Alfred Ludwig, Director General • Helmut Jonas, Director General (ret.) • Manfred Url, Director • Friedrich Karrer, Director • Alexander Wrabetz, Director General • Gerald Neuber, Director • Peter Zöllner, Director • Thomas Schröfl, Attorney-at-Law • Gerhard Starsich, Director General Delegated by the Central Works Council: • Gottfried Wanitschek, Director • Norbert Eigl • Peter Zöllner, Director • Franz Baumgartner • Ernst Gyöngyösi Delegated by the Central Works Council: • Gertrude Kopp • Jürgen Nachbaur (Central Works Council Chairman) • Christopher Nemec • Gerhard Dell-Osbel • Gerald Schwarz • Christian Holz • Gerhard Hrubes Audit Committee: • Peter Löb • Walter Rothensteiner, President, Director General • Manfred Schönbauer • Helmut Jonas, Vice President, Director General (ret.) • Gerhard Starsich, Vice President, Director General State Commissioners: • Gerhard Baumgartner, University Professor • Alfred Lejsek • Alfred Ludwig, Director General • Alfred Katterl • Alexander Wrabetz, Director General • Johannes Pasquali Management Board: • Karl Stoss, Director General • Dietmar Hoscher, Director • Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Director 18 Herbert Beck I take time for my fellow men. Alfred Schweitzer once wrote: “Do something for the privilege of simply doing it, open your eyes and look for someone who needs a bit of your time, a little compassion, a little company, a little care.” I wanted to respond to this appeal and take some time for people who do not form part of my direct work and family environments. I serve in a voluntary capacity as president of the Johanniter Hilfsgemeinschaft in Austria, a charitable organization of the Orders of St. John, which provides support to the increasing number of people who are falling through the social net even in our country. I am also a church lector. I take great pleasure in trying to come closer to this appeal through my endeavors in both these roles. Members of the Audit Committee delegated by the Central Works Council: • Norbert Eigl • Franz Baumgartner • Gertrude Kopp • Christopher Nemec State Commissioners: • Martin Atzmüller (State Commissioner) • Christoph Schlager (Deputy State Commissioner) Management Board: • Karl Stoss, Director General Chairman of the Board • Friedrich Stickler, Deputy Director General Deputy Chairman of the Board • Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Director Member of the Board as of 31.12.201 CSR REPORT 2011 19 Brigitte Retzenwinkler I take care to separate and dispose of waste correctly. I separate my waste into paper, glass, plastic, cans, batteries and non-recyclable waste. CSR REPORT 2011 21 Group Organizational Structure Business Units (BU) Casinos Austria International Business Lotteries Karl Stoss Karl Stoss Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dietmar Hoscher Dietmar Hoscher Friedrich Stickler Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Extended BU Management: Extended BU Management: Extended BU Management: Peter Ulovec Christian Schütz Alexander Tucek Erwin Binder Christoph Zurucker-Burda Betting & VLT/Slot Machine Business Online Gaming Sports-Related Skill Games Dietmar Hoscher Dietmar Hoscher Friedrich Stickler Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Executive Management: Executive Management: Philip Newald Robert Vierziger Executive Management: Georg Weber Friedrich Stickler Martin Jekl Corporate Functions (CF) Corporate Development Internal Audit Human Resources Corporate Communications Full Management Board Full Management Board Karl Stoss Karl Stoss Operative: Friedrich Stickler Operative: Karl Stoss Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Extended CF Management: Adolf Geppl Martin Himmelbauer Extended CF Management: Erhard Peinthor Erich Valenta Peter Ulovec Reinhard Summerer Christian Schütz Finance & Group Controlling Legal Affairs Public & European Affairs, CSR Information Technologies Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dietmar Hoscher Dietmar Hoscher Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Extended CF Management Extended CF Management Extended CF Management Extended CF Management Wolfgang Sperl Peter Erlacher Markus Eder Erich Schuster Services Responsible Gaming, Advertising & Sponsoring Friedrich Stickler Friedrich Stickler Extended CF Management Extended CF Management Oskar Berszenyi Herbert Beck Nathan Bomze Group Organizational Chart; as of 31.12.2011 22 Ines Benisch I switch electrical devices off completely. The individual companies Casinos Austria, Austrian and works with the casino directors to develop the straLotteries, Casinos Austria International, win2day Enttegic goals for the gaming, guest relations and marketing wicklungsund Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Österreichisectors. Other functions like administration & organizasche Sportwetten Gesellschaft m.b.H. and Glücksund tion, security & surveillance and controlling are also coUnterhaltungsspiel Betriebsges. m.b.H. are organized ordinated centrally. The unit also serves as the interface into individual Business Units, which draw on the correbetween the 12 casino operations and the 10 corporate sponding services of the so-called Corporate Functions functions. (or Group Functions). The available Corporate Functions are as follows: Corporate Development, Human Austrian Lotteries is positioned in the group organizatiResources, Corporate Communications, Responsible onal structure as “Lotteries” Business Unit, develops and Gaming, Advertising & Sponsoring, Legal Affairs, Puplans its strategic focus in direct cooperation with the blic & ­European Affairs/CSR, Information Technology, management board and assumes authority for its own ­Services, Finance & Group Controlling and Internal Auoperations and day-to-day business. Accordingly, its mardit (as of 31.12.2011). keting, product development, sales, draws, international business and Russian Federation, corporate counsel and The “Casinos in Austria” Business Unit is the central coboard administration activities are organized and carried ordination and support unit for the 12 Austrian casinos out directly in the business unit (as of 31.12.2011). CSR REPORT 2011 23 Our Stakeholders Politicians, lawmakers, customers, suppliers, owners, recipients of sponsoring funds, employees, works council representatives, the media, interest groups, investors, sales partners, regulatory bodies, local authorities The Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group has since been sent out several times a year to a maiextensive relationships with a diverse range of stakeling list that includes members of both the lower holders. We frequently invite the media to briefings, and the upper houses of the Austrian parliament as background discussions or press conferences. We are well as of the individual state parliaments. Our goal also particularly keen to establish a lively debate with with this newsletter, which goes by the title “Glücksour guests and customers. spiel mit Verantwortung” [“Responsible ­ Gaming”], is to inform political decision makers at federal and A further important instrument in maintaining sucstate level of current regulatory developments in cessful contact to our stakeholders is our corporate the gaming sector. Three such newsletters were newsletter. This was introduced in 2007 and has sent out in 2011 (the same number as in 2010). Employees Society Sales Partners Casinos Austria Austrian Lotteries State Suppliers Owners / Shareholders Customers 24 Management Systems Anti-Corruption r­ eflect the high moral standards of our companies. All our employees are aware of their responsibility to soThe Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group rejects ciety, our guests, our customers, our stakeholders and corruption in any form. We strongly supported the eftheir co-workers. The code of conduct not only defines forts of Austrian lawmakers to introduce enforceable the behavior we demand of ourselves, it also reflects our adaptations to the country’s anti-corruption regulaexpectations of our business partners. tions through the 2008 Penal Code Amendment Act [Strafrechtsänderungsgesetz]. Risk and Opportunity Management The service regulations in place at Casinos Austria ­prohibit any member of staff from accepting personal Monitoring of international developments in “best gifts or benefits. Should this regulation be breached, practices” in risk management indicates the increasing disciplinary proceedings are initiated immediately. relevance of strategic risk management. Casinos Austria ­Likewise, the Austrian Lotteries collective agreement and Austrian Lotteries have therefore introduced straclearly ­regulates the situation regarding the acceptance tegic risk and opportunity management for the group of gifts. Employees are not permitted to accept any gifts as a whole to complement the risk management alreawhich might create a bias or conflict of interests in their dy in place for their operative business. These standarprofessional duties without the company’s express, dized procedures allow us to increasingly capitalize on ­prior consent. new business opportunities and consciously address and steer the associated risks. In addition to meeting Our code of conduct also details how such conflicts of the ­legal requirements of the Company Law Amendinterest can occur and what employees should do in such ment Act 2008 [Unternehmensrechtsänderungsgesetz], a situation. This also applies to anti-corruption issues. this creates added value for the potential exploitation of new opportunities. Other Guidelines and Policies Our extensive service regulations – adherence to which is monitored by means of internal audits – and internal We also have a range of other specific guidelines and reporting procedures allow us to recognize and address ­policies in place. These apply to all members of staff and potential risks and their effects at a very early stage, cover areas such as: thus providing the basis for the timely introduction and execution of appropriate risk reduction steering measu• Data protection res. To ensure data comparability and migratability, our • Responsible gaming corporate risk management team is responsible for the • Money laundering unified implementation of risk management guidelines • Information security (the basis for all IT related across the group. Unified risk and opportunity categoguidelines, including those covering the classification ries have also been established for all companies and and handling of information, IT governance, IT prin­divisions in the group. Through their participation in ciples, decision rights, etc.) this group-wide process, the risks and opportunities for • Purchasing (e.g. uniforms cannot be produced using the group become the targeted concern of all managers. child labor). An internal control system (ICS) ensures the conformity We have worked in close cooperation with our staff to and cost effectiveness of procedures with regard to asset define and establish an appropriate code of conduct. security and compliance with corporate principles. This The goal of this code of conduct is to ensure that all our ICS is regularly monitored by the Corporate Function actions are ethically and legally impeccable and thus “Internal Audit”. CSR REPORT 2011 25 Our risk and opportunity management system allows The structures created in 2009 and 2010 to safeguard us to manage the risks relating to product security and and develop our data protection policies were further quality, player protection, the protection of minors, and consolidated in a group-wide data protection managecustomer safety in an even more controlled manner ment system (DSMS). Individual processes in this than before and at the same time make increased use ­system are to be handled in future in conjunction with of associated opportunities to optimize product quality our information security management system (ISMS). and customer satisfaction. In a first step, the data and some of the monitoring ­criteria were unified across both systems. Financial Risk Management To retain the GoodPriv@cy certificates obtained in Our financial risk management is based on treasury ­ ebruary 2010, internal data protection audits were F and/or investment guidelines as well as written fund ­carried out in our Business Units. All units audited proagreements. The content of these guidelines and agreeved to be fully compliant with the applicable auditing ments is monitored at regular intervals by the investand award regulations for the GoodPriv@cy standard. ment committee and adapted if necessary to the current requirements. To minimize risk, regular audits are carThe insights gained during these audits will also prove ried out by the Corporate Function “Internal Audit” and beneficial for the external GoodPriv@cy retention audit quarterly or regular fund reports are provided by the that will be carried out by SQS in October 2012. Any fund managers. weak points uncovered by SQS must normally be eliminated by the time of the next audit. There are however no known weak points at present which might prevent Guest and Data Protection retention of GoodPriv@cy certification in October 2012. We place utmost importance on protecting the privaCreating awareness among all members of staff and cy of all our customers, sales partners and staff in the ­ anagement is a key way of safeguarding data protecm collection, processing and use of their personal data. We tion. Accordingly, information events were held by the adhere to the applicable data protection regulations as Data Protection and Anti-Money Laundering departa matter of course. The enforcement and maintenance ment during the reporting year in all casinos in Austria. of player confidentiality is a specific and essential comSeveral training courses and seminars were also held for ponent of our stated data protection policy at Casinos different target groups at the Austrian Lotteries headAustria and Austrian Lotteries. quarters in Vienna. In 2011, the focus of our data protection activities lay primarily on optimizing the high standards that had already been introduced in 2010. Binding rules of conduct for data protection for licensed gaming operators were drawn up as planned, brought into force by the Federal Chancellery with the support of the Austrian Economic Chambers (WKO) – Occupational Category Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries – and published on the WKO homepage and our own corporate websites. ­Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries are currently the only licensed gaming companies worldwide who meet the strict provisions laid down in these rules of conduct. 26 We subject every task and every transaction with a parGoals we have set ourselves ticular risk of a potential link to money laundering or the financing of terrorism to special scrutiny. To meet 1. Training courses to provide staff with the this commitment and comply with those provisions latest information on and insights into data of Article 41 (4) of the Austrian Federal Banking Act protection and measures to raise awareness [Bankwesengesetz] which are applicable by reference, among all staff we subjected all our business processes to an in-depth – continuous analysis in 2011. The aim of this analysis was to uncover, identify, document and assess any risks of money 2. Data protection road show at all casinos in laundering or the financing of terrorism and introduce Austria appropriate measures to eliminate or minimize these – 2012/13 risks. 3. Update of e-Learning modules We use a range of measures to demonstrably and sys– 2012/13 tematically realize the “know your customer” requirements laid out in the Gaming and Banking Acts. Our 4. Internal and external data protection audits established security policies, organizational structure in all business units and the ISO 27001 compliant security measures in place – continuous in our central computer center guarantee adherence to applicable security regulations for the operation of data storage systems. Prevention of Money Laundering The changes and additions to the Gaming and Banand Criminal Activities king Acts were enforced in 2011 by means of a new and ­binding anti-money laundering guideline for the We have been using an ISAE 3000 approved managecompanies Casinos Austria AG (CASAG), Glücksund ment system in our efforts to prevent money laundeUnterhaltungsspiel Betriebsges. m.b.H. (WINWIN) ring and criminal activities since 2011 and continuously and ­Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H (winassess money laundering risks. All our internal business 2day). processes have been segmented into steering processes, core processes and supply processes. All statutory provisions in the Gaming and Banking Acts relevant to the companies in our group were cateSteering processes serve to establish the group’s strategic gorized and assigned into risk groups. These risk groups focus and provide a structural framework (e.g. planning were then subjected to a series of internal tests and long-term, medium-term and short-term development, subsequently plotted on a risk and risk maturity map. setting target agreements, monitoring performance). All business processes were documented to ensure full transparency for our management team and anti-­money Core processes (also frequently referred to as business laundering officer. Furthermore, our internal moniprocesses) serve specifically to directly meet the needs toring and control system ensures that the statutory of our guests and customers (e.g. provision of casino provisions are reviewed at regular intervals and, w­ here games, responsible gaming activities, etc.). necessary, incorporated into our business processes.­ Supply processes support other processes and safeguard the smooth provision of services (e.g. making capital, personnel, IT services or facilities available). CSR REPORT 2011 27 In 2011, the following groups of employees were Affiliations trained by our anti-money laundering officer at a ­ ­series of workshops: Casinos Austria and/or Austrian Lotteries are affiliates/ members of the following (and other) organizations: • all managers and staff at Casinos Austria AG involved in cash desk management and services Culture / The Arts • all new employees at Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel Betriebsges. m.b.H. • Volkstheater Foundation • all staff in the Operations and Process Manage• Society of Friends of the Austrian National Library ment department at Austrian Lotteries • Association of Friends of Mozarthaus Vienna • Sigmund Freud Foundation Our corporate anti-money laundering officer took ­seve­ral web-based training courses in 2011. He also atBusiness tended the following ongoing training/learning events: • Federation of Austrian Industries • a two-day European anti-money laundering confe• Austrian Economic Chambers rence in Amsterdam organized by the Association • Vienna Economic Forum of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists • German Chamber of Commerce in Austria (ACAM) • Österreichische Hoteliervereinigung • an “Efficient Internet Research for Anti-Money [Austrian Hotelier Association] Laundering Officers” seminar • Verein Wirtschaft für Integration • a know-how transfer session with Josef Mahr, head [Business for Integration Association] of the money laundering registration office at the • Verband der öffentlichen Wirtschaft und GemeinBundeskriminalamt [Austrian Federal Bureau of wirtschaft Österreichs [Austrian Association for Criminal Investigation]. Public and Social Economy] Participation at further relevant conferences and Sport ­seminars is budgeted for 2012. • Österreichische Sporthilfe [Austrian Sports Aid] Goals we have set ourselves: • Austrian Olympic Committee • Austrian Paralympic Committee 1. Nationwide introduction of e-Learning modu• Special Olympics les on the prevention of money laundering and • ÖFB – Club der Freunde der Nationalmannschaft criminal activities [Friends of the National Football Team] – end 2012 Other 2. Provision of specific training to all managers and relevant staff at Glücksund Unterhal• European Casino Association (ECA) tungsspiel Betriebsges. m.b.H. and Austrian • respACT [Austrian business council for sustaiLotteries nable development] – throughout 2012 • UN Global Compact • Austrian Red Cross 3. Evaluation of statutory provisions • St. Gallen Symposium – continuous • Ludwig Boltzmann Society 28 Adolf Geppl I take the stairs instead of the elevator. Since I took part in a special stair climbing training program for the “Great Wall Marathon” in May 2010, I have avoided using elevators wherever possible My motto is: “Climbing stairs is an absolute hit. It keeps my body healthy and fit.” • Board for the Promotion of Vienna University of Economics and Business • Austrian Chapter – The Club of Rome • Verein “Unser Stephansdom” [St. Stephen’s Cathedral Preservation Society] • Kuratorium Sicheres Österreich [Safe Austria Board] • Weizmann Institute of Science • Friends of the Cistercian Monastery in Zwettl • European Lotteries and Toto Association • World Lottery Association • European Football Pool • Wohlfahrtseinrichtung der Tabaktrafikanten [Tobacconists Welfare Society] • Belvedere Cercle • Kuratorium kulinarisches Erbe Österreichs [Austrian Culinary Heritage Board] • Transparency International CSR REPORT 2011 29 Martin Ziegelwanger I make sure the fish and seafood I buy comes from sustainable sources and has not been fed antibiotics – and I have a clear preference for domestic species. I prefer domestic species of fish (catfish, char, carp): they are by no means inferior to sea fish, have not been transported half way around the globe, and I can be sure of their origin and ­quality. I’m quite happy to spend more for the privilege. Naturally, my real reason for this preference is to help preserve endangered species. This in­ cludes protecting their habitat – the world’s ­oceans and seas. Most coastal tourist centers have organizations in place to protect local ­species and reefs. I always like to give them ­ my support. CSR REPORT 2011 31 Responsible Gaming Responsible gaming is not just an unambiguous mandate gambling addiction – like any other addiction – is a prodelivered by the national regulatory authorities: player blem for society and thus merits broad, public attention. protection and a responsible approach to the gaming product are an integral part of corporate culture at Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries and are firmly rooted in Responsible Gaming the histories of both companies. Responsible gaming is at Casinos Austria also fundamental to business in our subsidiary and affiliated companies Casinos Austria International, win2day, For Casinos Austria, perfect customer service extends WINWIN and tipp3. beyond the actual visit to a casino. The level of player protection that sets Casinos Austria apart and guaranA recent study on gambling and player protection in tees fun gaming without a bitter aftertaste starts the ­Austria (Glücksspiel und Spielerschutz in Österreich, Kalke ­moment a guest registers with us in the lobby. We proviet.al. 2011) indicates that around 0.66 percent of the Ausde our staff with regular and thorough training to ensure trian population are pathological gamblers. This finding they are able to recognize tell-tale gaming behavior. We confirms the high significance of responsible gaming. At are fully aware and acknowledge that gambling can be a the Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group, we take problem and may have negative consequences for some our responsibility in this regard very seriously, and our people. Our staff training program is complemented by responsible gaming measures and policies far exceed appropriate security systems which allow a permanent ­statutory requirements. These range from our intensive monitoring of gaming activities and behavior. Needless training courses, workshops and seminars for staff and to say, this monitoring is carried out discretely and un­sales partners on how to handle responsible gaming issues obtrusively, to avoid people having the impression that with customers through to the information and advice we they are being continuously watched. However, as soon offer to at-risk players and gambling addicts. We are also as any money is exchanged in one of our casinos, the tranextremely committed to the protection of minors. Our saction is recorded. If the frequency of such transactions, managers and staff with direct contact to customers and the amounts involved, or a combination of the two raise guests attend specially designed training seminars and cause for concern, a trained member of staff will initially workshops with national and international subject matbroach the matter with the guest and work with them ter experts, where they learn how to handle responsible to resolve the situation. The potential solution could in­ gaming issues. Every new member of staff who joins the volve a ban, a stake limit or a restriction in the number group receives compulsory training in responsible gaming. of visits a guest may make in a given period. Since young people are a particularly vulnerable group, stringent entThe high level of national and international regard enjory controls in the lobby not only deny them access to the yed by our responsible gaming experts is also reflected in casino, but also prevent them from even coming into the the numerous invitations they receive from leading insticlose proximity of gaming facilities. tutions in Europe and North America to speak at relevant congresses. We have also been working closely and actively Our staff participated with great interest in the 2011 sharing information with counseling and treatment faciresponsible gaming training offensive at all our casinos lities across Austria for many years. The core tasks of our in Austria. Our responsible gaming experts provided Corporate Function “Responsible Gaming, Advertising & in-depth information on the latest gambling addiction Sponsoring” include the lasting implementation, evaluaresearch findings, while local counseling and treatment tion and update of programs, guidelines and concepts to facilities came to the casinos to give presentations. This ensure the group has an optimal customer policy in place provided staff with an opportunity to familiarize themfor responsible gaming. The Casinos Austria/Austrian selves with the services provided by these facilities, gain a Lotteries Group has always endeavored to draw greacomprehensive overview of the diagnosis and treatment ter attention to the problem of gambling addiction and of gambling addiction, and obtain concrete insights into give it greater prominence in the public debate. After all, the work of such counseling or treatment facilities. 32 Casinos Austria’s Responsible Gaming brochure was also ­ xisting responsible gaming measures were also eva­ E made available in 2011 in Mandarin, Turkish, Slovenian, luated by means of a survey of customers and sales Czech and Croatian. This brochure is available in all our partners. The results of the study were presented to the casinos and contains background information on gamb­public in May 2011 and published in book form. ling addiction as well as details of the available counseling and treatment facilities. Responsible Gaming in Sales Outlets and Instant Lottery Points of Sale Children and young people are not – and have never Responsible Gaming been – a target group for Austrian Lotteries products. at Austrian Lotteries International studies show that people should not have their first contact with gambling at too early an Ever since the company was founded, Austrian Lotteries age. That’s why Austrian Lotteries has voluntarily rehas made it its task to actively work against potential stricted the sale of all its lottery products (Lotto “6 aus problems that might arise as a result of gambling. To en45”, Toto and Torwette, Extra Toto and Extra Torwette, sure gaming remains a fun pastime, We have voluntarily Joker, Zahlenlotto 1–90, EuroMillions, Bingo, Rubbelcommitted to and enforced a diverse range of appropriate los, Brieflos, ToiToiToi and Klassenlotterie) to persons restrictions. We closely monitor adherence to our terms aged 16 or over since April 2009. Our sales partners and conditions of play, inform customers in detail about play a central role in this policy to protect minors, since the odds and the risks of gambling, incorporate relevant they are the ones who have to adhere to and enforce responsible gaming aspects into our game design and the this voluntary restriction. Regular mystery shopping ­development of new games, and place particular imporcampaigns are organized to monitor adherence to this tance on providing good training to our staff. ­responsible gaming measure. Austrian Lotteries has been certified under the responsible To help them in this endeavor and provide them with gaming standards of the European State Lotteries and Toto further support, all our sales partners were supplied Association and the World Lottery Association since 2009. with a revised edition of our Responsible Gaming broBoth these umbrella organizations are committed advo­ chure for distribution to customers. This brochure cates of responsible gaming and the consistent c­ ombating ­contains information on gambling addiction as well as of illegal gambling. details of available counseling and treatment facilities. Austrian Study on the Prevention of Gambling AdJoint initiative with KIJA diction In 2011, Austrian Lotteries and KIJA, the Austrian Austrian Lotteries had long sought to obtain sound ­association of lawyers for the rights of children and figures regarding the gambling behavior and habits of young people, worked together to design and produce a the Austrian population. We were therefore particularsticker which was mounted at the entrance to all Austrily pleased when ARGE Suchtvorbeugung, the Austrian an Lotteries retail outlets and instant lottery points of working group for addiction prevention and platform sale. The sticker communicates a clear message: “No sale for addiction prevention centers across the country, of lottery products to children and young people under commissioned a study on the prevention of gambling the age of 16!”. addiction with our financial support. The study was ­carried out by the Center for Interdisciplinary Addiction Gambling is not for Children Research at the University of Hamburg in Germany. In 2011, Austrian Lotteries once again participated in the “Annual Holiday Campaign” run by the WashingThe goal of this study was to collect significant data ton-based National Council on Problem Gambling in on gambling addiction in Austria and use this data to conjunction with the International Center for Youth produce recommendations to prevent this situation. Gambling Problems and High-Risk Behaviors at McGill CSR REPORT 2011 33 University in Montreal. This year our campaign was run Responsible Gaming at WINWIN under the motto “Gambling is not for children”. The ­primary message of this annual information campaign is Access to the video lottery terminals (VLTs) in the WINthat children are not a target group for lottery ­products WIN outlets is only granted to persons aged 18 or over. and that adults should not buy lottery products as gifts In cases of doubt, trained WINWIN personnel will refor children and young people. quest proof of age (official photo ID). Prior to s­ tarting a game on a WINWIN VLT, the player is required to actively accept the general terms and conditions of Responsible Gaming at win2day play on the screen. Additional terms and conditions of play are also displayed prominently at the cash desk in From the outset, Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteeach outlet. Each VLT is equipped with specific responries have always placed particular importance on the sible gaming features designed to limit the maximum protection of minors and on protecting players from playing time and support players in their time and cash excessive gambling on the win2day online gaming platmanagement: players are automatically sent messages form. Measures to protect minors and control access to after 60, 90 and 120 minutes informing them how online games have been an integral part of the site since long they have been playing and asking if they want its launch and have been continually extended and imto ­continue with the game. The terminal a­ utomatically proved. An additional player protection mechanism was stops the game at the end of the maximum permitted added to the site’s self-exclusion options in 2011: when playing time (150 minutes), when the player is issued a self-exclusion order expires, the user can no longer with a ticket to present at the cash desk. simply just begin gambling again, he/she must actively confirm his/her wish to do so. Pop-up windows now also appear on the screen to help users with their time Responsible Gaming at tipp3 ­management while playing slot games. tipp3 bets – both at sales outlets and via the internet GamCare Certification – can only be placed by persons aged 18 or over. Sales In May 2011, the win2day online gaming platform was outlet customers are served by staff with appropriate certified by GamCare, the UK’s national center for the ­training in responsible gaming. Users of the www.tipp3. provision of information, advice and practical support at internet site see their personal account balance on in relation to the social effects of gambling. By granting the screen at all times to help them with cash managethis certification, GamCare attests that the win2day ment. They also have the option to reduce their p ­ ersonal platform successfully complies with GamCare’s strict ­deposit limit at any time. responsible gaming recommendations for ­electronic gaming. Responsible Gaming at Ural Loto This certification confirms that win2day has im­ plemented the following high social responsibility Responsible gaming is a firm part of corporate philostandards and player protection instruments: sophy at Ural Loto, the company which operates the • Age verification system ­“Lucky Hearts” scratch card, Lotto “6 from 40” and Joker • Customer deposit and pay-out controls lottery products in the Republic of Bashkortostan. Ural • Self-exclusion option for players Loto products are only sold to persons aged 18 or over. • Information on responsible gaming, counseling and Staff in the sales outlets receive responsible gaming treatment facilities training from authorized field sales representatives. • Training for customer service staff in social responsibility and recognizing problem gambling behavior 34 Responsible Advertising p ­ roviding an insight into the current state of research in cog­nitive research and discussing the psychologiWe have always voluntarily based our advertising actical and pharmacological approaches to the treatment vities on high ethical standards. Our 11-point “Code of of problem gambling. Doris Malischnig (Head of the Conduct Responsible Advertising” ensures that all our Prevention ­ ­ Department) described the numerous advertising and sales activities adhere to the highest ethi­responsible ­gaming activities in place in the Casinos cal standards and, in particular, are not targeted at any Austria/­Austrian ­Lotteries Group in a presentation envulnerable groups who might be at risk of developing a titled “The Five-Point Player Protection Program – the gambling problem. Full adherence to the Code of Conduct Road to Success”. Professor Christian Haring (Head of Responsible Advertising is ensured by mandatory prothe Psychiatric and Psychotherapy Department at the cedures applicable across the Casinos Austria/Austrian regional hospital in Hall, Tyrol) has been working on the Lotteries Group. All advertising activities are checked for treatment of pathological gambling for many years. In adherence to the code and individually approved by the his presentation on “Benchmark Criteria and Learning Corporate Function “Responsible Gaming, Advertising & Goals for Responsible Gaming Training Programs in the Sponsoring” prior to commission and implementation. Gambling Industry”, he described the current progress and initial findings of an ongoing research project at the UMIT Health and Life Sciences University in Austria to Responsible Gaming Academy 2011 develop such benchmark criteria. Once a year, Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries host In addition to the many members of staff who play a centheir renowned Responsible Gaming Academy (RGA), tral role in the active prevention of gambling ­addiction at where delegates have the opportunity to attend a series of the companies in the Casinos Austria/Austrian L ­ otteries dedicated seminars and workshops and discuss the ­latest group, delegates at the RGA 2011 included specialists insights with external experts. The 8th RGA, which was from counseling centers and treatment facilities across held in Vienna on 4-5 May 2011, f­ ocused on responsible Austria as well as renowned industry experts. gaming in the online sector. The invited speakers presented the findings of their current research and ­discussed Sponsoring of the European Association for the the latest developments in g­ ambling research with over Study of Gambling 2010 200 delegates. To facilitate exchange between national and international experts on gambling addiction, diagnosis, therapy, The presentations at the 8th RGA covered a broad treatment and prevention, we sponsored the 8th Euro­spectrum of responsible gaming topics: Professor Mark pean Conference on Gambling Studies and Policy Issues Griffiths (Nottingham Trent University, UK) talked in Vienna. The Head of our Corporate Function “Responabout “Online Behavioral Tracking in Internet Gamsible Gaming, Advertising & Sponsoring”, Herbert Beck, bling Research – Past, Present and Future” and the and Head of our Prevention department, Doris Malisch­opportunities available to researchers and the gaming nig, also gave presentations on responsible gaming and industry to screen and analyze gambling behavior. prevention at this event. Through our joint initiative Professor Friedrich Wurst (Christian-Doppler-Klinik, with Vienna-based firm gabarage upcycling design, we Salzburg) gave an interesting presentation on “Gambalso made an important contribution to the reintegration ling Addiction – Diagnosis, Treatment and Research”. of former addicts. gabarage upcycling design is a socioProfessor Richard Scase (University of Kent, UK) took a economic workshop set up by the drug department at look at potential corporate developments in his ­“Gaming the Anton Proksch Institute Clinical Centre. The creative 2024” presentation. Professor Jon E. Grant (Univerteam at gabarage works with designers and artists to desity of Minnesota, USA) talked about ­“Neurobiology velop ecologically sustainable design objects and articles and the Cognitive Functioning of Problem Gambling”, for private individuals and businesses. CSR REPORT 2011 35 Cooperation Partners/ SHG Anonyme Spieler – W. Gizicki Counseling Facilities [W. Gizicki Gamblers Anonymous Self Help Group] Leopold-Gattringer-Straße 85 Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries work with a 2345 Brunn am Gebirge number of excellent institutions who counsel and treat Phone: +43 660 123 66 74 ­gambling addicts or study gambling addiction. Such E-mail: shg@anonyme-spieler.at ­activities also ­allow us to provide financial support to Internet: www.anonyme-spieler.at these partners. Upper Austria Vienna Spielsuchtberatung des Vereins Spielsuchthilfe für prophylaktische Sozialarbeit [Gambling Addiction Support] [Addiction Counseling Association Siebenbrunnengasse 21/DG for Prophylactic Social Work] 1050 Vienna Stockhofstraße 9 Phone: +43 1 544 13 57 4020 Linz E-mail: therapie@spielsuchthilfe.at Phone: +43 732 77 77 34 Internet: www.spielsuchthilfe.at E-mail: linz@schuldner-hilfe.at Internet: www.schuldner-hilfe.at/spielsuchtberatung Anton Proksch Institute [Inpatient Treatment for Gamblers] Ambulanz für Spielsucht Gräfin-Zichy-Straße 6 [Outpatient Clinic for Problem Gambling] 1230 Vienna Wagner-Jauregg-Weg 15 Phone: +43 1 880 10 0 4020 Linz E-mail: info@api.or.at Phone: +43 505 546 23 65 22 Internet: www.api.or.at E-mail: spielsucht.wj@gespag.at Internet: www.promenteooe.at/spielsucht Lower Austria Carinthia Anton Proksch Institute [Addiction Counseling Center Wiener Neustadt] Spielsuchtberatung des Magistrats Langegasse 18 der Stadt Klagenfurt a. W. 2700 Wr. Neustadt [Klagenfurt Municipal Gambling Addiction Phone: +43 2622 32 007 Counseling Center] E-mail: wr.neustadt@api.or.at Georg-Lora-Straße 26 Internet: www.api.or.at 9020 Klagenfurt Phone: +43 463 537 57 82 Anton Proksch Institute E-mail: spielsuchtberatung@klagenfurt.at [Addiction Counseling Center Baden] Helenenstraße 40/41 Ambulanz „de La Tour“ im LKH Villach 2500 Baden [De La Tour Gambling Outpatient Clinic] Phone: +43 2252 25 94 47 Nikolaigasse 39 E-mail: baden@api.or.at 9500 Villach Internet: www.api.or.at Phone: +43 4242 24 368 spielsuchtambulanz.villach@diakonie-kaernten.at 36 Sonderkrankenhaus de La Tour Tyrol [De La Tour Special Gambling Unit] De-La-Tour-Straße 28 Contra Gambling 9521 Treffen Psychiatrische Ambulanz der Universität Innsbruck Phone: +43 4248 2557-0 [University of Innsbruck Psychiatric Outpatient Clinic] E-mail: krankenhaus-delatour@diakonie-kaernten.at Anichstraße 35 6020 Innsbruck Styria Phone: +43 512 504 236 57 und +43 050 504 490-23 E-mail: regina.prunnlechner@uki.at Fachstelle für Glücksspielsucht Steiermark c/o BAS – Betrifft Abhängigkeit Sucht Verein BIN Steirische Gesellschaft für Suchtfragen Beratung – Information – Nachsorge [Styrian Society for Addiction [“BIN” Counseling Information Support Association] BAS Counseling Center, Gambling Unit] Schmiedtorgasse 5 Dreihackengasse 1 6060 Hall 8020 Graz Phone: +43 5223 53 6 36 Phone: +43 316 82 11 99 E-mail: bin-hall@bin-tirol.org E-mail: info@fachstelle-gluecksspielsucht.at Internet: www.bin-tirol.org Internet: www.fachstelle-gluecksspielsucht.at Therapieund Gesundheitszentrum Mutters Drogenberatung des Landes Steiermark/ [Mutters Treatment and Health Center] Suchttherapieverein Steiermark Nockhofweg 23 [Addiction Counseling Center in Styria] 6162 Mutters Friedrichgasse 7 Phone: +43 050 504 490 (Ortstarif) 8010 Graz E-mail: info.tgm@uki.at Phone: +43 316 326044 Fax: +43 316 877 4654 Vorarlberg E-mail: drogenberatung@stmk.gv.at Internet: www.drogenberatung.steiermark.at Stiftung Maria Ebene [Maria Ebene Foundation] Salzburg Maria Ebene 17 6820 Frastanz Universitätsklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie II Phone: +43 5522 727 46 1800 [University Clinic for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy II] E-mail: stiftung@mariaebene.at Ignaz-Harrerstraße 79 Internet: www.mariaebene.at 5020 Salzburg Phone: +43 662 44 83-4603 Beratungsstelle „clean“ E-mail: t.eigenberger@salk.at [“clean” Counseling Center] Schießstätte 12/8 Institut Glücksspiel & Abhängigkeit 6800 Feldkirch [Gambling & Addiction Institute] Phone: +43 5522 380 72 Emil-Kofler-Gasse 2 E-mail: clean.feldkirch@mariaebene.at 5020 Salzburg Phone: +43 662 87 40 30 E-mail: office@game-over.at Internet: www.game-over.at CSR REPORT 2011 37 Melanie Bukovski I dry my laundry on the line, not in a tumble dryer. Instead of wasting unnecessary energy using ­ a tumble dryer, I prefer to hang my washing on the line and leave it to dry in the fresh air. On warm, sunny days, it even dries more quickly on the balcony, and I get to enjoy a few rays of sunshine while hanging it out. CSR REPORT 2011 39 Economy The prospects for the world’s economy have become C-64/08, ‘Englemann’. In its judgment of 15 Septemextremely gloomy since the summer of 2011. Despite ber 2011, the Court followed the opinions of the Adits fundamentally strong economic data, Austria is an vocate ­General and in so doing continued to pursue its export economy and can expect to clearly feel the conprevious case law with the utmost rigor. Once again, sequences of the financial, debt and confidence crises. the ECJ ­affirmed that Austria’s gaming monopoly is ­After very good results in the first quarter of 2011, compatible with EU law. Furthermore, the judgment export growth (as measured by the Austrian Central ­clarified that Austria’s Gaming Act was compatible Bank’s growth indicator) has since noticeably cooled off. with EU law even prior to the 2010 amendment. Private consumer spending suffered in 2011 under the Case C-212/08 “Zeturf” high rates of inflation. Despite growth in employment, As far as the admissibility of cross-border online g­ aming household incomes scarcely grew at all in real terms. (in the European context, this also includes sports betThe predicted growth in consumer spending of 1.0 ting) is concerned, the C-212/08 Zeturf a­ ction, which percent in 2011 and 0.7 percent in 2012 can therefore was instituted in France, moves in a similar direction. only be financed by a reduction in savings. In its judgment, the ECJ recalls that Member States are in principle free to set the objectives of their policy Casinos Austria still finds itself confronted with the on games of chance and, where appropriate, to define same high number of competitive casinos near the in detail the level of protection sought. Austrian borders. Since these operations are generally subject to far more favorable tax regulations and reguAs the ECJ has acknowledged in its decisions, a Memlatory requirements, their numbers can be expected to ber State that is seeking to ensure a particularly high continue to rise in the coming years. The new media level of consumer protection in the gaming sector may sector (internet, mobile phone, interactive TV, etc.) take the view that it is only by granting exclusive rights has established itself as an international – and partto a single body, subject to strict control by the public ly also national – distribution channel for gambling authorities, that it can tackle with sufficient effectivenproducts and services, with further growth also to be ess the risks connected with that sector and pursue the ­expected in this area. objectives of preventing incitement to squander money on gaming and of combating addiction to ­gaming. Legislative Developments On 24 March 2011, the European Commission began a public consultation on the regulation of online gamIn addition to the difficult world economic situation, bling services and formulated a total of 52 questions Casinos Austria was also confronted with a number for all interested stakeholders in its “Green Paper on of legislative developments in 2011 at both national on-line gambling in the internal market”. The consuland European level. Gambling and sports betting were tation ran until 31 July 2011. The responsible Com­topics of interest not only at the European Court of missioner, Michel Barnier, emphasized that the aim of ­Justice (ECJ), but also at the European Commission this consultation was not a liberalization, but a reliable and the European Parliament. regulation of the market for online gambling services. Both Casinos Austria and Austria Lotteries submitted The ECJ delivered a number of landmark judgments in corresponding position statements in response. 2011, two of which warrant particular mention: Online gambling also featured on the agenda at the Case C-347/09 “Dickinger and Ömer” European Parliament. In mid-November, MEPs issued This is the second case in which the ECJ has dealt a majority Resolution calling for stronger cooperation with Austria’s gaming sector – the first being Case among Member States and common standards in the 40 regulation of online gambling to protect vulnerable “The Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group does consumers and fight illegal gambling. MEPs also called not tolerate child labor. By accepting an order, the for better protection for minors in the online gambling ­contractor agrees not to employ child laborers and markets. The Commissioner announced that an action confirms that no child laborers are employed in its place would be drawn up by mid-2012. own company or by any of its subcontractors. The contractor guarantees that the goods supplied have Following its previous approval of the 2009 “Schalde­ not been produced using any form of child labor that mose Report”, the Parliament also approved the “Creutzis exploitive, detrimental to health or akin to slavery, mann Report” (both are named after their respective nor by any form of forced or bonded labor or any other rapporteurs) in its plenary session on 1 ­ 5 ­November form of labor that is exploitive or violates human dig2011. nity. All articles of clothing supplied must conform to The Creutzmann Report: ­prevailing laws, regulations and other applicable rules • emphasizes that, given the different traditions and and provisions.” cultures in the Member States, any regulation of the gambling sector is subject to and must be underpinWe are committed to the selection and purchase of ned by the subsidiarity principle; regional, seasonal and organic products from Austria. • is of the opinion that the principle of subsidiarity Through this commitment, we strengthen and contrimust be understood as “active subsidiarity”; bute to regional value creation. In 2008, for example, • highlights the fact that Member States have the we began a promising cooperation venture with the right to regulate and control their gambling sectors Austrian “Slow Food” association. in accordance with European internal market legislation and with their own traditions and culture; The Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group also en• rejects, accordingly, any European legislative act deavors to promote sustainable development in a global uniformly regulating the entire gambling sector, context. By purchasing coffee and orange juice with the but nonetheless takes the view that, in some areas Fairtrade seal of approval, we contribute to internatithere would be clear added value from a coordinated onal efforts to establish fair production prices, sup­European approach, in addition to national regulaport the provision of humane working conditions and tion, given the cross-border nature of online gambfair, commensurate wages for producers in developing ling services; countries. • points out that the ECJ has accepted in a number of rulings that granting exclusive rights to a single operator subject to tight public authority control may be a means of improving the protection of consumers against fraud and combating crime in the online gambling sector more effectively. Human Rights The Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group has strict guidelines in place to cover any social, ­human rights or ecological aspects in the purchasing of ­materials or products. We only sign contracts with contractors who accept and commit in writing to the following provision: CSR REPORT 2011 41 Casinos Austria – Long-term support and promotion of tourism in AusPurpose of Business tria and issues that are of strong relevance to society – in particular in the sports, welfare and arts sectors Casinos Austria’s core business is the establishment – are further key aspects of our purpose of business. and operation of casinos as defined in the Austrian Our sponsoring activities are clearly evident and enjoy ­Gaming Act of 28 November 1989, BGBL No. 620/89 a high profile across the country. Casinos Austria is a as amended, and the exercise of activities in the gambkey partner for sports, arts and welfare associations in ling, ­gaming and leisure sector. Casinos Austria holds all Austria. It remains an unaltered fact that the Casinos 12, time-restricted casinos licenses currently issued by Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group is the second largest the Austrian Ministry of Finance and thus still ­enjoys taxpayer in Austria. Our casinos are leading tourist a ­monopoly position as casino license holder in the ­destinations in their host venues and thus a significant ­Austrian market. economic ­factor for the respective region. Our purpose of business is to operate and evolve our gaming products in an optimal manner from a regulaCasinos Austria Products tory perspective. In contrast to companies operating in and Services a competitive market scenario, profit maximization is not – and cannot be – a corporate objective for Casinos Casinos Austria offers its guests exciting gaming in a Austria. great atmosphere. Our international gaming mix includes something for every taste. We set trends in We achieve this objective through good business the gaming industry with our new games and product manage­ ment practices and by providing maximum ­developments. It takes optimal preparation to success­ ­security to our guests. However, the level of stimulation fully launch a new product on the modern gaming of the legal gambling market that is both desired and ­market. The monitoring and analysis of market trends main­tainable does also limit optimal tax yields. Given and customer demands combined with experience from this special situation, our objective is to successfully ­previous product launches play an important role in ­apply the principle of good business management to this success. At Casinos Austria, we profit here from our best meet the regulatory, social and fiscal interests and many years of experience in the gaming industry. ­objectives of our shareholders. In March 2011, for example, we launched a new Astro Social responsibility and player protection are firmly Roulette game, which was developed by Linz-based crou­established elements in our corporate culture. Since the pier Christian Haunold and implemented by ­Casinos primary focus of the Austrian gambling system lies on Austria. In this variation on Roulette, the numbers are sound regulatory aspects and responsible gaming, our replaced by letters and star signs to create a mystical, business goal lies in the optimization, not the maximiexciting, unique game based on the popular astrology zation of revenues. theme. Astro Roulette was presented to the industry at the ICE Totally Gaming exhibition in London in The primary regulatory objectives are consumer proJanuary 2011 and celebrated its gaming floor premier tection, the combating of organized crime, the prevenon 12 March 2011 in Casino Linz. Austrian celebrity tion of money laundering and the protection of public astrologer Gerda Rogers was given the honor of launmorals and social order. This not only reflects the will ching the first ball. In addition to classic table favorites, of the general public, which manifests itself in the apthe 12 Austrian casinos also offer Easy Hold’em Poker, plicable legislation, but also the basic ethical approach Punto Banco, Tropical Stud Poker, Red Dog and Wheel and corresponding business maxim adopted by Casinos of Fortune. Mobile gaming tables add to the flexibility Austria. of the gaming experience. A total of 233 gaming tables 42 are on offer in the 12 casinos across Austria. The payCasinos Austria has both direct and indirect effects out ­percentage for Roulette, for example, lies at around on production in the Austrian economy. These direct 98 percent of bets placed. effects stem from Casinos Austria being embedded in the Austrian economy’s business and industry netEasy Roulette is a combination of classic Roulette and work, while the indirect effects are those that stem slot machine gaming. The 37-number wheel (0-36) from tourism: our individual casino operations are spins in real time, with the ball launched by a real life not only highly significant economic factors for their croupier. Players, however, place their bets on touchhost locations in their own right, affluent and highsensitive video screens. spending casino guests also generate corresponding indirect effects. The 12 Austrian casinos also offer a total of 1,933 slot machines, with some 442 different games bringing Casinos Austria plays a very significant role in defining great variety to the slot gaming mix. There is a particuthe leisure, culture and tourism sectors in Austria. In larly broad choice of slot games on offer in our so-called this function, the company is a major factor for the Jackpot Casinos, which are open from mid-morning and economy and the labor market and generates substanfeature a casual dress code. Regular slot tournaments tial economic effects. offer players the chance to experience the thrill of a slot competition. We maintain and will continue to maintain fair, trustbased, constructive relationships to our regional We closely monitor and follow slot gaming trends and ­ service providers, suppliers and staff. We consider tested the latest technologies from various international it very important that the greater part of any value slot machine manufacturers in 2011. Machines which ­created locally is also reinvested in the region. successfully completed these tests were subsequently installed on our slot floors. The payout percentage for slot machines lies at up to 97 percent of bets placed. Casino Operations as Regional Value Creation Centers Casinos Austria is a leading Austrian company with business interests both at home and abroad. A recent study by the Vienna-based Institute for Industrial ­Research examined Casinos Austria’s relevance for the domestic economy. The study confirmed that Casinos Austria is one of the country’s leading companies and is thus a significant factor for production, value ­creation and employment. Yet Casinos Austria and its affiliates and subsidiaries not only embody the classic characteristics of a leading Austrian corporation, they are also important factors in national and regional tourism. Our gaming venues are important components of the leisure and tourism portfolio on both a local and a regional level. CSR REPORT 2011 43 Michael Alfon Whenever possible, I travel by public transport or by bicycle. To combine exercise into my family and work commitments, I try to walk or use my bike as much as possible. It is much easier to do small errands or go to meetings in town on foot than by car, and for longer distances I use my bike. Weather and schedule permitting, my journey ­ to work and back is an exercise session – and environmentally friendly as well. CSR REPORT 2011 45 Casinos Austria Economic Indicators we raised this already very gratifying result by ­almost a factor of ten, reporting gaming revenues of 2 ­ 70 million Following an extensive restructuring program, and euro (+4.47%) and an operating profit of 18.9 million several years in the red, Casinos Austria succeeded in euro. Between January and December 2011, we wel­ b­ringing its operating result clearly back into positive comed a total of 2.36 million guests in our 12 Austrian territory in 2010 with a plus of 1.9 million euro. In 2011, casinos. Guests 2011 % change No. Casino Domestic Guests Foreign Guests Total compared to 2010 1 Wien 188,131 207,647 395,778 -0.14 2 Bregenz 107,455 216,611 324,066 3.96 3 Baden 255,638 28,800 284,438 1.31 4 Linz 187,739 95,039 282,778 0.09 5 Velden 180,288 51,868 232,156 0.82 6 Innsbruck 138,602 81,911 220,513 -4.90 7 Salzburg 114,273 74,377 188,650 3.76 8 Graz 153,513 33,710 187,223 -4.59 9 Seefeld 38,518 87,514 126,032 1.89 10 Kitzbühel 29,254 26,889 56,143 -0.59 11 Kleinwalsertal 3,593 42,830 46,423 -5.62 12 Bad Gastein 8,381 9,416 17,797 -14.32 Total 1,405,385 956,612 2,361,997 0.02 Umsatz 2011 % change Nr. Casino Revenues in euro compared to 2010 1 Bregenz 55,277,339 16.32 2 Wien 52,680,470 6.39 3 Innsbruck 27,440,676 -5.47 4 Velden 25,869,148 6.96 5 Linz 23,856,587 6.14 6 Baden 23,114,106 1.45 7 Salzburg 20,028,746 9.97 8 Seefeld 15,332,567 -9.25 9 Graz 14,469,773 -12.65 10 Kitzbühel 7,807,926 2.94 11 Kleinwalsertal 3,358,210 13.40 12 Bad Gastein 1,110,810 5.21 Total 270,346,357 4.47 46 Sabine Nebenführ I exercise and encourage good mobile phone manners. I keep any phone calls I make in public to an absolute minimum and if I do have to make a call, I show consideration for the people around me – above all on public transport. I switch my mobile ­to silent when I am at work to make sure my ringtone doesn’t disturb or annoy my co-workers. When I am in meetings, I direct my full attention to the people in the room, not my mobile phone. Taxes paid in 2011 Federal Regional Local in TEUR Government Government Government Total Velden 6,539 1,620 2,044 10,203 Salzburg 4,410 865 1,292 6,567 Bad Gastein 249 13 111 373 Kitzbühel 1,654 295 719 2,668 Baden 5,352 1,024 1,505 7,881 Seefeld 3,648 737 1,307 5,692 Wien 11,963 2,849 3,738 18,550 Kleinwalsertal 797 60 376 1,233 Bregenz 13,124 3,456 3,815 20,395 Linz 5,562 1,184 1,818 8,564 Graz 3,572 707 1,186 5,465 Innsbruck 6,489 1,540 2,072 10,101 Zentrale 4,087 0 414 4,501 Total 67,447 14,350 20,397 102,194 CSR REPORT 2011 47 Andreas Stern I shop where I live. Whenever possible at the grocery on the corner. I can walk there, get some exercise in the process – and some good service as well. CSR REPORT 2011 49 Austrian Lotteries – Purpose of Business Since May 2011, for example, the odds of winning the EuroMillions lottery have been greater on not one, Austrian Lotteries offers games of chance in Austria in but two counts following the launch of the new Tuesline with its legal foundations. The company’s purpose day EuroMillions game and the addition of a further of business is defined in the Austrian Gaming Act and prize tier and new “match 5 main and 2 Lucky Stars” the associated clarifying statements and comments ­formula. ­issued by the regulatory authority. Schatztruhe [“Treasure Chest”], Cash, Super Cash and The key objective of the regulation of the gambling Ein Leben Lang [“Win for Life”] – four of the longestsector in Austria is to protect players from over­supply running and most popular scratch card products sold and from disreputable and/or illegal providers. Accorby Austrian Lotteries – were all updated in 2011 and dingly, the number and scope of games and the way now offer more chances to win a main prize. The they are managed and operated are closely monitored Schatztruhe scratch cards now have 30 top prizes of by the licensing authority for adherence to its regu30,000 euro each (previously 25) per series, while the latory and socio-political objectives. The licensing number of top cash prizes (50,000 euro) in a series for ­authority monitors the licensee’s shareholder structhe Cash cards was raised from 13 to 15. A series for ture to ensure criminal elements are prevented from both the Schatztruhe and the Cash products consists penetrating the Austrian gaming market and regulaof 15 million cards, with a 57.5 percent pay-out rate tes and approves each new product through its license and a current price of 2.00 euro per card. Not only was terms and conditions, which also include responsible the number of 75,000 euro top prizes for the Super gaming provisions. Cash product increased from five to seven, the scratch field was extended by two bonus numbers. A Super Accordingly, the licensing authority stipulates unamCash scratch card costs 3.00 euro, there are five millibiguously in Article 14 (2) 7 of the Gaming Act that on cards in a series, and the pay-out rate is 61 percent. the license to operate the lottery draws defined in said With a guaranteed monthly income being a key wish ­Gaming Act may only be granted to an applicant who for the majority of Austrians, Ein Leben Lang is the can be expected to exercise this license most effectively most popular scratch card in the Austrian Lotteries as a result of its experience, infrastructures, developportfolio, since its top prize guarantees the winner a ment measures and equity capital as well as its systems fixed monthly sum for the rest of his/her life. The proand provisions to prevent gambling addiction, to product was made even more attractive in 2011 by raising tect players, to prevent money laundering and criminal the maximum prize to 3,000 euro a month for life. activities, to safeguard its operations, to assure quality, to monitor its own activities and to comply with The range of casino games on offer on the win2day site any other applicable provisions in the Gaming Act. was expanded in 2011 to include Joker Five” ­(video ­ poker), Sunny Money (slot game), The Legend of Olympus (slot game), Ocean Gold (slot game), FarmProduct and Game Developments Win (slot game), Multiplayer Grand Blackjack (table at Austrian Lotteries game) and Crazy Poker (video poker). The mini-games Magic Money, Wild Fruits and Joker Five were added As a dynamic and future-oriented company, Austrian to the Bingo Room. Blackjack was also added to the Lotteries is one of the leading lottery companies in ­MiniCasino section of the casino games. A browser­Europe when it comes to technology. We constantly based version of the Robbie Rich slot game was deve­ strive to improve and raise the attractiveness of our loped for the iPhone and Android platform. Robbie portfolio – in adherence, of course, with our respon­ Rich is now available not only for download, but can sible gaming and security guidelines and provisions. also be played directly via mobil.win2day.at. 50 Eva Hager I buy Fairtrade products. If I have the choice, I buy products with the Fairtrade seal of approval. This is one way in which we can all make a small contribution to creating greater fairness and improving environmental awareness. Austrian Lotteries Products Games Lotto “6 aus 45” [numbers lottery] Toto and Torwette [football pool and goal bet] EuroMillions Bingo ToiToiToi [numbers lottery] Zahlenlotto 1–90 [numbers lottery] Joker Rubbellos [scratch cards] Brieflos [break open tickets] Klassenlotterie [class lottery] win2day [online gaming platform] WINWIN [video lottery terminals] CSR REPORT 2011 51 Austrian Lotteries end of the reporting year. Average sales per instant Economic Indicators ­­lottery point of sale for 2011 amounted to 25,111 euro. Around 11.5 million euro in commissions were Total sales for Austrian Lotteries were up by 9.73 perpaid for Rubbellos and Brieflos products – an average cent year-on-year to 2.9 billion euro. This increase of 1,894 euro per instant lottery point of sale. compared to the already high sales figures reported for 2010 can be attributed above all to the successful Technological innovations and new products are im­relaunch of Lotto “6 aus 45” and the product changes portant requirements for our sales partners in success­ for EuroMillions. fully carrying out their day-to-day business. We provide them with appropriate training courses and infor­mation As indicated, this disproportionately high growth events to support them in the use of new technology is the result of product policy measures already inand sale of new products. The commissions each sales troduced by the end of 2010 for Lotto “6 aus 45” as partner receives from Austrian Lotteries represent a well as the introduction of the new Tuesday draw ­significant contribution to their economic security. for Euro­Millions from 10 May 2011. There were also ­significantly more jackpots paid out in 2011, including As an Austrian company, Austrian Lotteries recog­ a quintuple rollover Lotto jackpot and a 185 million nizes the importance of contributing to value creation EuroMillions ­Europot. These developments in turn in the home market. Our purchasing guidelines clearhad a positive impact on sales of the Joker product, ly ­stipulate that Austrian origin should be a factor in which also contributed significantly to the increase in ­decisions and play a role in the award of purchase contotal sales. tracts. In 2011, Austrian Lotteries placed 95 percent of its purchase contracts in Austria and around 4 percent Austrian Lotteries made total tax payments of 459.21 in other EU countries. million euro in the reporting year, a figure which includes gaming-related, income and other taxes and ­duties. Since it was founded in 1986, the company has paid more than 8.49 billion euro in taxes to the ­Republic of Austria. Austrian Lotteries Total Sales The gaming-related taxes and duties of 447.77 milli2007-2011 (in millions euro) on euro paid in the reporting year are made up of the license fee of 264.60 million euro, gaming taxes of 178.59 million euro and sales tax on VLT sales to the 3,500 2,067.17 2,378.04 2,633.70 2,642.45 2,899.60 amount of 4.59 million euro. +15.0 % +10.8 % +0.3 % +9.7 % 3,000 Average sales per sales outlet in 2011 for pick slip 2,500 ­products amounted to 311,423 euro. Commissions for 2,000 the Lotto “6 aus 45”, Toto, Torwette, Extra Toto, ­Extra 1,500 Torwette, Bingo, EuroMillions, Joker, Zahlenlotto 1,000 1–90 and ToiToiToi games as well as the EuroBon for win2day came to over 81 million euro, an average of 500 21,310 per sales outlet. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The instant lottery distribution network (Rubbellos and Brieflos) consisted of 6,045 points of sale at the * Percentages show changes compared to the previous year 52 Brigitte Gössler I have a positive attitude. Attitude and mood are important catalysts and help to release our energy. If the mood and atmosphere is good, everything becomes much easier. I watch for opportunities to emphasize or say something positive, but only if I also mean what I say. Austrian Lotteries Total Sales Per Product (in euro) and Percentage Share of Total Sales Game Total Sales Percentage (in euro) Share Lotto „6 aus 45“ 654,936,250.55 22.59 Toto und Torwette* 11,248,301.40 0.39 Austrian Lotteries Tax Payments Bingo 11,521,055.50 0.40 2007–2011 (in millions euro) EuroMillionen 299,308,288.70 10.32 ToiToiToi 16,526,410.85 0.57 Zahlenlotto 1–90 3,800,013.55 0.13 348.74 383.49 421.19 398.43 459.21 500 +10.0 % +9.9 % –5.4 % +15.3 % Joker 191,362,576.20 6.60 Rubbellos 125,562,411.70 4.33 400 Brieflos 26,236,580.35 0.90 300 Klassenlotterie 31,771,160.00 1.10 win2day und Keno 1,125,153,388.22 38.80 200 win2day Poker 5,774,604.94 0.20 100 WINWIN 396,396,559.90 13.67 Total 2,899,597,601.86 100.00 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 * Percentages show changes compared to the previous year * incl. Extra Toto and Extra Torwette CSR REPORT 2011 53 Stephen Gibson I donate my time and my skills. For the last four years, I’ve been manager of the “ZV Handball McDonald’s” club in Wiener ­Neustadt to the south of Vienna. During this time, I have worked to expand the club’s youth facilities and ensure its training program focuses on the future. Our membership has now grown from around 50 to just under 150 active players. The organization has been brought up to date, the parents of our junior players are more involved, and new trainers have been ­hired under the motto “let’s give our junior ­players the best possible trainers. CSR REPORT 2011 55 Environment At Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries, we assume our staff to use public transport for external meetings responsibility both for our fellow man and for the en­ i­n Vienna and provide them with free tickets to do so. vironment. We consider it our duty not to be satisfied with standard solutions to environmental issues, but seek instead to go the extra mile and adopt new, inno­ Energy Optimization vative approaches to environmental protection. This includes improving efficiency in energy and material In 2011, electricity consumption for the Casinos Aust­ consumption as well as raising awareness for environ­ ria/Austrian Lotteries Group (sites in Austria) amoun­ mental concerns across the entire corporate group. ted to 30,691,000 kWh (= 30.7 GWh), 90.7 percent of which was generated from 100 percent renewable Annual Purchasing Volumes for Lottery Products sources. The remaining 9.3 percent were purchased for We purchase 95 percent of materials for our lottery the casino venues in Kitzbühel and Bregenz from the products in Austria, a further four percent in other local energy provider as “gray” (UCTE mix) electricity EU countries and the remainder in countries in the (UCTE=Union for the Coordination of Transmission rest of the world. We consistently use the ecolabel on of Electricity). Electricity for our Rennweg 44/46 site our products and, wherever possible, always ensure in Vienna has been purchased from 100 percent rene­ that our printed materials are produced in accordance wable sources (a combination of hydroelectric, wind, with Austrian ecolabel stipulations or with approp­ photovoltaic, biomass, biogas and geothermal energy) riate certificates regarding their applicability for since 2008. This electricity purchasing strategy will be ­recycling as waste paper and harmlessness to health. continued in the coming years. Travel Guidelines Energy Saving through new Desktop PCs The most environmentally friendly way to travel is In 2011, PCs across the entire Casinos Austria/Aust­ of course not to use cars or airplanes. To avoid the rian Lotteries Group were upgraded to the Windows 7 need for travel, we are making increasing use of video­ operating system, which also necessitated the replace­ conferencing, a technology we deploy, for example, ­with ment of some existing hardware. great regularity for meetings between staff at head­ quarters and in our casino operations. We also have The replacement of old PCs with new PCs resulted in ­appropriate guidelines in place for business trips, which the following annual energy saving: 300 W x 800 PCs x stipulate the mode of transport to be used. We encourage (40 hrs x 52 weeks) = 50 MWh/a. Annual Purchasing Volumes for Lottery Products Units (in millions) 2009 2010 2011 Rubbellos 82.8 71.6 80.3 Brieflos 22.7 16.0 23.0 Pick slips 29.5 52.9 62.4 Thermal receipt rolls 0.3 0.2 0.26 56 Claudia Stoitzner I live in a passive house. For environmental reasons and out of a desire to use as little energy as possible, yet still live in comfort, I opted for an apartment in a passive house. ­­A passive house combines maximum living comfort with minimum energy consumption. Annual saving achieved through server hardware virtualization (several virtual PCs running on one PC): Annual equivalent Venue Amount (kW x 24 hrs x 365 days) Implementation Casinos 12 kW 105 MWh/a 2011 Computer Centers 53 kW 464 MWh/a recent years Test Lab 22 kW 193 MWh/a recent years These figures are calculated on a 200W per server basis minus usage by the VMware visualization software infrastructure. Savings related to air conditioning and provision of standby electricity are not included in the calculation. CSR REPORT 2011 57 Energy Optimization Replacement of Dishwashers in Kitchenettes at the Rennweg 44 Site We replaced the dishwashers in all kitchenettes in 2011, since their predecessors had reached their wear Replacement Lighting in Canteen limit. The focus in the selection of the new dish­ While plans had been in place to replace the lights in the washers naturally lay on energy saving and low water staff canteen with a more economic and energy efficient consumption. solution in 2011, it became clear during discussions on potential changes to the serving area that it would be Charging Stations for e-Bikes more sensible to handle all the changes to the canteen Since many members of staff have switched to e-bikes, as one single project. and this trend is clearly on the rise, we have created a dedicated parking area in the garage and installed an In addition to the replacement of the lights, the serving eight-socket charging station, where all members of area will now be remodeled to allow the quicker serving staff can plug in and charge their e-bikes at company of meals and a possibility to obtain meals outside regular cost. canteen hours to cater to staff working nights, on public holidays or on weekends. In the course of the renova­ Heat Consumption and Water Consumption tions, appropriate measures involving the placement of in General sound-absorbing panels in the ceiling space will also be The reduction in heat consumption in comparison to introduced to reduce the noise level in the ­dining area. 2010 lies in the normal fluctuation range. The peri­ Since the placement of these panels must fit with the ods January/February 2011 and November/Decem­ lighting concept, the canteen lights will now be replaced ber 2011 were both warmer than the corresponding in conjunction with the other renovations and improve­ periods in 2010 and thus resulted in a corresponding ments to the staff canteen, which are planned for 2012. reduction in heat consumption. Following the massive rise in water consumption in 2010, all water consump­ Mounting of Sun Protection Film tion sources were optimized in 2011. The humidity The consolidation of workplaces in 2009 also led to controls on air conditioning systems were improved an increase in thermal load per square meter. At the and the irrigation system in the gardens at the ­Wiener same time, not all employees were able to position Neustadt site was adjusted. Water consumption by their workplaces to avoid glare from the sun. This pro­ the humidifiers themselves was also reduced. In the blem was mentioned frequently in our workplace eva­ ­kitchens, particular improvements were achieved with luation study, raising the need for prompt action. To the grease removal tank. Water was used sparingly to resolve the situation, sun protection film was mounted clean windows and the façade. All in all, a variety of on the windows of all offices which face the midday smaller and larger scale optimization efforts led to a sun, thereby significantly reducing not only glare, but 40 percent reduction in water consumption in 2011 also room temperature by about one to two degrees ­compared to the previous year. Celsius. This work was completed at the end of 2011. Retrofitting of WC Lighting with Motion Detectors We carried out a test installation of motion detector lighting in WCs in 2011 and subsequently compared the energy consumption with that of a regular lighting system. The calculated energy saving and depreciation considerations led to a retrofit of the light controls in all WC facilities in 2011. 58 Markus Fohler I cancel unnecessary junk mail and switch wherever possible to e-mail newsletters. Electricity Consumption in kWh 2009 2010 2011 Total 6,828,075 6,382,390 6,537,919 Change year-on-year +3.9 % –6.5 % +2.4 % Heat Consumption in kWh 2009 2010 2011 Total 2,526,643 2,755,395 2,336,436 Change year-on-year +4.7 % +9.0 % –15.2 % Water Consumption in m3 2009 2010 2011 Total 11,617 17,505 10,494 Change year-on-year +13.2 % +50.0 % –40.1 % CSR REPORT 2011 59 Waste and Packaging uses disposable palettes. The manipulation costs (lon­ Management ger ­return transport distance and the costs involved) mean that euro palettes are not a feasible economic The use of logistics at our warehouse in Wiener Neu­ or ecological alternative. The relaunch of the Schatz­ stadt to handle mailing activities for all companies in truhe, Cash, Super Cash and Ein Leben Lang scratch the group has increased efficiency and reduced postage cards led to an increase in the quantity of disposable costs. When planning mailing activities, we place par­ palettes and cover boards. ticular focus on delivery frequency, size, quantity and correct mode of transport. In 2011, 260 tons of waste were generated at the Rennweg 44/46 site and the warehouse in Pfaffstät­ Packaging used by Austrian Lotteries is disposed of ten, which has been included in the waste volume via the ARA (Altstoff Recycling Austria) packaging calculation since 2010. Due to space restrictions, this ­recycling system. The reason for the change in quan­ warehouse is used to gather and correctly dispose of tity of disposable palettes and cover boards* lies in the waste materials like scrap metal from Vienna (slot fact that our Rubbellos supplier in Canada primarily ­machine workshops, etc.) Austrian Lotteries Packaging Quantities in kg 2009 2010 2011 Product cartons 4,273 4,994 3,996 Cardboard for use in transport 859 629 596 * Disposable palettes and cover boards 5,404 8,988 9,900 Iron strips 117 28 185 Packaging film 1,229 333 230 Plastic bands 96 94 122 Total 11,978 15,066 15,029 Waste Quantities Casino Operations in kg 2009** 2010 2011 Non-hazardous waste (non-recyclable) 150,388 212,715 Non-hazardous waste (recyclable) 199,621 357,421 Hazardous waste 955 1,097 Total 350,964 571,233 ** For technical reasons, no figures could be provided for 2009. 60 Katrin Kubalek I’m a first-aider. As a first-aider, I can provide immediate assistance if someone becomes ill or has an accident. I can give the patient correct support until a doctor arrives. Waste Quantities Rennweg 44/46 and Pfaffstätten Warehouse Sites Category in tons 2009 2010 2011 Paper (incl. carton) 101.99 113.6 109.59 Glass (clear and colored) 1.80 2.3 3.54 Scrap metal 1.27 7.4 4.11 Organic waste 30.08 24.8 28.21 Light waste (plastic) 1.19 3.9 5.08 Non-recyclable waste 12.77 39.9 30.53 Bulky waste 7.76 31.3 19.02 Electric items (e-waste) 30.52 15.2 11.41 Hazardous waste 0.93 7.3 2.68 Other waste 23.4 44.9 46.35 Total 211.71 290.2 260.52 CSR REPORT 2011 61 Gernot Höfer I set up a car pool and use it myself. I accommodate carpool wishes into shift rota planning at Casino Graz. This means that before I finalize the shift rota, I give my staff the opportunity to deposit their carpool wishes. I can then take these into consideration and build them into the rota. There are a number of members of the team at Casino Graz who live in the Leibnitz area and have been carpooling to work for many years. CSR REPORT 2011 63 Employees Real corporate success can only be achieved through combination of further awareness raising measures a qualified and motivated team of employees. The Ca­ and concrete programs relating to nutrition, exercise sinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group is c­ ommit­ted and mental health are planned for this year. to providing an attractive working environment that fosters open communication and diversity. The goal of our human resources policy is to attract motivated, Casino & Lotteries Academy effective and productive staff, thus making a key con­ tribution to our competitive ability, the development The Casino & Lotteries Academy – or “Compact Lear­ of new products and the opening up of new markets. ning” – is an internal know-how platform covering the latest developments in the group. It serves to Since some of our casinos open well before noon and keep ­employees up-to-date on what’s going on in the don’t close again until the early hours, our employees different business units and facilitates the targeted have to be flexible, mobile and dedicated to their work exchange of know-how on specific topics and targets both during the day and at night. Customer service groups with internal experts and specialists. The Aca­ ­excellence virtually around the clock is the guarantee demy promotes understanding between employees in of success our employees bring to the company. the different divisions and strengthens cooperation throughout the group. It also hosts a diverse range of This report details our progress in 2011 and provides seminars, workshops and presentations. an outlook of our plans for 2012. The “Welcome Day” provides new members of staff with information about the group and our business Health units and areas of business. As health conscious employers, we continued our The know-how transfer between staff is used above all ­efforts to maintain and promote good health across in project work and in process management. the entire corporate group in the previous year. Spe­ cial focus was given in 2011 to the “healthy back”. Specific meetings are organized for female office ma­ 76 members of staff at the Rennweg 44/46 site took nagers to provide them with networking opportunities part in this initiative, which included presentations and introduce them to new working methods through by back experts, spinal checks and a special training targeted talks and presentations. program. The Academy is particularly useful for sharing infor­ A second area of focus in 2011 was the situation for mation and experiences in international projects and Austrian Lotteries sales representatives. Seminars on in the creation of intercultural know-how. good health practices at work for sales representatives were held for the entire field sales force and were at­ Outlook tended by 36 out of the 38 lotteries sales reps, giving A “FIT TO USE” program will be introduced in 2012 them a coverage of 95 percent. to train new hires and employees who are returning to work after maternity leave or a career break in compa­ We also successfully completed the planned follow-up ny-specific IT topics. sessions on resource management for managers. A new Innovation Workshop will be added to the Outlook ­Academy program. In the interests of sustainability, we will continue to place particular focus on health issues in 2012. ­A Internal trainers and speakers will be offered a compact 64 “Train the Trainer” course to support their efforts and Measures already implemented in 2011: raise the professionalism of training offered via the • Signing of the “Lower Austrian Family-Oriented HR Academy. Policy” Charta • Granting of paid leave to staff on compassionate grounds in emergencies “Work and Family” Audit • If required, the timing of in-house events is adapted Certification for Austrian Lotteries to suit the non-core working hours of part-time staff (non-core working hours for full-time staff do not In recognition of its responsibility to provide a good ­generally correspond to those for part-time staff) work-family balance and support staff in their efforts • Definition of contacts in Human Resources for issu­ to combine the two, Austrian Lotteries is undergoing es relating to work-family balance (publication in the the EU-approved Austrian “Work and Family Audit” – a intranet) three-year process in which the balance between fami­ • Appointment of a designated, confidential family ly and work is assessed, developed and optimized in all ­advisor (works council) relevant divisions of the company. Companies in Aus­ • The first annual “Mother/Father Breakfast” for tria who have undergone a specific audit process and staff on maternity leave (information session with worked to improve their “family-friendliness” receive a ­member of the board over breakfast) was held on a state seal of approval from the Federal Ministry of 23 November 2011 in our Studio 44 event center Economy, Family and Youth. All measures introduced • Introduction of a re-entry program for staff retur­ in the course of the “Work and Family” audit ultimate­ ning to work after maternity/paternity leave ly benefit all members of staff in the group. • Provision of access to the intranet for staff on mater­ nity/paternity leave The audit process at Austrian Lotteries began on 28 February 2011 with a strategy workshop in which Measures currently being planned and prepared: the project group – who had been responsible for the • Up-to-date information on childcare options during ­project from the outset – developed initial suggestions school holidays, forum for parents, forum for sharing for family-friendly measures. In the following weeks, experiences, etc. staff had the opportunity to submit further ideas and • Additional information on compassionate/care l­eave, proposals to project team members in person or via paternity leave, etc. e-mail. At a further workshop on 11 April 2011, the • Information on family support and counseling concrete proposals were selected and agreed with the facilities management board. Just two days later, the auditor • Use of existing information structures (e.g. scheduled visited the company and surveyed staff about work head of division/head of department meetings) to and family topics. The defined work and family goals sensitize people to the work-family balance issue and measures will be implemented over a three-year • Inclusion of work-family balance issues in staff period. appraisals Following the assessment of these measures by the Outlook Ministry auditor, Austrian Lotteries was awarded basic The defined goals and measures are binding and will “Work and Family” certification in June 2011 and pre­ be implemented over the next three years. Care has sented with the certificate at an official presentation been taken to ensure that the measures introduced as a ceremony on 23 November. ­result of the “Work and Family Audit” ultimately serve the benefit of all staff in the group. Austrian Lotteries holds the state seal of approval of family-friendliness. CSR REPORT 2011 65 Casinos Austria Training Initiative At the first module in the management development program – “(Service) Leadership” – 161 managers and A large-scale survey of training requirements was management trainees had the opportunity to reinforce ­carried out in all our casino operations in 2011. 86 and develop their roles as managers and service-orien­ percent of staff took part in this survey, which formed ted leaders. the basis for: • A comprehensive staff development program (the To promote high potentials, so-called management “Training Initiative 2011”) pools of some 70 management trainees were nomina­ • Comprehensive training in responsible gaming and ted in key strategic areas. The establishment of these other CSR-related issues like data protection, in­ pools and the early identification and development of formation security, and the prevention of money potential managers ensures that our high standards of laundering, with responsible gaming training in management can be sustained and maintained in the particular forming a key pillar in the staff develop­ long-term. ment policy • Measures to promote management development, Outlook information sharing between managers, cement The management development program will be conti­ the new organizational structures and promote nued and deepened in 2012. Management trainees will cooperation. receive further training and mentoring in 2012. Selection procedures for around 100 managers were Internal Trainers organized in 2011, with all management positions A total of 23 members of staff participated in our ­either reconfirmed or reassigned in the process. As comprehensive training program for internal trainers part of the subsequent training initiative, a compre­ in 2011. The future trainers attended three intensive hensive management training program was launched modules of comprehensive training in relevant indus­ to support these managers and provide them with the try subject matter (information security, prevention necessary background and qualifications. This pro­ of money laundering, data protection), didactics, com­ gram will continue in 2012. All managers participate munication skills and presentation techniques. The in regular 360° feedback sessions and management goal behind the establishment of the internal trainer assessments, thus establishing and cementing a high pool is to raise the quality of internal training and standard of management at Casinos Austria. ­secure company know-how. Other measures included our so-called manager mee­ In 2011, over 1,200 members of staff were trained tings, which were held in March and April 2011 in in the following CSR-related subjects: responsible Vienna. All managers and management trainees took ­gaming, data protection, information security and the part in these three-day meetings, which were desig­ prevention of money laundering. ned to provide managers from across Austria with an appropriate opportunity to build networks and bring The training courses were conducted by external ex­ staff at headquarters and the casino operations closer perts (Josef Siska, Prevention of Money Laundering), together. In addition to training on CSR-related topics internal experts (Corporate Function Responsible (responsible gaming, information security, data pro­ ­Gaming, Data Protection Officer) and internal trainers. tection, prevention of money laundering), the event included presentations on all current issues and pro­ Outlook jects as well as brainstorming sessions to collect and Continued implementation and consolidation of these develop new ideas. measures. 66 Office 2010 Training Courses CSR Indicators 2011 During our large-scale changeover to Windows 7 and Office 2010 several accompanying measures (e-Lear­ Seminar costs Seminar days ning, training courses) were offered to help users with in euro the transition and provide them with a short and pre­ cise overview of the major software changes. Casinos Austria 280,755.72 1,941 Austrian Lotteries 836,037.09 1,983 A total of 289 members of staff participated in these Total 1.116,792.81 3,924 “What’s New” training courses, including 61 em­ployees from our casinos operations. Training for Junior Staff Training courses for around 270 junior members of staff in the Gaming, Guest Relations & Organization departments were launched in fall 2011. Successful completion of this training is a prerequisite for pro­ motion to the next grade. The first 100 students had success­fully completed their training by the start of 2012. The “Remplaceur” course is a requirement for promo­ tion to a senior position, the “GO” advanced training for promotion to receptionist or cashier, and the “Slots Expert” course for promotion to a customer service or technical position on the slot floor. The courses cover processes, rules and regulations, standards, guiding principles, quality management, corporate culture and philosophy, guidelines and manuals. They include training materials and an on­ line self-test to allow participants to monitor their progress. CSR REPORT 2011 67 Casinos Austria Employee Statistics Women Men 28.3 % 71.7 % Employee Headcount 2011* Length of Service 2011* Gender Headcount in % Years Headcount in % Male 1,173 71.74 0–4 347 21.22 Female 462 28.26 5–9 247 15.11 Total 1,635 100.00 10–14 126 7.71 15–19 204 12.47 * Headcount figures for 31.12.2011 20–24 375 22.94 25–29 179 10.95 30–34 63 3.85 35–39 86 5.26 > 39 8 0.49 Total 1,635 100.00 68 Sigrid Hainzl I don’t use plastic bags. When I go shopping, I always take my shopping basket with me. I keep a fabric bag in my purse for spur of the moment purchases and a fold-up basket in my car for larger shopping trips. Employment of People with Special Needs 2008 2009 2010 2011 19 people with disabilities 19 people with disabilities 17 people with disabilities 19 people with disabilities employed employed employed employed (2 on maternity leave) (3 on maternity leave) Quota 73 Quota 73 Quota 69 Quota 73 CSR REPORT 2011 69 Austrian Lotteries Employee Statistics Women Men 43.4 % 56.6 % Average Annual Full-Time Equivalent Average Length of Service (in years) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total 461 479 491 Men 10.4 10.5 11.0 Women 10.1 10.3 10.1 Total 10.3 10.4 10.6 Gender Quota in Management (in %) 2009 2010 2011 female male female male female male Board 33.33 66.67 33.33 66.67 33.33 66.67 Head of Division 18.75 81.25 14.29 85.71 15.38 84.62 Head of Department 31.70 68.30 32.50 67.50 33.33 66.67 Group Leader 41.38 58.62 39.39 60.61 45.00 55.00 70 Bernd Wollmann I give blood regularly. I am on the Red Cross SMS distribution list and receive a message when my blood group is required. When I get the message, I head off to the nearest blood donor center. Fluctuation in % Investment in Training (in euro) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Men 2.92 2.81 4.15 Total 670,000 820,000 836,000 Women 2.09 3.41 2.18 Total 5.01 6.22 6.33 Sick Days Workplace Accidents (% of total calendar days) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total 3.38 3.25 3.36 Total 6 2 3 CSR REPORT 2011 71 Thomas Buchta I smile when I’m on the phone – because you really can hear a smile. Before I ring someone up or pick up the phone to take a call, I try to think about someone special to me and make a conscious effort to smile. This positive approach gets me in the right mood for the call. This makes it easier both for the person I’m talking to and for me to conclude even a difficult call on a positive note. CSR REPORT 2011 73 Commitment to Society and Social Causes Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries consider it a Disposal of Personal Mobile Phones matter of principle to get involved and commit them­ All staff can hand in personal mobile telephones to our selves to social causes and issues in society beyond the Telecommunications & Client Systems department for requirements of their statutory mandate. As the em­ correct disposal. SIM cards are destroyed, and any data ployers of 5,416 people, we carry a large responsibi­ on the phone is erased. In 2011, some 40 mobile phones lity; as partner to 3,817 sales outlets and 6,045 instant were handed in for disposal. ­lottery points of sale, we contribute to safeguarding jobs. The legal requirements for employee safety, fire Fire Safety at the Rennweg 44/46, Wiener Neusafety and waste materials management form the stadt and Pfaffstätten Sites ­basis of all corresponding measures in place in the In 2011, a total of 141 members of staff (including Casinos Austria/Austrian Lotteries Group. Additional seasonal and temporary staff) were briefed on fire ­safety activities over and beyond the legal requirements are regulations and given the mandatory initial ­training in ­implemented when necessary and appropriate for the fire safety regulations for the respective site(s). safety and health of our staff. All new members of staff are also taken down the Responsibility to our guests, players and customers, ­designated escape routes to the emergency exits, shown and fair and reliable cooperation with our business how to operate the emergency exit mechanisms and partners is an absolute priority and prerequisite for all ­required to try them out for themselves (“do-it-yourself companies in the group. We actively demonstrate our principle”). commitment to society through our sports sponsoring activities and our support of numerous other projects The 2011 building evacuation drill for the Rennweg 44 and initiatives. site was successfully carried out on 30 September 2011. Cooperation with AfB (charitable, non-profit The 2011 building evacuation drill for the Rennweg 46 organization for the creation of jobs for people site could not be completed due to the change in facility with disabilities) management. Creating jobs for people with disabilities requires ­innovative ideas, clear concepts and strong partner­ The 2011 building evacuation drill for the Wiener ships. The non-profit organization, AfB, is working to N ­ eustadt site was successfully carried out on 31 August create an IT company managed and run by people with 2011. disabilities. The organization plans to have created over 500 jobs in the IT sector for people with disabili­ The 2011 building evacuation drill for the Pfaffstätten ties by the end of 2013. site was successfully carried out on 27 June 2011. Nowadays, work on used IT equipment and devices is Workplace Safety at the Rennweg 44/46, Wiener usually done in low-wage countries. By applying this Neustadt and Pfaffstätten Sites concept in Europe, AfB is not only reintegrating people The twice yearly mandatory workplace safety commis­ with disabilities into employment, it is also strengthe­ sion has met jointly for Casinos Austria and Austrian ning the economic area. In 2010, AfB turned over more Lotteries since October 2012. Our subsidiary compa­ than 140,000 used items of IT hardware. nies are also invited to participate in this commissi­ on and accept this opportunity, even though they are We now give any IT hardware we no longer require not actually large enough to be legally required to to AfB, who collect, inventorize, test and, if necessa­ form such a commission. This approach is conducive ry, ­repair it. All data is erased using Blancco certified and ­appropriate given that the individual managing data erasure software. The devices are then valued and ­directors all have a general responsibility to ensure the ­resold with a 12-month guarantee. protection of their staff. 74 The following people participate in the commission: A particular success story from a CSR perspective • Members of the works council which originated from the Ideenreich “suggestion box” • Company physicians is our “Cooking for a Good Cause” initiative, which has • Safety experts been running since 2010 and remains just as popular • Safety officers in 2012. • Staff representatives Lottery Days in Museums The commission discusses, logs (in writing) and puts We feel it is important to make art and culture a readi­ into practice relevant workplace and employee safety ly accessible and tangible experience for everyone, and and medical issues. These include, for example, the pro­ this was the idea behind our “Lottery Days” initiative. tection of non-smokers, preventive medical provisions The first such event was held in 2010 at the Albertina like vaccination programs, and workplace assessments. museum in Vienna, and the initiative was continued very successfully in 2011. On special “Lottery Days”, Ideenreich – Imaginative Ideas customers who have purchased an Austrian Lotteries Under the Motto “Imaginative Ideas. Let’s Hear Your product enjoy free entry to the designated venue. Suggestions – Everything’s Possible!”, our Innovation The product purchased can be a Lotto, Toto or Bingo Management department set up a new “suggestion ­ticket, or even a Brieflos break-open ticket or Rubbel­ box” in the group intranet in 2010 to give staff the los scratch card. It doesn’t even have to be for a current opportunity to put forward ideas outside the scope of draw or series. Given the overwhelming success of this their own field or department in a quick, easy and an­ promotion, it was obvious that it would be extended: onymous process. No idea is too small to be of interest many people who perhaps could not have afforded a for the suggestion box. Indeed, it is often the small visit to a museum or art gallery were able to obtain things that make the workplace better. Suggestions a moving and lasting impression of many different can be made in all areas, and we particularly welcome ­masterpieces and collections. concrete ideas which improve cost effectiveness, simp­ lify work processes, enhance the working atmosphere, augment our customer focus, raise safety in the work­ place and promote corporate social responsibility. Making a suggestion is really simple: ideas are deposi­ ted using a special online form in the intranet. They can also be submitted in writing. Our Innovation Manage­ ment team reviews the suggestions and then forwards them to the relevant department. This department checks out the possibilities and provides feedback as to why an idea perhaps might not be able to be put into practice. The intranet solution has p ­ roved very popu­ lar, since it offers users the possibility to read sugges­ tions that have already been submitted and track the status of an assessment. A total of 59 suggestions were submitted in 2011, and 7 of the 38 ideas assessed were accepted (an acceptance rate of 18 percent). Plans are already in progress to im­ plement 10 suggestions, 21 reviews are still pending, and 21 ideas were rejected. CSR REPORT 2011 75 Julia Posch I unplug chargers and electrical devices after use. To keep my electricity consumption to a mini­ mum, I unplug the charger for my mobile ­phone after use – and I do the same for my electric toothbrush. I also disconnect the plug socket extension adapter for my TV, DVD player and radio when I go away for the weekend. And I don’t forget the coffee machine or my hairdryer either. On balance, I feel that I do use less energy, and the devices also last longer because they are not running ­permanently. Above all, it gives me a good feeling to know that I am only using the amount of electricity that I actually need. CSR REPORT 2011 77 CSR Activities in our Casinos Casinos Austria’s core business activity lies in the ope­ • A new cooling unit was installed in 2011, the ration of the 12 limited period casino licenses issued ­benefits of which should be measurable from by the Ministry of Finance. Our casino staff are on 2012. hand to serve our guests 364 days a year. • “West Pool”: eight Poker tables are now transpor­ ted only between Innsbruck, Seefeld, Kleinwalser­ We reported on CSR activities at the individual ­casino tal and Bregenz in the west of the country, thus operations for the first time in 2008. In 2011, our CSR avoiding long transport routes to Vienna. Officer made her second tour of these operations. The lists below primarily provide an overview of new Casino Graz ­activities; the activities listed in previous years also ­remain in place. Society • Throughout Advent, staff from the casino donated Casino Baden their free time to work a mulled wine stand and collect money for the “Red Nose” charity. Society • Sponsoring of associations and events, increasin­ Casino Innsbruck gly in the local area (fire brigade, “No Problem” ball, final destination for the Harley-Davidson Society Charity Tour). • In 2011, the casino hosted the “Pink Ribbon Cha­ rity Night” in aid of the Austrian Cancer Support Environment Society in Tyrol for the third time – as a sign of • Energy saving light bulbs; LEDs for supplementary solidarity with women suffering from breast cancer and effect lighting. and to encourage awareness of the benefits of • Community-based heating: wood chip heating is check-ups. carbon neutral. The casino received confirmation • Partner and sponsor of the Tyrolean Ladies Run in 2011 that 95 percent of the energy it uses is (with lectures on running training, health-related green energy. topics, etc. in the casino in the run-up to the event). Casino Bregenz • Commissions to and promotion of local artists. • Donation of proceeds of promotion games to social Society organizations and facilities (e.g. Cancer Aid for • Support for the Lebensart [“Art as a Way of Life”] Children, Lebenshilfe aid organization). project run by the Vorarlberger Lebenshilfe aid • Event for the Tyrolean Senility Aid Association. organization. • Art exhibition: paintings by disabled hobby artists are exhibited in the casino and offered for sale to Staff casino guests (who generally buy all the paintings • Training of a member of staff as life coach and available). The proceeds are donated to Lebenshilfe. social counselor for other staff members. • Financial support for Lebenshilfe by not giving • Free access to a psychologist. Christmas gifts. • Healthy cuisine. • Self-defense course. Environment • Energy saving light bulbs; mercury vapor instead Casino Kitzbühel of low voltage light bulbs (30 percent reduction in consumption). Society • Further (10 cm) roof insulation added during 2011 • Various events for good causes (e.g. exhibitions of renovations. work by local artists) in the Casineum event area. 78 • Through the personal efforts of staff in the casino, Casino Seefeld a total of 15,000 euro was raised to help a needy family in the region. Environment • Carpools with company vehicles. Casino Kleinwalsertal • New drink dispensing system at bar (reduction of waste resulting from single serve bottles and cans). Society • Electronic towel dispensers (only two sheets per • The casino consciously serves regional/seasonal guest). cuisine and buys food products primarily from the • Electronic soap dispensers. Walser Buura, a cooperative of local valley farmers. • Increased use of energy saving light bulbs (largeThe quality of these products is significantly higher scale switch to LEDs). than those from conventional suppliers and justi­ fies the higher costs. Casino Velden • In line with this policy, the casino also joined the local Önsche Walser Chuche association of eight Society chefs in the Kleinwalsertal valley who advocate the • First level managers do voluntary community purchase of regional products and use of traditio­ service. nal preparation and cooking methods. Its restau­ • 2010: construction of a terrace at the “Meierei” rant and catering facilities are actively involved in home for the disabled in Treffen near Villach. promoting Kleinwalsertal as an Austrian Genuss • 2011: construction of a raised flower bed in Region [area for good regional food], and the Landskron. casino has already been designated a good regional • Participation in the “Show Responsibility” project. food destination [Genusswirt], a designation that • “Shared Space” project to improve the transport in­ requires the use of specific core products from the frastructure. The casino is contributing in financial region. and proprietary terms to this project, which aims to establish equality among all road users and is Casino Linz due to be implemented in 2011/2012. Environment Casino Wien • PCs are always switched off. • Environmentally responsible disposal of toner Society cartridges. • In 2011, the staff association at Casino Wien once • Used parts on slot machines are re-used. again supported the “Help for Butterfly Children” • Clean air policy (regular hygiene inspection and initiative for children with epidermolysis bullo­ monitoring of bacteria counts). sa. All proceeds from the hot punch stand run by • Testing of water for legionella bacteria members of staff in their spare time were donated to the DEBRA Austria association. Casino Salzburg Environment • Installation of Dyson fully-automated, hygienic hand dryers which use 80 percent less energy than conventional hand dryers in all washrooms. • Active ventilation through fans and slot machine cooling systems. • Reduction in heating costs through installation of a new burner. CSR REPORT 2011 79 Sponsoring As a successful corporate group, we have a responsibi­ projects to sponsor. In 2010, for example, Casinos lity to society to provide resources for relevant activi­ Austria launched its new “Alpha Prize for Literature” in ties and projects. cooperation with Vienna municipal libraries. In 2012, the prize will provide financial support and help in Casinos Austria’s corporate history is inextricably creating a broader audience for a third talented writer. linked with the establishment and maintenance of Official confirmation of the success of the Alpha pri­ sponsoring partnerships. Our philosophy here has ze can be seen not only in the number of entries (70) always been one of continuity. Two long-standing ­ submitted for the award – in 2011, the company was partnerships – both of which will celebrate key anni­ itself awarded the “Maecenas” prize from the Austrian versaries in 2012 – offer excellent examples of just Business Committee for the Arts in recognition of its how deeply and effectively sponsorship is anchored continued support for Austrian literature. in the Casinos Austria corporate culture. The Casino Grand Prix, Austria’s largest show jumping tourna­ 25 years of the Casino Grand Prix ment, ­celebrates its 25th anniversary in 2012. And Our partnerships in other segments are no less endu­ ­Casinos Austria will be the main sponsor of the Wiener ring. The Casino Grand Prix was launched in 1987 Festwochen, a cultural event of international standing, with the backing of Casinos Austria. As the country’s for the 45th year in succession in the same year. most lucrative show jumping tournament series, the event marked the start of a new era for equestrian 45 years of Wiener Festwochen sport in Austria. Its purpose was – and still is – to When it comes to sponsoring, acceptance of social promote young talent and introduce them to the in­ ­responsibility means also providing support to organi­ ternational show jumping arena. The tournament zations and projects which are of more general interest ­celebrates its 25th anniversary in 2012. Since that and not necessarily linked to the sponsor’s own area of first event back in 1987, which was won incidentally business. This is particularly important when it comes by Austrian show jumping legend Thomas Frühmann, to sponsorship of culture and the arts. When times are over 4,000 riders have competed in over 120 Grand tough for the economy, cultural and arts institutions Prix tournaments. are often among the first to face cutbacks in funding. All the better then that the Wiener Festwochen festi­ Casino on Tour val has been able to count on the support of a reliab­ Providing support to humanitarian initiatives plays a le partner since 1968 – the year Casinos Austria was central role in our sponsorship activities. Our Casino founded. Festival director Luc Bondy greatly values the on Tour institution is as long-standing as it is com­ fairness and loyalty which forms the basis of this part­ mendable. In 2011, donations raised at these mobile nership. The festival enlivens Austria’s capital city for casinos totaled over 100,000 euro, all of which went to five weeks each year. Throughout this period, festival charitable causes. The Casino on Tour takes over 400 events are not only numerous, they are also extreme­ promotional games to glamorous gala events like the ly diverse – from theater, opera and concert to dance. Opera Ball or Volkshilfe Gala run by the Austrian pub­ This coincides with one of Casinos Austria’s key objec­ lic aid organization. tives with its support for the Wiener Festwochen: to provide a variety of good entertainment to as wide an Austrian Lotteries is in the lucky position to have been a audience as possible. successful company for many years. But we are also aware that success, luck and happiness do not come to every­ Alpha Prize for Literature one as a matter of course. That’s why we place such great Diversity is also a defining element in our philosophy importance on providing support to social and healthwhen it comes to choosing which arts and cultural related projects and institutions. 80 Doris Smekal I started a fund-raising campaign. Every year, the staff in our Marketing department make donations to charity. By auctioning off all the Christmas presents received in the department each December, we always raise a large amount. The idea was born about 20 years ago at a Christmas party, when we had just received a “begging letter” that had particularly touched our hearts. The auction idea grew, and in the years that followed, our donations went to support children or families in need. For the last five years our donations have gone to the Neunerhaus organization for the homeless, a decision prompted by the “Give a Smile” campaign to create a dental surgery for the homeless. We have also always considered it important to maintain contact to the people or organizations who receive our donations – and this has shown us that even small donations can help to achieve big things. Casino on Tour Events Casino on Tour Donations Raised (in euro) Casino 2010 2011 Casino 2010 2011 Bad Gastein 7 1 Bad Gastein – 1,012.00 Baden 23 16 Baden 5,222.85 3,570.06 Bregenz 41 17 Bregenz 6,000.00 2,672.60 Graz 22 13 Graz 7,695.82 5,668.00 Innsbruck 39 57 Innsbruck 17,560.00 31,663.00 Kitzbühel 7 – Kitzbühel 5,025.00 – Kleinwalsertal 11 13 Kleinwalsertal 6,300.00 5,614.00 Linz 54 29 Linz 14,017.70 7,769.10 Salzburg 24 22 Salzburg 9,505.75 6,267.10 Seefeld 50 10 Seefeld 6,661.00 6,120.25 Velden 20 28 Velden 8,081.00 15,440.82 Vienna 60 64 Vienna 26,331.50 9,771.18 Total 358 270 Headquater 13,412.00 17,172.00 Total 125,812.62 112,740.11 CSR REPORT 2011 81 Lebenshilfe Niederösterreich the resettlement of the bearded vulture in Austria or in­ From barrier-free house to barrier-free society – a goal itiatives to protect endangered species living in Austria, that is coming a step closer through our sponsoring of the like the brown bear, the white-tailed sea-eagle and the most modern barrier-free house yet in the Lebenshilfe’s white stork. Since 2007, we have been supporting the Karl Ryker village. With the aid and support of the WWF’s river program, a conservation project covering ­Lebenshilfe organization, the house will allow its resi­ the country’s most important river landscapes and exten­ dents – who work in one of the associated workshops – to ding from the river Inn in the west, along the Traun to the live independently. The next step has also already been March-Thaya-Auen in the east. taken: support for the construction of two new apart­ ment blocks in Wiener Neudorf/Klosterpark, which will tipp3 FairPlay Project Pool become the new home for 24 disabled men and women. No other sport has so much potential to bring people to­ gether as football. Football is played all around the world Sports Sponsoring in Austria – without regard for gender, age, skin color, ethnic origin, Sports sponsorship is a social mandate that Austrian religion or income. The intercultural football project “Fair Lotteries has happily embraced since we were founded Play. Different Colors. One Game.” capitalizes on this fact. in 1986. Over the past 25 years, the company has paid tipp3 supports this project through the “FairPlay Project a total of 989.2 million euro into the Besondere BundesPool”, which was founded in 2009 and through which Sportförderung [special federal sports fund]. Austrian over 50 football events have already been successfully sport received 80 million euro from Austrian Lotteries in ­organized as a symbol against racism, discrimination and 2011, making sponsorship the most important source of the exclusion of minorities. In this way, Österreichische financing for sport in the country. Amateur sports, which Sportwetten Gesellschaft m.b.H. demonstrates its strong play a very important role in society, profit in particular commitment to integration and diversity. from this solidarity model. The restriction or withdrawal of sponsorship funding would deprive many sports asso­ In 2011, some 2.2 million euro in sponsorship funding ciations of their financial basis. was made available through Österreichische Sportwet­ ten Gesellschaft m.b.H. Together with the sports spon­ Sponsoring as Financial Basis sorship provisions in the Gaming Act (80 million euro Prior to 1986, a number of organizations – like Öster­ in 2011) and media contributions (24.5 million euro in reichische Kinderhilfe [Austrian Children’s Aid], Österrei­ 2011), this amounted to a total of 106.7 million euro for chische Sporthilfe [Austrian Sports Aid] or Österreichische Austrian sports. Seniorenhilfe [Austrian Senior Citizens Aid] – received their funding both from donations and from operating Selected Sponsoring Projects ­lottery draws for non-cash prizes. The launch of Lotto ­­“6 aus 45” in September 1986, created an over­powering Humanitarian and Social level of competition. To resolve this situation, A ­ ustrian • Benefit Concert in aid of Moldavia/20 Years Lotteries reached agreements with Österreichische of Concordia Kinder­hilfe, Österreichische Sporthilfe and Österreichi­ • Caritas Vienna – House Immanuel for Mothers sche Seniorenhilfe to contribute to their financial needs. and Children in Need • Europahaus Pulkau [center and “meeting place” WWF Austria for young people from across Europe] While the variety and integrity of nature are essential for • Harley-Davidson Charity-Tour the well-being of the human race, our assistance is some­ • Hospiz Österreich – Counseling and times required to maintain them. That’s why Austrian Competence Center for Hospice and Palliative Care Lotteries is a proud supporter of the WWF in Austria. • Integrationsfußball-WM The partnership has been in place since 1986, with many [Integration Football World Cup] successful projects realized over these 25 years, including • Lebenshilfe Niederösterreich 82 [counseling and aid organization in Lower Austria] • Volkstheater in Vienna • Löwenherz Social Prize and Gala for People in Need • Vienna Jazz Festival • TRIGOS [award for socially responsible companies] • Vienna State Opera • Verein MiA – Award for the Integration • Wiener Festwochen [Vienna Festival] of Female Migrants in Austria • Wiener Stadthalle [event center in Vienna] • Verein Wirtschaft für Integration – Integration Award • Volkshilfe [public aid organization] Business, science, research • 100 Years Women’s Day in Austria • European Forum Alpbach • EU Citizens Forum PRO Lower Austria Health • Future Forum Austria • Aktion “Leben mit Krebs“ • Journalistinnenkongress and MedienLÖWIN [Con[“Living with Cancer” initiative] gress and Media Prize for Women in Journalism] • Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund Austria • Lower Austrian EDUcation Award [Workers‘ Samaritan Federation] • University of Vienna • Austrian Mountain Rescue Service • Women in Business Day • Austrian Red Cross • Vienna Economic Forum • DEBRA Austria • Initiative “Nein zu Arm und Krank” Tourism [“No to Poverty and Illness” initiative] • Genuss Gipfel/Genuss Guide [“Good Food Summit/Guide”] Environment and Nature • Goldene Roulette Kugel • Neptun Wasserpreis [Austrian prize for water-rela[prize for services to Austrian cuisine] ted environmental achievement and innovation] • Goldene Traube • Schönbrunn Zoo in Vienna [award for the best wine from Burgenland] • Vienna Society for the Protection of Animals • Jost Krippendorf Prize [for services to tourism] • WWF Austria • Salzburg Tourism Fair Art and Culture Sports • Alpha Prize for Literature • Austrian Paralympic Committee • Austrian National Library • Bregenz Handball Tournament • Bregenz Festival • Casino Grand Prix • Bregenz Spring Festival • Special Olympics Austria • BUCH WIEN [Vienna International Book Fair] • Tag des Sports [Austrian Day of Sport] • Danube Island Festival • tipp3 Bundesliga powered by T-Mobile • Grafenegg Music Festival • Vienna City Marathon • Heldenberg Lipizzaner Gala • Wiener Equestrian Festival • ImPulsTanz Dance Festival – DanceAbility Workshops Casino on Tour • Kunsthistorisches Museum Our mobile Roulette and Black Jack gaming tables are [Museum of Art History in Vienna] always a very popular addition to the entertainment at • KURIER Romy Gala gala events, balls or company presentations. The chips • Museum of Natural History Vienna used have no face value, and guests play for non-cash • Resonanzen-Festival prizes. The mobile casinos are not only fun, they also • Spanish Riding School/Fête Impériale serve a good cause – any donations received at the • Technisches Museum tables are always donated to charity. [Vienna Museum of Technology] CSR REPORT 2011 83 Daniela Liedl I get off one station earlier and walk the rest of the way. Since I always travel to work by public transport and then sit in the office for the rest of the day, I have made it my habit to get off the train earlier and walk at least part of the way. I often take a later train after work to give me a chance to stretch my legs and walk to the next station. I walked with our pushchair a great deal when I was on maternity leave – and it’s a habit I intend to keep up. CSR REPORT 2011 85 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Companies that join the UN Global Compact are requi­ participating companies to report regularly on their red to submit an annual progress report, the so-called progress with respect to its human rights, labor, en­ Communication on Progress (COP), to the Global vironment and anti-corruption principles. It also Compact Office in New York. offers these companies the opportunity to continu­ ally improve and promote communication with their With this report, participating companies attest that stakeholders. they are working to implement the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact and have taken concrete corpo­ Accordingly, this CSR Report also serves as our annual rate responsibility measures. The COP also safeguards Communication on Progress. the integrity of the UN Global Compact, by requiring 86 Casinos Austria Goals MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Goal COP Training and communication of latest insights in data protection Ongoing. and prevention of money laundering and raising of awareness among staff for such issues. Roadshow and new e-Learning modules at all Austrian casinos on Implemented in 2011. data protection and prevention of money laundering. Internal and external partial audits regarding data protection in a total Implemented in 2011. of six divisions. Extension of applicable prevention of money laundering policy to Implemented in 2011. win2day and WINWIN. Identification and documentation of money laundering risks and Implemented in 2011. review of the implemented control measures. EMPLOYEES Goal COP Continuation of measures to maintain and promote health in all Implemented in 2011. companies in the group. Further management and “train the internal trainer” measures to Ongoing. consolidate the new corporate structure. Training and development of junior managers. Ongoing. Long-term project. ECOLOGY Goal COP Replacement of lighting in the canteen with a more economic and Implementation planned for 2012. energy-efficient solution. Purchase of electricity for 2011 and 2012 from 100 percent renewable Implemented. sources. Mounting of additional sun protection films on all office window that Implemented in 2011. face the midday sun (energy savings, staff no longer suffer glare from the sun). CSR REPORT 2011 87 Austrian Lotteries Goals Since the publication of our first CSR report in 2007, Austrian Lotteries has continued to inform stake­ holders about the CSR goals we have set for the coming years and report on progress. We set ourselves a to­ tal of 30 goals in the following areas in 2007: strategy, responsible gaming, economics, good causes, ecology, ­employees, social commitment and society. By 2009, 24 of these goals had been achieved, three had been partly achieved and four were still pending. We also set ourselves a further 11 new goals. The following list provides details of the status quo regarding our goals for the coming years and the progress we have already made. STRATEGY Goal COP Reorganization of the CSR team supporting the corporate CSR officer Implemented in 2010. The CSR team to allow the implementation of projects / recommendations and meets regularly to share information. prepare CSR activities. Stakeholder forum and group stakeholder survey. The CSR team examined forum and survey possibilities in 2011. Surveys of different stakeholder groups are planned for 2012. 88 EMPLOYEES Goal COP Continuation of measures to maintain and promote good health in Implemented in 2011. all companies in the group. Measures to consolidate the new corporate structure. Implemented in 2011. “Work and Family” certification. Implemented in 2011. ECOLOGY Goal COP Development of appropriate car and travel guidelines to accom­ Appropriate provisions regarding modate company expansion into international markets. means of travel were added to travel guidelines in 2011. Production of a green balance sheet reflecting the new corporate Pending. structure. Restructuring of the computer center in Wiener Neustadt to make it Server standardization and virtualimore energy-efficient. zation strategy continued to plan in 2011. Replacement of lighting in the canteen with a more economic and Implementation planned for 2012. energy-efficient solution. Purchase of electricity for 2011 and 2012 from 100 percent renewable Implemented. sources. Mounting of additional sun protection films on all office window that Implemented in 2011. face the midday sun (energy savings, staff no longer suffer glare from the sun). Responsible Gaming Goal COP Continuation of responsible gaming information events for staff. 7th Responsible Gaming Academy (RGA) held from 10-12 May 2010; 8th RGA held from 4-5 May 2011. Retention of certification under the European Lotteries and Toto Next full certification planned for Association and World Lottery Association Responsible Gaming stan2012. dards. CSR REPORT 2011 89 GRI Content Index G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative Code Content after GRI-G3 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2 Organizational Profile 2.1-2.10 3 Report Parameters 3.1-3.13 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization‘s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization‘s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body‘s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 -4.17 Stakeholdermanagement (selection approaches, key issues). 5 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization‘s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization‘s defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 6 Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 90 EC Core Indicators n.r. not relevant EC Additional Indicators KV collective bargaining agreement (GRI) reported fully BV employer/works council agreement (GRI) reported partially CASAG Casinos Austria AG k.B. not reported ÖLG Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. Pages UN Global Compact Principles Pages CASAG ÖLG CASAG ÖLG 6f 6f Support policy 7 7 25 25 12,12f,13,16f, 12,12f,13,16f, 42f, 46 50f, 52 4, 6f, 9, 97 4, 6f, 9, 97 16f 16f 1-10 16f 16f 18f 18f n.r. n.r. 18 GB 2011 11 GB 2011 k.B. k.B. k.B. k.B. k.B. k.B. 10 10f 1-10 10 10 AR 2011: p. 18 AR 2011: p. 11 1-10 AR 2011: p. 18 AR 2011: p. 11 k.B. k.B. k.B. k.B. 7 28 28 1-10 28 28 28 28 24 24 1, 4, 6, 7 46f 52f none none 7 64ff 64ff none none k.B. k.B. 1 k.B. k.B. 43 52 6 43 52 78ff 80ff k.B. k.B. 7, 8, 9 none none 8 none none n.r. n.r. 8,9 n.r. n.r. CSR REPORT 2011 91 Code Content after GRI-G3 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization‘s discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization‘s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 7 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 92 EC Core Indicators n.r. not relevant EC Additional Indicators KV collective bargaining agreement (GRI) reported fully BV employer/works council agreement (GRI) reported partially CASAG Casinos Austria AG k.B. not reported ÖLG Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. Pages UN Global Compact Principles Pages CASAG ÖLG CASAG ÖLG n.r. n.r. 8,9 n.r. n.r. 58 58 8 58 58 58 58 56f 56f 8,9 56f 56f 56f 56f 8,9 56f 56f 56f 56f n.r. n.r. 8 n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. 8,9 n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. 8 n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. 8 n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. 8 n.r. n.r. none none n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. 7,8,9 41ff 41ff n.r. n.r. 8 n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. 60f 60f 60f 60f n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. 7,8,9 n.r. n.r. 61 61 8,9 n.r. n.r. none none 8 none none none none k.B. k.B. 7,8,9 1,3,6 68 70f 68 70f 6 68 70 BV BV KV KV 1,3 KV KV n.r. n.r. 3 n.r. n.r. BV BV 1 BV BV k.B. k.B. 64 64ff 1 64 64 BV BV CSR REPORT 2011 93 Code Content after GRI-G3 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 8 Social: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization‘s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 9 Social: Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization‘s anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 10 Social: Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 94 EC Core Indicators n.r. not relevant EC Additional Indicators KV collective bargaining agreement (GRI) reported fully BV employer/works council agreement (GRI) reported partially CASAG Casinos Austria AG k.B. not reported ÖLG Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. Pages UN Global Compact Principles Pages CASAG ÖLG CASAG ÖLG 67 67 64, 66f 64ff k.B. k.B. 68f 70f 1,6 68f 70f k.B. k.B. 1,2,3,4,5,6 k.B. k.B. 1,2,3,4,5,6 n.r. n.r. 1,2,3,4,5,6 n.r. n.r. 41 41 1,2,3,4,5,6 41 41 none none 1,2,6 none none none none 1,2,3 none none none none 1,2,5 none none none none 1,2,4 none none k.B. k.B. 1,2 none none 1,2 none none 10 k.B. k.B. k.B. k.B. 10 k.B. k.B. 25 25 10 25 25 k.B. k.B. 1-10 k.B. k.B. 10 none none k.B. k.B. 1,8 n.r. n.r. 1 n.r. n.r. none none 1 none none 32ff 32ff 8 32ff 32ff none none 8 none none k.B. k.B. 32ff 32ff 32 32 k.B. k.B. none none 1 none none none none CSR REPORT 2011 95 96
