PANDORA CSR REPORT 2012 2011 1 Content 5 CEO STATEMENT 14 CRAFTING 16 Standards and certifications 6 CSR APPROACH 16 Total reward 7 Ethical aspirations 17 4 Cs of jewellery crafting 7 Governance 20 Health & safety 8 Diversity 21 Environmental impact 8 PANDORA Ethics 10 Responsible Jewellery Council 23 TRADING 10 Sourcing, crafting and trading 24 Staff development 24 Management development 11 SOURCING 24 Consumer protection 12 Supplier engagement 25 Business Ethics 12 Jewellery materials 13 Silver and gold 26 CSR 2012 Data 14 Diamonds CONTENT 3 CEO STATEMENT “It is PANDORA’s vision to become the world’s most recogOn top of documenting compliance with CSR nised jewellery brand”. commitments, this year’s report seeks to provide an insight At PANDORA, we firmly believe that this recognition into how we have ensured group wide implementation is only achievable if we navigate our approach to responsiof our CSR policies, tools and guidelines. We call this ble business practices in harmony with the interests of our “PANDORA Ethics“. We do this by disclosing PANDORA’s costumers and other key stakeholders. We constantly strive overall approach to CSR as well as the challenges we face, to remain faithful to our heritage of being responsible in the efforts we initiate and the results we achieve in the three everything we do and by actively engage in dialogue with parts of our value chain; sourcing, crafting and trading. our surroundings to learn and share experiences in advancThis year’s report pays special attention to our employing responsible business practices. ment relationship with the 4,124 people engaged in the Having worked systematically with Corporate Social actual crafting of our genuine, hand-finished jewellery. By Responsibility for years, 2012 became the year when doing this, we hope to provide a valuable insight into the PANDORA became certified on a number of CSR standards. management philosophy that has enabled PANDORA to We are proud to receive such recognitions – and we actively craft and market millions of pieces of jewellery in 2012. use the lessons we have learnt when engaging in joint efforts to advance sustainability in the entire jewellery industry. Bjørn Gulden President and Chief Executive Officer CEO statement 5 CSR Approach CSR APPROACH ETHICAL ASPIRATIONS During the past decade, PANDORA has developed to become one of the world’s leading jewellery brands. We take great pride in this achievement and acknowledge that with this position follows an expectation from our stakeholders that PANDORA will ensure high ethical standards in all our dealings. Our Group CSR policy helps us navigate in our endeavor to reach our ethical aspirations: “PANDORA is committed to advancing responsible business practices from the sourcing of gemstones, precious metals and other materials to the crafting and marketing of our jewellery. We believe that corporate social responsibility and our aspiration to offer high quality and genuine jewellery go hand in hand. Responsible business practices and social awareness have always been part of PANDORA’s DNA and they are virtues which we strive to honour in our daily operations as well as through initiatives that aim at raising the bar for the jewellery industry. Furthermore, we believe that our business shall benefit our stakeholders and not least our customers. Therefore, PANDORA has a social commitment to supporting charitable purposes that inspire individuality and improve the lives of women around the world”. Danish Committee on Corporate Governance. Exactly how we do this is further elaborated on our governance site on GOVERNANCE www.pandoragroup.com. Focusing in on CSR governance, we have now gained At PANDORA, the aim of good Corporate Governance is three years of experience in operating our CSR Steering to maximise long-term value creation and ensure transparCommittee, commissioned to define, coordinate and moniency and accountability in the way we fulfill our obligator ethical performance throughout the group. The Committions towards shareholders, consumers, customers, tee is headed by our Vice President Group CSR and further employees, authorities and other key stakeholders. A natuconsists of the heads of Production, Procurement, HR, ral part of this exercise is to assess our practices according Investor Relations and Communications and with our to corporate governance recommendations issued by the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Merchant representing CSR Approach 7 Executive Management. In 2012, the CSR committee has that participants in each of these leadership programmes for mainly worked to: the years 2012 to 2015 (on aggregate) shall mirror the gender composition on the relevant management levels. { Scope, develop and implement our comprehensive PANDORA has presented the above targets to our key CSR programme, PANDORA Ethics partners among search and selection companies and given them { Monitor the progress of PANDORA’s Responsible a general instruction to ensure presentation of qualified female Supplier Programme candidates for senior management positions in the company. { Ensure coordinated decision making on ongoing CSR issues and risk management PANDORA Ethics CSR and compliance issues have traditionally been tabled at PANDORA board meetings on an ad hoc basis. Going forward, Our single most important CSR initiative in CSR will be on the Audit committee’s agenda twice a year. 2012 has been the roll-out of PANDORA Ethics, our comprehensive CSR and compliance programme covering the entire PANDORA Group. PANDORA Ethics DIVERSIT Y contains four core CSR policies on human rights, health & safety, environment and business ethics. A fifth vital policy Employment at PANDORA is based on merit and is offered guides us on how to engage in dialogue with our suppliers on without any distinction, exclusion, or preference on the above issues. The five policies can be found on our CSR site on basis of race, ethnicity, national or social origin, gender, www.pandoragroup.com/csr. The above policies are supported religion, age, political opinion, sexual orientation and by tools and guidelines as well as monitoring and compliance family responsibilities. systems to enable the organisation to honour our commitments. Following PANDORA’s Annual General Meeting in Our PANDORA Ethics policies and guidelines cover March 2012, 25% of the members of PANDORA’s Board the 10 principles defined by the United Nations Global of Directors are women. In 2011, the corresponding perCompact and they are fully aligned with the Responsible centage for all Danish listed companies was less than 7%. Jewellery Council’s Code of Practices defining honest and PANDORA is committed to remaining among the leadresponsible business practices within the jewellery value ing Danish companies with regard to balancing gender chain. Finally, our human rights policy, its underlying representation on the boards, and the PANDORA Board of guidelines and our due diligence efforts are sought aligned Directors has set the target that by 2015 each gender should with the guidance provided by the United Nations’ Guiding be represented by at least 37%. Principles on Business and Human Rights. In 2012, women accounted for 19 out of 73 higher 1 February 2012 marked the kick-off of a group-wide management positions throughout the PANDORA Group, implementation and awareness campaign on PANDORA from the level of Vice President to Executive Management Ethics. The campaign aimed to reach all PANDORA employ(26%). Women in management positions, from store manees around the world, raise internal awareness about agers to director level, accounted for 66%. In total, women PANDORA’s commitment to responsible business practices made up 61% of the 6,360 people who work at PANDORA, as well as the rights and obligations they enjoy as PANDORA and women held 60% of all management positions. employees. So far, the campaign has been carried out through: In 2012, PANDORA initiated its global leadership development programme, Life Leadership, for Vice Presidents { A generic face-to-face training module through which and VP potentials. The importance of the programme can be we train all staff at our headquarters, our regional illustrated by the fact that in 2012 two out of four vacant top offices around the world and managers at PANDORA management positions were recruited from Life Leadership Production Thailand participants. Leadership development programmes are also { Tailored CSR training modules for our global manageinitiated for directors and managers at local level. PANDORA ment team, selected business units and markets expects that the high number of female managers in the lead{ The integration of PANDORA Ethics into existing ership pipeline will in itself balance the gender representation induction programmes for new employees in senior management. In order to monitor how this balance { CEO announcements, specific PANDORA Ethics evolves – and to react if required – PANDORA has decided section on our intranet and group website, PANDORA 8 Pandora CSR report Ethics videos as well as group-wide distribution of 100 key performance indicators defined in the our 2011 CSR Report and PANDORA Ethics leaflets, Responsible Jewellery Council’s Code of Practices posters and a range of minor gimmicks { All markets must confirm compliance with { At PANDORA Production Thailand, the majority of our PANDORA’s Business Ethics Policy twice a year 4,124 colleagues are directly involved in the jewellery crafting processes. To ensure that essential PANDORA The PANDORA Ethics campaign reached a vital milestone in Ethics information reach all staff at our production faciliAugust 2012, when the full PANDORA Group was certified by ties, we use our in-house radio and TV stations designed the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), the most ambitious to deliver entertainment as well as company news CSR initiative within the jewellery industry. The certification was granted following a range of announced as well as unannounced  o ensure group-wide compliance with PANDORA Ethics, T audits carried out by independent RJC accredited consultants we have assigned responsibilities to management at our visiting our head office, our jewellery crafting facilities as well production facilities and in our markets: as selected regional offices and PANDORA stores around the world. Recognising that our company and our ethical aspira{ Our bespoke PANDORA Compliance Tool requires tions constantly evolve we will continue the campaign in 2013 markets to regularly report their level of compliance through above channels and by developing e-learning modules with our PANDORA Ethics policies and more than to ensure group wide awareness and compliance. CSR Approach 9 RESPONSIBLE JEWELLERY COUNCIL standards must appear reasonable and achievable to the staff we expect to implement and live by the rules. ThereIn 2012, we continued our active partifore, it is also paramount to PANDORA that the revised RJC cipation in the Responsible Jewellery standards and procedures remain ambitious – and ahead Council (RJC). As elected 2011/2012 of the curve while at the same time appear flexible and representative of jewellery manufacturers achievable to both existing and potential new members. Responsible in RJC’s Standards Committee, Jewellery PANDORA has been involved in two Council important RJC milestones that both were ISEAL Alliance reached in 2012. ISEAL members including the Fairtrade Labelling Firstly, the development of RJC’s Chain-of-Custody Organizations International (FLO), Forest Stewardcertification standard for gold that ensures the identificaship Council (FSC), and Marine Stewardship Council tion of responsibly sourced, produced, processed and (MSC), Rainforest Alliance Social Accountability Intertraded gold through the jewellery supply chain. Secondly, national and the Responsible Jewellery Council are all in 2012 RJC was accepted as a full member of the ISEAL leaders within their fields, committed to creating solid Alliance, the global association for social and environand now credible standard systems that give business, mental standards. governments and consumers the ability to choose products that have been responsibly produced. PANDORA welcomes RJC’s membership of the ISEAL alliance. By joining ISEAL, RJC takes a first step from being an industry initiative towards becoming a multi-stakeholder initiative. Thus, RJC has extended the number of seats in its SOURCING, CRAFTING AND TRADING Standards Committee which now also includes civil society organisations such as the Alliance for Responsible Mining, The implications of the PANDORA Ethics programme and its WWF, Fairtrade, Human Rights Watch, Social Accountabilunderlying policies, tools and guidelines will vary across the ity International and Solidaridad. The first major task facing three main parts of our value chain; Sourcing, crafting and the extended Standards Committee is to revise the existing trading. Thus, the remainder of this communication on Code of Practices. PANDORA will engage in this process PANDORA’s progress in advancing responsible business with the firm determination to be part of the solution by practices is divided into three parts explaining the ethical pushing the code towards still more sustainable standards. dilemmas we face, the actions we initiate and the results we Having worked systematically with CSR for years, it is have achieved in 2012 within the three parts of our value PANDORA’s experience that in order to succeed, CSR chain: Sourcing, crafting and trading. 10 Pandora CSR report SOURCING management REPORT 11 sourcing During 2012, we have further developed our Responsible Supplier Programme through which we screen and categorise our suppliers, organise supplier trainings and self-assessments, initiate CSR audits carried out by independent consultants and finally ensure an ongoing dialogue with our suppliers to ensure that they operate in compliance with PANDORA’s Supplier’s Code of Conduct. The programme is described in detail in CSR Report 2011 and on www.pandoragroup.com/csr. SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT In 2012, we have gained valuable experience in implementing the programme in cooperation with existing as well as potential new PANDORA suppliers. This has led us to revisit our procedures for screening and categorising our suppliers. On top of existing screening criteria such as business importance, product related risks, country of production, documented CSR capacity and the responsible purchaser’s personal assessment, we have added additional criteria such as our leverage and opportunity to influence the supplier and which jewellery materials are especially important to our key stakeholders. The introduction of more indicators has led to more complexity in decision making. Therefore, in 2012 we have seen that the screening process evolving from being the sole responsibility of JEWELLERY MATERIALS the responsible purchaser towards a dialogue between our purchasers and group CSR. Mining and processing of jewellery materials are often Beside the third party CSR audits mentioned above, debated within the industry, by civil society, by media and by our suppliers of jewellery materials are also visited by our authorities. At PANDORA we fully recognise that while own staff that monitors the capacity of our suppliers to mining and processing are valuable sources of income for deliver at the right price, the right time and in the right millions of people around the world, they can be associated quality. These supplier audits also cover health and safety with severe adverse social and environmental impact. and other CSR related issues. In 2012, PANDORA ProPANDORA is operating with a vertically integrated value duction Thailand has initiated a project to integrate these chain, directly handling the vast majority of our jewellery audits into one common system. This project is headed by crafting operations at our own facilities in Bangkok, Thaiour CSR team in Bangkok. land. In 2012, PANDORA has intensified our dialogue with 12 Pandora CSR report suppliers of silver, gold and diamonds in order to establish procedures that will further guarantee that these materials do LBMA not originate from sources that might be connected with The London Bullion Market Association requires that human rights infringements. all accredited Good Delivery listed refiners must initiate adequate human rights due diligence procedures in their supply chain. LBMA also requires that SILVER AND GOLD such procedures are verified by independent auditors and in the case of gold the procedures must also All silver and gold that enters our crafting processes at be in line with the OECD Guidance for Responsible PANDORA Production Thailand are sourced from internaGold Sourcing which again is aligned with the United tional refining companies, which, like PANDORA, are active Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human members of the Responsible Jewellery Council. In 2012, Rights, the authoritative point of reference for PANDORA decided to implement procedures ensuring that PANDORA’s human rights policy. any silver or gold entering PANDORA’s value chain must be supplied by responsible refiners accepted on the London Bullion Market Association’s (LBMA) list of Good Delivery refiners. A limited number of specialised manufacturers – craftThe United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) ing highly sophisticated silver and gold products – deliver estimates that 90 to 100% of all silver and gold used in jewelsemi-finished parts to PANDORA Production Thailand. lery is being recycled. No other metals or industries can In 2012, all such specialised partners have certified to muster such high recycling rates, and we truly believe that this PANDORA that the gold used in their products is sourced fact should be taken into consideration when estimating the from LBMA “good listed” suppliers. We are currently actual environmental impact of the genuine jewellery industry. implementing due diligence procedures to verify these guarantees regarding gold and we will in 2013 investigate the feasibility of developing a similar system for highly specialised silver products. SOURCING 13 DIAMONDS PANDORA recognises the achievements of the Kimberley Process such as creating awareness, increasing Since 2003, the international trade of rough diamonds has shared knowledge of trade flows and reducing the been regulated through the Kimberley Process Certificanumber of conflict diamonds entering the market. tion Scheme (KPCS), a joint government, industry and civil PANDORA also liaises with suppliers, peers, the Responsociety initiative that seeks to prevent the flow of conflict sible Jewellery Council and relevant government institudiamonds into a range of industrial sectors, including the tions on how to further advance responsible diamond jewellery industry. sourcing within the industry. On top of requiring KPCS compliance, PANDORA has implemented the World Diamond Council’s Warranty Statement, and we have temporarily prohibited the sourcing of diamonds Kimberley Process originating from the Marange region in Zimbabwe. The Kimberley Process was established to prevent rebel PANDORA provides diamond guarantees on all invoices movements or their allies to finance conflict against to our business partners disclosing the guarantees that we legitimate governments trough trading of rough diarequire from our own diamond suppliers: monds. States participating in the Kimberley Process must put in place national legislation and institutions, “The diamonds herein invoiced have been purchased from export, import and internal controls and commit to legitimate sources not involved in the funding of conflict transparency. Participants can only legally trade with and in conformance with United Nations resolutions. other participants who have also met the minimum rePANDORA hereby guarantees that these diamonds are quirements of the scheme, and international shipments conflict free, based on written guarantees provided by the of rough diamonds must be accompanied by the certifisupplier of these diamonds. PANDORA also requires written cate guaranteeing that they are conflict-free. guarantees from its suppliers that the diamonds invoiced do not originate from the Marange region in Zimbabwe”. 14 Pandora CSR report Crafting management REPORT 15 Crafting when we certified on a number of CSR-related standards. As already mentioned the entire PANDORA group was in 2012 certified up against the Responsible Jewellery Council’s Code of Practices. On this occasion, our crafting facility in Thailand was the PANDORA entity subject to the strictest scrutiny by the independent audit teams. As it was the case at the other audited PANDORA sites around the world, only minor non-compliances was found and rectified. Also in 2012, our integrated management system at PANDORA Production Thailand acquired the ISO 14001 certification on environmental management as well as the OHSAS 18001 certification regarding health and safety. TOTAL REWARD Since the earliest days of PANDORA’s crafting operations in Thailand, our approach to the employment relationship has exceeded simple compliance with labour legislation or minimal conformance with international regulations. We have always recognised these as important basic requirements, but have consistently sought to develop the relationship beyond those dictated by mere compliance. In this year’s CSR Report, we find it important to share how that initial approach to our crafting operations has been adapted and developed to PANDORA’s Jewellery is crafted by our 4,124 colleagues at support the expansion of our crafting team. PANDORA Production Thailand located in Bangkok. Here PANDORA’s global mission “To provide women across we operate a state-of-the-art jewellery crafting facility at the world with a universe of high quality, hand finished, Gemopolis, a modern industrial estate designed to cater for modern, genuine jewellery at affordable prices” has at its the special requirements of jewellery manufacturers. foundation the skills care, attention and professionalism of our craftspeople. The framework within which we measure performance STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS and identify areas of opportunity to further strengthen the employment relationship with these craftspeople is Although having been ISO 9001 certified on our quality commonly referred to as Total Reward. This is a proactive standards for several years, PANDORA Production Thaiapproach to maintaining and enhancing the employment land has traditionally not benchmarked its performance up relationship, building our organisation’s capabilities to against peers or external standards. In 2012, this changed craft high quality jewellery which delights our customers 16 Pandora CSR report and doing so in an environment that is professional, position “What is the total value for our staff of working with tive, respectful and not least a fun place to be. The total rePANDORA Production Thailand?” and comprises of four funward framework provides a means of answering the quesdamental elements: Total reward { Fixed & Variable Pay { Health & Life Insurance { Incentives {  Vacations { Bonus { Provident Fund { Allowances { Canteen etc. Compensation Benefits Development Work Environment { Training { Physical Environment { Skills Development { Social Environment { Personal Development { The work itself { Professional Development { Recognition Using this framework does not imply that, for example, CLARITY We find it important that everyone in our team deficiencies in pay or benefits can be compensated by great have a clear idea of our vision, mission and values Clarity. opportunities to develop. Similarly, it does not mean that a They should have a clear idea of their roles and responsibiliwork environment which is unsafe, or features harassment ties and how their role contributes to meeting the needs of or intimidation, can be counter-balanced by high pay. our customers. Equally important is that everyone are clear on what is expected of them and that they receive regular, supportive feedback on how they are performing against 4 Cs OF JEWELLERY CR AFTING those expectations. In addition to a comprehensive programme of formal A diamond’s value is based on a combination of value and informal communication relating to individual roles factors: Cut, Clarity, Colour and Carat weight. In summary the and responsibilities, we also focus on providing up-to-date industry refers to these value factors as the four Cs. In order to and relevant company information to our colleagues so that describe the human resource perspective on those aspects of everyone can fully understand the context of their work, the the working environment which have critical impact on feedback from customers and gain a clear picture of individual and team performance – and job satisfaction – PANDORA’s global operating and financial performance. PANDORA Production Thailand has developed its own four Cs: CRAFTING 17 Likewise, on a more local scale, through our in-house ment, business continuity, craftsmanship skills and quality PANDORA Radio and PANDORA Production TV, both was extensive. All training activities aim to further advance broadcasting daily, we share news updates, monthly a safe and rewarding environment for our colleagues and to departmental news and customer feedback. demonstrate our socially responsible practices as an employer and important member of the local community. As COMPETENCE The second of the four Cs is Competence. previously mentioned, however, our development activities It is our obligation to ensure that our colleagues have the go well beyond technical training. Our craftspeople also skills required to fulfill their responsibilities. We want everyparticipated in programmes aimed at developing their life one to have the skills, finely honed, necessary to craft high skills. Some examples of these from 2012 include: quality, hand finished jewellery and to have the knowledge and understanding of their craft. The various crafting 2012 Employee Development at PANDORA steps in transforming a design idea to a finished piece of Production Thailand (non-Craft Skills Training) jewellery require much more than manual dexterity. Our Learning Programme # of Times Delivered # of Participants Satisfaction Score colleagues draw on their skills, their knowledge and their PANDORA experience in making hundreds of decisions each day that is Proactive 82 3704 87% (PIP) impact the quality of each piece they work on. PANDORA Therefore, we invest significantly in skills and leaderOrientation 14 621 91% Programme (POP) ship training and development. In 2012, we initiated a People Ensure Professional Craft Skills Development Programme with PANDORA Life 14 611 88% (PEP) certification and continued our Leadership Development Learning Programme. Following our 2011 succession plan for 268 Club Plus 23 402 87% leadership positions, we were pleased to see that in 2012 Intro to PANDORA the number of high potential leaders increased from 5 to Performance 6 182 87% Management 13% and 38% of these are women. Throughout 2012, the TOTAL 139 5520 88% range of training activities spanning safety, health, the environ18 Pandora CSR report Our PIP programme provided theory and practical tools for boards, radio and TV with follow-up actions included. The identifying individual career and life goals, taking personal first Radar meetings were launched in Q4 2012, with four responsibility for those goals and adopting a proactive meetings held in total, and will continue throughout 2013. approach to achieving them. A follow-up initiative, which Finally, we greatly value the contribution of our Employee encouraged employees to share with their colleagues what Welfare Committee to which our staff in 2012 elected new they had learnt and applied in their work or personal life representatives. Acknowledging the importance and value from attending PIP, resulted in 1,450 individual employee of a strong, proactive Welfare Committee, PANDORA Protestimonials submitted to our Employee Development team. duction Thailand provided opportunities for all those who sought election to canvass for votes, supported publicity CONFIDENCE We fundamentally believe that every one activities to encourage voting and opened the PANDORA of our crafting team members should have the confidence Radio airwaves to each candidate for short personal introto speak out – to raise issues, concerns and opportunities. ductions and a summary of their ‘manifesto’. The participaAt the same time, we want everyone to be confident that tion rate for the election reached 89% (3,562 employees) when they do speak out, they will be listened to and get a and returned 15 members to the Employee Welfare Comresponse. From a management perspective, we want all of mittee. Following the election and in conjunction with the our leaders to have the confidence to listen, sometimes to new Committee Members, we developed a detailed opinions they do not agree with, and to provide feedback in training programme for them, spanning computer skills a constructive and professional manner. And, undoubtedly, (word processing,spreadsheets etc.), presentation skills, time we want everyone in our crafting team to feel confident that management and externally delivered training in labour they will be recognised and fairly rewarded for their contrilaw, HR policies and benefits, which would help them in butions towards satisfying our customers’ needs. professionally presenting and representing the views and PANDORA Production Thailand also provides all opinions of their colleagues. staff with extensive and innovative training on life skills, on being proactive and on speaking out. Once trained, of course we need to provide forums that support and Clarity Competence Confidence Commitment encourage participation and engagement. In 2012, we rolled out a unique 360-degree appraisal tool in which all leaders, from the Managing Director through to Assistant Supervisors, received structured feedback from their manager, peers and direct reports on their leadership style, strengths and weaknesses. This involved a completely confidential questionnaire. The assessment was made twice with an interval of six months, and more than 4,000 individual assessments were made. The aggregate scores for Directors, Managers, Supervisors and Assistant Supervisors all increased from the first assessment to the second, measuring improved leadership performance from a 360-degree perspective with the largest ‘voice’ being that of our employees. Another example is Radar meetings – monthly meetings facilitated by the HR department with representatives from all departments. The purpose of Radar is to see which issues, concerns and opportunities surround us and to gain input on how best to address them. The meetings are in the form of workshops and each meeting has a minimum of five subjects that the group discusses and shares comments and suggestions. Employees can apply to participate in the meetings and suggest topics for discussion. The results of each meeting are communicated across PANDORA Production Thailand by the local HR department and the participants themselves through bulletin CRAFTING 19 COMMITMENT Lastly, we believe that providing for Employees, educational support for the children of Clarity, building and enhancing Competence, and creating employees, opportunities to participate and share ideas an environment of Confidence, leads to Commitment. This and opinions, or much more besides, we strive to provide commitment, bringing the unique individual skills and talpractical demonstration of our commitment to our colents of our team, and applying them to the collective goal leagues, and to our company, every day. In return, every of providing outstanding products and services to our day we see, and take great pride in, the commitment of customers, is what has helped create the PANDORA of our crafting colleagues to helping PANDORA become the today and what will serve as our foundation for the future. world’s most recognised jewellery brand. At PANDORA Production Thailand, we are fortunate to see evidence of our colleagues’ commitment every day in many and varied ways; from their willingness and HEALTH & SAFETY eagerness to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the way they work, their pride in sharing what they do PANDORA recognises our specific responsibility to with the hundreds of visitors who tour the factory each provide safe and healthy working conditions for our year, to their desire to continuously improve themselves. employees engaged in the crafting of our jewellery. For example, in October 2012 we opened our library Besides having its management system certified accordand e-learning centre, with state-of-the-art IT systems, in a ing to the OHSAS 18001 standard, PANDORA Production comfortable and attractive building. By the end of the year, Thailand has worked systematically in 2012 to reach the the library had had 8,578 unique visits and 1,869 books goal of eliminating accidents at our crafting facilities. At had been borrowed and brought home in that period, of PANDORA, we define accidents as any incident that leads which 698 were business related books. to more than eight hours of absence. Whether it be our one-year or our four-year interOn top of our constant efforts to improve physical nal development programmes, Educational Scholarships safety at our facilities, we train staff in potential dangers 20 Pandora CSR report associated with their daily work and seek to build a In 2012, total CO2 emissions at our ISO 14001 certified general safety awareness, identification and reporting crafting facilities in Thailand amounted to 13,913 tonnes culture and have established systems and procedures to CO2 equivalents. More than 92% of these emissions are the support such a culture. All accidents and near-misses – result of electricity consumption from our modern jewellery incidents that could potentially evolve into an accident – casting equipment and the fact that 85% of our buildings are are carefully recorded and analysed on a range parameters air conditioned for the benefit of our staff. 6% of total CO2 in order to identify specific dangerous “hot spots” in the emissions originate from our own bus services that provide crafting process. safe and energy efficient transportation to and from our In 2012, PANDORA Production Thailand managed production facilities for 2,000 staff members residing in to reduce the numbers of accidents among our 4,124 the greater Bangkok area. The last stop on the longest of employees from five in 2011 to three, resulting in a total altogether 46 routes is located some 28 kilometers from absence of 32 days compared with 37 days lost in 2011. PANDORA Production Thailand. While any accident is one too many, this is a remarkably While air conditioning and bus services are responsilow number compared with any industrial sector in any ble for a substantial part of our CO2 emissions, they are staff country around the world. benefits that we are not prepared to abolish. Therefore, our efforts to minimise our carbon footprint rely on our ability to raise the effectiveness of our consumption. The ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT most significant technical improvement in 2012 has been the introduction of a new industrial cooling pad system that PANDORA’s group environment policy instructs us to has optimised our air conditioning and allowed us to reduce “… work to minimise the environmental footprint of our our 2012 CO2 emissions with 570 tonnes or 4% of total CO2 own operations by seeking new ways to reduce our emissions. Further, a range of minor initiatives has been consumption of resources, our emissions and our waste”. launched during 2012 with the dual purpose of reducing Crafting 21 energy consumption and raising awareness. These include All waste at PANDORA Production Thailand is sorted into the installation of solar panels, a miniature windmill and four categories: general waste, recyclable waste, industrial a refinery allowing us to recycle the cooking oil from the waste, and hazardous waste. All industrial and hazardous canteen into 850 liters of biodiesel which are now used as waste is sorted and stored in safe and locked areas, where fuel by our forklift trucks. only authorised personnel have access. When disposing of From 2011 to 2012, water consumption at PANDORA hazardous and industrial waste, we engage with certified Production Thailand increased by 40,000 M3 to reach a vendors, who treat the waste in accordance with Thai law. total of 206,000 M3. The reason for this increase is primarily more items produced and changes towards more Waste Tonnes complex jewellery designs. During spring 2012, we impleGeneral waste 1,813 mented new facilities for recycling water. During the first Recycled waste 284 eight months of operation, we managed to recycle 12.5% Industrial waste 1,418 of the total water input for 2012. The disposal of waste Hazardous waste 43 water is subject to control by local authorities, audited by external experts, and handled by a joint waste water treatment facility managed by the industrial estate. 22 Pandora CSR report Trading management REPORT 23 Trading PANDORA jewellery is sold in more than 70 countries on MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT six continents through approximately 10,000 points of sale, including more than 900 concept stores. Recognising the key role management plays in shaping a responsible, wholehearted and profitable company, PANDORA has established internal management STAFF DEVELOPMENT programmes based on our three core values, pride, passion and performance. On www.pandoragroup.com/csr you can As already indicated in the sourcing and crafting chapters, read more about these values that also make up the platform we acknowledge our responsibility to train and develop on which we have built our CSR strategy. the skills of staff and partners who are part of PANDORA’s In 2012, we launched PANDORA Life Leadership, a value chain. We also believe that learning opportunities are group-wide leadership programme primarily targeting vice essential in attracting, developing and retaining excellent presidents. The programme aims to develop the participants sales staff and thereby secure the best possible experience mastery of various leadership levels and styles, increase and purchase for our consumers. This is important for us retail understanding and support group-wide coherence and as a company, since the main contact between PANDORA networks. One way of achieving this is by having groups of and our consumers is established and nurtured by the more participants solve real business cases of strategic than 30,000 people passionately engaged in selling our importance to the company. In 2012, two out of four vagenuine jewellery. Ultimately, each sale comes down to a cant top management positions were recruited among Life conversation between a consumer and a PANDORA sales Leadership participants. Also in 2012, a similar leadership person and we want this interaction to be as perfect as posprogramme, Passion in Leadership, was launched mainly for sible. Therefore, we work dedicatedly to upgrade the directors and managers across the group. A vital part of both skills and competencies of the sales staff in PANDORA’s programmes are 360-degree evaluations of the participants own stores as well as in the more than 10,000 points of by their own management, peers, partners and employees. sale operated by our partners. PANDORA provide extensive trainings programmes that introduce store staff to PANDORA and to our brand, builds product expertise, and CONSUMER PROTECTION teaches professional selling skills and psychology. PANDORA’s Group Training department at the As a global brand, PANDORA is facing the challenge of Copenhagen headquarters is overall responsible for develcounterfeiters attempting to violate our brand, our products and oping our training programme which is being implemented our identity. Fake and illegal products do not follow the same by our 45 in-house trainers operating in more than 65 standards and laws that we do within human and labour rights, markets. Face-to-face training is supported by our compreenvironmental footprint and needless to say; fair and honest hensive e-learning programme available in 19 languages, business practices. Counterfeiters undermine responsible which has more than 16,000 active users. In 2012 alone, business practices, consumer confidence in the jewellery the number of online training sessions completed amounted industry and jeopardise the health of consumers by dishonestly to more than 105,000. Finally, in 2012 PANDORA started marketing questionable metal alloys as genuine silver and gold the development of formal learning paths for store staff to jewellery. Therefore, we safeguard our intellectual property follow over the course of typically three to six months. rights by all available means, including comprehensive global 24 Pandora CSR report surveillance, registration and control programmes, so that our BUSINESS ETHICS consumers can remain confident that their PANDORA products are authentic and live up to our high quality standards. PANDORA’s Business Ethics Policy provides our staff with As part of our commitment to advancing responsible common directions on what is considered acceptable business practices, we want to make sure that our customers business practices throughout the Group. Topics include a and consumers have access to information about the special zero tolerance approach to bribery and facilitation features, stamps and markings as well as care and maintepayments, rules for fair competition, gifts and entertainnance instructions allowing them to distinguish genuine ment, conflicts of interest, cash payments and measures to PANDORA jewellery from counterfeits. Our store staff is prevent PANDORA becoming the target of people engaged trained in these jewellery characteristics and their ability to in money laundering and other illegal activities. Just like it provide accurate jewellery information was tested and apis the case for the other PANDORA Ethics policies, hotlines proved by third party mystery shoppers as part of PANDORA’s are provided to help interpret the policy, staff is encouraged RJC certification. Since autumn 2012, we have provided this to speak out if they perceive that rules are being breached information on our commercial websites as well as on and finally clear grievance procedures – including a www.pandoragroup.com/products. On these sites our whistleblower function – is available to all staff. consumers also have the opportunity to report any perceived Finally, in 2012 PANDORA became certified under the PANDORA brand or product violation for our further investiUS Customs – Trade Partnership against Terrorism” (C-TPAT). gation as well as access our Store Locator, making it possible This initiative addresses a broad range of security topics in to always identify the nearest authorised PANDORA retailer. order to prevent illegal activities such as money laundering and terrorism. The goal of C-TPAT is a system whereby all participants in an international trade transaction are approved by US Custom Authorities as observing specified standards in the secure handling of goods and relevant information throughout their supply chain. TRADING 25 CSR Data 2012 Staff as of 31 December 2012 2011 2012 M F Total M F Total < 18 3 17 20 1 8 9 18-25 547 988 1,535 616 1,320 1,936 26-35 1,519 1,809 3,328 1,546 1,910 3,456 36-45 171 357 528 195 389 584 46+ 89 246 335 104 271 375 Total 2,329 3,417 5,746 2,462 3,898 6,360 Management 2011 2012 M F Total M F Total Global Management Team 11 1 12 12 0 12 Vice Presidents 27 11 38 42 19 61 Directors/Managers 93 121 214 132 153 285 Store Manager 6 68 74 19 136 155 Staff Turnover 2011 2012 M F Total M F Total New staff 99 420 519 488 1,188 1,676 Resignations/dismissals/retirements* 114 280 394 305 680 985 *Including temporary store staff during peak seasons. Accidents 2011 2012 Hours worked 11,590,187 13,575,933 No. of accidents 12 7 Number of lost days 105 37 Total working hours lost 840 312 Environmental Footprint at Thai Crafting facilities Emissions CO2 Tonnes Waste Tonnes Electrical consumption 12,873 General waste 1,813 Liquid Petroleum gas 159 Recycled waste 284 Transportation (bus and tram) 880 Industrial waste 1,418 Total 13,912 Hazardous waste 43 Water M3 Total water tapped 206,393 Total water recycled 25,927 26 Pandora CSR report Concept, writing and Editing PANDORA Group CSR Photography Ture Andersen (www.ouro.dk), Frederik Lindstrøm (www.frederiklindstrom.com) Design Bjørk&Glad © PANDORA 2012 PANDORA A/S Hovedvejen 2 DK-2600 Glostrup Denmark Phone: +45 3672 0044 Fax: +45 3672 0800 CVR nr.: 28505116 www.pandoragroup.com
