Principle Commitment Implementation & Performance HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: u-blox is committed to human rights and strives to u-blox joined UN Global Compact in January 2012. Businesses should support and respect be an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner In 2012, we developed and implemented a Code of Conduct in multiple languages. The Code of Conduct both describes and represents the protection of internationally proand employer at all times with all people whom our commitment to responsible business. Under the terms of the Code of Conduct, our employees undertake to work with integrity and claimed human rights. we deal with. u-blox recognizes local, national and in accordance with both local law and our own standards of ethical behavior. The Code was made available to all employees through international laws, directives and standards, and presentations and trainings, real-case scenarios, information material, etc. Principle 2: complies with them in full (e.g. the Universal DeclaAll new employees are expected to acknowledge and adhere to the Code of Conduct when they join the company and all u-blox’ busiBusinesses must make sure the they are ration of Human Rights). ness leaders are required to certify annually through a letter that their departments are aware of and in compliance with the Code of not complicit in human rights abuses. u-blox’ Communication on Conduct. Progress. In the past year u-blox has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. In 2013 we aim to: With the participation in the Global Compact, u-blox • Secure that the Code of Conduct is communicated to all new employees worldwide. commits to report and • Implement a system to monitor the effectiveness of human rights policies in the context of our regular employee survey. publish its progress within • With respect to human-rights violations, the greatest risk for u-blox lies with suppliers. A Sustainable Supplier Program will be introthese areas once a year. duced in 2013 to ensure that suppliers act in accordance with u-blox’ Code of Conduct and internal and external guidelines such as internationally recognized standards concerning human rights and the ILO core labor standards. LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: u-blox strives to be a fair and responsible employer u-blox respects the right of workers to join associations of their own choice and does not interfere in an employee’s decision to associate, Businesses should uphold the freethat promotes equal opportunities and a positive or discriminate against the employee or a representative of the employee. dom of association and the effective working environment. u-blox’ Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how u-blox assumes responsibility as an employer in order to recognition of the rights to collective counteract discrimination. bargaining. We are committed to respect freedom of associaProtection of the principles of equality is anchored in the u-blox Code of Conduct. This includes the prohibition of discrimination against tion and the right to collective bargaining. any employee on the basis of gender, religion or ethnical background. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced Forced and child labor are categorically rejected at The u-blox Code of Conduct prohibits all forms of forced and compulsory labor within u-blox and among its suppliers. and compulsory labor. u-blox. Fairness and equal opportunity are embedded within our company culture. We provide equal opportunity to all employees on the basis of their skills and suitability for the work to be performed. We have formalized programs in place for fair recruitment, performance review Principle 5: u-blox strives to ensure that everyone is treated and advancement for all employees. The effective abolition of child labor. equally with dignity and respect regardless of race, In 2013 we aim to: color, religion, political conviction, gender, age, • Implement a system to monitor the effectiveness of human rights policies. Principle 6: national origin, sexual orientation, marital status or • Conduct our yearly global employee survey which will allow us to continue to integrate our employee’s feedback into our operational Eliminate discrimination with respect to disability. plans. employment and occupation. • Build a Sustainable Supplier Program covering the areas of labor, ethics, health and safety and environmental issues. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: u-blox is committed to comply with environmenThe u-blox Code of Conduct promotes our shared commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our activities and promoting the Businesses should support a precautal legislation and is also dedicated to integrate sustainability of natural resources. tionary approach to environmental environmental considerations in its development of u-blox strives to conduct its business in an environmentally sustainable manner and we continue to mitigate our environmental footprint. challenges. products and processes. We operate an environmental management system to verify and guarantee environmental compliance for all parts and components of finished products. All our contract manufacturers are ISO 14001 certified. Principle 8: In 2013, we will continue to monitor the materials that go into our products in order to make them as environmentally sustainable as Businesses should undertake initiatives possible. Through our strict adherence to the EU’s Reduction of Hazardous Materials (RoHS) initiative, additional restrictions according to to promote greater environmental the China RoHS standard, as well as vendor-initiated requirements such Sony’s Green partner program, u-blox strives to minimize or even responsibility. eliminate the use of materials that are hazardous to the environment. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: We do not accept corruption in any form, whether The u-blox Code of Conduct provides a global set of principles for correct behavior. Businesses should work against corrupdirect or indirect, and we work proactively to preIn 2012, u-blox introduced a comprehensive anti-bribery policy. The guideline was made available to all employees through presentation tion in all its forms, including extortion vent it. We clearly refrain from all kinds of corrupand trainings, real-case scenarios and information material. Depending on their role and geographical location, certain employees are and bribery. tion in our own activities and strongly encourage assigned more in-depth ethics and compliance training. our suppliers to follow the same principles. u-blox has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. In 2013 we aim to: • Secure that the anti-bribery guideline is communicated to all new employees worldwide. • Implement a system where employees can report on violations or ask questions concerning ethical dilemmas such as bribery. This COP will be published at our website: www.u-blox.com. For additional information please see our Annual Report 2012, which will be available 21 March 2013.
