UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Report 2012 Communication on Progress Report 2012 Company Name: SEMIKRON International GmbH Adress: Sigmundstrasse 200, 90431 Nuremberg Country: Germany Membership date: 2012/05/04 Employees: 2.900 Sector: Technology Hardware & Equipment, Power Electronics Website: www.semikron.com Contact: Peter Frey, Chief Sales Officer Telephone: +49 911 6559-0 Brief description of our business SEMIKRON is a global manufacturer of power semiconductors, primarily in the medium power range (approx. 2kW to 10MW). Applications include speed-controlled industrial drive units, automation technology, welding equipment and elevators. Other applications include uninterrupted power supply (UPS), renewable energies (wind, solar) as well as electrification of commercial vehicles, conveyances and sports cars. The family enterprise has its headquarters in Nuremberg, Germany. It was founded in 1951, and employs 2,900 people worldwide. An international network of 30 operational companies and production plants in Brazil, China, France, India, Italy, Korea, Slovakia, South Africa and the USA ensures rapid and comprehensive services for local customers. With the foundation of its subsidiary, SindoPower (www.sindopower.com), in 2009, SEMIKRON also extended its distribution channels. SindoPower, an e-commerce company, sells power electronic products online, and offers competent technical consulting to small and medium businesses. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Statement of support SEMIKRON joined the UN Initiative Global Compact in May 2012. From now on, our commitment to human rights and the environment, our compliance with anti-corruption principles, as well as our employment policy will be monitored by the UN Global Compact Initiative. To this end, the initiative has formulated 10 fundamental principles, derived from the following sources: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. At the same time, we are involved in projects which help promote the more broadly defined development aims of the UN. The implementation of such projects calls for the invariable support from the management in the form of on-going activities and partnerships, as well as the company's clear willingness to learn and to be pro-active. We are pleased to confirm that SEMIKRON International GmbH reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. Harald Jäger Peter Frey Thomas Dippold Chief Operation Officer Chief Sales Officer Chief Financial Officer Communication on Progress Report 2012 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respecting human rights is obligatory for all SEMIKRON production sites. Furthermore we do not tolerate any discrimination related to gender, race, nationality, handicap, social background and sexual orientation and we promote equal opportunities. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We strictly condemn and reject child labour and abide by the laws and regulations regarding minimum age. Apart from that we reject forced labour and physical punishment, threatening and harassing male and female employees. We respect the freedom of assembly and cooperate with employee representation organisations while maintaing a trustful relationship with them. Wages, social benefits and working hours at SEMIKRON completely fulfill the legal standards in the corresponding countries. We protect our employees from occupational hazards and support health promoting measures. These issues are binding for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries worldwide. The best possible maintaining of health and the creation of ergonomic and safe workplaces is a task that remains with all employees. By means of preventive and corrective measures safety at work is constantly improved. Communication on Progress Report 2012 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We protect the environment by economic use of energy, materials and resources, by keeping emissions as low as possible, a high degree of recyclability and lowest possible amounts of harmful substances in our products and materials. Our products help to save energy and to generate energy in an environmentally sound manner without harming anybody. We comply with all valid and applicable laws regarding environmental protection and occupational safety. Thanks to our functional and integrated environment management we are able to continuously improve our processes and to reduce ecological damage as far as possible. The most important production sites in Germany, Slovakia and Italy have already received the ISO 14001 certification. Our largest production site in Germany has also received the environmental management registration according to the European standard EMAS. For our German production sites all related measures and results are published annually in our environmental report. Measures Already implemented: • Water recycling from rinse water and other process-related waste waters (grinding and sawing) • Installation of new state-of-the-art refrigeration plants with reduced energy consumption • Automated chemical facilities with lowered consumption of chemicals Communication on Progress Report 2012 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures Environmental targets for German production sites 2013: • Reduction of energy consumption in emissions CO2 per m² to 82 % compared to 2006 • Reduction of water consumption per wafer to 67 % compared to 2006 • Reduction of chemical consumption per wafer to 85 % compared to 2006 • Reduction of nitrogen consumption for >5 % compared to the reference curve from 2009 to 2012 Communication on Progress Report 2012 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all ist forms, including extortion and bribery. Semikron does not tolerate corruption, bribery and extortion and actively works against it. We ensure a high level of abidance through our Internal Regulations for the Management of the Semikron Group, our basic principles, our internal control system and yearly financial and quality audits. Business partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to our principles. Together with our partners we continuously support the UN Convention Against Corruption. Planned Measures Semikron is going to work out a Compliance Handbook including an anti-corruption guideline. The compliance manager will be reporting directly to the managing director. Communication on Progress Report 2012
