2 COMMUNICATION 0 ON 1 3 PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 19th November, 2013 MAX ENERGY AND UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Max Energy Co., Ltd. was incorporated in 2010 as one of the strategic business units of Max Myanmar Group of Companies. Ever since our establishment of Max Energy, we have committed ourselves for Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) to our country, Myanmar. One of our missions is to be an environmentally responsible organization for future growth and development of community and organization. We have been actively supporting to Ayeyarwady Foundation, a nonprofit organization founded by Max Myanmar Group in 2010. We are contributing to the country’s Education sector, Health sector, Sports and religious affairs together with Ayeyarwady Foundation. By continuously and enthusiastically implementing our CSR activities with Ayeyarwady Foundation, we happened to acknowledge about the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the corporate responsibility initiative – the world’s largest with over 8,000 business and non-business participants in 135 countries. In January, 2013, Max Energy has become a proud registered participants in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This was our corporate milestone for Max Energy, which is the first to participate in UNGC among Myanmar Fuel Oil Retail business industry. We are confident ourselves to become a responsible organization for our CSR implementation by incorporating the Ten Principles of the Global Compact into our business practices. Since after we have committed as an initiative of UNGC, Max Energy has been adapting the ten principles of the UNGC as part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY DIRECTOR Max Energy Co., Ltd. has committed to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities (CSR) by implementing the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption advocated by United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) so that we may achieve sustainable development of the society. We seek in our CSR initiatives to collaborate with all of our stakeholders, government and civil communities to create a better future for all of us. We understand that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principles. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders. Sincerely Yours, Kyaw Zay Myint (Director) Max Energy Co., Ltd. Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses Our Human Resource policies, programmes and practices are aligned with Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which requires us to treat one another fairly and with respect, regardless of our race, language, nationality and colour. In Max Energy, we ensure all employees get freedom of religion and we make sure no discrimination upon nationality and skin colors too. Management always pay close attention on all employees getting equal working environment. All employees’ social welfares are well taken care of by our human resource department. Max Energy also supports to younger generations (University Students) as part-time employees in order to enhance their personal lives and living standards. Max Energy is in full compliance with the labour laws and regulations in the area that we operate in, including the minimum age for employment. We do not support child labour (under 18 years old). Max Energy actively contribute to Ayeyarwady Foundation’s CSR activities on the country’s health sector and education sector aiming to support the sustainable growth of the country. For the education sector, we have contributed by building basic education schools and high schools. And for the health sector, we support to Yankin Children’s hospital not only by cash contribution and donating ambulance but also volunteering for regular maintenance and up keeping the hospital compound. Moreover, we strongly and seriously condemn against human trafficking issues and we support and contribute to anti-human trafficking non-profit organizations too. Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses Donation of Primary School building and school uniforms to a village in Ayeyarwady Division Donation of 550 bedded hospital and medical equipments to Yankin Paediatric Hospital Donation of Ambulances to Hospitals Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 4 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Max Energy is in full compliance with the labour laws and regulations in the areas that we operate in, including the minimum age for employment. We do not support child labour (under 18 years old). We support fair employment and do not support any form of discrimination against employees. We hire employees on the basis of their merit. Management always arrange and provide necessary trainings for the skill development, professional development and carrier development of all our employees. To certain every employee has freedom of speech and equality and to build effective and efficient communication between Management and Employee, employee monthly meetings are being held by the Management. We always make sure all our employees understand about the company’s vision, mission, objectives and discuss about how to achieve our goals by working together and helping each other. Human resource department takes care of all employees’ social welfare and award for the best service Employee of the Month every month. We don’t even forget to celebrate our employee’s birthday and that’s how we care for our employee down to small things. Furthermore, Max Energy provide ferry transportation for the convenience of all our employees and we even provide lunch for every employee to create more convenient and happy working environment. Max Energy has celebrated football matches not only for the physical fitness of the employee but also to create a team-work-minded employee community in Max Energy. Our management also care to arrange both local and foreign excursion trip yearly for our employees to expand their general knowledge and experience. Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 5 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Max Energy Football Cup 2013 Max Energy Over-sea Excursion Trip to Bang Chak Petroleum, Thailand In 2013 Management course for employee Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 6 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies One of our mission statements is to be an environmentally responsible organization for future growth and development of community and organization. Accomplishing on our vision and mission of commitment to consumers, community and environment, we provide high-quality fuel products while conducting our business in a socially responsible and environmentally sustainable manner. As we concern about environment issues, we are committed to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations. Max Energy always prioritise the safety not only for the safety of the people but also for the safety of the environment. Management always conducts safety training for all level of employees to be responsible for the environment and the communities. Management also takes proactive action by setting up the strict operation procedures to prevent marine pollution. Safety measurements are always thoroughly checked by our inspection team for the entire operation process and management pays serious attention to all safety matters. Moreover, Max energy have been adopting environmentally friendly practices such as introducing energy saving measures in our premise and encouraging recycling initiatives. We use energy-saving light and air-conditioning systems and we even started using a few solar energy lights. Through our ongoing effort, we hope to complement and support the growth and development of green practices in the wider community. There are plans to go paperless operation in our community by using central web-base management system too. Furthermore, we do have a long term plan to import lower sulphur content products to reduce greenhouse effects and global warming for the sake of the green and sustainable environment. We are always concerned about the environmental issues and we aim to be an environmentally responsible organization by continuously implementing our CSR activities. Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 7 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Moreover, we strongly contribute to the Ayeyarwady foundation which carries out CSR activities more regularly representing Max Energy and Max Myanmar Group. As our environmental concerned activities, Max Energy actively contribute to government tree planting project at Hlaw Kar area, Yangon. 50 x acres (25000 trees plantation contributed) We truly believe that everybody living on this earth is responsible to protect and sustain the environment. Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. We are fully committed to integrity and fair dealing, and adopt corporate good governance practices. And we have zero tolerance for corruption and bribery. Management sets very stringent policies and procedures that do not allow any corruption and bribery regardless of any level of management positions. All level of employees have to strictly adhere the company’s policies and procedure. Any gifts or present shall not be accepted in favour of the performance of work either. Our Management team always emphasize on transparency and openness in communication with all stakeholders such as employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, etc. and encourages information and knowledge sharing between all stakeholders. Since we are building a learning culture which is based on honesty and openness for our employees working environment, our management holds monthly meeting with employees at all management levels to encourage integrity and explain about punishments and rewards concerned with corruption and bribes. In case of any corruptions occurred in our organization, our management always take very careful investigation into detail scenario and never hesitate to take serious action accordingly regardless of any level of stakeholders involvement. Max Energy build a strong inspection team on our own and our inspection team ensure to check there shall not be any kinds of corruption or bribery happen in our Max Energy community. This means that not only the petrol stations are being inspected regularly but also the whole operation teams are often being spot checked by our inspection team. If any customer complaints about corruption, our inspection team takes immediate action to investigate the incident by interviewing all respective personnel, by detail checking of all documents and by reviewing the CCTV records. Based upon the result and report of our inspection team, Max Energy management makes very careful review and then we takes necessary actions accordingly. Ref: MxE/BD/UNGC-COP/01-13 9
