COP Royal HaskoningDHV Communication on Progress (COP) for 2012 (from 1-1-2012 to 31-12-2012) Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer The world is changing rapidly. The social and economical development of our society is challenged, as the world’s capacity to provide the services and resources we need to improve global living standards is limited and increasingly strained. New thinking and acting is needed from businesses, governments and science. As Royal HaskoningDHV we consider this to be a reality that is fundamental to the services we deliver to our clients. In 2012, DHV and Royal Haskoning, two independent engineering consultancy firms, merged into a new company, Royal HaskoningDHV. Together we are able to further increase our contribution to clients and society: Enhancing society together. Our ambition is to show leadership in sustainable development and innovation. We include corporate responsibility as an integral part of our activities: we serve our clients in making steps forward with practical solutions, we ‘walk the talk’ by reducing the footprint of our operations, and we inspire schoolchildren engage in the challenges of the future; sustainable development and technology. Our policies and global code of business principles incorporate and support the ten principles of UN Global Compact. This is also reflected in our CR policy, integrity management system and our HR policies and practices. Our annual report 2012 summarises our achievements in 2012. In the report we confirm our commitment to the UN global Compact. In the CR supplement 2012, we elaborate on the steps we have made in practice and our ambitions to take this forward. For more information and examples we invite readers to visit our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com, and view our news, annual reports and policies. We are always interested in your feedback. Please contact us on CR.info@rhdhv.com. Mr. B.M. van Ee, Chair Executive Board 1 Company Profile Royal HaskoningDHV is one of Europe’s leading independent project management, engineering and consultancy service providers, ranking globally in the top 10 of independently owned, non-listed companies and top 40 overall. With its headquarters in Amersfoort, The Netherlands, the company’s 7,000 staff provide services worldwide from more than 100 offices in over 35 countries. Royal HaskoningDHV has a turnover in excess of euro 700 million. The company carries out some 30,000 projects every year in planning and transport, infrastructure, water, maritime, aviation, industry, energy, mining and buildings. In combination with its international office network, Royal HaskoningDHV delivers world-class solutions locally to clients around the globe, for the public and private sector. Royal HaskoningDHV, with its proud heritage of bringing leading expertise and innovation to the market, is deeply committed to business integrity and sustainable development. As leader in sustainability and innovation, Royal HaskoningDHV provides the next exciting step in working towards enhancing society together. Communications on progress 2012 – UN Global Compact Principles Global Action taken & impact achieved and plans for the coming Cross reference* Compact year Principles UN Global • Respecting human rights and International labor rights (ILO) Global Code of Business Compact is a key business condition for our company to be successful Principles Principles internationally as a knowledge based service company. We CR policy statement (general) are a company for people and from people, with 7000 professionals that collaborate worldwide. Our commitment to Purchase conditions human rights is reflected in who we are and how we act. It is Integrity management part of our strategy, Integrity Management, Global Code of system Business Principles, CR policy, and our HR policy. • Respecting the environment, contributing to environmental challenges and taking responsibility in development and Annual report 2012 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies is at the core of our business services as an engineering consultancy CR Supplement 2012 in infrastructural and industrial development, and it is integrated in working procedures , health and safety policies and in our business operations. Global management system • We have zero tolerance towards corruption – as we are (ISO 14001) convinced that it is fundamentally wrong and destructive for business and society. This vision is translated in, and safeguarded by our Integrity Management System (in compliance with the UN Convention Against Corruption) Principle 1: • Respecting human rights is in a business condition to our Global Code of Business Businesses company. In our Integrity Management System we outline our Principles should support integrity and ethics policies and management system. CR policy statement and respect the • Human rights are also included in our conditions for partners Purchase conditions protection of and suppliers. Integrity management internationally • Safety is a key value in our human resource management. system proclaimed Partly we are OHSAS 18001 – International Health and QHSE management policy human rights; Safety standard – certified. We aim to implement OHSAS statement 2 18001 into the company world wide in 2014. This management system includes Travel security and Crisis Annual report 2012 management. CR Supplement 2012 Principle 2: In the compliance reports on Integrity, no violations have been CR Supplement 2012 make sure that raised in 2012 on human rights. We will continue to execute and they are not develop our Integrity management system and reporting in 2013. complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labor CR policy statement Businesses Organisations (ILO). We have developed a global HR policy and HR Policy should uphold an international HR management team and system, which the freedom of enables us to recognize labor related issues worldwide. Our association and works council is actively engaged. In the Netherlands, the UK and the effective South Africa, our primary centers of operations, the rights are also recognition of defined by the National Law. As we are an employee owned the right to company, all employees are also represented as shareholders. collective No violations on freedom of association etc. have been reported in bargaining; 2012. Principle 4: the We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labor CR Supplement 2012 elimination of all Organisations (ILO). This is managed and monitored with our forms of forced Integrity management System. and compulsory No violations have been reported in 2012. labour; Principle 5: the We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labor Annual report 2012 effective Organisations (ILO). This is managed and monitored with our CR Supplement 2012 abolition of child Integrity management System. labour; CR policy statement No violations have been reported in 2012. Principle 6: the Diversity and equality is a key value in our company. This is part Global Code of Business elimination of of our Integrity management. No violations have been reported in Principles discrimination in 2012. CR policy statement respect of employment and Integrity management occupation Principle 7: • We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to Annual report 2012 Businesses environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation with CR Supplement 2012 should support a clients and partners. This is a central point in our business precautionary approach as is illustrated in our annual report (enhancing approach to society together) and CR supplement. Global management system environmental • Within our businesses we employ environmental specialists (ISO 14001) challenges; that integrate environmental management in our engineering consultancy projects. • In our innovation program, we continuously look for new solutions and technologies, with the ambition to increase environmental efficiency and performance. • In our operations, we measure the ecological footprint of our offices and business travel; we set targets and carry out action plans for the reduction of CO2 equivalent emissions. 3 • Partly we are certified for the ISO 14001 standard. We aim to implement a global Environmental Management System (ISO14001) in 2014. Principle 8: Sustainability (people, planet, profit) is included in our training CR Supplement 2012 undertake modules, to develop skills and awareness, and to communicate initiatives to our ambition of showing leadership in sustainability. promote greater In our operations we stimulate and steer our staff towards taking environmental personal responsibility for the reduction of their personal responsibility; environmental impacts (e.g. video conferencing instead of travel). We measure progress and work on plans for continuous improvement in 2013. Principle 9: Our business lines have developed a Sustainability Agenda that CR Supplement 2012 encourage the outlines key developments and improvements that further development increase our contribution to sustainable development. With our and diffusion of sustainable project proposal tool (e-Value), we scan the environmentally opportunities to add additional value in client’s project on people, friendly planet and profit parameters. The tool will be further developed to technologies include a reporting module to measure usage. The new tool will be rolled out internationally in 2013-2014. Our cleaner technologies are promoted internationally and implemented (e.g. Nereda, an innovative and efficient water treatment technology). Principle 10: Integrity is key to our business and our (moral) license to operate. Integrity Management Businesses We have zero tolerance towards corruption– as we are convinced System should work that it is fundamentally wrong and destructive for business and against society. This vision is translated in, and safeguarded by our corruption in all Integrity management system, which includes clear instructions Ethics Intelligence its forms, and guidelines, definitions, the role of our Compliance director and Certificate including compliance officers, reporting structures, anonymous speak-up extortion and line, a living reference book, training, and approach to auditing. In bribery 2012 we decided to install an International Integrity Council that CR Supplement 2012 has an active role in continuous evaluation and development of the system, by initiating dialogue, training, and communication and by dealing with reported issues and dilemmas. Our integrity principles also apply in selecting and contracting our partners and suppliers. Through our Integrity system the risks for corruption of any kind are recognized at an early stage, so they can be discussed and dealt with according to our policy by the management involved. In 2012, two non-compliances to our policy have been reported. They have been evaluated and adequate measures have been taken and were implemented. Our goal is to continue to comply with the requirements of our externally provided certificate for Ethics Intelligence. (*) Cross reference can be made with documents that are available on our website (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com) or available on request (info.CR@rhdhv.com). The CR Supplement 2012 is published on our website in May/June 2013. 4
