Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2012 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents More information… Conventions Contents More detailed information on many of the topics tons discussed in this sustainability report is available At Sappi we standardise all our reported 03 Message from the CEO from other Sappi publications, our website, and measurements around the metric ton equivalent third-party sources. Where available, we provide to 1,000kg (one thousand kilograms). 05 About this report hyperlinks to these sources. billion 09 Sustainability governance Click to read more detailed information Sappi follows contemporary 'short scale' 10 Our Code of Ethics available on the Sappi website, www.sappi.com. convention; defining a billion as one thousand This link will direct you to the specific web-page millions. 11 Accolades in 2012 or page in a PDF document. Click to read more detailed information on 12 Our process third-party websites. 13 Performance against targets Additional and explanatory information is provided 16 Our key sustainability drivers in 'pop-up' windows which can be accessed by clicking on this icon. 17 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Related information within this document is cross 25 Our key sustainability drivers People referenced and can be accessed by clicking on this icon. 32 Our key sustainability drivers Planet 44 Prosperity 52 People 81 Planet 112 UN Global Compact 115 Global Reporting Initiative 140 Glossary ©Sappi Corporate Communications – 2013 Version 03, 15 January 2013 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 2 Message from the CEO Profitability affects our performance in the People and Planet areas Although recognising that Prosperity, People Endorsement of Forest Certification™ (PEFC™), respect of its duties in the fields of social, ethics, and Planet — the 3Ps as we refer to them the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) and the sustainability and transformation issues. Our internally — are all interlinked, we have long Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI®). sustainability ambassadors continued to do good maintained that our current and future viability work. as a business and our performance in the Our Sustainability Charter and corporate values of People and Planet areas is contingent upon Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Resourcefulness In FY12, Sappi Limited celebrated its 75th our ongoing profitability. underpin our sustainability governance system. anniversary. Since we produced our first paper from Our values have been a strong guide to us during straw in South Africa way back in the 1930s, the Accordingly, I am pleased to report that we a challenging period of change and, together with world has changed immeasurably in all aspects. Of continued our momentum in improving our the dedication and unstinting efforts of all our particular relevance to us are developments in the financial performance and competitiveness in people, have enabled us to achieve success in communication field which is altering the way we the year under review. All three of our regional many areas. use paper. We have shifted our product focus to businesses continued to make good progress in keep up with evolving trends and we will continue implementing various strategic actions in order to Some of these successes have been highlighted to keep our finger firmly on the pulse of the market. reduce costs, improve production efficiencies and through accolades received in the year under margins, maximise cash generation and improve review. One of the most significant milestones we will pass our competitive positions in the market. as a group is our investment in dissolving wood We are pleased that our efforts in enhancing our pulp solutions which is taking shape through the Our sustainability focus is on creating value for performance in all areas of the 3Ps were highlighted conversion of our Ngodwana and Cloquet Mills. current and future stakeholders in all aspects of when we were recognised as one of the 10 Best The conversion of these mills is on track for 2013. our business. Performers on the Socially Responsible Investment Once completed, the conversions will enable us (SRI) Index of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to increase our market offering of 800,000tpa to We continue to use internationally recognised (JSE). 1.3m tons per annum of dissolving wood pulp. standards like ISO 9001 for quality management, ISO 14001 for environmental management, Our sustainability governance structure was further As our business evolved over the years, we have OHSAS 18001 for health and safety management. strengthened during the reporting period by the always believed that we would be successful if we In Europe at the majority of our mills, the energy establishment of the Social, Ethics, Transformation provided our customers with the very best services standard 50001 is applied. and Sustainability (SETS) Committee which has an and products, made sustainability a priority, and independent role with accountability to the Board. conducted our business in line with our values. In each region, we also continue to use The role of the SETS Committee is to assist the internationally recognised, independently verified Board with the oversight of the Company and With our strategy and values being embraced forest certifications such as the Programme for the to provide guidance to management’s work in across the group, we have continued to improve our 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 3 Message from the CEO Profitability affects our performance in the People and Planet areas continued results — not just to our bottom line performance, out to the families of the deceased. We view Our current and future viability as a Prosperity, but also to our performance in terms contractor safety as being as important as that of People and Planet. of our own employees and our focus, throughout business and our performance in the all operations, is on trying to realise the goals of In a world where natural resources are under our Project Zero safety programme so that all People and Planet areas is contingent increasing pressure, we are achieving our goal employees can go home safely to their families. of treading more lightly on the planet — ­ and the upon our ongoing profitability graphs in this report tell the story more eloquently Disclosing our performance against targets than words can. highlights our commitment to transparency in all aspects of our business. We have once again Globally over the past five years, we have reduced documented both our progress and our challenges. specific purchased energy use by 19.6% and correspondingly, our fossil-based carbon dioxide I remain confident that we have a sound strategy With our strategy and values being emissions have decreased by 19.8%. These and that we will continue to further improve our figures highlight the fact that actions in one area financial performance and competitiveness going embraced across the group, we have of the 3Ps impact on another – by reducing forward. specific purchased energy we are increasing our continued to improve our results — use of own renewable energy, an approach which To all my colleagues, I would like to say thank you reduces fossil-based emissions. Globally, we use for helping us to continue providing our customers not just our bottom line performance, over 50% renewable energy to manufacture our with the very best services and products, thereby products — and we're working on increasing our distinguishing Sappi as the provider of choice Prosperity, but also our performance in use of renewable energy all the time. in all our markets and enhancing our overall sustainability. terms of People and Planet Globally we have also decreased specific water usage by 10.5%. And globally the amount of solid Ralph Boëttger waste we send to landfill has decreased by 31%. Chief Executive Officer Sappi Limited We continued to train and develop our people, and add value to the communities in which we operate. I regret deeply having to report two contractor fatalities in South Africa. Our sympathies go 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 4 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report About this report Scope of this report Reporting framework This report is aligned with our integrated annual As Sappi Limited is headquartered in South report and covers FY12, the period from the Africa and we have our primary listing on the beginning of October 2011 to the end of September Johannesburg Stock Exchange, we abide by the 2012. We report on a regional and global basis King III Code on Corporate Governance (King III). wherever possible, graphically presenting data In line with King III’s recommendation for integrated over five years to make the information relevant, reporting, our Integrated Report provides a very accessible and comparable. Safety, health, quality clear link between sustainability and strategy and and environmental data is compiled according to gives a broad view of our overall sustainability international best practice. Additional commentary performance. accompanies graphs to: aid interpretation; provide supplementary information; explain trends, In 2011, we departed from our previous practice achievements and anomalies; explain specific of publishing an annual sustainability report measurement criteria, and indicate where these backed up by further, in-depth information online. have changed. Instead, we provided a group overview of our sustainability performance in our online report and published regional sustainability reports. This Integrated report 2012 was in response to stakeholders’ needs for more in-depth information pertinent to their specific Our sustainability Europe Sappi Fine Paper Europe 2011 Sustainability Report Sustainability region in addition to the group overview. Our 2012 report regional reports for our operations in Southern focus is on creating Africa and North America, and a revised report for Sappi Fine Paper Europe which updates 2011 value for current and information, will be available in printed form and North America Sustainability online, early in 2013. future stakeholders report in all aspects of our Southern Africa business Sustainability report 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 5 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report About this report continued Joint ventures excluded Global Reporting Initiative We had a 34% stake in our joint venture in Jiangxi Chenming Mill in the People’s Republic of China. To date we have reported in terms of the Global Report Initiative (GRI) G3.1 reporting guidelines — By creating a safe, The major shareholder is the Shandong Chenming a practice we have continued in this report. We Group (listed on the Shenzen and Hong Kong stock declared ourselves as an A-level reporter in 2009, healthy workplace for exchanges). As a consequence we had limited 2010 and 2011. Each year, our self-declared rating influence on operations. This mill is therefore not was confirmed by the GRI. This year we have once our People in which covered in this online group sustainability report. again declared ourselves as an A-level reporter LignoTech South Africa, our 50:50 joint venture and have had this rating confirmed by the GRI. References to the GRI indicators, for example: diversity is encouraged with Borregaard at Saiccor Mill is also excluded EN 1, LA 2, EC 3 etc are interspersed in relevant as we do not manage the operation. sections throughout the report for ease of and valued, and people reference. are provided with The principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) are also referred to throughout the report and in greater detail in the UNGCongoing development specific specific report on our performance. opportunities so that they can develop to their full potential, we Management systems enhance productivity International, independently verified management systems underpin our approach to sustainable development. and our ability to ISO 5001 service global markets ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 6 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report About this report continued External assurance The issue of external assurance remains a challenge. All our pulp and paper mills hold ISO 14001 We recognise that our stakeholders expect us to environmental, ISO 9001 quality and OHSAS 18001 undergo external verification. However, in the light certification. In terms of these certifications, annual of difficult economic circumstances in 2011 and audits are undertaken by external verification 2012, we found the expense of external verification organisations to ensure adherence to standards. difficult to justify. The expense lies in the fact that we are a global operation and also in that accurate Our governance, social and environmental technical assurance requires a high level of skills. performances are assessed annually in terms of our listing on the Socially Responsible Investment During 2011 and 2012, apart from the on(SRI) Index of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange going focus on financial controls, our internal (JSE). Collectively, these external assessments audit team began the process of verifying nonand certifications give us confidence that our financial performance. This involved reviewing performance indicators are reliable and accurate. the procedures applied for collecting and/or measuring, calculating and validating non-financial data, as well as reviewing reported information and In a world where supporting documentation. . This has proved to be valuable in entrenching sustainability throughout natural resources the organisation. are under increasing Our mills in the European Union are certified under the Eco-Management Audit System (EMAS) which involves annual external auditing pressure, we are of our environmental data. Environmental data is collected on a quarterly basis via our E4 (Energy, achieving our goal of Environment, Emissions and Effluent) cluster comprising a team of internal experts. The aim of treading more lightly the E4 cluster is to identify the best available and practicable means for securing compliance with the Sappi group’s regional legal requirements and on the planet environmental policies in the most efficient manner. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 7 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report About this report continued Defining report content Determining materiality Identifying stakeholders The GRI’s Reporting Principles for defining report information presented covers topics and indicators We have identified the stakeholders we expect content call for an emphasis on information and that reflect our significant economic, environmental, to use our report on the basis of our ongoing performance regarding the most material topics. and social impacts, as well as issues that would engagement— formal and informal — with them. These are set out in the section entitled 'Our key substantively influence the assessments and sustainability drivers' and expanded upon in decisions of stakeholders. We publish our The various ways in which we engage our the Prosperity, People and Planet sections — performance against targets in both the group stakeholders are set out in detail in the People Sappi’s '3Ps' of sustainability. report and our regional reports, transparently section of this report. The stakeholders we expect reporting on success or lack thereof in achieving to use this report include investors, customers, Throughout the report, qualitative information these targets. suppliers, employees, communities, governmental is complemented by quantitative information, and non-governmental organisations, generally in the form of graphics illustrating Prioritising content environmental bodies and all those who are performance over five year, FY08-FY12 period. Recognising that our industry has a high impact on affected by our activities. the environment and that this could substantively The information presented has been determined influence the assessments and decisions of on the basis of our ongoing extensive engagement stakeholders, we have prioritised environmental with our stakeholders and has been assessed or Planet issues. against the backdrop of current business operations, as well as prevailing trends in our We are headquartered in South Africa, where industry and the global economy. the government has prioritised the development of the forestry sector. The government has also In preparing this report we have tracked prioritised development of rural areas where our environmental findings and research, public plantations are situated. Consequently, our social opinion, employee views and attitudes, the or People section is also extensive. interests and priorities of environmental and social groups, as well as the activities, profiles While we do cover economic (Prosperity) issues and interests of investors, employees, suppliers to some extent, these are dealt with in detail in our and customers. integrated annual report. We aim to present information that is material, comparable, relevant and complete. The 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 8 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Sustainability governance Our approach to sustainability is framed in terms of Prosperity, People and Planet, Sappi Limited Board referred to internally as the 3Ps — and is set out in our Sustainability Charter. This in turn is underpinned by our Code of Ethics and our group values of Excellence, Integrity, Respect Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee Endorse Sustainability Charter and Resourcefulness. (SETS) Regional Sustainability Councils (RSCs) operate in Europe, North America and South Africa. Each Group Sustainable Development Council Ensure SETS requirements are (GSDC) incorporated into regions RSC focuses on key material issues relevant to their specific region and on incorporating sustainability into everyday business processes. Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee These RSCs report to the Group Sustainable Development Council which in turn reports to the newly established Social, Ethics, Transformation Regional Sustainability Councils Strategy development and implementation and Sustainability Committee which in turn reports to the board. Sustainability ambassadors Target setting Sustainability ambassadors in each region help to entrench an holistic approach to the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet throughout the Budgeting Staff group. Report back on targets and Spread our sustainability initiatives story Data Collection and verification 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 9 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Our Code of Ethics Delivering goods and services of the highest standards, thereby creating value and prosperity for Being truthful, and building all our stakeholders, and taking trust through our actions full responsibility for all our decisions and actions Excellence Integrity Constantly looking ahead. Being naturally curious, imaginative and intuitive. Building on the knowledge and experience within the business. Having the courage to be customer focused and to be Recognising the inherent prepared to make a plan, worth of the environment, 'finding a route through and of people, while being the maze' impartial and avoiding discrimination Respect Resourcefulness 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 10 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Accolades in 2012 10 GoCell recognised top Performers on the JSE SRI Index Maine Manufacturer of the year Our Ngodwana Mill’s GoCell Upliftment We were recognised as one of the 10 Sappi Fine Paper North America was named Training Programme was awarded two first Best Performers on the JSE Socially 2012 Maine Manufacturer of the year by the places in the prestigious BHP Billiton Achiever Responsible Investment Index. Maine Forest Products Council (MFPC). Awards Competition in July 2012 in the categories: Re-skilling and Empowerment and Best Training Programme for large companies. 88% CDP Henri Benoit We received the Henri Benoit Award for We increased our score in the Carbon Leadership in the Private Sector at the CSI Leadership Disclosure Project from 80 to 88%. Portland Regional Chamber’s 158th annual Dinner and Community Leadership Awards. We received the Corporate Social Investment Leadership Award in the South Fusion wins awards African Sunday Times Top 100 Companies Our white top liner Fusion, won the category award for Project Grow and the KwaDukuza Advances in Innovation in Speciality Papers education initiative. (Mill) in the 2012 Pulp and Paper International Gold Ink Awards in Europe. Sappi Fine Paper North America received recognition from the annual 2012 Gold Ink Awards print contest with Gold winners in ten categories printed on Sappi paper, including Chemical gold First x2 In the Netherlands, our Nijmegen Mill the Softcover Books category where the winner was our own The Standard 5. Our Tugela Mill won a Gold Certificate in the chemical category of a competition organised by the KwaZulu-Natal branch of came first in the Royal Netherlands Paper the IWMSA (Institute of Waste Management and Board Association’s energy awards of Southern Africa) and provincial regulators competition — the second time in a row (DEA&RD). The mill was also declared the the mill has won the award. winner of the Best New Entrant Award. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 11 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Our process One of the greatest benefits of our paper and electricity steam paper packaging and specialised cellulose black liquor solutions is that the woodfibre from which 4 white liquor they are derived is a sustainable, renewable CO2 by-product (released into atmosphere) pulp mill chemical recovery resource. 5 3 sustainable workplace manufacturing operations woodfibre electricity steam 1 2 7 pulp and paper products dissolving wood pulp mill recovered fibre plant landfill 6 distribution centre/ converters printers specialised cellulosic textiles and paper collection non-woven fibre products Click on the numbered icons to learn ? about that part of the process. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 12 Performance against targets Prosperity With our strategy and values being embraced Planet targets during the period. We have set goals aligned well with corporate objectives and across the group, we have continued to new targets for 2017 with 2012 as a benchmark that continuous improvement in these areas would improve our results — not just to our bottom where applicable. The challenging Planet reduction continue to benefit the organisation, customers line performance, Prosperity, but also to our targets listed for 2013 are indicative only as, in each and the environment. performance in terms of People and Planet. case, they are aimed at a 5% reduction by 2017. South Africa Disclosing our performance against targets North America The due date for all current targets is end 2015, highlights our commitment to transparency in all In 2007, Sappi Fine Paper North America while the baseline for all targets is the beginning of aspects of our business. We have once again established seven five-year sustainability 2011 unless otherwise stated. Some targets have documented both our progress and our challenges. improvement goals. At the start of 2008, the region been adjusted and are indicated. began tracking performance against these goals Europe and by 2012 — the final year of the goal period — The first period of our sustainability targets ended we significantly exceeded all goals bar the certified in 2012. fibre goal. We missed our RONOA (Return on Net Operating New five-year goals have been set for the 2012Assets) target by a small margin and did not achieve 2016 period. Three of the original goals are included our safety target, but achieved or exceeded our again with increased targets — we believe these Achieved Exceeded Not achieved 2012 Target 2012 Performance 2013 Target Europe 7.1% 6.9% RONOA (Return on Net Operating Assets) and EBIDTA (Earnings Before Interest, Depreciation Tax and Amortisation) of 10% by 2017. North Achieve or exceed an annual 12% RONOA (Return on Net Operating America Assets) 12% 10.3% Southern RONA (Return on Net Assets) to be equal to or greater than 15% by 2018 Africa on a five-year rolling basis. 8.7% 9.0% 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 13 Performance against targets People Achieved Exceeded Not achieved 2012 Target 2012 Performance 2013 Target Training hours per employee per annum 30 30.4 30 Europe LTIFR (own employees) < 0.21 1.24 1.20 75 60 75 North America Training hours per employee per annum Customer training and education through Sappi ETC (hours) Target: 30,000 hours by 2016 20,000 22,500 24,000 3 3 Achieve Level 3 compliance in Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) 80% compliance to the Work Skills Plan (WSP) 54% 52% 67% Southern Africa 52 64 54 Training and development opportunities: average hours per employee per annum 0.27 0.35 0.27 LTIFR (own and contractors) target: better than 'best ever' ever achieved < < on a continuous 12 month basis 1 1.2% 1 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) investment: a minimum of 1% of > % > % NPAT (Net Profit After Tax) 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 14 Performance against targets Planet Achieved Exceeded Not achieved 2012 Target 2012 Performance 2013 Target Reduce specific direct fossil CO2 emissions (tons CO2 /ton saleable product), including purchased power emissions (calculated at 400g/kWh) 1% per annum 11.4 % 1% per annum by 5% by 2017. Base-year: 2012 saleable production. Europe Reduce specific water use (m3/ton saleable product) by 5% by 2017. Base-year: 2012 saleable production. 1% per annum 8.5 % 1% per annum 73% 73.1% 70% Maintain a high level of certified fibre delivered to our mills (FSC™ or > PEFC™ certified, or equivalent) Increase total certified fibre content to 65% by 2016 60% 51% 61% North America Reduce energy intensity by 10% by 2016 1% 2.3% 3.1% Reduce raw material waste by 10% (fibre, fillers and coatings) by 2016 1.5% 1.6% 3.0% 6.0% 13.5% 14.0% Reduce specific purchased fossil fuel energy by 15% by 2015 Base-year: 2000 Southern Africa Reduce specific fresh water usage by 10% by 2015 Base-year: 2007 7.5% 2.8% 4% Recover 28% of fibre put into the market 25% 27% 26% 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 15 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Our key sustainability drivers prosperity people planet Our key sustainability drivers are those important factors we believe may have a material impact on our business’ success; either by impacting directly on our ability to operate profitably or by affecting our reputation and the trust stakeholders have in Sappi. The 3Ps are interlinked — Our People distinguish us We strive continuously to our profitability affects our as the provider of choice tread more lightly on the performance across all 3Ps for our customers planet 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 16 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Adding value EC Our business is built on a renewable and Our graphics papers are used for commercial Economic value added in 2012 9 sustainable resource — wood fibre — the printing including magazines, brochures, Understanding and describing indirect growing and harvesting of which supports catalogues, direct mail, corporate reports and Nil To shareholders as dividends economic impacts, local employment as well as many small calendars. 5% $96m including the extent To governments as taxation of the impacts businesses, individual farmers, contractors and rural communities. Our packaging papers are used to package 16% US$306m convenience food, serve fast food and to protect To lenders of capital as interest Our paper and pulp mills are mostly situated in and transport fresh produce. peri-urban areas where they are the largest, or one of the largest employers and businesses. Our speciality, security and release papers are These mills also support significant local economic used for consumer goods, labels, and a variety of 24 % US$459m activity including everything from the provision of other applications, including the new South African Reinvested to grow the business security and cleaning services to the supply of raw passport, regarded as the most advanced and US$1,913m materials, goods transportation and specialised secure passport in the world. maintenance work. Globally, growing awareness of environmental 55 % In all the communities where we operate, we impact has increased the demand for natural and contribute to health and welfare services, education renewable products, a demand which Sappi is and other community services. In some instances well placed to meet. we also contribute to public infrastructure. To employees as salaries, wages As a public company, we contribute to the and other benefits economies of the countries where we operate US$1,052m through the taxes and fees we pay. By focusing on delivering acceptable profitability we create value for our shareholders and our staff. Sappi’s products add value to people’s lives each and every day. Our dissolving wood pulp is used in making viscose fabrics and textiles, and in foodstuffs, cosmetics and pharmaceutical products. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 17 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Adding value — the pulp and paper sector’s contribution to regional economies Europe’s pulp and paper sector North America’s forest products sector South Africa’s forest products sector € 6 1 550b turnover % USA manufacturing % contributes ± ± GDP GDP US$ 7 taxes b per annum government recognition a strategic economic sector significant contributor economic growth job creation comprises 180,000 companies ± among top 10 employers 48 manufacturing in ± 6m people employing states x8 1m people multiplier effect employing additional jobs ± 2.9b e x p o r t e d for each job in the sector ≈ automotive and plastics industries R goods in 2009 > 99% converted value-added products generates and uses 35 % forests cover 28.5 per annum of total EU land area m MWh renewable energy 3.5m ha over the last ten years enough to power 2.7m homes employed 170,000 people in 2009 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 18 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Research and development Recognising that technology is the To ensure that our solutions remain relevant to cornerstone of our business, we established the needs of our customers in more than 100 since FY05 a global technology strategy in 2004, which countries across the globe, our total FY12 R&D Exciter value delivered aligned technology and R&D expertise across three continents and the different sectors of investment, including US$8.1m in our 'Exciter' programme, was US$32.6m. US$ 115.2m on investment the business. Our 'Exciter' programme, which operates alongside US$ 62.6m This centrally co-ordinated approach allows for our more traditional research and development a pooling of expertise and cross pollination. Our work, aims to accelerate the development of technology centres around the world are focused breakthrough technological competency in our on product/process improvements and developing core markets. new product and processes. Because of the continuing pressure on margins in the graphics paper markets, 70% of the total Exciter R&D value delivery from the Exciter Programme over Cumulative return the last four years has been from cost saving and US$ millions process improvement applications for the graphics business. 120 ROI 184% Exciter value delivery for FY12 was US$23.9m 100 bringing the total value delivered from Exciter, 80 from FY2005 to date, to US$115.2m against a total expenditure of US$62.6m. This gives a ratio 60 of total return versus investment of 184% for the Exciter programme and continues the trend of 40 increasing return. 20 0 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Value delivered Investment 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 19 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Our markets — paper While there is no doubt that, globally, paperCase study 5X use is declining, research studies show that Physical media leaves a deeper imprint… print continues to be the most effective A research study by branding agency enough to create a false memory of having medium for branding and memory retention Millward Brown used magnetic resonance tried a product that doesn’t even exist! Magazine and delivers superior sales, merchandising imaging (MRI) brain scans to explore the Subjects were divided into two groups and advertising and marketing return on investment. different ways in which our brains process shown either highor low‑imagery versions of increase paper-based and digital marketing. print advertisements for a fictitious popcorn purchase Recent 'value of print' research findings: product. A third group was allowed to consume intent • Direct mail transcends the age demographic: The study showed that paper advertisements, in 'samples' of the invented product. A week later, younger consumers (18-34 years old) prefer particular, caused more emotional processing, all the participants were surveyed to determine five times to learn about marketing offers via postal mail with physical media leaving a 'deeper footprint' their attitudes toward the product. Interestingly, more than rather than online sources. in the brain. Material shown on paper cards members of the group that viewed the more television • Adding direct mail to a marketing campaign generated more activity within the area of the vivid advertisement were as likely to report that or internet increases return on investment by 20%. brain associated with the integration of visual they had tried the product as the group that advertising • Print conveys trust: magazines, for example, and spatial information than material in a digital actually consumed the samples. The group that increase purchase intent five times as much as format. This suggests that physical material is saw the low-imagery advertisements was less television or the internet advertising. more 'real' to the brain as it has a meaning likely to report they had tried the product, and • Print is particularly effective at reaching and a place and that it is better connected to had less favourable opinions about it. memory because it engages with the brain’s certain niche demographics, including wealthy spatial memory networks. The overall conclusion one can draw from consumers. these studies is that people have a powerful These findings, important from a branding and emotional response to paper — something We have focused our Exciter programmes on advertisement recall perspective, are backed advertisers need to take cognisance of, as research into specialised and niche markets. up by another study which shows that paper evokes a sensory response that goes some print advertisements can be impactful beyond visual appeal alone. We are also focused on investing in higher-growth and higher-margin businesses. For example, we recently began the 12-month conversion of our Alfeld Mill, in Germany, into the world’s largest and lowest-cost producer of one-sided coated Print conveys trust Generation C Younger consumers (18-34 years old) prefer speciality grades for packaging, label and technical printed, rather than online marketing applications in response to strong continuous messages. demand growth. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 20 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Our markets — dissolving wood pulp We currently produce approximately 800,000tpa of dissolving wood pulp at Saiccor • Secure and sustainable wood baskets — like Saiccor Mill, Ngodwana Mill will use locally Case study Clothing a growing population Mill, supplying approximately 15% of market sourced eucalyptus, while Cloquet Mill will use A growing world population drives an demand which makes us one of the world’s mixed northern hardwoods, primarily aspen increasing need for clothing. largest suppliers of this product. (approximately 65%) and maple (35%), also sourced locally. Currently, the bulk of our dissolving wood In May 2011, we announced the US$340m • A business model anchored on long-term pulp (also known as chemical cellulose) is expansion of our Ngodwana Mill in South Africa. contracts with leading customers and minimal exported to Asia, where the middle-class is The expansion will change the product portfolio spot business. expected to grow from the current 1.9 billion of the mill to include 210,000tpa of specialised • Strong and mature customer relationships. to 2.7 billion people by 2030, accounting for cellulose. • Supply flexibility. 43% of global consumption. It’s anticipated • In-depth technical knowledge in all target that this growth will be accompanied by In November 2011, we announced an additional segments. greater urbanisation and higher standards investment of US$170m in our Cloquet Mill of living — including comfortable clothing. in North America, which will enable this mill to produce 330,000tpa of dissolving wood pulp. Saiccor Mill On the other hand, global production One of the world’s largest producers, supplies of cotton is forecast to remain stagnant Together with our existing capacity at Saiccor Mill, these investments will increase our total 15 % Global dissolving wood pulp market demand or shrink, with the growth in total fibre consumption offset by man-made fibres. annual dissolving wood pulp production capacity The fact that oil-based synthetic fibres lack to approximately 1.3m tons per annum. Both certain moisture management properties — projects have been initiated, are progressing well and scheduled for commissioning during 2013. 1.3m tpa such as the ability to breathe — enhances Dissolving wood pulp capacity the opportunity for cellulosics such as 2013 viscose staple fibre (VSF) — a biodegradable, We are market leaders in the viscose staple fibre natural, organic product with breatheability (VSF) segment, where demand is projected to and moisture absorbency properties. grow by 8% per annum and there is potential to enter even higher value speciality/acetate markets in future. VSF Viscose staple fibre is a biodegradable, natural, Underpinning these growth ambitions, our organic product with breatheability and moisture absorbency properties strengths in the dissolving wood pulp field include: 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 21 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Sustainable fibre supply Wood fibre, together with energy and water is Southern Africa Mitigating the risk of climate change 70 % the most important input into our production processes. Ensuring sustainable fibre supply We source wood fibre from softwood and hardwood plantations (tree farms of exotic trees). We are mitigating the risks of climate change through our tree improvement programmes: South Africa is therefore a key priority for our business. The softwoods are all pine species including • Over 15 years, our research efforts have Fibre self-sufficiency Pinus patula, P elliottii, P taeda and some hybrids. resulted in a 60% improvement in eucalypt Europe The hardwoods consist of eucalypts including plantation yield. 554,000ha We do not own plantations or land; wood fibre is Eucalyptus grandis, E dunnii, E nitens, E smithii • We have maintained sample plots in the Land owned, mainly sourced from forests in the regions where and a range of hybrids, and the wattle, Acacia Usutu plantation to allow comparison of four managed or our mills are located. Softwood and hardwood mearnsii. successive rotations of pine since the first leased pulp is sourced from Europe and the Americas. rotation were planted in the 1950s. The latest Tree species used, include: spruce (used for Sappi’s position measurements taken in 2011 indicate an 8% mechanical pulp and softwood chemical pulp) and Owning, managing and leasing 554,000ha of land yield improvement — consistent with the beech (used for hardwood pulp). Lanaken Mill can in this region gives us a high degree of wood fibre expectation from genetically superior planting also process significant amounts of poplar. self-sufficiency. We supply approximately 70% of stock and measures taken to maintain site our own fibre requirements. productivity. North America In this region, as in Europe, we do not own Our fibre supply initiatives: Fire protection plantations or land. Wood fibre is sourced from • We are investing around US$7.5 a year to Since the devastating fires of 2007/8, we have landowners and commercial loggers in the rehabilitate our 52,000ha Usutu plantation in implemented a more aggressive, and extensive temperate forests of Maine, New Hampshire, Swaziland almost half of which was destroyed fire protection strategy. Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin and from the by devastating fires in 2007/8. Canadian provinces of New Brunswick, Quebec • We are working with communities in the Eastern Risks are now managed via an integrated and Ontario. Tree species used in this region Cape to establish 30,000ha of plantations — a Fire Risk Management System comprised of include: maple, poplar, aspen, beech and birch project in support of the government’s goal of a comprehensive risk assessment, monthly (hardwoods) and spruce, pine and fir (softwoods). driving rural development. monitoring compliance checks, management • We are promoting Project Grow, a small‑grower procedures, standards, and general back-up Sappi’s position initiative, which currently supplies 2% of our information. In both Europe and North America, we are able to total timber requirements — the standing mitigate fibre supply risk through a combination of timber is valued at approximately US$36m. We have also increased community participation approaches which include shortand long-term • We are assisting with land reform projects in fire prevention activities. wood supply agreements and shareholdings in where timber is grown. wood sourcing co-operatives. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 22 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Tree improvement — enhancing sustainability Our tree improvement programmes in Selecting genotypes South Africa are focused on enhancing the Our breeding programme continuously tests and member of CAMCORE, an international, non-profit sustainability of our fibre base by mitigating selects genotypes best suited to the range of organisation dedicated to the conservation and the impacts of climate change, pests and sites where Sappi plants trees, including harsh utilisation of subtropical and tropical tree species. disease, while maximising yield. More sites that are drought susceptible. In this way Several of these conservation parks are conserving productive trees have increased potential for more drought tolerant trees have been identified. species/populations (ex situ) that are threatened or greater carbon capture. The eucalypt species, Eucalyptus dunnii, has severely endangered within their native habitat. proven to be the most drought tolerant of Sappi’s Producing hybrids commercial species and is now planted on sites Leveraging biotechnology In recent years the focus has been on producing where drought risk is high. Biotechnology tools — such as DNA fingerprinting and testing a number of interspecific hybrids to — help improve our tree breeding, seed production increase yield and mitigate the impact of pests Breeding for specific pulping characteristics and propagation efficiencies by allowing us to keep and diseases. These include both eucalypt and Our tree breeders test the wood properties of track of our elite pine and eucalypt breeding material. pine hybrids: the trees that will be supplied to our mills. The • The Eucalyptus grandis x E nitens hybrid selection criteria include fibre that results in higher We are also using biotechnology to develop increased yields and improved resistance pulp yields, ensuring that for the same plantation trait-linked molecular markers for breeding and to the cossid moth that has impacted the area and resources the amount of pulp produced for understanding host defence mechanisms growth of E nitens. per hectare has increased. to important tree pests and diseases such as • The Pinus patula x P tecunumanii hybrid Leptocybe invasa and Fusarium circinatum. increased yields and improved tolerance Responding to new challenges to pitch canker (caused by the fungal Sappi maintains and manages a broad genetic 60 % pathogen, Fusarium circinatum) that has base, consisting of many species, populations and impacted on P patula. trees. This ensures that we are able to respond to new challenges like pests, diseases, changing These hybrids contribute to maintaining and market requirements and global warming while South Africa improving the health and productivity of our plantations, eliminating the need to use chemicals providing continuous genetic improvement over the long term. improvement Eucalypt plantation yield over 15 years such as pesticides and fungicides. 8 % Compartments of this genetic base are managed specifically as conservation parks, where tree species and populations are conserved as improvement in pine yield part of a global conservation effort. Sappi is a since first rotation — 1950s 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 23 Our key sustainability drivers Prosperity Forest certification Against a backdrop of increasing global Group Southern Africa concer ns about the deforestation of Non-certified fibre (wood and pulp) is sourced from We recognise that certification creates problems endangered tropical forests, the use of known and trusted suppliers close to each mill for small plantation owners because these internationally recognised, independently which are regularly visited by our buyers. plantations are often situated in remote areas, verified forest certification systems gives us making certification very expensive relative to larger an important competitive edge. FSC™ controlled wood and PEFC™ DDS (Due plantations (on a per hectare basis). In addition, Diligence System) requirements are incorporated many small forest owners found the administration The forest certification systems we use include: into our purchasing specifications and contracts, involved in certification onerous and difficult to • FSC™ Forest Stewardship Council™ in accordance with our purchasing policy. interpret. • PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement Environmentaland forestry-related information of Forest Certification™ (including wood sources) is obtained from every We therefore established a FSC™ group • SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative® pulp supplier on a regular basis and this data is certification scheme which provides training and then evaluated by a team of experts. support to facilitate the implementing of standards Globally, 70.2% of the fibre we use is certified. on the individual members’ properties. Members In Southern Africa, all our owned and leased North America of the scheme are audited manually against group plantations are FSC™ certified; 87% of fibre used Our involvement in initiatives to promote third‑party standards. There are currently 53 members in in this region is certified. forest certification include: the scheme with plantations ranging from a few • A partnership with Time Inc, Hearst Corporation hundred hectares to well over 10,000ha in size Sappi’s position and two of our competitors to help smalland We are working to increase our share of certified medium-sized landowners in Maine achieve To promote certification in this region, we are fibre on a global scale, but we are constrained by third-party forest certification. currently paying a premium for FSC™ certified a global shortage of certified fibre. • The Sustainable Forestry Programme ®, a timber. certified FSC™ group management scheme We are trying to promote group certification for dedicated to assisting wood-lot owners in 100 FSC % ™ small growers who often battle with the costs of the state of Maine develop and manage their certification. wood-lots. The scheme comprises a team of highly-trained forestry professionals, including certified 70.2 %certified fibre Of the fibre used globally is certified fibre; the balance licensed foresters. South Africa: own and leased plantations is procured from known and controlled sources. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 24 Our key sustainability drivers People Our relationships with our employees LA 4 Given today’s extremely challenging global economic conditions and the current Europe Of all the regions in which Sappi operates, Europe Case study Disciplined behaviour Percentage of employees covered socio‑economic dynamics in the South is the most unionised. Our European blue‑ and Disciplined behaviour is essential not by collective African labour market, Sappi’s relationship white‑collar employees are represented by 13 bargaining only for individual wellbeing, but also to with employees and their representatives has trade unions; approximately 77% of the workforce agreements ensure our group goals and objectives. become a key business driver. Protecting the are members of the bargaining unit. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure right to freedom of association and collective disciplinary procedures, while grievance UNGC bargaining are fundamental to the manner in Negotiations occur at the various country and policies entrench the rights of employees, 3 which Sappi does business. industry-specific Collective Labour Associations; including the right to raise a grievance Freedom of association and the contract terms range from 1-2 years. The without fear of victimisation, the right to seek the effective Globally, approximately 62% of our workforce labour framework in Europe consists of Works guidance and assistance from a member of recognition of the right to collective (8,500 employees) is represented by 21 unions; Councils and collective labour agreements the Human Resources department, or their bargaining in effect, 66% (9,279 employees) of the workforce that differ from country to country. The Works representative, at any time and the right to is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Council meets with Sappi’s European leadership appeal to a higher body, without prejudice. biennially to share information and consult on We firmly believe that, in common with all topics of interest, including market developments, We have identified no operations or organisations, the success of ours depends macro-economic effects, industry changes and significant suppliers where the right to on our employees’ levels of engagement and organisational restructuring. Within the collective exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining has been violated or commitment. labour framework, Sappi is represented by industry is at significant risk. employer representatives. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 88% o 63 % o 48 % o 14% o 66% o % fe fe fe fe f em m mp mp m rope rica Afr ica ad ing oup p Eu plo me Tr c Gr ees covered covered covered s Sou oy yee North ees ees ees th pl 5,073 People covered 1,376 A People loy 2,810 People loy 20 People overed 9,279 People loy 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 25 Our key sustainability drivers People Our relationships with our employees continued North America Southern Africa globally In North America, 63% of our workforce is Four trade unions represent 48% of the workforce; • Shop Steward Forums at each mill meet with 8,500 represented by 11 collective bargaining agreements covering each of the plant sites. mostly blue-collar workers and artisans. Our wage negotiations with recognised trade unions management to discuss mill specific work issues and conditions. employees take place at the Pulp and Paper and Sawmilling • The Partnership Forum, a joint union and Sappi represented The majority of our hourly employees — generally Chambers under the auspices of the Bargaining senior management forum, meets quarterly to by 21 unions production unit employees — are represented by the United Steelworkers (USW) union. Employees Council for the Wood and Paper Sector in South Africa. Our agreements are generally annual. share information on business performance, strategy direction, industry developments and are also represented by various craft, guard and union priorities. railroad unions. In this region, labour agreements The complexity of the work environment in our South are usually for three years. African operations is compounded by a number Shortly after year-end, Sappi Southern Africa HR of legislative labour requirements. To manage announced plans to mothball a paper machine 5 In addition to meeting with local union leadership this complexity, we have established a number of (PM4) at Tugela Mill. Consultation with the unions Operations and significant suppliers for the purposes of agreeing bargaining contracts forums with our shop stewards and trade unions has begun and in line with the required legislative identified in and resolving grievances, the company relies on with a view to sharing information and discussing framework, a section 189A filing has been which the right to exercise freedom local unions to help with safety and wellness matters of mutual interest and working together submitted to the Commission for Conciliation, of association and initiatives, as well as various forms of community on matters which pertain to Sappi specifically and Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). collective bargaining may be violated or outreach. not to the industry as a whole. at significant risk, and actions taken 48 On a national level, the unions have been a valuable These forums include: % to support these rights. partner in terms of lobbying and government affairs • The National Employment Equity and Skills on issues of importance to the paper industry. Development Forum meets quarterly and is Southern African workforce represented by attended by union officials from three unions, During 2009 and 2010, Sappi and two other paper industry companies worked with the United Steelworkers union’s international representatives shop steward and management representatives. The primary focus of this forum is to agree on 4 Trade unions to bring a successful trade case protesting the the Employment Equity Plan and the Workplace dumping and subsidy practices of Chinese and Skills Plan submitted to the Department of Indonesian paper manufacturers. Labour and to the Fibre Processing and Manufacturing Skills Education Training Authorities. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 26 Our key sustainability drivers People Transformation in South Africa As a company head-quartered in South The Forest Sector Charter was published in the Africa, with significant assets and people in Government Gazette in June 2009 as the 'Forest US $4.3m Invested the region, Broad-based Black Economic Sector Code'. This Charter applies to all enterprises Empowerment (BBBEE) is an important engaged in commercial forestry and the first level component of our reputation and licence processing of wood products. in to trade. We regard BBBEE as pivotal to training and development economic and social stability and hence, Our South African businesses are signatories to this in South Africa sustainability of South Africa. charter through their membership of both Forestry South Africa (FSA) and the Paper Manufacturers The government and organised business have Association of South Africa (PAMSA). taken a number of steps in recent years to increase the participation of black people in the South African economy. To this end, the The Forest Sector Charter sets the objectives and principles for BBBEE, and includes a scorecard US $16.7m Employment Equity Act (No 55 of 1998), the Skills Development Act (No 97 of 1998) and the and targets to be applied within the forest products industry. It also details specific undertakings by the Committed Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act government and the private sector (South African to enterprise development (No 5 of 2000) were promulgated. forestry companies) to assist the forest products in South Africa industry to achieve its BBBEE targets. Our South The Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment African businesses have been evaluated against Act (No 53 of 2003) ('BBBEE') formalised the Forest Sector’s BBBEE scorecard since 2010. the country’s approach to distributing skills, employment and wealth more equitably between US $1.5m races and genders. Invested in BBBEE focuses on increasing equity ownership, management and control of businesses by black corporate social people, and improving black representation in responsibility all levels of employment. It also promotes the: development of skills within businesses; nurturing projects in of black entrepreneurship through preferential South Africa procurement and enterprise development, and the uplifting of communities through social investment. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 27 Our key sustainability drivers People Employee safety In 2012, the safety performance of all achieve constant 'front-of-mind' safety awareness LTIFR own employees and contractors employees improved in all three regions. for all employees and contractors. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Frequency Tragically in Southern Africa, there were two We continue improving our systems, procedures contractor fatalities in the year under review — one and, in particular, our safety awareness at our Ngodwana forestry operations and another programmes. Our 'Do You Know What’s in Your 2 at Tugela Mill. In the previous year the group Safety Circle?' campaign gained positive traction suffered four contractor fatalities. The continued at all operations. This programme, and a refocus safety focus with our contractors has resulted in on BBS, was used as the theme for our Group a noticeable reduction in lost time injuries. Safety Awareness Day held in 2012 and proved to 1 be an excellent safety motivation initiative. The OHSAS 18001 safety management system continues to be our foundation and structure for Despite the slight drop in performance in South managing safety; all paper mill sites maintained Africa, we believe that ongoing disciplined 0 their certification in 2012. adherence to the systems and procedures in place Europe North America South Africa Group will achieve more positive results in the year ahead. Our behaviour-based safety (BBS) programme, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 together with the hazard identification and risk assessment process, helped to identify taskspecific hazards and risks, and also quantified exposures and risk reduction activities. The process has driven many physical enhancements “While the overall safety improvement is encouraging, I deeply regret having to report two and improved our safe work procedures. contractor fatalities – one in Sappi’s forestry operations and one at our Tugela Mill in South We will continue our focus on employee Africa. Our hearts go out to the families of the deceased. We view contractor safety as being involvement and working with line supervisors to as important as that of our own employees and our focus, throughout all operations, is on further embed the positive safety culture we are trying to realise the goals of our Project Zero safety programme so that all employees can go developing. home safely to their families at the end of every day.” The goal of our safety programme, Project Zero, Ralph Boëttger is to eliminate fatalities and lost time injuries and Chief Executive Officer Sappi Limited 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 28 Our key sustainability drivers People Employee training and development During 2011 and 2012, we restructured our Training and development Average training spend European and South African businesses, spend per employee per employee resulting in headcount reductions and cost US$ savings. Despite the challenging business environment, our investment in people continued to be a priority; 696 1,255 1,255 6109 6,109 providing skills and competencies to ensure a 5596 531 5,596 592 1,005 5246 5,605 577 5596 5215 5,215 5,246 6109 sustainable business. 5605 5215 5246 While training and development covers a wide 710 array of capacity building initiatives, the focus has 592 been on: 250 • Creating a safe work environment • Ensuring compliance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Group • Continuously developing the existing skills base to maintain and improve operational efficiency Group US$ '000s South Africa ZAR '000s • Developing employees for the future • Upskilling employees for the new dissolving wood pulp production units, due to come on line in 2013. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 29 Our key sustainability drivers People Corporate social responsibility An alignment review, between our Corporate South Africa CSR Spend Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes, The bulk of our CSR investment is allocated to Corporate social responsibility spend our community needs and our own strategic South Africa — a developing country with greater US$ '000s priorities, coupled with our challenging developmental needs than the other regions in 1500 operational environment, has led to a which we operate — where we are headquartered. refocused CSR policy and a reduction in our 1200 overall CSR investment. During 2011 and 2012, we conducted socio6109 economic assessments of our mills in order to 900 5596 5605 5215 5246 1.2 % profile the communities near our operations and NPAT determine key stakeholder issues. We use this 600 information to guide our CSR investments. CSR Investment in South Africa 300 We aim to spend the equivalent of 1% of Net Profit After Tax (NPAT) in CSR programmes. Our FY12 0 Europe North America South Africa Group investment again exceeded our regional target. The bulk of our funding has gone towards: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Literacy and education with a particular focus on developing mathematics and science skills • The environment and conservation programmes with a particular focus on the natural resources and ecosystems on which our business depends • Health and welfare with a particular focus on the communities surrounding our operations, and • Community engagement and upliftment, including projects to improve basic infrastructure and services as well as projects that improve community life. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 30 Our key sustainability drivers People Group corporate social responsibility policy Our approach to sustainability is to focus on printers and other customers, environmental linked with our own. Focusing on the health performance based on generating prosperity and conservation organisations, as well as and welfare of local communities helps for shareholders, while improving the lives organised industry and business groups. lower internal health and welfare costs, of people and treading more lightly on the • Strives to align our CSR activities with our leading to increased productivity. planet. This approach is founded on our core business activities and objectives, including ◦◦ Community engagement and upliftment values of excellence, integrity, respect and through cause-related marketing initiatives and Sappi’s profile in the communities where resourcefulness. sponsorships. it operates is most often that of a major • Is guided by the principles of the United Nations economic role-player. As such, communities Sappi believes that a formal programme for Global Compact. look to Sappi for support and engagement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) — often on fundamental development issues referred to as Corporate Social Investment (CSI) The bulk of our funding is directed at beyond short term projects, donations or in South Africa — is critical in giving substance to ◦◦ Literacy and education sponsorships. our commitment to being a responsible corporate Promoting literacy and education, citizen. We believe that our CSR approach and particularly mathematics and science skills, Given the wide spectrum of requirements, programmes should be aligned with and support helps expand the talent pool in areas which Sappi engages with communities on a casethe achievement of our business objectives, are pivotal to our overall sustainability. by-case basis and encourages projects which forming part of our engagement and partnering Promoting literacy and education also facilitate partnerships and collaboration between initiatives with our key stakeholder groups increases demand for paper as there is a communities, government and private sector. throughout all our businesses. definite correlation between high levels of literacy and development and demand for We commit to Our approach to CSR paper and paper products. • Measuring and monitoring the impact of the Our approach to CSR encapsulates all three areas ◦◦ The environment projects we support on a regular basis to of sustainability. We identify and support longer Land, air and water are shared resources. determine whether pre-established outcomes term initiatives or individual projects which promote By motivating and encouraging people, are being achieved. and build our prosperity, people and planet charter particularly those close to our operations, • Reporting on CSR investment, as well as commitments. to share our commitment of treading more impacts and outcomes. • Prioritises investment in the first place lightly on the planet, we aim to enhance the • Ensuring that our overall CSR programme in initiatives and projects relevant to the sustainability of the natural resources and supports the principles of the UN Global communities where we operate (mills, offices ecosystems on which our business depends. Compact. and plantations) and secondly on initiatives and ◦◦ Health and welfare projects relevant to our role in society and our The health and welfare of the communities other key stakeholder groupings, including surrounding our operations is inextricably 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 31 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Biodiversity EN 14 At Sappi we recognise that biodiversity is key to the healthy functioning of our plantations Europe Approximately 87% of forests in the European Definition Convention on Biodiversity Strategies, current actions, and future (in Southern Africa) and the managed natural Economic Area (EEA) countries are classified as The Convention on Biodiversity defines plans for managing forests (in Europe and North America) from semi-natural. In other words these forests are impacts on biodiversity as follows: “Biological diversity… which we source wood fibre. Neither our harvested but managed to retain their natural biodiversity is the term given to the variety of life on plantations nor third-party managed forests characteristics, including biodiversity, to a certain Earth and the natural patterns it forms… would be productive without biotic processes degree. Practices to promote biodiversity in taking place. Europe’s managed forests include: Biodiversity also includes genetic differences • Green tree retention during logging which within each species — for example, between Our plantations and managed forests are actively leaves single living trees or preferably clumps of varieties of crops and breeds of livestock. managed to enhance these beneficial processes trees that offer continuity of habitat for species and restrict harmful influences like pests and throughout the regeneration phase and help reChromosomes, genes, and DNA (the building disease. colonise the stand faster. It also promotes rarer blocks of life) determine the uniqueness of broadleaved species, protects and creates each individual and each species.” Management takes place in terms of internationally habitats for species dependent upon older accepted, independently verified forest certification large diameter trees and deadwood eg slowly systems FSC™, PEFC™ and SFI®, all of which colonising lichens, fungi, wood-boring insects make provision for biodiversity management. For and hole-nesting birds. example, principle 6 of the FSC™’s 'Principles • Avoiding soil compaction which protects the and Criteria', states: “Forest management shall habitat of soil inhabiting bacteria, insects, conserve biological diversity and its associated worms, fungi, and animals. It also ensures values, water resources, soils, and unique and that the growth and penetration of the roots fragile ecosystems and landscapes, and, by so of remaining trees and plants is unrestricted doing, maintain the ecological functions and the while minimising the risk of run-off and erosion. integrity of the forest [and plantations]”. • Logging site planning which identifies the key elements for biodiversity that must be PEFC™ certification is dependent on forest considered during harvesting operations. The biodiversity being “maintained or enhanced”, most common features identified for biodiversity while the SFI® guidelines stipulate the protection are often water, sensitive soils, valuable of biodiversity. biotopes, deadwood, natural forest remnants (eg oak, ash and elm in pine plantations), and rare, threatened or endangered species. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 32 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Biodiversity continued Europe continued In each case, precautionary measures are Southern Africa In Southern Africa, our plantations are biological Definition IUCN taken to protect them and protection buffer systems and are based on biodiversity in that The International Union for Conservation of zones are left. Seasonal timing can also be they comprise a variety of tree species which are Nature (IUCN) red list is the world’s most crucial especially with sensitive soils and genetically diverse and rely on biotic processes comprehensive inventory of the global species eg nesting birds. to be sustained. In our plantations, it is seldom conservation status of biological species. that more than 65% of the land is planted, with North America approximately 30% of the land being managed for We do not (contrary to some misperceptions) harvest rare and slow-growing species like Giant the conservation of the natural habitats (including indigenous forests) and the biodiversity they Definition IUCN Red list in Europe Sequoia or Coastal Redwood. contain. According to the Confederation of Instead, we use trees that are superabundant European Paper Industries (CEPI), 659 in the area in which we harvest. By focusing on thinning the population of pioneer species like aspen and birch, which grow rapidly but don’t 87 % semi natural Forest classification: EEA countries red list species live in European forests; 62 belong to threatened categories (eight critically endangered, 17 endangered and 37 vulnerable). Amongst the threatened live long, we can promote biodiversity by giving species are nine mammal species (Iberian other species a chance to take root. For instance, lynx, Bavarian vole, Wisent, Broom hare, in Minnesota where our Cloquet Mill is located, aspen is the most common tree in the state and is No rare, slow growers Corsican hare and four bat species), five bird species, 12 amphibians (salamanders We do not harvest rare and slow-growing therefore the most harvested tree. In Maine, home and frogs), nine reptiles (lizards), eight species like Giant Sequoia or Coastal to our Somerset Mill, spruce and fir and northern Redwood in North America gastropods (snails), 12 insects (butterflies hardwoods like maple and birch dominate the and dragonflies) and seven plants. landscape and are therefore harvested more than other species. Using a variety of sources not only helps us to produce paper with the properties customers 30 % conservation Own land in South Africa managed for the need, it also ensures that no particular species is conservation of the natural habitats and over-harvested. biodiversity. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 33 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Biodiversity continued Mainstreaming biodiversity Through Forestry South Africa (FSA), Sappi and The FSC™ standards contain a number of criteria contribution to the formal economy is undervalued other plantation forest owners in South Africa that pertain to safeguarding and managing and not priced or paid for. have partnered with the South African National biodiversity. These include: Biodiversity Institute to mainstream biodiversity • The prohibition of transforming high In the year under review, Sappi Forests undertook into the forestry sector. conservation value forests and in South Africa an analysis of the supply of ecosystems services other ecosystems like grasslands. from their landholdings and the importance of In association with this programme, a number of • Ensuring best management practices are these to stakeholders. products have been developed and implemented. adopted by consulting widely with appropriate These include: expertise. The process involved determining and scoring both • A stewardship programme facilitates the • Insisting that these conservation sites are habitat functionality and the ecosystem services proclamation of nature reserves and protected monitored appropriately. supplied in relation to the demand by stakeholders areas on forestry land. • Monitoring and protecting rare, threatened and including Sappi employees, contractors, • A conservation planning toolkit helps to endangered species. shareholders and local and downstream users, prioritise the conservation significance of as well as provincial and national users. unplanted forestry land. Certification to the FSC™ standards will guarantee • A biodiversity screening tool is used to protect that the management of a plantation estate Going forward, understanding which ecosystem important ecological areas in the Eastern Cape is carried out responsibly according to sound services Sappi plantations supply in abundance where small grower plantation forestry is being international practice and that the biodiversity and which are limited and which of these are expanded. on that estate will be managed appropriately to extensively or little used by various user groups • Guidelines have been developed for managing generally accepted high standards. should enhance: natural habitats. • Management of specific ecosystems and All of the plantations we own and lease in South plantations This programme has also played an important Africa are managed to the FSC™ standard. • Land use decisions that may affect the supply role during the negotiation and developing of a of ecosystems proposed national Forest Stewardship Council ™ Assessing ecosystems services • The way in which Sappi interacts with the (FSC™) standard for South Africa. The South Biodiversity underpins the supply of ecosystem various user groups African forestry industry is in the process of services on which the world’s population depends. • The way in which Sappi promotes plantation adapting the internationally recognised FSC™ As the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment of 2005 forestry as a land use standards for responsible forest management. points out, most people are unaware of the extent of their dependence on these services, probably because they are taken for granted, and their 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 34 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Biodiversity continued Ecosystem services have been identified and evaluated for all Sappi Forests’ (South Africa) land holdings Ecosystem services (a-f) Ecosystem services (f-n) Ecosystem services (p-z) Birding Fodder Pest control Access to spaces which attract a variety of bird species Access to grass and browsing for stock animals The reduction of pest plants and animal populations and for birding distribution through ecological processes Food Carbon sequestration Access to foods, such as mushrooms (including Plant seed dispersal The capture and storage of carbon in the trees, plants commercial harvesting) and honey, which the local Access to pollinators which pollinate trees and plants, and soils community harvests to sustain their livelihoods. thereby improving the resilience and yield of trees and plants Carbon storage Hiking/picnicking The carbon already stored in the trees, plants and soils Access to attractive spaces for hiking and Pollination picnicking Provision of propagules which seed downstream areas Cash income to households Income that surrounding households derive directly Hunting/angling Refuge or nursery for wild plants and animals through employment on the estates Access to water bodies for sport fishing or spaces for A space for animals (particularly birds and fish) to breed hunting animals and repopulate other areas (upstream, downstream or Cultural heritage regionally) Access to environmental features which play a part of Industrial wood the local culture of communities The primary product of the estates Sense of place Contribution to the uniqueness of the area, including the Energy (wood fuel/black liquor) Medicinals/biochemicals/lignosulphonates views of attractive natural areas Black liquor, which is used as an energy source in our Access to plant chemicals for commercial purposes mills is derived originally from trees during the pulping and/or treating human and livestock health problems Soil formation and fertility process. Formation of soils and nutrient cycling Recreational events Wood used by the surrounding communities for heating Access to spaces for hosting sporting events and active Soil stability and cooking recreational activities, such as mountain biking and trail The retention of soil on the land and the reduction running of sediment loads of streams and rivers draining the Fibre estates through a reduction in soil erosion Access to building materials, such as thatch or Natural heritage indigenous timber, which local communities use to Maintaining a society’s natural assets or heritage to Water quality management construct crafts, homes etc sustain traditions, folklore and current or future direct The dilution and assimilation of waste, thereby improving or indirect appreciation. This includes biodiversity water quality Fire damage control conservation as a human pursuit. The reduction in the likelihood, intensity and/or extent of Water storage an unplanned fire, through ecological processes The promotion of surface water infiltration with soil water storage and the associated delayed release of the water. Flood attenuation This also includes the storage of water in dams The reduction of peak flows through a reduction in water velocity and volume Water supply The promotion of stream flow through increased yield 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 35 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Energy EN Pulp and paper production is highly energy Energy cost 18 energy intensive; the cost and availability of energy is as a percentage of Cost of Sales The cost and availability of Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas therefore a key consideration for Sappi. % emissions and 15 is a key consideration for Sappi reductions achieved Energy costs as a percentage of operating costs currently account for approximately 11% of cost of sales. 12 We mitigate this risk by focusing on reducing 9 specific purchased energy, improving the energy efficiency of our mills, increasing our use of renewable energy and selling surplus energy. 6 3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe Energy costs were stable; total cost of sales declined. North America Energy costs remained stable South Africa The cost of coal increased by 13.3%/GJ and the price of electricity generated by Eskom increased by 19.6%/kWh. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 36 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Energy continued Specific purchased energy The term 'specific purchased energy' is the energy Specific purchased energy Case study Eliminating 32,000t of CO 2 that is purchased by the mills and excludes 'own GJ/adt One of our most notable recent renewable energy' from biomass such as black liquor, bark energy projects is our FY11, US$49m and sludges. programme, at our Somerset Mill in Maine 18 18.2 which primarily involved an upgrade to There has been a steady decline in our specific 16.2 16.1 the evaporator and recovery boiler. This purchased energy since 2008 with the largest 14.5 investment has resulted in reduced decrease occurring in 2012. consumption of pulping chemicals and generation of an increase in renewable Sales of power energy equivalent to 100,000 barrels of Many of our mills have excess power which fuel oil per year. The energy generated is we sell to third-party customers. The South being used throughout our manufacturing African government-owned power utility, Eskom, plant in the form of steam and electricity. established a scheme allowing independent power The upgrade has meant that 32,000tons 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 producers to supply power to the grid at pricing of fossil-based CO2 emissions are avoided levels that are higher than they would be charged annually. for power. Our Ngodwana Mill sells power to this scheme. Europe South Africa There were energy efficiency improvements in all mills. Purchased energy decreased significantly in 2012 as Because of high gas prices in the region and lower power manufacturing efficiencies at Saiccor Mill improved and FY12 sales by region prices during warm periods of the year, Alfeld, Gratkorn the mill increased the percentage of own fuel (black liquor) Europe 554,100MWh (1,994,700GJ) and Kirkniemi Mills bought in more electrical power from generated. The partial curtailment of pulping operations the grid. This in turn enhanced average boiler efficiency. at Tugela Mill and complete mothballing of pulping North America 130,230MWh (468,800GJ) operations at Enstra Mill also contributed to the decrease South Africa 32,200MWh (115,941GJ) North America in purchased energy. Increased production at Ngodwana Westbrook Mill purchased less coal due to reduced power Mill was accompanied by increased boiler stability and sales; Somerset Mill used more renewable fuel due to steam production. The mill also generated more electrical increased black liquor solids burning and drier purchased energy in 2012, thereby reducing the amount imported biomass (offsetting the use of fossil fuels) and Cloquet Mill from Eskom. used more renewable fuel than prior years (offsetting the use of fossil fuels). 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 37 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Renewable energy We have a major advantage over other Renewable energy sources Renewable energy industrial companies in that globally, 50.3% of as a percentage of total energy use our energy is derived from renewable sources, % % namely: black liquor (a by-product of the Purchased biom as pulping process), sludges (in North America s 15 51.96 50.67 51.77 51.69 49.7 and Europe) and biomass. ss ma bio wn O Globally, our extensive use of renewable energy 11 results in a high degree of energy self-sufficiency Other 72 2.10 2.11 2 and lower levels of greenhouse gas emissions 48.04 49.33 48.23 48.31 50.3 from fossil fuels. Other In Sappi Fine Paper North America, use of Black Own biomass renewable energy currently stands at over 80% /red liq 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 uo which is a significant competitive benefit not just r Fossil fuel based energy Renewable energy in terms of costs, but also in terms of customers choosing papers with a lower environmental Renewable energy footprint. Case study Using biogas in Europe Compared against 2011, collectively our operations increased the use of renewable energy during Fy12 Europe The closure of Biberist Mill in 2011 contributed The waste water at some of our mills goes to the improvement in Europe. Less power from the gas 50.3 % use of renewable energy globally through an anaerobic digestion process. The methane generated during this process turbines at Kirkniemi and Gratkorn Mills was used as more power was bought from the grid and as a result the is essentially biogas and is used to generate proportion of biofuel increased. (In the countries where these mills are situated, bought-in power contains biofuels.) steam and power. The sludge generated in the waste water treatment process is North America The most positive contribution was made dried, recycled, burnt or used as fertiliser. by Somerset Mill, attributable to the recent rebuild of the recovery boiler. Alfeld Ehingen, Gratkorn, Lanaken and Stockstadt Mills generate their own biogas, South Africa Saiccor Mill decreased fossil fuel usage by while Gratkorn Mill buys it from an external increasing the solids content of black liquor. This was due to improving evaporator performance which led to an supplier. This use of biogas at our mills in increase in boiler solids. Ngodwana Mill increased bark Europe reduces our need for fossil fuels. and black liquor usage. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 38 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Cogeneration Most conventional power (electricity) is suitable for a wide range of heating applications Gas and steam cogeneration generation is based on burning a fuel to and effectively displaces the combustion of Gas and steam cogeneration power plants are produce steam; steam pressure in turn, drives carbon-based fuels. in operation at the following mills: Gratkorn, the turbines and generates power. Kirkniemi, Lanaken, Maastricht and Nijmegen. The efficiency ratio of condensing power plants Cogeneration, or combined heat and power is well below 40%. In other words only 35% to Steam-based cogeneration (CHP) makes use of more than one form of 45% of the energy content of the primary fuel is Steam-based cogeneration power plants are in energy provided from a combustion source — converted into usable energy. However CHP plants operation at the following mills: Alfeld, Cloquet, most commonly excess heat, usually in the form convert a much higher — 60% – 90% — portion Ehingen, Ngodwana, Saiccor, Somerset, of relatively low-temperature steam exhausted of the primary fuel into usable energy. Stockstadt, Tugela and Westbrook. from the power generation turbines. Such steam Generating power and steam Cogeneration Without cogeneration H2O High pressure steam Generator Pulping Paper making Steam Biofuel Boiler turbine Fossil fuel Low pressure steam used for heating and drying 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 39 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Emissions EN The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, one of the Scope 1 specific emissions Scope 2 specific emissions 16 most widely used international GHG accounting Total direct and indirect greenhouse tools, defines Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 ton CO2 eq/adt ton CO2 eq/adt gas emissions by (indirect) emissions as follows: weight • Scope 1 GHG emissions are emissions from 0.79 sources that are owned or controlled by the 0.77 0.33 reporting entity. 0.69 0.71 0.31 0.30 UNGC • Scope 2 GHG emissions are emissions that 0.64 0.28 0.27 7 are a consequence of the activities of the Support a precautionary reporting entity, but occur at sources owned approach to or controlled by another entity. environmental challenges UNGC 9 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions friendly The decrease in Scope 1 emissions can be attributed to The decreasing trend apparent from 2009 has been technologies the following: maintained. Europe Gratkorn and Kirkniemi Mills reduced natural gas Europe Emissions increased slightly due to power suppliers demand and increased their use of biofuel. changing mix (increased non-combustible power). North America Cloquet and Somerset Mill slightly North America Emissions were stable. improved Scope 1 emissions, while Westbrook Mill South Africa The emissions decrease is attributable to: improved significantly due to less coal burned. the mothballing of pulping operations at Enstra Mill which precipitated a reduction in purchased power; improved South Africa Improved manufacturing efficiencies and manufacturing efficiencies and increased use of own fuel increased use of own fuel (black liquor) at Saiccor Mill (black liquor) at Saiccor Mill which also led a reduction meant that fossil-fuel use was reduced. The partial in fossil fuel purchases; Ngodwana Mill generating more curtailment of pulping operations at Tugela Mill and electrical energy in 2012 and therefore reducing the power complete mothballing of pulping operations at Enstra Mill bought in from Eskom which is largely fossil based. also contributed to the decrease in purchased energy and hence, of Scope 1 emissions. Ngodwana Mill generated more power from black liquor and bark, thus imported less Eskom power which is fossil based. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 40 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Carbon taxes Europe — carbon taxes North America — carbon tax The carbon tax proposal formulated by the Sappi’s position Although a few states have introduced a carbon European Commission in 2010, has yet to be In 2012, our mills were allocated CO2 allowances tax, there is no federal carbon tax levelled in the agreed upon by the 27 member states. The current of 2,131,667 tons (2011: 2,140,478). However, United States of America (USA). proposal would charge firms between €4 and €30 the new allowances are significantly lower and, per ton of CO2 released. beginning in 2013, Sappi Fine Paper Europe However, on the international stage, the President expects to incur additional costs. The current has committed the USA to GHG emissions Several European countries have enacted a estimate to purchase additional rights is €4 million reductions of 17% below 2005 levels by 2020. carbon tax including: Denmark, Finland, Ireland, for 2013. The European Paper Industry is very As part of the Better Practices, Better Planet 2020 the Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia, Sweden, concerned about carbon leakage to production sustainability goals announced in March 2011, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. outside the EU. CEPI, the confederation of AF&PA has committed to reduce the intensity of European Paper Industry is lobbying on behalf the industry’s GHG emissions by at least 15% Launched in 2005, the European Union Emissions of industry to reduce the negative impact on the and to improve the industry’s energy efficiency in Trading Scheme (EU ETS) works on the 'cap and industry. purchased energy-use by at least 10% by 2020. trade' principle. The scheme now covers the 27 countries of the European Union, and three nonSappi’s position European Union members. With a 53% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions over a 2007 baseline, our performance From 2013, new rules come into effect in terms in this region has already exceeded the AF&PA of which the mill’s emissions have to be covered goals. The fact that over 80% of our energy in this by emission rights (allowances), which are partly region is produced from renewable energy (black received for free and partly have to be bought at liquor, sludges and purchased biomass) should government auctions. help to mitigate the effect of any potential carbon taxes. According to the legislative framework that sets the new allocation rules, CO2 allowances for the pulp and paper industry are based on benchmarks, which are set for the top performing 10% of installations in every pulp and paper grade in terms of CO2 emissions. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 41 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Carbon taxes continued South Africa — carbon tax Although South Africa only accounts for 1.1% Tax-free thresholds will be reduced during the of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the second phase (2020 – 2025) and may be replaced > 13m tpa CO country is Africa’s largest carbon dioxide (CO2) with absolute emission thresholds thereafter. absorbed 2 emitter and is one of the world's 20 largest emitters by our plantations of GHGs. Sappi’s position: Our view is that paper imported from countries South Africa pledged to reduce emissions 34% without carbon taxes would result in unfair by 2020 and 43% by 2025 below a “business as competition. While we await clarity on the final usual” growth trajectory at COP15 in Copenhagen nature of carbon tax, we are mitigating this risk in December 2010. by engaging with a number of bodies including Business Unity of South Africa (BUSA), Treasury, In his February 2012 budget speech, the Minister of the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Finance confirmed the Government’s commitment Department of Environmental Affairs. to the implementation of a carbon tax in South Africa. This is aligned with the pledges made at In addition, the Papermakers’ Association of COP15 and the Climate Change Response White South Africa (PAMSA) has been seeking greater Paper published in October 2011. recognition by Treasury of the role that commercial forests play in acting as a carbon sink. The tax will come into effect during 2013-14 and increase by 10% per annum through to 2020. Annually, Sappi’s plantations absorb 13m tons of CO2 and give off 8m tons of oxygen. This more than To lessen the impact on industry, a basic tax-free offsets the CO2 emissions from our manufacturing threshold of 60% (with additional concessions for and forestry operations: Taking into account our process emissions and trade-exposed sectors) CO2 emissions from our own biofuels (black and maximum offset percentages of 5% or 10% liquor) and coal, oil and gas (direct or Scope 1 until 2019-20 are proposed. Additional relief will emissions); purchased power and steam (indirect be considered for firms that reduce their carbon or Scope 2 emissions); transport, goods and intensity during this first phase. The reduction in services (Scope 3), as well as plantation decay, carbon intensity will be measured with reference our absorptions exceed our emissions by 0.5m to a base year or industry benchmark. tons of CO2. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 42 Our key sustainability drivers Planet Water EN Water issues have been identified as one of Forestry operations 10 the most serious sustainability challenges South Africa plantations, eucalypts are generally harvested at Percentage and total volume of facing the planet, partly due to the impacts of A misconception exists that timber plantations 10 years while pines are generally harvested at water recycled and climate change. throughout South Africa use vast amounts of 18 years. In other words, the average age of a reused water. pine plantation is almost twice that of the average Increasing population, urbanisation, per capita eucalypt plantation. demand and pollution damage to supplies will Collectively, commercial forestry uses just under put even greater pressure on this limited resource 3% of South Africa’s available water by intercepting Manufacturing operations going forward. rain water and thus reducing run-off into rivers and Pulp and paper operations are highly dependent streams. on the use and responsible management of water Globally, Process water drawn and returned resources. Water is used in all major process we return Agriculture, on the other hand uses as much stages, including raw materials preparation (wood m3/adt as 62% of the country’s available water, mostly chip washing), pulp washing and screening, and approximately through irrigation. paper machines (pulp slurry dilution and fabric 92% of water showers). Water is also used, for process cooling, 40.8 drawn to the 39.2 Sappi’s position materials transport, equipment cleaning, general 35.8 35.3 36.1 The trees we grow require no irrigation and as the facilities operations, and to generate steam for use environment only designated streamflow reduction activity in in processes and on-site power generation. 36.3 35.4 33.2 32.8 33.4 the country, commercial forestry pays for the water it uses in the form of planting licences. While we use a significant amount of water in our production processes, it is recycled many Some stakeholders are concerned about our times before being treated and returned to the planned increased production of dissolving environment. In addition, unlike most other wood pulp made from eucalyptus fibre because industries, globally we return 92% of the water eucalypts (hardwoods) use more water than pines we extract back into the watershed, mostly into 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (softwoods). the same rivers and lakes from which it was Water drawn Water returned extracted or into agricultural irrigation systems. However, converting a plantation of pine trees All effluent is treated before being returned to The overall downward trend apparent from 2008 was to eucalypts does not automatically mean that the environment, and complies with the highest maintained, albeit with a slight increase noticeable for 2012. stream flow will reduce because the rotation environmental standards. Globally, over five years, Europe and North America Stable performance. length (the point at which trees are harvested) is the difference between specific process water South Africa Saiccor Mill experienced high turbidity in incoming raw water requiring more frequent backwashing. different and older trees use more water. In Sappi’s drawn and returned has reduced by 10.5%. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 43 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Prosperity Our sustainability focus is on creating value for current and future stakeholders in all aspects of our business 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 44 Our management approach to Prosperity Repositioning ourselves for improved performance GRI In 2011, we announced that we would refocus Healthy balance sheet Growth in dissolving wood pulp solutions 2.9 our global business to ensure Sappi remained In a move aligned with our strategy of disposing In 2012, our projects to expand our dissolving Significant changes during the reporting a globally competitive, sustainable business. of non-core assets and reducing debt, in 2012 wood pulp production capability at Ngodwana and period regarding Building on our decisive actions, in 2012 we we concluded an agreement to sell our entire Cloquet Mills progressed well and are on track for size, structure, or ownership revised our operating strategy to reposition 34% shareholding in the Jiangxi Chenming Paper completion during 2013. ourselves for improved performance. Company Limited (JXCM), situated in Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province, China, for US$41.6m to the The Ngodwana project will increase our dissolving Revised strategy Shandong Chenming Paper Holding Company. wood pulp capacity to over one million tonnes per The three pillars of our revised strategy are: annum in South Africa, while the Cloquet expansion • Growth in dissolving wood pulp solutions During the year under review, we successfully will allow for the production of 330,000tpa of • Focused paper business refinanced US$700m of debt resulting in the dissolving wood pulp in North America. • Healthy balance sheet — debt reduction and extension of our maturities and reduction in our future dividends. finance costs, thereby reducing our annual interest Favourable long term contracts for the increased charge by US$45m and our cash interest charge volumes have been concluded with various Expected outcomes by US$30m per annum. customers. Our strategic reasoning behind these The strategy is expected to result in: expansions are discussed as a key sustainability • Increased profitability, cash generation and driver. sustained growth over the short, medium and long term • A competitive advantage in all markets in which US$ 45m annual interest charge we operate 1.3m tons • A strong financial position • Increased shareholder returns. US$ 30m dissolving wood pulp in 2013 cash interest charge 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 45 Our management approach to Prosperity Repositioning ourselves for improved performance Focused paper business PM2 The second pillar of our group strategy, a 'focused will position Alfeld Mill as the world's largest and South Africa Alfeld Mill paper business', aims to: continue to improve lowest-cost producer of these one-sided coated We continued the extensive change process we The world’s fastest and most productive speciality customer service, increase efficiencies, reduce speciality grades. The converted PM2 will be the initiated in FY11. Actions taken to return the region machine in the world costs and manage capacity in the most costfastest and most productive speciality machine to profitability included: effective manner. in the world. • Switching certain products between paper machines for increased efficiencies and viability Europe North America • Modifying our liner-board machine at In line with this strategy, in September 2012 In addition to the Cloquet Mill’s conversion to Ngodwana Mill to produce a wider range Classics release paper we announced the conversion of Alfeld Mill in dissolving wood pulp described above, we are of virgin liner-board products and investing Positioned for growth and Germany to focus exclusively on producing onealso continuing to invest in each of our three US$330m in a specialised cellulose plant at new opportunities sided coated paper for packaging, packaging business units. the same mill labels, liners and other technical applications. • Increasing our re-pulping capacity and The conversion is scheduled to take place in We are rebuilding an off-machine coater at our capability at Enstra Mill to enable the production September 2013. Westbrook Mill; improved quality and operational of kraft packaging papers and support our flexibility will improve productivity. This investment recycled container-board output in periods of The mill’s current coated graphic paper production positions us for growth in our 'Classics' release peak demand will be moved to other Sappi Mills in Europe in paper business and opens opportunities for new • Investing in a new state-of-the-art recycled close consultation with customers. products. fibre plant at Enstra Mill to offer a wider range of products incorporating recovered fibre in Paper machine number two (PM2), currently At both our Somerset and Cloquet facilities, we order to meet increased market demand; and producing 150,000tpa coated fine paper, will be continue to make investments in the core coated • Reducing pulp and paper capacity at Tugela converted to produce a 135,000tpa speciality fine paper business: Mill. paper range, focusing on one-sided coated • Cloquet Mill is modifying refining equipment grades from 40 -180g/m2. The mill's four other and the stock preparation area to be better paper machines already produce a combined suited for using purchased dry fibre. Recycle Enstra Mill 165,000tpa of speciality paper and board. • Somerset Mill is replacing the forming section New state-of-the art recycled fibre plant to on PM3. meet increased market demand Once the conversion is complete, the mill will benefit from increased margins, improved quality, Both of these investments are expected to deliver increased efficiencies on raw material consumption increased production rates and result in better and an optimized fixed cost profile. The conversion returns through material savings. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 46 Our management approach to Prosperity Continuously improving and innovating We strongly believe that innovation is pivotal to profitable sustainable development — The Exciter programme Our Exciter programme is focused on developing Case Sugars and study lignin extraction whether it’s our products or our processes. breakthrough technological competency in our core The Sappi Technology Centre, based in Continuous investments in our assets and markets which will allow us to develop products Pretoria, has been undertaking extensive research and development (R&D) help to and processes to drive market differentiation. bench and pilot plant trials using membrane ensure Sappi remains a globally competitive, technology to remove hemicellulosic sugars sustainable business. To date, the Exciter programme’s payback to — mainly xylose — contained in by-product the business is double the amount we have streams at Saiccor Mill. This creates the Our research scientists and engineers are focused cumulatively invested since 2005, with the value opportunity for Sappi to produce higher value on developing product enhancements, new to the company having increased over time — a chemicals such as xylitol (a sugar substitute), products and process improvements. trend we expect to continue. ethanol and furfural. Both ethanol and furfural are considered foundation chemicals as they Our discerning customers are always looking for Recently, projects in the Exciter programme can form the basis for the manufacture of a new and improved products and services that have been categorised in terms of Exciter I (core host of other chemicals. benefit their businesses, while reducing their business) and Exciter II (new adjacent business) The membrane trials have also proven that the own environmental impact. By partnering with projects. An example of an Exciter 1 project lignosulphonate stream can be enriched and responsible customers and suppliers, we offer undertaken in the year under review was the precipitated for the production of lignin-based products that are best-in-class in respect of quality, analysis of timber feedstocks at both Cloquet higher value products, rather than be used as environmental performance and total value. This and Ngodwana Mills and recommendations on a fuel or disposed of in a waste stream. helps us in our goal of being a customer-centric mill processes to maximise yields and minimise business focused on ongoing product, process quality issues. A two-step process to recover high purity and service innovation. lignin from both Saiccor Mill’s waste streams was developed at the Sappi Technology Centre in Pretoria. This new technology runs parallel with investigations into the ultrafiltration of the spent liquor streams and could result in two high value products from waste, namely lignin and sugars. Together with our biorefinery teams, these recovered compounds are being tested for possible use as feedstock into high value end products. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 47 Our management approach to Prosperity Continuously improving and innovating continued Sappi Technical Innovation Awards In 2000, we launched the Sappi Technical Case Regional TIA study awards Case The eucalypt studygenome Innovation Awards (TIA), a platform from which North America Sappi is a long-standing member of the technical advances and those who create them, are A team from Cloquet Mill innovatively reEucalyptus Genome Network (EUCAGEN). acknowledged and rewarded for their contribution engineered a coating system, yielding The driver of the project, Prof Alexander to Sappi’s prosperity and long-term sustainability. a significant reduction in costly binders, Myburg, is also the leader of Sappi’s Forest with no sacrifice in product quality. This Molecular Genetics Programme (FMG) at The focus of the awards is to create new technology can be expanded to our other the University of Pretoria. technologies which will result in noticeable manufacturing sites. improvements for the customer. The results of the sequencing of the South Africa E grandis genome, which is widely planted The global winners of the 2012 Technical Innovation The ethers sector is the third-largest user of on our plantations, were released in 2011. Awards were a team from Sappi Fine Paper dissolving wood pulp ­(viscose staple fibre (VSF) and acetate are the largest users) with Sequencing the E grandis genome not only Europe who developed and brought to market an installed capacity of nearly 750,000tpa. serves as an excellent reference for gene a new-generation white-top liner, Fusion, which and marker discovery, but high-throughput significantly outperforms existing products. Sappi has supplied small volumes into marker platforms will enable us to link the the bottom-end of the market, in the past. genome sequence to the physical traits However, the high-value cellulose ethers of plantation trees. This will help us to sector, which offers higher returns, could not understand how genetic variation, gene be penetrated with Sappi’s short fibre pulp. expression, wood properties and metabolite levels in trees are interlinked, thereby An innovative individual from Saiccor Mill enabling us to decipher the genetic control worked on improving Sappi’s opportunities of wood formation in trees. in the market by manipulating the screen size and optimising operational control of This has placed us at the cutting edge of the grinding equipment, to achieve the eucalypt tree improvement, maximising required properties. This resulted in the our potential to develop genomic tools qualification and commercialisation of the and accelerate our tree improvement first methyl cellulose product produced from programme. short fibre hardwood pulps. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 48 Our management approach to Prosperity New products and innovations in 2012 In developing new products, we ask two Paper Europe was nominated in a further three Expanding the Mokka range key questions: How and to what extent are categories in the same awards: Casting release papers are used to create textured emerging trends impacting on people’s needs • Innovative Products — Graphic Papers surfaces in a variety of materials and applications, and hence on paper as a communication, Jaz Silk, digital paper ranging from synthetic leathers and fabrics to car packaging and storage medium? The next • Promotional Campaign dashboards. question is: How do we meet and anticipate Houston, the digital universe of paper and these needs with value added, differentiated printing knowledge The Mokka family of textures produced at products at the best possible price in the • Advances in Innovation in Sustainable Westbrook Mill has a soft texture that is much simplest way? Packaging (Mill) loved by our customers. We applied the underlying Alfeld Mill — Innovia Laminate Structure for engraving technology that made Mokka so Introducing Fusion Compostable Packaging — Algro Nature. luxurious to the touch, to Frisco, a veined leather 4 The global winners of the 2012 Technical version of Mokka, and the newly launched Innovation Awards were a team from Sappi Fine Building on the success of Jaz™ silk Espresso, a pebbled Mokka, predicted to be a Paper Europe who developed and brought to In 2011, we announced the launch of Jaz™ silk, hit in the upholstery market. Patents market a new-generation white-top liner, Fusion, a high-quality coated paper specifically made for which significantly outperforms existing products. high speed digital inkjet web printing and the result This investment in engraving technology has Casting of a partnership between Sappi Fine Paper Europe furthered Sappi’s Ultracast aesthetic advantage release Fusion is a premium white liner made entirely and Hewlett-Packard (HP). over our competition. The Mokka technology is papers from bleached virgin fibres. High brightness and also being used to add a depth and matte effect whiteness impart exceptional print quality and Jaz™ silk digital coated paper has full high-speed to the valleys of our newest pebble grains, Libra excellent conversion properties. Fusion, as the inkjet functionality, yet manages to combine the and Gemini. With the possibility of using Mokka on name implies, is a perfect marriage between the reassuring look and feel of offset paper with full an increasing number of synthetic leather textures whiteness and brightness of high-quality paper colour personalisation options and flexibility. Key and expanding into traditional fabric textures, we and the stability of container board. The brand characteristics for this paper include the fact that expect the Mokka range to continue to grow. name merges the requirement of brand owners, no bonding agent or other treatments are required, retailers, and design agencies for outstanding leading to increased print efficiency and time Four new patents appearance, with the requirement of corrugators saving, and, when compared with offset paper, In North America we recently had four patents and converters for optimal convertibility. ink consumption is lower. issued for innovations that uniquely textures surfaces: from panel to plastics to metal and In the 2012 Pulp and Paper International Awards, Building on this success, the partnership has even textures to enhance electricity flow. These Fusion won an award in the category Advances resulted in the launch of other products in the achievements and others will allow for new market in Innovation in Speciality Papers (Mill). Sappi Fine range, including Jaz™ book and Jaz™ gloss. development and improved customer satisfaction. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 49 Our management approach to Prosperity Marketing innovation Europe sectors meet at the Treehouse to brainstorm, Off Register™ Positivity campaign generate ideas, and put them into action. We continued with our humorous online video Building on our successful positivity campaign, we Participants must adhere to some basic principles series, Off Register™ based on the hilarious reallaunched a new website, www.sappipositivity.com, designed to maintain the concept. An ambassador life experiences of printers, which people involved focused on making sustainability an everyday programme to support the work of the Treehouse in the print process relate to, or find entertaining. reality. community has also been established. South Africa EcoPrint Layar Earth Kind Sappi Fine Paper Europe participated as education The region’s most recent What Next magazine Many of the imported papers flooding into South sponsor in EcoPrint 2012, thought to be the incorporates Layar, a freely available augmented Africa do not have the same environmental world’s first exhibition and event focused entirely on reality application which enhances subject matter credentials as Sappi’s papers. In response, we sustainable printing. Sappi’s participation focused with layers of digital information via smartphone. repositioned the well-known Typek brand as 'Earth on promoting sustainability and maintaining Scanning the Layar logo with a smartphone Kind' To promote and reinforce the message that paper’s image as a sustainable product. immediately brings the reader various forms of our local papers are made responsibly from fibre complementary content about the subject either grown in sustainably managed plantations. This Treehouse in the form of an image, text or even a short movie. category-changing new idea will ultimately come In September 2012, Sappi Fine Paper Europe The technology also enables publishers to provide to signify Sappi’s commitment to sustainability and and other partners including ANB (the Agency additional product information for readers, and responsible corporate behaviour. for Nature and Forests), the Belgian Municipality suggest possible purchases. of Hechtel-Eksel, and communication agency 'Earth Kind' is represented by a powerful ecoPaper Here today. Here tomorrow. Proximity BBDO launched the Treehouse; a North America friendly emblem that leaves no room for confusion. platform, both physical and virtual, for like-minded eCommerce The heart shape symbolises humanity, nestled in an individuals and companies to come together to The region’s eCommerce website allows customers orb which depicts the earth, encompassing nature find ways to embrace sustainability in their daily to check orders, obtain stock manufacturing dates and the environment. The execution is deliberately activities. and product specifications and print invoices. In naïve and uncomplicated, reminding the viewer of 2012, the region enhanced the responsiveness of the very basic nature of the relationship between Located in Bosland, the largest forest in Flanders, the website with the launch of eChat, an innovation people and the planet. the Treehouse is made from wood and metal; the that allows customers to connect with customer meeting room in the trees is designed in the form service in real time. We also increased Electronic Paper. Here today. Here tomorrow. of an open book, to provide the blank canvas and Data Interchange by 10% to 65% and rolled out This brochure, published in 2012 sets out the the environmental inspiration to drive, and share, four mobile apps. advantages of Sappi paper and dispels some of sustainable thinking. Companies from different the myths around paper. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 50 Our management approach to Prosperity Marketing innovation — case studies Customerstudy Case engagement Case Westbrook study Mill one step further New casting release papers In 2012, Sappi Fine Paper Europe launched The process by which release papers are is 'Alloy', which looks like brushed aluminium. Houston, a new online knowledge made is much the same as any papermaking They are non-permanent and take less than a platform specifically developed as a process. However, at Westbrook Mill, the day to install, so when customers tire of one support tool for professionals working paper is also textured and receives a release colour or texture, the original wrap can be in the paper and graphic industries. coating. peeled off and replaced with a new colour or texture. Once users register (via their LinkedIn profile) The mill’s customers cast liquid vinyl or they can access a live support service — polyurethane onto the release paper. Once the Currently, 80% of all the Ultracast ® pattern, free of charge — and chat directly with liquid has set, the paper is peeled away and Fibra release paper produced at Westbrook Mill Sappi technical staff to ask questions and the vinyl or polyurethane retains an impression is used to make the vinyl car wrap. Another new share ideas. of the paper to become synthetic fabrics and market is making textured wall coverings used synthetic leathers. in hotels, casinos, and karaoke bars. This is a The site also allows users to access growing trend in Asia to add sophistication to information on the latest printing techniques The mill’s release papers are used in a variety the surfaces of hotel head boards and walls of and paper types, market trends etc. Polls, of applications such as car dashboards, shoes guest rooms, conference rooms, and elevators. market feedback and opinions are hosted and fashion accessories. Traditional leather grains are selling into this on the regularly updated site, providing market as well as geometrics. valuable news to users about the broader In addition to synthetic leathers and fabrics, industry environment in which they work. Sappi Warren release paper is also used in a variety of laminate flooring, laminate furniture, Houston will shortly begin hosting a series and technical film applications. of webinars on relevant issues. An example of a technical film application Feedback and suggestions are actively is a trend in the auto industry known as car encouraged so that the platform can be wrapping. Our customers are using Ultracast® continuously tailored to best meet the need release paper to create a vinyl car wrap that of customers and value chain partners. allows owners to protect and change the colour of their cars. The vinyl films can be customised with gloss effects and textures, properties of the release paper, or colour. A popular pattern 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 51 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report People By creating a safe, healthy workplace for our People in which diversity is encouraged and valued, and people are provided with ongoing development opportunities so that they can develop to their full potential, we enhance productivity and our ability to service global markets 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 52 Our management approach to People How we engage with our people, contributes significantly to our success Our approximately 14,000 dedicated Our key People drivers employees around the world underpin our The key drivers to achieving our people strategy Energising our work environment business success and our products play a vital are: Optimising recognition and reward programmes, role in promoting development and helping Connecting people to the business giving employees the freedom to act resourcefully people across the world to communicate. Communicating our business strategy to all in accordance with our values and the opportunities employees, providing them with the opportunity to reach their full potential, working collaboratively People play a critical role in the delivery of our to engage with management on the strategy and across geographies, business units and functions. overall performance and the manner in which we helping them understand what they need to do to lead, manage and develop our people contributes contribute to its overall achievement. Developing a strong human resources function significantly to our success. Ensuring that those tasked with delivering the In 2012, in view of the restructuring changes in people strategy focus on exceeding their clients’ We enhance productivity and our ability to service South Africa, we focused in particular on engaging expectations. global markets by creating a workplace: with the unions in the region. • That is safe and healthy • In which diversity is encouraged and valued Building strong skills across Sappi Our workforce Total 14,039 • Where employees are provided with ongoing Hiring correctly, retaining talent, accelerating development opportunities so that they can development, sourcing talent strategically, develop to their full potential. providing performance feedback and creating development opportunities. We focus on equipping our people and the communities in which we operate with the lifeDeveloping a strong leadership bench and career-skills, knowledge and confidence that Building leadership capability at all levels within allows them to build on their own capabilities the organisation and using the leadership pipeline and further their development. Our objective is framework as a means of guiding development. to have a fulfilled and engaged workforce that delivers on our key business drivers. Establishing Transforming our workplace a connection between work and organisational In the context of our Southern African business, strategy is important to achieve this; it ensures this involves focussing on transformation, and a that employees feel their work is truly of value to group commitment to diversity, as well as changed the organisation and therefore to their peers and mindsets in how we conduct business and behave 84% 16% managers, and leads to heightened commitment in line with our values. Men (11,776) Women (2,263) and retention. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 53 Our management approach to People Profiling our people LA 1 Sappi Limited workforce 88 Sappi Trading workforce 145 Total workforce by employment type, employment Men (42) Women (46) Men (37) Women (108) contract, and region Sappi Fine Paper North America workforce Total workforce 2,198 Men (1,792) Women (393) Contractors (13) Sappi Fine Paper Europe workforce Total workforce 5,913 Men (5,068) Women (697) Contractors (148) Key Sappi Southern Africa workforce Total workforce 6,724 300 employees Men (4,837) Women (1,019) Contractors (868) 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 54 Our management approach to People Profiling our people New employees by gender % LA Employee turnover 2012 02 Total number and % rate of employee turnover by age 30 142 98 742 10 employees employees employees employees group, gender, and 27.97 region. Women 25 Europe North America South Africa Trading Men 6109 20 5596 5605 5215 5246 New employees by age % 15 10 12.35 8.20 142 98 742 10 5 7.50 employees employees employees employees <20 40-49 20-29 50-59 0 Europe North America Southern Africa Sappi Trading Europe North America South Africa Trading 30-39 60+ Women in senior management lead teams Employee turnover by gender % % 44 98 33 371 10 women women women women Women 35 Europe North America South Africa Trading Men Employee turnover by age % 11 12.5 440 179 1,473 18 0 0 employees employees employees employees <20 40-49 Europe North Southern Sappi Sappi Group America Africa Trading Limited 20-29 50-59 Europe North America South Africa Trading 30-39 60+ 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 55 Our management approach to People Change and diversity LA Dealing with operational changes Encouraging a diverse workplace Diversity in Sappi boards 05 We apply the principles of transparency, We recognise that diversity facilitates Gender diversity Ethnicity diversity Minimum notice periods regarding inclusivity and fairness when dealing with interaction with different cultures, colleagues operational operational changes. and clients in today’s global marketplace. We changes, Sappi Limited including whether believe that by creating an inclusive culture it is specified Europe representative of the diversity of people, 29% board in collective agreements Notice periods are included in collective labour thoughts and ideas, we are able to deliver agreements and in the employment contract of decisions and service our customers based on 86% 14% senior managers. a broad palette of considerations. LA 13 North America Diversity and inclusiveness is not just about Sappi Limited Composition of governance bodies Per Federal law, 60 days. Notice periods are not fairness, morality and justice as being the right executive 12.5% specified in collective bargaining agreements. thing to do, nor is it just about legal compliance committee and breakdown of employees per 87% 13% employee category — it is about delivering value to our shareholders according to Southern Africa by achieving bottom-line results. gender, age group, Sappi Fine Paper minority group Notice periods are stipulated in the employment membership and contract and are typically 30 days. Based on market We are committed to valuing and promoting diversity Europe subsidiary 14% other indicators of diversity practice, senior management usually have longer and inclusion so that all employees can develop notice periods of three months and six months. their full potential, irrespective of gender, ethnicity, board 86% 14% Notice periods are not specified in collective disability, age, religion, belief or sexual orientation. UNGC agreements. We administer our people policies, programmes 6 Sappi Fine Paper and practices in a non-discriminatory manner The elimination Employees with disabilities Employees with disabilities in all aspects of the employment relationship, North America of discrimination in respect of % of all employees by ethnicity including recruitment, hiring, assessments, work 15% employment and subsidiary board occupation assignments, promotions, transfers, terminations, 71% 29% wage and salary administration and selection for 2% 85 employees training and development. Sappi We continually challenge ourselves to enhance the Southern Africa 22% African/Asian connection between our commitment to diversity subsidiary board Coloured Indian and inclusion and our performance in living up to 86% 14% Caucasian this commitment. Caucasian African/Asian 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 56 Our management approach to People Diversity Recruitment Regulatory developments Apart from employment equity targets in South Africa, We are monitoring regulatory developments in South Africa group targets for promoting equal opportunities both Europe and South Africa. The Women’s Empowerment and Gender Equality are general rather than specific. Managers are Bill is being tabled for approval by Cabinet and will encouraged to consider a diverse slate of candidates Europe take effect during 2013. Broadly, the bill entails for salaried management positions. The European Commission has been weighing gender mainstreaming across all categories of options for ways to promote women on company employees in both government and the private In South Africa, each human resources manager boards. Currently, there are no laws in place sector. It is proposed that gender equality is and hiring manager is required to recruit according related to quotas based on gender in the countries managed in a similar manner as the employment to the employment equity plan in place at their in which we operate (Austria, Belgium, Finland, equity bill. site. Emphasis is given to appointing the best Germany and the Netherlands). person for the job with preference being given to those demographics which we under-represent In recent years we have increased our focus on in a category. If skills and competencies are bringing people from different nationalities and comparable, then previously disadvantaged backgrounds into management positions. Two employees are given preference. thirds of 25 recent management appointments came from a different function, locality or nationality. South Africa — ethnicity and gender diversity by occupation Top management Senior management Professional qualified Junior management Semi-skilled Unskilled Gender diversity 88% 12% 81% 19% 80% 20% 78% 22% 86% 14% 82% 18% Ethnicity diversity 18% PDE 13% PDE 32% PDE 61% PDE 96% PDE 99% PDE African/Asian Coloured Indian Caucasian PDE Previously Disadvantaged Employee 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 57 Our management approach to People Promoting training and development LA Our aim is to provide successful learning Average training hours Training budget 10 solutions that enable individuals, groups and Per employee Average hours of training per year per the organisation to improve performance, Hours US$ '000s employee by gender learn new skills, adapt to change and meet 59.55 Group average 2011 56.5h/employee and by employee category groupwide business objectives 75 64.2 5,271 Our focus on training and development, whether 4,277 LA it is to learn new skills, improve performance or to 49 4,447 11 30.37 3,389 51 prepare for a future career objective, is recognised 39.3 Programmes for as a strategic tool for Sappi’s continued growth, 30.37 skills management 40 and life-long productivity and our ability to retain valuable learning that 30 support the employees. Consequently, we are committed to continued helping employees reach their full potential by employability of employees that developing their knowledge skills and abilities 1,030 559 178 77 assist them in and by providing opportunities to gain new managing career Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Group Europe North America Southern Africa Trading endings experiences. Target Actual Budget Actual Training hours by category per employee Management Knowledge Skills programmes Sappi and leadership development and capacity building and individual development World of Work Training associated with Training that enhances Formal programmes/selfMandatory training — legal, management, supervisory individuals’ skills for current study with both practical safety, health, environment and leadership development or future positions for a and theoretical components and quality compliance 'best practice' organisation that may lead to educational qualifications Southern Africa 1.10 hours 18.80 hours 34.20 hours 10.10 hours Europe 1.91 hours 13.57 hours 7.61 hours 7.28 hours North America 1.85 hours 34.30 hours 2.14 hours 21.26 hours Trading 2.00 hours 26.20 hours 8.00 hours 3.10 hours 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 58 Our management approach to People Promoting training and development continued During 2011 and 2012 we embarked upon Career growth major business restructuring in our European Where appropriate, we offer assessments to employee lay-offs, we provide severance pay to all and South African businesses which resulted employees to identify their work strengths; their employees and, in some instances, outplacement in headcount reductions and cost saving motives to help guide future career growth and assistance. initiatives. aspirations. Going forward, training and skills development opportunities for all employees at all Following the extensive restructuring process in the While training spend was cut, resulting in a levels, together with performance management, Southern African region in 2012, Sappi Southern decrease in the group average from 56.5 hours remain key priorities. Africa made use of the Government training lay-off per employee in 2011 to 49 hours in 2012, we scheme in terms of which employees were provided are pleased to have maintained an acceptable Career endings with the opportunity to train for a new skill set, level of spend, despite the constrained economic In terms of career endings, access to retirement thereby improving their job search prospects. conditions we experienced. planning services is provided on a regional basis and in some instances this is supported by financial Europe wellbeing programmes. To the extent that there are We reached our target of 30 hours of training per employee for the year Average training spend Training spend per employee as a percentage of payroll North America US$ % Our target is similar to South Africa’s target. In 2012, each employee achieved the targeted objective of 60 hours of training, nearly double the level in 2008. 696 2.20 531 592 577 South Africa 5596 6109 5605 5215 5246 We have a five-year target to provide training and development opportunities of an average 60 hours 1 1.09 per employee per annum. The region exceeded this target in 2012, with 64 hours of training per 250 0.60 employee. 0.30 Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Group Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Group 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 59 Our management approach to People Performance reviews and benefits LA Performance reviews Benefits 3 Europe Europe Benefits provided to full-time During 2011 approximately 76% of our eligible Both fulland part-time employees receive the Temporary and part-time employees would not employees that employees received performance reviews. same benefits such as healthcare, disability normally qualify for these benefits although in are not provided to temporary or partApproximately 74.2% of males and 89.3% coverage, maternity/paternity leave, retirement some circumstances and depending on the length time employees, by of females who were eligible completed their provisions. of the contract, some temporary employees may significant locations of operations reviews. 52.7% of employees had a training and/ be eligible for a bonus at year-end. or development need identified. North America Permanent and part-time employees, who work 20 Sappi Trading LA North America hours or more per week are provided with medical Depending upon the duration of the part-time 12 During 2011, 100% of the salaried workforce insurance. life insurance, disability insurance, contract, benefits similar to those provided to Percentage of employees completed their performance reviews and retirement and other benefits. full-time permanent employees may be provided. receiving regular development plans. Women made up 30% Sappi Trading does not currently have any partperformance and career development and males 70% of the salaried workforce who Southern Africa time employees. reviews, by gender completed the reviews. In addition to benefits such as retirement and medical aid, full-time employees qualify for varied Southern Africa leave benefits which include maternity-, paternity-, LA Approximately 75% of white collar employees, study-leave etc. They also participate in an annual 15 both male and female, received performance bonus scheme. Return to work and retention rates after feedback and career development reviews. parental leave, by gender Parental Leave Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Maternity Paternity Total Maternity Paternity Total Maternity Paternity Total Maternity Paternity Total leave leave leave leave leave leave leave leave Total employees who took 24 48 72 6 7 13 71 0 71 1 0 1 parental leave Number of employees who did not return to work post parental 20 5 25 0 0 0 8 0 8 0 0 1 leave Number of employees who returned from parental leave and 10 30 40 Not currently available Not currently available Not currently available are still employed with Sappi, 12 months after their return 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 60 Our management approach to People Remunerating fairly LA Our compensation programmes are designed Remuneration by gender and occupation 14 to achieve our goals of attracting, motivating Senior Management First-line Specialist Ratio of basic salary and retaining employees who can drive management management groups of men to women by employee category the achievement of financial and strategic objectives that are intended to build longEurope term shareholder value. The primary components of pay include base 92% 82% salary, benefits eg medical and retirement, annual incentive awards and long-term incentives. Compensation levels are set to reflect competitive North market practices, internal equity as well as company and individual performance. America 84% 97% 89% 99% Sappi’s benchmarking philosophy is to pay at Southern Africa the median of the market for all components of pay except for short-term incentives which are targeted at the 75th percentile. Total compensation is between the 50th and 75th percentile of the 91% 98% 95% 91% market. We do not discriminate on the basis of gender. Amongst employees earning minimum wages, there is very little income disparity. Trading 85% = 98% The income disparity at the higher levels of the organisation, where in some instances men earn more than women and vice versa, is based on Limited differentials such as performance, length of service and on the fact that we do not remunerate at a specific rate, but rather, within a specific band. 83% 90% 97% 98% 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 61 Our management approach to People Prioritising wellbeing, health and safety LA All our pulp and paper mills are certified to the We emphasise employee awareness and North America 06 internationally recognised OHSAS18001 Safety competence through ongoing training programmes Approximately 65% of all employees are Percentage of total workforce represented Management System. which take into account differing levels of ability, represented at joint safety committee meetings in formal joint literacy and responsibility. with management. management–worker health and safety A core element of this approach is the hazard committees that help identification and risk assessment process in Training related to health and safety hazards and Southern Africa monitor and advise on occupational terms of which task-specific hazards and risks are safe work practices is reinforced by educational Approximately 75% of the total workforce is health and safety identified, evaluated in terms of current controls pamphlets, posters, videos and a global safety represented by safety representatives who programmes. and managed by establishing additional controls awareness day, around which each facility participate in safety meetings with management. and risk reduction activities. Roles, responsibilities arranges a week of focused activities to reinforce and accountability are documented, with and reinvigorate our year-round work programme management in all regions actively involved in our safety programmes. Like preventive action, on safety. Case study Better — Safer — Smarter corrective action involves root-cause analysis In addition to addressing hazards in the workplace with the emphasis on improvement rather than by means of the OHSAS 18001 related systems we In June 2012, we held our seventh Global blame. In addition to actual incidents, near-misses also address 'at risk behaviour' of our employees Safety Awareness Day (GSAD) which aims are documented and also undergo root-cause by means of behaviour based safety (BBS). to reinforce our year-round commitment to investigation. safety through targeted activities. On this day Health and safety committees employees and contractors focus on safety Annual safety audits are conducted at all Health and safety committees are in place at inand outside the workplace. operations. Internal safety tools and techniques all of our operations. Employees are consulted In the spirit of the Olympic theme 'Faster, which have proven to be effective are shared about the development and review of policies and Higher, Stronger.' the GSAD theme was Better within the group with particular emphasis on the procedures and changes that affect workplace — Safer — Smarter. Most business units took empowerment of our workforce to identify where safety or health through these committees. this theme further, using sporting activities and how improvements can be made. We also with a focus on winning as a result of team share regular feedback with our employees on Europe work, to reinforce the safety message. Other performance measured against our standards to Formal health and safety committees are normally activities were work-related with practical instil a sense of ownership and awareness. part of a production unit and are in place at all demonstrations on how to work safely in major sites. Approximately 75% of all employees confined spaces, working safely at elevated are represented by the safety committees. levels and correct fire-fighting techniques, as well as suggestions on healthy lifestyles. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 62 Our management approach to People Safety management LA Discussions governed by formal agreements Safety terminology Lost days and fatalities 09 with trade unions about wellbeing, health and Key to graphs and terms used Health and safety safety vary across regions: Number of lost days topics covered in formal agreements LTI Lost Time Injury with trade unions. Lost days are calculated as days that an 19,918 Europe employee cannot report for the next work There is no regionwide agreement on health and day or shift due to an illness, injury, disability 16,788 or death arising from an incident occurring at safety topics covered in trade union agreements. work. If the employee is unable to complete 16.2 However, in the Netherlands formal local the work he is hired to do, but is well enough to attend work (restricted work), this is also agreements cover health and safety issues; legal deemed to be a lost day. Lost days are requirements and deal with issues such as personal recorded from the day after the accident/ incident until the employee returns. The day protective equipment; training and education, and of the accident and the day returning to work determining the complaints mechanism. are not included. A fatality or permanent 2,373 disability is counted as 6,000 days. Local Works Council representatives participate 757 LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 10 in health and safety topics; have a right to be based on a Sappi groupwide standard for man hours Europe North Southern Group included in site inspections, audits, accident America Africa investigations, training and development; LTIFR = (LTI × 200,000) determine the complaints mechanism and support hours of exposure an employee’s right to refuse to do unsafe work. LTISR Lost Time Injury Severity Rating = Fatalities based on a Sappi groupwide standard for man hours North America Lost days and fatalities The majority of collective bargaining agreements LTISR = Southern Africa and therefore Sappi group lost days are (№ days lost to injury × 200,000) high as they include the 12 000 lost days attributed to the provide for union participation in safety committees. two death of two contractors in the year under review. hours of exposure Southern Africa One death is regarded as 6,000 lost days. II Injury Index — provides an overall Our current agreements with the unions do not sense of safety within the measured unit cover health and safety issues. Employees are II = LTIFR × LTISR represented at safety committees by safety AIFR The All Injury Frequency Rate representatives, who are not necessarily union or represents the number of all injuries shop steward representatives as prescribed by AIFR = All injuries x 200,000 legislation. hours of exposure 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 63 Our management approach to People Safety performance LA Improvements in reducing fatalities and lost Detailed regional safety information 07 time injuries are evident throughout the group. More detailed information on our safety Rates of injury, occupational performance in each region is available in our diseases, lost days Going forward, we are committed to our goals regional sustainability reports. and absenteeism and number of of eliminating fatalities and lost time injuries by work-related fatalities selecting the most appropriate leading performance by region. indicators and identifying the areas of our activities that present the greatest threat to performance or opportunity for improvement. LTISR LTIFR Fatalities Own employees and contractors Own employees and contractors Own employees and contractors Lost Time Injury Severity Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 200 2.5 10 2.0 8 150 1.5 6 100 1.0 4 50 0.5 2 0 0.0 0 Europe North America South Africa Group Europe North America South Africa Group Europe North America South Africa Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 64 Our management approach to People Safety performance Europe North America Southern Africa We improved our safety performance in FY12 with Our safety performance improved by a 25% We ended the year, for all personnel employed, an LTIFR of 1.24 for own employees compared reduction compared to FY11 and we achieved with an LTIFR of 0.35, an improvement on the with the FY11 rate of 1.33. an LTIFR of 0.72. The top quartile benchmark for FY11 LTIFR of 0.41. our industry is 0.80 Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) for Sappi employees The All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) for the year improved to 59 from 72 in FY11. Nijmegen Mill Contractor performance deteriorated — in this was 3.52. An LTISR of 60.30 shows that although reported a zero LTIFR for own employees. region we use very few contractors and single the number of injuries was well contained, severity incidents have a significant impact on LTIFR remained high. Two contractor employee fatalities Contractor LTIs increased to 20 from 18 in FY11, statistics. contributed to the high severity rate. increasing the LTIFR from 3.79 to 4.44. Ehingen Mill reported a zero LTIFR for contractors. The incident investigation method — a core Contractor safety issues have historically been element of the OHSAS 18001 system — provided challenging — the majority of contractors are Conducting thorough root cause investigations the root-cause analysis output that drives all employed by Sappi Forests which has a large into safety incidents and focusing on how best prevention activities. For example, Somerset Mill number of people spread over an extensive to permanently remove safety risks helped to virtually eliminated eye injuries and Westbrook geographical area, making management difficult. drive the improvement in safety performance. Mill has significantly reduced sprains and strains However, the good contractor safety performance The improvement can further be attributed to the associated with handling materials. When incidents of the previous two years was maintained with relentless drive by supervisors and managers to do occur, the focus is on learning-and-sharing and an LTIFR of 0.24 for the year under review — an report all near misses and leverage the sharing determining the actions necessary to prevent a improvement on the FY11 Contractor LTIFR of of each incident investigation through the SARA reoccurrence. This information is then shared with 0.36. safety reporting tool. mills in other regions. Disappointingly, the excellent contractor safety Actions taken throughout the year to improve performance was not emulated by our own safety communications included weekly news, employees; The FY12 LTIFR at 0.65 against a videos, tool box talks and websites to consistently target of 0.42 disappointed and is a deterioration generate and maintain awareness and discussions. on the FY11, 0.55 achievement. We are currently A safety circle video was produced with the identifying and transferring the best practice objective of providing a tactical tool to drive the results of the contractors' excellent performance immediate situational assessment and hazard to our own employees. This includes focus identification in the field. on communication and discipline as well as a refocus on the BBS programme to ensure that the 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 65 Our management approach to People Safety performance Southern Africa continued principles and fundamentals of the program are Case study Europe safety improvements clearly understood and the data collected utilised Nijmegen Mill had no Lost Time Injuries in FY12. with other units in the European region. The key to eliminate accidents. This outstanding safety achievement was the of this success was adequate job preparation result of the mill’s reinforcement of behaviourthrough the 5Ps (Proper Preparation Prevents The Sappi group initiative of Safety Circles was based practices with specific attention to Poor Performance) approach. well utilised by all units with focus on a different housekeeping in terms of the 5Ss (Sort, element for each month of the year. Regular safety Straighten, Sanitise, Standardise, Sustain) Significant LTIFR improvements were also communications at each operation included observations and inspections. achieved by Stockstadt and Kirkniemi mills, various publications, notifications, sharing ideas both of which achieved their lowest LTIFRs ever. on improvements, management attendance on The introduction of the Dutch VCA standard regular safety walk-abouts and tool box talks. safety training tool, in 2011, proved to At Stockstadt Mill, the main tools used for be a particularly effective tool in driving improvement were behaviour-based safety Safety milestones safety improvement. The VCA Standard is a audits and more frequent reporting of near In October and November 2011, Tugela and Dutch safety, health and environmental checklist misses. Ngodwana Mills respectively achieved one million for contractors. Kirkniemi Mill launched a campaign to improve man hours without any Lost Time Injuries for own The training modules cover all aspects of safety safety awareness by utilising the Safety Circle employees. (risk, hazardous substances, safe working concept, where every meeting commences tools, working with hoists, working in confined with safety discussions. In addition, risk Ngodwana Mill also achieved one million man spaces etc). The lessons learnt during the assessments and incident investigations were hours without Lost Time Injuries for contractors. Nijmegen Mill expansion project were shared intensified 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 66 Our management approach to People Safety priorities during 2013 Europe North America Southern Africa Our main objective is to achieve a significant LTIFR We will build further on the safety circle concept. Our target for FY2013 is to achieve an LTIFR (for improvement for the entire operation through: The video My Safety Circle will continue to be contractors and employees) better than 0.27 by: • Integrated health and safety planning and used to further drive awareness and provide a • Prioritising communications with all personnel management; consistent message. • Shifting focus from reactive reporting to pro• Training at every organisational level; active reporting and the management of lead • Participative information and control structures; The continued improvement in LTIFR will be indicators • Adherence to international best practices; and consolidated by: • Utilising all databases to proactively identify • Improved reporting and sharing of best • Continuing with the SafeStart programme, a trends and eliminate hazards practices through the regional safety platform. methodology used at our Allentown sheeting • Continuing to maintain a high level systemic facility which teaches the patterns of incident adherence and compliance to the OSHAS causation and behaviour that reduces human 18001 standard errors • Aligning own employee safety performance • Realigning the focus on employee involvement with contractor safety performance, and and working with line supervisors to further • Providing metrics to monitor industry embed the positive safety culture performance as part of industry benchmarking. • Furthering the development of the Westbrook near-miss process, and • Focusing on hazard identification and risk assessments throughout the region and leveraging opportunities to improve work methods and equipment. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 67 Our management approach to People Health and wellbeing initiatives LA Absenteeism 08 It is important to monitor absenteeism as it can North America Education, training, counselling, significantly impact productivity and financial One workers compensation claim, alleging historic operating procedure at a mill, the communities prevention, and riskperformance. Our absenteeism rates benchmark exposure to asbestos over a 30-year period is living around the mill have been impacted, then control programmes in place to assist well against industry trends. under investigation. the company will proactively engage with that workforce members, community to address issues. their families, or community members Occupational disease Southern Africa regarding serious Europe Two cases of noise induced hearing loss and Southern Africa diseases. There were no confirmed cases of occupational acoustic trauma. Our employee wellbeing programmes include diseases but there were two suspected cases: a annual wellness risk assessments conducted at spinal disease and a noise induced hearing loss. Health and wellbeing initiatives each mill and prevention/outreach programmes Our operations continue to support, engage and conducted to mitigate identified risks. facilitate wellbeing programmes to increase the health and productivity of our people at work and Absenteesim in their personal lives. % South African employee wellness risks Europe Risk Awareness intervention 6 There is an increased awareness of stress and Distress Coping with change burn-out; programmes are in place to assist 5 and support employees who need support. Motor vehicle Safe driving accidents The company also has a number of wellness 4 programmes in place to help educate employees Noise Noise induced hearing loss on healthy living and to minimise the risk of serious Financial debt Financial wellness 3 diseases. Alcohol and drug Alcohol and drug awareness 2 abuse and rehabilitation North America programmes 1 Several wellness programmes are in place to Health claims Cardiac wellness educate employees about healthy living and 0 minimising the risk of serious diseases. All of Europe North America South Africa Women related Breast cancer our programmes focus on our own employees. claims 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Resources are not available to extend these HIV/AIDS Prevention and treatment programmes. If, however, as a result of an 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 68 Our management approach to People Health and wellbeing initiatives continued PR HIV/AIDS 6 HIV/AIDS continues to be a significant business for behavioural change and therefore we have North America Programmes for adherence to laws, risk for our Southern African operations. Extensive extensive voluntary testing programmes at our Our Lusterprint products comply with the standards, and work has been undertaken to manage and operating units. We have extended our HCT (HIV regulations promulgated by the US Food and Drug voluntary codes related to marketing minimise the risk and impact HIV/AIDS poses to Counselling and Testing) programme and offer an Administration (FDA) for paper and paper-board communications, our employees and the business. Our integrated HIV test to every employee who visits the clinics packaging in contact with dry, aqueous or fatty including advertising, promotion, and response strategies focus on risk assessment, for a medical examination. foods. Our graphic papers are not intended for sponsorship prevention and treatment, and empowering contact with food. employees through knowledge-sharing and Read more about our efforts to combat HIV/AIDS awareness. in Southern Africa. Southern Africa Our food packaging paper grades are tested Testing for HIV serves as an entry point for Customers’ health and safety for compliance with the requirements of FDA, both prevention and treatment; taking an HIV We work closely with our customers to meet BFR (German Federal Institute for Risk Control) test is arguably the single most influential driver their food packaging requirements. and 94/26/EC (environmental requirements for packaging and packaging waste). Tests are We encourage users of our paper products to conducted both in-house and by accredited HIV testing recycle. The majority of our papers are recyclable, third parties to enable us to issue certificates of Employees voluntarily tested for HIV the exceptions being wet strength and release compliance to our customers. % papers. Europe 56.7 53.2 An independent testing institute monitors the 6109 majority of our papers for conformance with the 45.9 5596 German Recommendation for Paper and Board for 5215 5246 Food Contact and the European Union directive 1935/2004/EC. 28.7 21 23.6 Many of our papers are also used in children’s toys. 17.2 Compliance with the Toy Safety Standard EN71 (part 8.2 3.1 4.1 3 — Toy Safety — Migration of Certain Substances 1.7 1.9 and part 9 — Organic Substances) of most of our '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 paper grades is also regularly monitored. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 69 Our management approach to People Supporting communities Our management approach to societal Recycling leadership in North America support is outlined as a key sustainability Following several years of support for the Codman The 2011 grade 12 class consisted of 325 driver. Following are showcase initiatives from Academy, the Boston Sustainability Committee students; 98% passed their final year of schooling; each region. engaged the Academy’s Climate Action Network 64% achieved university exemption. student body to upgrade its recycling programme Making ideas matter in Europe to LEED building standards when the Academy Resource centres Our Ideas that Matter programme, has granted moved into a new building in 2012. Sappi established the KwaDukuza and Umjindi US$12m to professional and student designers Resource Centres in 2000 and 2005 respectively, since 1999, in support of over 500 paper-based The LEED certification system provides building giving local schools and the communities access creative campaigns that promote worthy causes owners and operators with a framework to digital centres with computers, dedicated study that change our lives, our communities, and for identifying and implement practical and areas, reference libraries, resource materials for ultimately, our planet. measurable green building design, construction, projects and study materials. The centres are operations and maintenance solutions. also used by educational authorities for meetings, In 2012, a professional designer from the United training sessions and stakeholder engagement Kingdom, Zoe Watkins, won a grant for her After joint meetings at both the Sappi office and get-togethers. Sappi provides US$120,000 per Please Turn Over campaign which aims to raise Codman Academy, the Codman students wrote annum in funding. awareness for Community Healthcare Innovations a recycling plan for the new building. The plan — an organisation that helps people in deprived has been approved and Sappi will help with areas 'turn over a new leaf' and lead a healthier implementation. lifestyle. Supporting education in South Africa CSI Award A student designer from the UK, Emily Boon Yin PROTEC The inaugural Sunday Times Top 100 Tang, won the student category for her Drawing Our flagship education project is our support for the Companies CSI Award honoured Sappi Life initiative; she partnered with The Big Issue, Programme for Technological Careers (PROTEC), Southern Africa in November 2012, in a magazine sold by homeless people. Emily and a 30-year-old national career development nonrecognition of the KwaDukuza Resource The Big Issue will organise open-air events where governmental organisation. The project which Centre and Project Grow initiatives. homeless people pair up with members of the promotes science, mathematics and technology audience to produce paintings. This is focused education operates through nine branches in Sappi The award follows a review of the enterprise on raising the self-esteem of the participants as communities of the Eastern Cape, Mpumalanga development and socio-economic well as changing stereotypical public perceptions and KwaZulu-Natal, running classes on Saturdays development components of 997 companies of the homeless. for over 900 students in grades 10, 11 and 12. The by an independent panel of judges. annual budget is US$240,000. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 70 Our management approach to People Our approach to human rights UNGC We do not tolerate any form of unfair In FY12, we sold our 34% stake in a joint venture 01 d i s c r i m i n a t i o n , i n h u m a n e t re a t m e n t , in Jiangxi Chenming Mill in the People’s Republic Support and respect the forced labour, child labour, harassment of China which is regarded as an 'Extreme Risk' protection of or intimidation in the workplace. We are country for Human Rights abuses. Although our international human rights within their committed to the labour rights principles of influence was limited, neither our investigations sphere of influence. the UN Global Compact, including the right nor any information from the company indicate to freedom of association and collective that there are any human rights abuses at the mill. bargaining (discussed under Employees in the UNGC 02 'Our key sustainability drivers' section of this Make sure their own report), the eradication of child and forced corporations are not labour, and non-discrimination. complicit in human rights abuses. We subscribe to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organisation, which promote: UNGC • Freedom of association 04 • Non-discrimination The elimination of all forms of forced and • Abolition of forced and child labour. compulsory labour. We also uphold the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and have used UNGC these principles as the basis for our Human Rights 05 policy. The effective abolition of child labour. The countries in which we have manufacturing operations are ranked as 'Low Risk' or 'Medium Risk' on the Human Rights Risk Atlas. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 71 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — general GRI Our focus is on understanding our stakeholders’ and responsiveness. Our stakeholders and the 4.4 needs and building trust by engaging with them on ways in which we engage with them are set out Mechanisms for shareholders the basis of relevance, materiality, completeness below. and employees to provide recommendations Key topics and concerns Our approach or direction to the highest governance body. Internally developed statements • Code of Ethics (revised in 2012, to be published in 2013) of mission or values, codes of • Sustainability Charter (revised in 2011) conduct, and principles relevant to • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (revised in 2012) GRI economic, environmental, and social • Group Environmental Policy (revised in 2011) 4.8 performance and the status of their implementation • • HIV/AIDS policy Human Rights Policy Internally developed statements • Stakeholder engagement policy of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Externally developed economic, • UN Global Compact (signed in 2008) principles relevant environmental and social charters, • Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Labour Organisation to economic, principles, or other initiatives to • The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Policy Guidelines for Preventing environmental, and which the organisation subscribes or Corruption are incorporated into our Code of Ethics social performance and the status of endorses • South Africa Energy Efficiency Accord their implementation Memberships in associations (such Industry associations as industry associations) and/or GRI national/international advocacy • Europe Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) and relevant national associations, 4.12 organisations • North America American Forest and Paper Association Industry association (AF&PA) Externally • South Africa Paper Manufacturers’ Association of South Africa (PAMSA), Forestry South Africa (FSA) and other developed sectoral bodies economic, • Group Pulp and Paper Products Council (PPPC) environmental, and social charters, principles, or other Other initiatives to which • Europe Print Power the organisation subscribes or • Europe and North America Two Sides endorses • North America Sappi Fine Paper North America is a founding member of the GreenBlue Forest Products Working Group (FPWG), established in October 2011 • South Africa National Business Initiative (NBI) • Business Unity South Africa (BUSA) • South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SACCI) • Manufacturing Circle • SA Energy Intensive Users Forum • FSC™ • Sappi Limited is a member of WWF-SA and Birdlife SA 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 72 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — employees GRI 4.13 Key topics and concerns Our approach Memberships in associations Organisational developments and Our CEO and regional CEOs engage with staff through: (such as industry channels through which employees • Site visits and discussions. associations) and/ or international can raise issues and matters of • Suggestion lines exist at some facilities. advocacy concern • Unions have formal channels through which they engage with management. organisations We encourage full engagement between managers and their staff. Other avenues of engagement include: • Global, regional and local newsletters • Global intranet GRI • Letters, roadshows and presentations by the Group CEO as well as regional CEOs 4.14 • Feedback on 2011 employee engagement survey List of stakeholder • South Africa groups engaged by • National Employment Equity and Skills Development Forum the organisation • Shop Steward Forum • Partnership Forum GRI 4.16 Health, wellbeing and safety • Wellbeing committees at business units Approaches • Health and safety committees at mills to stakeholder engagement, including frequency Our aim is to entrench a culture of Europe of engagement sustainability within our organisation The Sappi positivity campaign is built on contribution and input from our people. It highlights positive stories that by type and by stakeholder group emphasise Sappi’s commitment to the 3Ps. North America GRI We developed a group of Sustainability Ambassadors with personnel at each location to help exchange information 4.17 on sustainability goals and various key sustainability initiatives. Key topics and concerns that South Africa have been raised • We established the Green Ambassador initiative. through stakeholder • We developed a 'Take ownership for the sustainability of Sappi' programme in 2012. This includes a engagement, sustainability learning and engagement programme that provides easy access to sustainability material for all and how the organisation has employees. The programme enables self-study on a wide range of internal and external related subjects on an responded to those ongoing basis. key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 73 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — employees continued Key topics and concerns Our approach Channels through which concerns Grievance mechanisms are discussed under 'employees' as a key sustainability driver and grievances can be discussed In addition to grievance mechanisms, the Sappi hotlines in each region allow employees to report alleged breaches of the Code of Ethics in full confidentiality. Our aim is to entrench a culture of Europe sustainability within our organisation The Sappi positivity campaign is built on contribution and input from our people. It highlights positive stories that emphasise Sappi’s commitment to the 3Ps. North America We developed a group of Sustainability Ambassadors with personnel at each location to help exchange information on sustainability goals and various key sustainability initiatives. South Africa • We established the Green Ambassador initiative. • We developed a 'Take ownership for the sustainability of Sappi' programme in 2012. This includes a sustainability learning and engagement programme that will provide easy access to sustainability material for all employees from 2013. The programme enables self-study on a wide range of internal and external related subjects on an ongoing basis. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 74 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — communities Key topics and concerns Our approach Information and issues relating to Environmental issues specific communities in which our In South Africa, there are environmental liaison committees at most of the mills and forestry operations. These operations are situated committees include members from various regulatory authorities, residents' associations, conservancies, municipal representatives and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Members of the public and other parties participate in the environmental impact assessments (EIAs) conducted before the start of any major project. Social issues • In South Africa we engage communities close to our operations with regards to their social needs. • In 2011 and 2012, we conducted a socio-economic assessment of the communities close to our company’s operations. This is being used to inform corporate social responsibility initiatives going forward. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 75 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — customers Key topics and concerns Our approach A partnership approach, whereby The group follows an approach of regular engagement with customers by senior and executive management in customers feel that their needs and support of the ongoing engagement by the relevant sales and marketing teams. concerns are heard and reacted upon, and high levels of service Europe We conduct regular customer surveys. In a recent survey our customer service scored ahead of our competition. North America The e-Commerce website allows customers to check orders, obtain stock manufacturing dates and product specifications and print invoices. In 2012, we enhanced the responsiveness of the website with the launch of eChat, an innovation that allows customers to connect with customer service in real time. We increased Electronic Data Interchange by 10% to 65% and rolled out four mobile applications. South Africa We communicated extensively with our customers in 2012, keeping them abreast of the changes initiated during the year. We also engaged with customers regarding the development of new products. Global In addition to customer satisfaction targets related to price, service and quality, Sappi has established complaints targets per mill and paper type. Product specialists in the mills deal with complaints and provide feedback to the production units. Regular meetings are held with customers to determine their product needs as well as their needs in relation to emerging trends. Information about the fibre sourcing Europe and South Africa and production processes behind We publish Paper Profiles and information sheets for our papers. These give details regarding the composition our brands. of our papers, as well as key environmental parameters related to our pulp and paper production processes and information on environmental management systems and wood fibre sourcing policies. North America • We use Metafore's Environmental Performance Assessment Tool (EPAT) which enables buyers to evaluate our performance on a mill by mill basis. • The web-based eQ tool provides stakeholders with the foundation to engage with the broader environmental considerations when choosing a paper supplier. The eQ tool also provides users with the ability to generate a customised product statement that summarises the environmental benefits of choosing Sappi Fine Paper North America’s papers for a print job. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 76 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — customers continued Key topics and concerns Our approach Information about print as a Europe communication medium and • We published the Life with Print series. technical information • We participated as education sponsor in EcoPrint 2012, thought to be the world’s first exhibition and event entirely focused on sustainable print business. • In September 2012, we launched Houston, a new online knowledge platform specifically developed as a support tool for professionals working in the paper and graphic industries. • Together with other partners including ANB (the Agency for Nature and Forests), the Belgian Municipality of Hechtel-Eksel, and communication agency Proximity BBDO, the region also launched the Treehouse, a platform, both physical and virtual, for like-minded individuals and companies to come together to find ways to embrace sustainability in their daily activities. North America • We published the eQ journal which covers a broad range of sustainability topics and the eQ Insight series into a variety of topics such as water and host a sustainability blog: The Environmental Quotient. • We continued the humorous online video series, Off Register™. The series is based on the hilarious real-life experiences of printers. South Africa • We published a brochure entitled 'Paper. Here today. Here tomorrow' which sets out the advantages of Sappi paper and dispels some of the myths around paper. • A series of discussion documents or FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) dealing with specific aspects of each of the 3Ps is available on www.sappi.com. Global A series of technical brochures is available on our website www.sappi.com. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 77 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — customers continued Key topics and concerns Our approach Initiatives to promote design and • Ideas that Matter Europe print • Ideas that Matter North America • Sappi International Printers of the Year • Life with Print Europe • Life with Print North America • Life with Print South Africa • Europe What’s Next magazine • North America Sappi ETC (Education Training and Consulting) programme. A microsite will be launched in 2013 where customers can readily access the kind of information normally covered in SFPNA seminars and in-person consultation. • North America The Standard, a series of information guides to designing for print with useful tips, techniques and methods for achieving optimum printing results. • North America Digital design centre • South Africa Paper. Here today, Here tomorrow 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 78 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — investors and others Industry and regulatory bodies Key topics and concerns Our approach Join forces to deal with matters of mutual Consultations take place on an ongoing basis with industry associations in each region. concern Investors Key topics and concerns Our approach Timeous, relevant communication that As a public company the shareholders can raise issues at the quarterly results presentations and the AGM. facilitates informed decisions Our investor relations (IR) team engages with shareholders continuously. This team has direct access to the executive directors and any issues shareholders raise that would be relevant for the board are channelled through the IR team. Our Chairman also engages with shareholders on relevant issues. • Mill visits • Road shows • Quarterly results presentations and other ongoing presentations • One-on-one presentations • Reports: Integrated Report • on-line Global Sustainability Report • regional sustainability reports • Form 20-F report for USA investors • Stock Exchange News Wire Services (SENS) • Media releases • Dedicated investor section on the Sappi website 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 79 Our management approach to People Engaging with our stakeholders — suppliers Key topics and concerns Our approach Understanding what is required to The procurement executives from each region coordinate at global level to improve relations with suppliers establish a mutually beneficial relationship. and provide benefits to all parties through better understanding of the requirements of the Sappi group. We discuss our efforts to promote fibre certification for small growers in North America and South Africa under 'Sustainable fibre and certification' as key sustainability drivers. Help with forestry matters North America Sappi Fine Paper North America’s Sustainable Forestry Programme is staffed with a full complement of licenced foresters. This programme offers education regarding certification, estimates on timber value as well as help with developing and managing harvest plans. South Africa Qualified extension officers assist small growers participating in our Project Grow scheme, our enterprise development initiative. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 80 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Planet In a world where natural resources are under increasing pressure, we are achieving our goal of treading more lightly on the planet ­— the facts and graphs that follow tell the story more eloquently than words can 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 81 Our management approach to Planet Overview EN We are advantaged by the fact that our our use of fossil energy and the associated EN 30 Environmental capital 30 primary resource, wood-fibre, is derived greenhouse gas emissions across the full life cycle expenditure FY2012 Total environmental protection from sustainably managed natural forests of our products. It also predicates using less water US$m expenditures and and plantations — a sustainable, renewable and improving effluent quality, mitigating our impact investments by type. resource. on biodiversity and promoting sustainable forestry through internationally accredited, independent Both natural forests and plantations are essential environmental management and forest certification to a healthy environment, sustaining vital plants systems. and wildlife, filtering water and air and reducing greenhouse gases by removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Forests are also an economic Throughout our operations, we use independently verified forest certification systems including: US$ 8.3m resource, providing a plentiful, natural material. FSC™ Forest Stewardship Council™ PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of In our mills, we use the principles of Lean Forest Certification™ Manufacturing to reduce energy, re-use resources SFI ® Sustainable Forestry Initiative® and minimise waste. We have a rigorous system 0.8 1.6 5.9 of measuring our inputs and outputs, particularly We also use internationally recognised Europe North America Southern Africa those of all our paper machines, so that we environmental and quality management systems know how much production capacity exists and such as ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. where it is located. This allows us to focus on EN 30 Environmental expenses our performance gaps and to take the necessary While we typically do not account separately for actions to continually improve our paper machine environmental expenses, our capital expenditure allows us to meet our goal of treading more lightly on the Planet. For efficiencies. The direct comparison of operating example, the conversion of our Ngodwana Mill in South equipment performance between mills helps Africa to produce 210,000tpa of dissolving wood pulp will us identify strengths and weaknesses in our deliver the following environmental benefits: mill odour and effluent will be reduced; improved efficiencies from new operations, promote the Sappi group’s best equipment will mean burning 61,000tpa less coal which practices and improve our processes, thereby equates to 120,000tpa fewer CO2 emissions. increasing profitability. By treading more lightly on the Planet we can produce more with less — an approach which has obvious economic benefits and involves reducing 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 82 Our management approach to Planet Sustainability structures At each of our operations and owned costs, together with 43 other key energy and of operations due to shortages of natural plantations, legal compliance (emissions, environmental parameters (gaseous emissions, resources such as water solid waste and effluent) and other specific solid waste, water), based on the premise of • The opportunity to produce biobased products company targets are monitored and 'measure, monitor, manage and mitigate' — • The opportunity to increase biomass based appropriate action is taken to improve or anticipating trends by many years. The impetus energy mitigate identified environmental risks. for this came about from rising energy prices, • The opportunity to produce lighter-weight interest in global warming, increasing the use of products which will meet customers’ needs Clusters renewable energy, reduction in emissions and to reduce their carbon footprint In addition, there are a number of internal 'clusters' effluent quality. Some of the parameters are now • Energy reduction initiatives comprised of experts in various fields focused on: used as management key performance indicators. • Equipment and process efficiency • Aligning technology and R&D expertise improvements • Establishing best practice across a broad Our sustainability structures play a key role in • The opportunity to work with customers to variety of disciplines making sustainability a way of life by allocating create more environmentally friendly products. • Driving performance across the three responsibilities, setting targets and reviewing continents where Sappi’s manufacturing progress. To achieve the targets, technical support operations are located and across different is provided by the technical departments, R&D areas of the business. and the various global clusters to ensure there is a common approach and use of best available This allows for a pooling of expertise and a crosstechnology and practices. pollination of ideas. Risks and opportunities Central coordination In a constantly evolving consumer, technical and To ensure central coordination, clusters report regulatory environment, some of the issues, risks to the Group Technology Management Team and opportunities on which we focus include: (GTMT), responsible for technical management • Fibre supply issues Our sustainability structures throughout the group and overseeing research • Disease, fires and biofuel related risks activities. For example, the Energy, Emissions, • Carbon taxes which could affect us even play a key role in making Effluent and Environment (E4) Cluster, is tasked though 50% of our energy is derived from with environmental and energy monitoring. renewable sources sustainability • Reduction of waste to landfill — aggregate and The E4 cluster measures greenhouse gases specific a way of life. (GHGs), as well as energy use and energy • Access to raw materials and maintenance 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 83 Our management approach to Planet Monitoring compliance — driving performance Charter compliance Complying with global standards We ensure compliance with the commitments External benchmarks Forest certification of our Sustainability Charter and Environmental In addition to internal standards, Sappi uses Forest certification gives consumers the assurance Policy by: external benchmarks to monitor environmental that products have been legally logged in • Providing appropriate training to all employees performance and ensure compliance with best accordance with sound environmental practices and contractors whose activities have an practice. For example, we use best practice and that social aspects such as indigenous rights impact on the environment. energy consumption benchmarks as indicated by: have been taken into consideration. • Making all stakeholders aware of the TAPPI The Technical Association of Pulp and importance of our commitments. Paper Industries (USA) Sappi has achieved certification by the three • Assessing and mitigating the environmental PAPTAC The Pulp and Paper Technical Association most internationally recognised forest products impacts of new projects; of Canada certification programmes, namely: • Conducting regular environmental audits and CEPI Confederation of European Paper FSC™ Forest Stewardship Council management reviews. Industries PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of • Making every effort to meet established targets, Forest Certification including environmental performance, when SFI ® Sustainable Forestry Initiative measuring managerial performance. • Requesting suppliers of goods and services to We do not endorse one certification as 'better' apply standards similar to our own. than another. Rather, our goal is to use as much independently certified wood as possible. To Sappi Sustainability Charter accomplish this, we have pursued certification by Sappi Environmental Policy the FSC™, SFI® and PEFC™ and have achieved certification from each of these independent, thirdparty organisations at our manufacturing sites and on our forest plantations in South Africa. We do not endorse one certification as 'better' than another. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 84 Our management approach to Planet Chain of custody Chain of Custody (CoC) tracks the origin of a To ensure an unbroken chain, each time the timber CoC certification raw material at each stage of the production is processed the processor must be certified to process, from beginning to end. verify that they have a system of tracking the assures consumers timber material through the process. For forest based industries, like Sappi, certifying that our products the Chain of Custody means verifying that the For the paper industry, the value of certification lies wood used at each stage of the production in being able to label the final product as coming come from process came from a forest certified as being from a sustainably managed forest, providing sustainably managed. added value for the customer or retailer. sustainably managed It is only valid if each link in the chain is checked. forests and plantations. Once a link in the chain is broken, subsequent links cannot be verified and the material loses its certified status. Forest management certificate Chain of Custody (CoC) certification by independent third parties Own forests and plantations Harvesting Pulp and paper production Converters Consumers Third party and outgrowers forests and fibre plantations Fibre procurement certificate Chain of Custody (CoC) certification 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 85 Our management approach to Planet Management systems and certifications Forest certification gives consumers the assurance that External benchmarks and management certification ensures that our products have been legally logged in accordance with sound environmental performance is monitored and our operations comply with best environmental practices. practice FSC™ Forest Stewardship Council™ PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification™ ISO 14001 Environmental management systems SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative® ISO 50001 Energy management standard ISO 9001 Quality management systems EMAS Eco Management and Audit System Wood fibre Mill certification Our certified fibre share is 73.1% PEFC and FSC™. All mills certified: ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 • EMAS ISO 50001 certified: Alfeld • Ehingen • Gratkorn • Nijmegen • Kirkniemi • Stockstadt Mills In 2007, before the acquisition of the M-real mills, Sappi Fine Paper Europe achieved FSC™ Europe and PEFC™ multi-site cross-border group Chain of Custody (CoC) certification for the entire European manufacturing and sales operation (including Sappi Trading). Mills acquired from M-real in 2009: • Stockstadt Mill has been included in the group certification described above • Kirkniemi Mill continued with its independent PEFC™ CoC certification. 51.4% of our wood-fibre is procured from landowners who Triple chain of custody certification to the SFI®, FSC™ and PEFC™ standards: Kirkniemi • participate in either the SFI® or FSC™ programmes. Somerset • Westbrook • Cloquet Mills North America Our licensed professional foresters can offer assistance Our wood procurement system is SFI® fibre sourcing standard certified. with forest management plans, sustainable forest management practices, technical forestry services and ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certified: Somerset • Cloquet • Westbrook Mills much more to land owners in New England and the Lake States Region. All the plantation wood grown on Sappi owned and leased FSC™ CoC certified: Cape Kraft • Enstra • Ngodwana • Saiccor • Stanger • Tugela Mills Southern is FSC™ certified. All pulp and paper mills certified: ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 Africa 87% of the wood supplied to Sappi is FSC certified. ™ 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 86 Our management approach to Planet Promoting transparency We provide information on our environmental CEPI 10 Toes Carbon footprinting for the pulp and paper industry performance to a wide range of stakeholders. For example, we provide customers with TOE 01 Carbon sequestration environmental product information and Forest participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project TOE 04 GHG emissions from management and harvesting (CDP) and the Forest Footprint Disclosure Non-fibre Project. Raw materials and fuel TOE 05 GHG emissions Stakeholder information Transport TOE 07 GHG emissions Increasingly, customers ask about environmental aspects of fibre sourcing and production processes. TOE 03 Facility GHG emissions Europe Manufacturing The paper profile is broken down into the Primary and secondary TOE 03 GHG emissions Associated with purchased pulp; other wood-fibre inputs Confederation of European Paper Industries’ (CEPI) '10 Toes' approach. In special cases, a carbon TOE 06 GHG emissions Associated with purchased electricity and steam footprint sheet accompanies the paper profile. Transport Primary and final products TOE 07 GHG emissions Europe and South Africa Each of our products is accompanied by a TOE 08 GHG emissions Product use standardised paper profile sheet giving the gateTOE 02 Carbon sequestration to-gate energy use, emissions (greenhouse gases, nitrous oxides, sulphur dioxides and particulates), Transport TOE 07 GHG emissions effluent quality (chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total suspended solids (TSS)) and solid waste as well as the product furnish. Recycling TOE 04 GHG emissions from fibre processing North America TOE 09 Methane emissions Landfill We have committed to Metafore’s Environmental TOE 02 Carbon sequestration Performance Assessment Tool (EPAT). This tool can Biomass CO2 emissions be used by buyers to evaluate our environmental Burn for energy TOE 09 GHG emissions performance on a mill by mill basis. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 87 Our management approach to Planet Promoting transparency continued Case study 88 North America continued North America % In addition the web-based eQ tool allows stakeholders to engage with the broader During 2012, we conducted a comprehensive cradle-to-gate life-cycle analysis of our Somerset Third-party certification For some North American landowners, CDP environmental considerations when choosing a Mill located in Skowhegan, Maine, using the seeking third-party certification can be an paper supplier. The eQ tool also provides users Footprint Estimator for Forest Products (FEFPro) onerous process and expense. In 2010, we 2012 with the ability to generate a customised product developed by the National Council for Air and joined forces with the Sustainable Forestry statement that summarises the environmental Stream Improvement (NCASI). This is an expansion Initiative SFI®, Time Inc, Hearst Enterprises benefits of choosing SFPNA’s papers for a print job. of reporting to date which has been limited to our and two of our competitors, Verso Paper own direct emissions (Scope 1) and emissions Corporation and NewPage Corporation, to Reporting on our carbon footprint associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2). launch a pilot project to make certification to We participate in the CDP every year and make the SFI® standard more accessible to mediumour response publicly available. We supply cradleIn the cradle-to-gate study, we include carbon sized landowners in Maine. The original pilot to-gate and cradle-to-grave foot-printing for our emissions associated with material inputs program added 299,500ha of SFI®-certified mills, regions and the company as a whole. This is (Scope 3) (eg pulping chemicals, coatings and managed forests in Maine. In 2011, the obtained using the following tools: FICAT Forestry fillers) as well as purchased pulps. This analysis project was expanded with support from Industry Carbon Accounting Tool, developed by shows that our mill generates kraft pulp with a the National Geographic Society and new landowners, including Hilton, Timberlands NCASI (the US National Council for Air and Stream footprint of 0.77t of CO2 per ton of pulp. and LLC, resulting in an additional 315,700ha Improvement) of certified managed forests in the state. • PAPTAC Pulp and Paper Technical Association South Africa of Canada In South Africa, we use the Forest Industry Carbon We also maintain a FSC™ group forest • TAPPI Technical Association of Pulp and Paper Assessment Tool (FICAT). This comprehensive management certificate through which, Industries methodology was co-developed by the National participating small landowners have their • CEPI Confederation of European Paper Council for Air and Stream Improvement (NCASI) land certified to the FSC™ standard. At the Industries and the Confederation for European Paper end of September 2011, 19 landowners Industries (CEPI). FICAT uses the CEPI 'Ten Toes' with 4,450ha of land participated in this Europe approach to provide Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse programme. Developing access to certified Our customers’ need to ascertain Scope 3 gas (GHG) information. wood in close proximity to our manufacturing emissions has been established and we follow the plants is proving to be a triple win: for the standard that was developed by the Environmental We find that customers in South Africa have little economic health of our local community, Working Group of CEPIFINE/CEPIPRINT (lately need for Scope 3 emissions information and in this for the reduction of transportation costs merged into EuroGraph). region we currently measure only business travel. from forests to mills and for lowering the consumption of fossil fuels. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 88 Our management approach to Planet Mitigating climate change During the last few years, the rise in There are significant opportunities, inherent in our and decreasing our reliance on fossil fuels, mill greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere business and processes, that can help us to meet management have energy reduction targets has become a concern for consumers and this key strategic goal and sustainability driver: (which in themselves result in GHG reductions) businesses around the world. Our focus on • Carbon sequestration in our plantations and and achievement of those targets is linked to reducing our carbon footprint pre-dates this forests remuneration. At group level, executives who contemporary focus by many years. • Generating a high proportion of our energy have responsibility for the mills also derive financial requirements from renewable biofuel sources, rewards associated with a reduction in GHG As far back as 2000, Sappi instituted a system for including those generated by our pulping emissions. measuring greenhouse gases (GHGs), based on processes the premise of 'measure, monitor, manage and • Cogeneration opportunities We have reduced purchased energy (electricity mitigate'. Since then, one of our key strategic • Energy savings initiatives and fossil fuel) and increased our use of renewable goals has been to reduce our carbon footprint by energy — an approach which ultimately results in improving energy-use efficiency and decreasing To entrench our approach to reduce our carbon a reduction in GHG emissions. our reliance on fossil fuels. footprint by improving energy-use efficiency Our greenhouse gas emissions — cradle to gate Emitted/captured by Sappi. For more information click on the 'cloud' Not emitted by Sappi HFCs SF6 N2O PFCs CO2 CH4 CO2 CO2 capture Scope 1 direct emissions Scope 2 indirect emissions Scope 3 purchased goods and service emissions CO2 is absorbed by the trees, capturing carbon Coal, production of process Purchased steam and electricity for own use Employee business travel, contractor owned in the photosynthesis process. Most of the material, oil, renewable fuels and gas vehicles and outsourced carbon remains sequestered in our products. activities 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 89 Our management approach to Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions EN Our processes are energy intensive; the 3 cost and availability of energy is therefore 50%biofuels Direct energy EN 3 Direct energy fuels consumption by important and discussed in detail as one of Own and purchased biofuels The EN 3 fuels include purchased fuels and fuels generated primary energy source our key sustainability drivers. constitute 50% of all our energy requirements within our operations. The fuel for energy that is sold (all electricity) is shown as The graphs for Reducing our specific purchased energy negative. EN 3 and EN 4, consumption is a financial imperative, with the direct (Scope 1) Black liquor, resulting from concentrating waste pulping and indirect added benefit of reducing emissions. liquors is by far the greatest fuel source. 'Own bark' is (Scope 2) energy fuel from forest residues from trees that are harvested are accompanied by the equivalent EN for pulping. Together, with purchased biomass, for 2012 16 GHG emission these fuels constitute 50% of the fuel used. graphs. This is a useful EN 3 Direct energy self-checking Fuels: purchased + own sold energy method as the annual variations in million GJ/annum energy use should correspond with the associated GHG 50 emissions. Variations are 40 explained in the comments 30 accompanying the graphs. 20 EN 4 10 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 0 Coal Gas HFO Purchased Purchased Purchased Purchased Transport Black liquor Own hog/bark Sludges Own plant EN biomass black liquor tyres biogas fuel combusted gas Fuels for 16 -10 sold energy Total direct and indirect greenhouse 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 gas emissions by weight. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 90 Our management approach to Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions continued Sources of energy EN 4 Fuels used for purchased energy Fuels: purchased + own sold energy Relative GJ% million GJ/annum 10 40 35 8 30 25 6 20 4 15 10 2 5 0.01 0 Own Gas Coal Purchased Purchased HFO Purchased 0 renewable renewable power Fossil fuel Biofuels Hydro electricity Nuclear Wind based power steam fuel fuel (sold deducted) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sources of energy EN 4 Own renewable fuel (sludges, black liquor and biomass) Energy sources used to produce purchased power and is the predominant fuel for the Sappi group’s operations. steam are shown. Fossil fuel sources predominate (coal, gas fuel and oil). The increase through to 2010 is the result Renewable energy as a proportion of total energy use is of the acquisition of four new mills and the decline since not a GRI indicator. It is however, an important pulp and then is the result of the closure of four mills. paper industry measure — ­ an indicator of how effective we are at reducing purchased energy costs and avoiding the concomitant emissions resulting from the use of fossil fuels. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 91 Our management approach to Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions continued Saving energy and reducing emissions EN 3 Specific direct energy EN 16 Specific Scope 1 emissions Emissions reductions are benchmarked against Specific energy of all purchased fuels From all purchased fuels (fossil and renewable) scope 1 2007 emissions. GJ/adt tons CO2 eq/adt 35 2.0 From FY11 onwards, process improvements at Somerset, Gratkorn and Saiccor Mills started to 30 show benefits. The FY12 the restructuring of our 1.5 25 Enstra and Tugela Mills and further improvements at Saiccor Mill have resulted in energy savings. 20 1.0 15 Europe We operate combined heat and power (CHP) 10 0.5 plants in all of our mills. 5 These plants not only generate electricity but also 0 0.0 Europe North America Southern Africa Global Europe North America Southern Africa Group steam, which is used in the paper machines to dry the paper. Such efficiencies mean our CHP 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 units are twice as energy efficient as conventional power plants. EN 3 Direct energy consumption EN 16 Scope 1 emissions Data include purchased fuels and own fuels such as black Data represents emissions from all fuels combusted in Europe liquor, sludges and bark from trees consumed during terms of EN 3, but excludes those from renewable fuels Using on-site generated biogas pulping. Fuels used to produce any sold energy are (own and purchased). Emissions are avoided at our Alfeld, Ehingen, excluded. FY12 reporting is aligned with the requirements of the Carbon Disclosure Project which excludes renewable Renewable fuels are included for the FY08-FY11 period. Gratkorn, Lanaken and Stockstadt Mills by replacing fuel emissions. purchased natural gas with biogas generated on site. FY12 reporting is aligned with the requirements of the Europe No significant changes at our mills in Europe. Carbon Disclosure Project which excludes renewable fuel emissions. North America The steep FY09 increase is attributed to a CO2 significant decrease in production in that year. Since then 28,952 tpa Estimated emissions avoidance of fossil-fuel carbon dioxide production has normalised. South Africa The FY12 decrease can be attributed to: the cessation of pulping operations at Enstra Mill, a reduction of pulping operations at Tugela Mill and increased efficiencies at Saiccor Mill. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 92 Our management approach to Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions continued Europe EN 4 Specific indirect energy EN 16 Scope 2 emissions Cogeneration at Gratkorn Mill Gratkorn Mill in Europe has operated a Combined GJ/adt ton CO2e/adt Heat and Power Generation Plant (CHP) since 10 1.0 July 2007. This arrangement has resulted in the replacement of coal with natural gas. Because 8 0.8 of this more efficient arrangement, fossil-based CO2 mill emissions have decreased by nearly 5% to date. The mill has the option of switching 6 0.6 between different fuels in the fluidised bed boiler, in response to variations in fuel prices. Natural gas 4 0.4 is considered to be the cleanest and most efficient of the three major fossils fuels. 2 0.2 0 0.0 CO2 Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe North America Southern Africa Group 48,800 tpa Estimated emissions avoidance of fossil-fuel carbon dioxide 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 North America EN 4 Specific indirect energy EN 16 Scope 2 emissions Data includes the energy derived from fuels to produce Scope 2 emissions are those emissions released by the We have utilised PINCH technology and Lean purchased power, heat and steam, including purchased fuels combusted to produce indirect energy — EN 4 Six Sigma techniques to optimize energy usage energy. It also includes purchased energy that does not in our facilities. We have also made several originate from combustion sources such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar power. investments in boiler technology, such as overfire air modifications, to allow for higher utilisation Europe The FY12 decline is attributed to the closure of of biofuels. Biberist Mill which bought in most if its power needs. North America No significant change. South Africa As discussed in EN 3, the FY12 decrease can be attributed to: the cessation of pulping operations at 2,336 m tons CO2 Estimated emissions avoidance of fossil-fuel carbon dioxide Enstra Mill,a reduction of pulping operations at Tugela Mill and increased efficiencies at Saiccor Mill. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 93 Our management approach to Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions continued North America EN 7 Indirect energy reduction EN 18 Indirect energy Somerset Mill recovery boiler upgrade 2007 base Indirect energy emission reduction 2007 base In 2010, we implemented a US$36m capital % % improvement project at Somerset Mill to upgrade the mill’s evaporators and recovery boiler, enabling 3.48 us to recover more energy from black liquor produced by the pulping process. 3.48 The upgrade resulted in reduced consumption 2.10 2.11 of chemicals and generates renewable energy equivalent to 100,000 barrels of fuel oil per annum. 2.10 2.11 The energy generated is used throughout the operations in the form of steam and electricity. 0.20 0.22 -0.31 0.02 32,000 tpa CO2 Estimated emissions avoidance of fossil-fuel carbon dioxide -0.5 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Europe and North America — use of hydropower EN 7 Indirect energy reduction EN 18 Indirect energy reduction Emissions reductions are benchmarked against 2007 Emissions reductions are benchmarked against 2007 Our Alfeld, Gratkorn, Cloquet and Westbrook mills emissions. emissions. generate power from their own hydro plants. Charting our global indirect energy reductions is more Charting our global indirect energy emission reductions is meaningful than comparing regional performance as there more meaningful than comparing regional performance as have been several mill purchases and closures in the there have been several mill purchases and closures in the 10,334 tpa CO2 Estimated emissions avoidance of fossil-fuel carbon dioxide period under review. The activities mentioned under EN 6 all resulted in reduced period under review. From 2010 onwards, process improvements at Somerset, indirect energy use. As expected, the trend is very similar Gratkorn and Saiccor Mills started to show benefits. to that shown in EN 5 as the reduction in EN 5 is the same. In other words, the improvements reduced total energy In 2012, the restructuring of the Enstra and Tugela Mills (EN 3 + EN 4) use. and further improvements at the Saiccor and Ngodwana Mills have resulted in further energy savings. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 94 Our management approach to Planet Energy consumption and associated emissions continued South Africa Amakhulu expansion project at Saiccor Mill Case Galileo study Case study Green-e certification Saiccor Mill’s Project 'Amakhulu' (which expanded Kirkniemi Mill recently invested in a new Following the upgrade capacity from 600,000tpa to 800,000tpa of technology — Galileo — at the pressurized of the recovery boiler dissolving wood pulp) integrated a recovery boiler groundwood mill. Galileo’s benefits include: at Somerset Mill, all with a 45MW turbo generator to harness waste • 30% energy savings in grinding — about the electricity used energy and convert it into steam and electricity, 0.4MWh/t pulp to manufacture Opus while also converting waste chemicals into useful • 30-50% production increase web paper is now chemicals. This increased the use of renewable • Up to 50% reduction in rejects and Green-e certified as energy at the mill from 35% to 55%. associated reject refining energy savings on-site generated • Reduced variation in pulp quality. renewable energy. 64,000 tpa CO2 Estimated emissions avoidance of fossil-fuel carbon dioxide Changes to the process involved the installation of a new diamond grits surface Opus web joins the line-up of Sappi Fine Paper North America’s current Green-e on the grinding stone. The first stone was certified product offerings which have been installed in August 2012 and indications are Green-e certified via renewable energy Plantations mitigate climate change that it is successful. The payback time is generated at our Cloquet Mill in Minnesota: The sustainably managed forests and plantations less than a year. • McCoy web Sheets and digital from which our wood is sourced play an important • Opus sheets and digital • Opus 30 web role in mitigating climate change by absorbing CO2, a few months — and consequently the process of • Flo sheets and digital sunlight and water to produce the carbohydrate absorbing CO2 continues as the new trees grow. energy needed for growth and releasing oxygen as Harvesting trees is balanced with re-growth. Green-e is the USA’s leading, independent, a by-product during the process of photosynthesis. third-party certification and verification In our plantations in Southern Africa, we currently programme for renewable energy, ensuring When trees are harvested, the carbon is not plant 1.2 trees for every tree harvested; in 2011, that strict environmental and consumer released into the atmosphere; wood products 37 million trees were planted. protection standards are met. Customers and wood fibre in paper store carbon throughout The wood that we harvest alone accounts for 13m who choose one of SFPNA’s Green-e certified products and one of the Green-e their lifetime. tons of absorbed CO2 — and more than 8m tons of Marketplace re:print certified printers for life-giving oxygen released every year. This avoids their print job can further leverage the fact Harvesting is not tantamount to deforestation; it is emissions equivalent to burning 815,000tons that they are minimising their environmental an important part of the cycle of growth, materials of coal. A significant amount of carbon is also footprint through the Green-e Marketplace manufacture and re-growth. Harvested forests captured within the roots — we do not account re:print programme. and plantations are replanted — generally within for this. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 95 Our management approach to Planet Streamlining transport to reduce emissions As with other industries, Sappi relies heavily party logistics providers) to total ton-miles shipped and annual external audits are compulsory. on fossil fuels for transportation. We are in a calendar year. The calculation is limited to committed to streamlining our use of domestic (USA and Canada) outbound shipments RTMS is based on managing the following: transport as this reduces specific emissions of paper reels and sheets originating from Sappi • Overloading and reduces delivery costs. We are achieving operations (manufacturing, converting, cross• Under loading this through several initiatives, including the docking, and warehousing facilities). We have • Driver wellness replacement of travelling for meetings with consistently improved our overall year-on-year video and teleconferencing. score and exceeded the minimum partnership Sappi was the first forestry company in South requirements for each calendar year since 2009. Africa to commercially benefit from the use of Europe SMART trucks; they offer the following advantages: We transport approximately four million tons of We have successfully influenced major distribution • Improved safety record finished paper every year. We are moving raw partners to become SmartWay® certified. The • 23% increase in payload material and finished products by rail or canal, combined goal of SmartWay® partners is to cut CO2 • 22% reduction in number of trucks to move rather than road. Investment in rail infrastructure emissions by 33-66 million tons and nitrogen oxide the same volume at the mills is playing an important role in driving emissions by up to 200,000tpa by the end 2012. • 18% less wear on roads this shift. Today, 45% of all our finished paper is transported by rail or canal; both comparatively South Africa We have 25 SMART trucks (15 in KwaZuluenergy efficient means of transport. In 2009, Sappi and timber transport contractor Natal and 10 in Mpumalanga) hauling timber, Timber Logistic Services (TLS) launched the with permits approved for an additional 14. The North America first revolutionary SMART vehicles specifically KwaZulu-Natal fleet has been on the road long We have participated in the USA Environmental designed to transport timber to Sappi’s mills. The enough for us to be able to compare greenhouse Protection Agency’s (EPA) SmartWay® Transport vehicles have been manufactured and certified gas (GHG) emissions data with standard 22m rigs. Partnership since 2009. SmartWay ® is an for use on South Africa’s roads in a first for the innovative collaboration between the EPA and South African transport industry. The key benefits of the SMART trucks are improved companies that provide freight delivery services. safety, less wear on roads and a reduction in GHG As a certified shipper, Sappi has committed to For a haulier to qualify for SMART truck permits, emissions per payload ton. improving performance over three years and it has to be accredited by the Road Traffic tracking progress annually. Management System (RTMS) — a voluntary The KwaZulu-Natal SMART fleet alone reduces self-regulating system supported by the National GHG emissions by 2,675tpa, a 18% reduction. The current methodology calculates a SmartWay® Department of Transport and forms part of their 'score' based on the ratio of ton-miles shipped national strategy. All RTMS trucks have to have the via SmartWay® (truck, rail, intermodal, and thirdRTMS logo displayed on the front of the vehicle 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 96 Our management approach to Planet Energy self-sufficiency EN We are steadily becoming more energy selfEnergy self-sufficiency EN 5 Energy saved 5 sufficient through increased self-generation GJ/annum Energy saved due to conservation — using internally available biofuels like black % '000,000s and efficiency liquor, sludges, and own bark — which makes improvements 70 us less reliant on purchased energy. 25 60 20 Reducing our dependence on fossil fuels not EN 29 50 only lowers greenhouse gas emissions but helps 15 Significant to isolate our operations from fluctuations in 40 environmental energy prices — making us a more profitable and 10 impacts of 30 transporting sustainable business. products and 5 20 other goods and materials used for 10 0 the organisation’s % saving 12 operations, and transporting 0 -5 Europe North America Southern Africa Group members of the workforce Our focus on energy efficiency and reduction initiatives has resulted in savings of 12% since 2008. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Energy self-sufficiency EN 5 Energy savings The less energy that is purchased and the more that is Energy savings are benchmarked against 2007 use. generated internally through the use of fuels like black liquor, sludges and own bark, the greater the energy selfCharting our global indirect energy reductions is more sufficiency. meaningful than comparing regional performance as there have been several mill purchases and closures in the This has significant financial benefits to the company as period under review. less fuel needs to be purchased. No energy was saved during 2009 — during the economic Through use of these fuels, we are steadily increasing downturn, operations were not run at full capacity, or were energy self-sufficiency. Independence from fossil fuels shut and restarted. not only lowers greenhouse gas emissions but helps to isolate our operations from fluctuations in energy prices From 2010 onwards, process improvements at Somerset, — making us a more profitable and sustainable business. Gratkorn and Saiccor mills started to show energy saving benefits. The 2012 restructuring at Enstra and Tugela Mills and further improvements at Saiccor Mill have resulted in additional energy savings. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 97 Our management approach to Planet Other emissions EN 20 EN 20 EN 20 Specific NOx emmissions Specific SO2 emmissions Specific Particulate emmissions PM10 kg/adt % kg/adt 3.0 15 2.5 2.5 12 2.0 2.0 9 1.5 1.5 6 1.0 1.0 3 0.5 0.5 0.0 0 0.0 Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe North America Southern Africa Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 EN 20 Nitrogen oxide emissions EN 20 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions EN 20 Specific particulate emissions Nitrogen oxide in combustion processes is largely a Sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions can be ascertained in two Europe Coal has become more attractive as a fuel because function of temperature. The higher the temperature the ways: by calculation from knowing the sulphur content of its relative cheapness (cost/gigajoule). Gratkorn and more is produced (nitrogen in the air combining with of fuels used or by summation of the information from Stockstadt Mills, which use more coal than Sappi’s other oxygen in the air). Fossil fuels typically combust at higher SO2 continuous emission monitoring (CEM) equipment. mills in Europe, have gradually increased their coal use, temperatures than renewable fuels. Because not all mills have CEM equipment, we use only contributing to increased particulate emissions. Europe No significant trend. the calculated emissions. North America Only very small quantities of coal and other North America The increasing use of renewable fuels in Europe Only very small quantities of sulphur-containing particulate producing fuels are combusted. the US has thus resulted in lower nitrogen oxide emissions. fuels are combusted. The decline in recent years in SO2 South Africa The high particulate emissions for Sappi’s emissions is attributed to the replacement of sulphurSouth Africa NOx emission measurements have only mills in South Africa result from the fact that coal (with high containing fuels such as coal and oil with purchased and been conducted at certain operations in South Africa ash content) is by far, the most-used fuel. Measurements own biomass. Most of the fuel is natural gas which has low in recent years. This has resulted from revised emission are often taken only an annually or biennially, in compliance sulphur content and the coal that is combusted generally legislation requiring its measurement. Some mills do not with legislative requirements. also has a low sulphur content. have NOx continuous emissions monitoring equipment so the measurements are taken intermittently. South Africa Coal — with a high sulphur content — is the predominant fuel in our South African operations, and benefits and in 2012, the restructuring of the Enstra and accounts for the high SO2 emissions. From 2010 onwards, Tugela Mills and further improvements at the Saiccor and process improvements at Saiccor Mill started to show Ngodwana Mills have resulted in energy savings. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 98 Our management approach to Planet Managing water use and effluent discharge EN Globally, 92% of the process water we use is cooling, generating steam for process use and onPulp production has a higher specific water need 8 returned to the environment (after having been site power generation and various other purposes. than paper production. Our water use is lower Total water withdrawal by recycled many times, cleaned and treated). in Europe where the share of pulp production source Water used for pulp and paper production is compared to total production is smaller than in Pulp and paper operations are highly dependent mostly circulated within the system. A closed-loop North America and South Africa. on the use and responsible management of water water system is possible in theory, but usually not EN resources. Water is used in all major process the option with the lowest impact. The best option Many of our mills are situated in the vicinity of rivers 9 stages, including: raw materials preparation usually requires some make-up water which in turn from which they draw water. Withdrawal from rivers Water sources significantly affected (wood chip washing); pulp cooking, washing and requires some process water to be released back accounts for the largest portion of water drawn. by withdrawal of screening; paper machines (pulp slurry dilution and to the environment — after it is treated in simple or This withdrawal is subject to licence conditions water fabric showers). Water is also used for process multiple stage waste water treatment processes. specific to each area where we operate. Source of water % Europe North America Southern Africa Group Third party waste water Recycled process effluent Ex own storage dam Ex utility Own boreholes Extraction from river 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 99 Our management approach to Planet Managing water-use and effluent discharge continued Using recycled water EN 21 Water use EN 21 Water use Our Enstra Mill in South Africa does not draw river Specific chemical oxygen demand (COD) TSS (total suspended solids) water, but relies on municipal water, approximately kg/adt kg/adt Excluding Saiccor Mill Excluding Saiccor Mill 40% of which originates from treated municipal 20 5 sewerage effluent. 4 Water management 15 Water and effluent testing is routinely conducted at mill sites. Water management is included in our 3 operational environmental management plans, 10 which are reviewed and updated annually. Globally, 2 specific water drawn has decreased by 10.5% 5 over the past five years. 1 Globally, 92% of the process water we use is 0 0 Europe North America Southern Africa Group Europe North America Southern Africa Group returned to the environment (after having been recycled many times, cleaned and treated). 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Improved effluent quality Global chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total EN 21 Specific chemical oxygen demand (COD) EN 21 Total Suspended Solids (TSS) suspended solids (TSS) have decreased by 13.6% Europe Effluent COD concentrations in the specific effluent Europe Effluent treatment processes were run at a low increased because of the closure of Biberist Mill in 2011. concentrations of TSS and 28.7% respectively over the same time period. North America Effluent COD concentrations in the North America TSS levels declined due to process specific effluent decreased because of improved aerator improvements that improved oxygen transfer, mixing % decline 10.5 uptime at Somerset Mill. efficiency and sludge dryness. South Africa Performance was similar to 2010. During South Africa TSS levels increased. A centrifuge failed at 2012, Ngodwana Mill’s focus on minimising COD losses the Cape Kraft mill. Enstra Mill did not have the required Globally, specific water drawn has declined by 10.5% over the past five years. to effluent from the bleach plant, evaporators and the retention time in their aeration lagoon due to excess solids digesters paid off. In addition, the steam stripper uptime build up resulting in carry-over of suspended solids. A improved. It should be noted that Ngodwana Mill is the backwash filter failed at Stanger Mill and effluent treatment 92 %returned only mill in South Africa that has the benefit of an extensive trials proved unsuccessful. Compromised clarifier efficiency, biological filter in the form of irrigated fields. As from 2012, coupled with inefficient sludge removal due to mechanical COD contribution to the river (as opposed to what is problems on the belt press resulted in suspended solids Globally, 92% of the process water we use is returned to irrigated using the effluent) is being reported on. Saiccor losses at Tugela mill. the environment (after having been recycled many times, cleaned and treated). mill excluded. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 100 Our management approach to Planet Saving energy and water Energy savings linked to water reduction Pulp and paper mills generate hot water and Global Water Tool Sappi Fine Paper Europe has made use of the Case Water membrane studycapture technology steam which is used for cooking wood chips, Global Water Tool developed by the World Business pulp washing, drying paper and other applications. Council of Sustainable Development which helps Water management is becoming increasingly Energy savings are therefore closely linked to organisation map their water use and assess crucial in both arid and water-rich regions. water-use and effluent release reductions. As with risks relative to their global operations and supply Flue gas discharged through our mill’s energy, intensively managing our water usage and chains. This tool indexes water as abundant at all chimneys contains large volumes of water effluent release presents an economic opportunity. our mills, except Maastricht and Lanaken, which vapour, carrying with it, a considerable are indexed as stressed due to the relatively high amount of latent heat energy. Each of our operations can be likened to a very population living in the area. large heat exchanger: input water is heated in Recovering this lost water and heat can various ways and locations in each operation — potentially yield significant energy and water savings. That is why Sappi is participating by combusting various fuels — to produce steam. in the CapWa project; a consortium of 14 international partners granted funding by One of the most effective ways of retaining heat the European Union, to develop a water energy within an operation is through maximising capture model, using water membrane water recirculation to minimise effluent discharge capture technology, ready for industrial use ­— with its significant heat energy content. This by 2013/14. reduces energy (fuels) requirements resulting in a reduction of GHG emissions (some of which are Water membrane capture technology fossil fuel derived). separates water molecules from the other molecules present in the flue-gas stream. The captured water is of high quality and ready to be used again in industrial processes or distributed for other purposes. The objective of the project is to ascertain how well CapWa’s highly effective membrane technology works in real-world environments. Water quality is monitored The water membrane capture technology is currently being trialled at Nijmegen Mill in the on an ongoing basis. Netherlands. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 101 Our management approach to Planet Managing water in our plantations There are two key issues regarding water levels) which affects water quality. Erosion from There is some concern among stakeholders about use in our plantations in South Africa: water burnt compartments (especially after runaway wild the conversion of our Ngodwana Mill to produce quality and water quantity. fires) frequently lead to heavy sediment loads in 170,000tpa dissolving wood pulp (DWP) which will streams and rivers which impacts the quality of the result in the use of hardwood (eucalyptus) instead Water quality water and the health of these systems. of softwood (pine). Water quality is monitored on an ongoing basis. Water quality in streams and rivers are typically Our stringent management practises keep these Although eucalypts do use more water than pine, only affected negatively by pollution or sediment sources of sediments in rivers and streams at it should be noted that this species is more waterloads resulting from erosion. acceptable levels. Water quality is monitored on use efficient at capturing carbon (absorbing CO2) an ongoing basis. than most other commercial crops. We manage water quality by preventing run-off into streams and rivers through regulating drainage and Water quantity Eucalypts are also more land-use efficient than minimising erosion. Our roads are planned and Our plantations are not irrigated other crops at capturing carbon. constructed to prevent erosion and ensure water Our plantations require no irrigation at all, relying runoff is not directed straight into rivers. Several only on rainwater and groundwater. Tree farming Carbon capture mitigates climate change by practices ensure runoff after harvesting is kept (plantation forestry) is the only agricultural activity removing the greenhouse gas, CO2. to a minimum. These include leaving harvesting classified as a streamflow reduction activity residue on the ground and ensuring appropriate and accordingly subject to planting licence Water-use efficiency — CO2 absorption harvesting and extraction methods are used. requirements. Rain-fed Water CO2 plant fibre Ton water required Ton CO2 absorbed/ (not irrigated) for growth/ton CO2 ha/ Water flowing from afforested catchments We optimise water quantity by delineating riparian absorbed annum is largely unpolluted. Silvicultural activities in zones and wetlands and ensure these are kept South African forestry plantations seldom use chemicals that free of commercial trees. We actively clear alien eucalyptus 274 26.9 cause pollution. Fertiliser is only used once in vegetation and manage wetlands on our land. fibre each rotation. We use only short-lived pesticides Cotton fibre 4,866 2.5 that have little or no impact on downstream Southern Africa is a water stressed region; water ecosystems. resources are becoming increasingly stressed by Maize 3,943 6.8 an accelerated rate of development and changing Wheat 4,776 5.1 Erosion is a natural process and occurs in all weather patterns, resulting in the scarcity of water Sugar cane 3,152 2.2 landscapes. In afforested catchments, poor resources. drainage from road networks and poor stream crossings can increase erosion (above natural 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 102 Our management approach to Planet Mitigating and managing climate change We share the view that collectively, greenhouse gases (GHGs), most notably carbon dioxide Europe According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation Definition Carbon (CO2), and methane (CH4), are responsible for (State of Europe’s Forests 2011), climate change Carbon storage climate change and that these are generated could well alter the suitability of whole regions in Carbon storage refers to the carbon already primarily by human activities such as the Europe for certain forest types, forcing a shift in stored in the ecosystem burning of fossil fuels and deforestation. While natural species distribution and leading to changes climate change is a natural phenomenon, the in growth of existing stands. Extreme events Carbon sequestration pace at which it is occurring is cause for (storms, forest fires, droughts and heat waves) are Carbon sequestration is the process of concern. expected to become much more common and/ capturing and accumulating carbon in the or severe. ecosystem. Our efforts to mitigate our own carbon footprint are evident in the fact that over 50% of our global North America A significant service energy-use is derived from renewable, rather The mountain pine beetle, Dendroctonus For carbon sequestration to be classified as a than fossil fuel sources. This is important, as the ponderosae, a native to the forests of western significant service, the store of carbon in the burning of fossil fuels continually releases 'new' North America is the most destructive pest of systems should be growing. Consequently, CO2 previously locked up in the form of oil, gas mature pines in North America. Major outbreaks to maximise the carbon mitigation effect, it or coal. When renewable energy like biomass is of this pest are ravaging western regions of the make sense to harvest mature trees, replant burned however, the CO2 released is equivalent USA and British Columbia (Canada). According to and begin the cycle of carbon absorption all over again. to that which was bound from the atmosphere the USA Department of Agriculture Forest Service, during the process of photosynthesis – so that beetle infestation is at epidemic levels throughout 'new' carbon is not being introduced. the western United States. The spread and population explosion of the beetles is thought to >50% Paper and paper products lock up carbon during be as a result of climate change — warmer winters their lifetime. give the beetles the opportunity to complete two Energy derived from renewable fuel sources breeding cycles, and have allowed the beetles to Climate change can stress forests and plantations extend their territories northward. through higher mean annual temperatures, altered precipitation patterns and more frequent and As our operations in North America source some extreme weather conditions. of their fibre from Canada and the western USA, the impact of the pine beetle could affect long-term We monitor the fibre situation in Europe and North supply of softwood fibre if the dead wood is not America continuously. harvested and the land reforested appropriately. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 103 Our management approach to Planet Mitigating and managing climate change continued South Africa Climate change is expected to make the African • Implementing extensive planting of more “To date, little is known about how trees will continent drier, rather than wetter. Water shortages drought-tolerant eucalypt hybrids. respond to elevated atmospheric CO2 levels. could impact our fibre sources in South Africa, • Engaging in ongoing research and collaboration Growth rates of forests could change, which may where we own, manage and lease 554,000ha of with industry and tertiary institutions to develop impact significantly on forest management and land. We grow mainly eucalypts and pines. biocontrol measures and breed genetically timber markets, requiring an adjustment in forestry more resistant planting stock. policy and planning. Our exposure to climate change related risk in Southern Africa is moderated by the diversity Shaw Research Centre What is known is that the forestry species grown of commercial species and hybrids which we The Sappi Forest Research department is in South Africa are most sensitive to rainfall, and currently deploy across a wide range of climatic based at the Shaw Research Centre, Howick, that the hybrids of both eucalypts and pines are conditions. outside Pietermaritzburg, with satellite offices at relatively more robust to changes in climate than Kwambonambi and Ngodwana. The staff of 60 commonly grown species.” We continually monitor and review forest best manages three research programmes: practices in the light of changing environmental • Tree breeding South African Risk and Vulnerability Atlas factors, thus helping to mitigate any increased • Propagation threat from water shortages or drought. • Seed orchards. This research effort is supported by a total of 624 Our mitigation activities in this area include: active field trials and 140 seed orchards. • Maintaining wide genetic variability in our planting material. This enables us to breed trees for a wide range of conditions. The rate of change in conditions is probably slow enough for us to respond in the breeding programme. In other words we will produce better trees as conditions change. • Permanent eucalypt sample plots are measured annually and pine sample plots are measure biennially to determine the effect of drought on current annual increment as an input to long-term planning. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 104 Our management approach to Planet Reducing solid waste EN We focus on minimising end-of-pipe waste generated by our mills is boiler ash — directly EN 22 Specific landfill 22 and adding value to by-products. This not only correlated with the type and quality of fuel used. Onand off-site Total weight of waste by type and helps to mitigate environmental impacts, but ton/adt disposal method also generates additional revenue. Globally, From an environmental perspective, the least over the past five years, we have reduced the desirable method of solid waste disposal is 0.125 solid waste we send to landfill by 31.4%. discharging organic waste to a landfill site from 0.105 EN where it can emit methane (CH4) if not managed 23 Every ton of product produced, generates properly. Methane is a greenhouse gas with 0.080 0.086 0.086 Total number and volume of significant approximately 0.13t of solid waste, comprised approximately 25 times the global warming spills. of: biomass, lime-mud from the pulping process, potential of CO2. residuals in wastewater such as plant matter and pigments, and boiler ash. Most of the solid waste EN 24 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Weight of EN 22 Specific landfilled solid waste transported, imported, exported % ste or treated waste wa te as er deemed hazardous oth w EN 22 Specific landfill d under the terms All oar er ,b The group’s performance was stable during 2012 — note of the Basle p ge Pa slud the downward trend since 2008. Convention Annex Wood waste Lime m ary ud nd cts 1,11,111 and V111 co reje Europe Most wastes are used within operations to Se ker ills Sla and percentage rm 5% 5% ces s & generate energy, or sold to third parties for use in a variety pe Pro of transported pa rub ble of purposes. Specific landfill remain unchanged in FY12. from ding 4% waste shipped O Buil t North America Specific landfill increased slightly. Cloquet internationally. pu 2 lp < Plate g lass an ch Mill decreased waste disposal by beneficiating bottom ash, d ea regs r: liquor d he Green fly ash and dregs. Westbrook Mill burnt less coal, sending Primary sludge — aste collectively 4% Domestic W Other combustibles less ash to landfill disposal. Somerset Mill increased lime 82% Metals, cans mud volumes sent to landfill. We generate very Each <1% each Hazardous Waste Wires and Felts South Africa Less solid waste was sent to landfill due Boiler as little hazardous to the mothballing of the pulp mill at Enstra Mill and the hes waste, which is closely controlled curtailment of pulp production at Tugela Mills More waste and carefully was diverted from landfill by finding new markets: Enstra managed, both Mill generated revenue from selling paper waste; Stanger at our operations Mill sold sugar cane pith (used by sugar cane farmers as a and the receiving 47% soil enhancer); Ngodwana Mill sold bark, wood waste and facilities to which ash. Tugela Mill sold lime mud (used for soil enhancement). it is sent. Some solid waste is given to users free of charge. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 105 Our management approach to Planet Reducing solid waste and adding value Ideally, both solid and non-solid waste Using solid waste should be used in another value-added Many of our mills in Europe and North America use Excess lime mud generated from our liquor process. Investigating the beneficiation of own generated sludge as fuel. recovery process in some of our kraft pulp mills waste streams is an ongoing area of research is supplied to farmers for spreading on their fields at our Technology Centre in Pretoria as it Waste sludge can be used in the production of to enrich the land. offers opportunities for savings and revenue bricks and cement or household applications such generation. as animal bedding material. Solid waste disposal methods '000 tons/annum 560 458 869 1,887 Europe North America Southern Africa Group Disposed to other user (sold) Waste contractor removal Composting (on or off site) Combusted on site Landfilled off site Landfilled on site for heat use Disposed to other user Incinerated (no heat use) at no cost or Combusted off site 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 106 Our management approach to Planet Reducing solid waste and adding value continued Non-solid waste Waste oil is de-watered, chemically treated, refined Case study An opportunity to minimise waste and add value and filtered for re-use in various grades of base oils. Recovering lignosulphonates (by‑products applications, including fertilisers, briquettes of the sulphate (kraft) pulping process) and animal feed. Lignosulphonates are also At Alfeld Mill in Europe, coarse pigments from refrom spent pulping liquids is an opportunity used as a binder in compressed materials pulping internal broke are recovered from paper to minimise waste and add value. such as gypsum board. Tugela Mill sells machine effluent and reprocessed to substitute small volumes of lignosulphonates to the virgin material. In another process, coating colour Lignosulphonates act as a dispersant when wet fertiliser industry and is examining the is recovered from effluent and reprocessed. and binders when combined with other finepotential of other applications. grained loose material and dried; consequently, Beneficiating by-products lignosulphonates have a wide variety of Lignosulphonates as dispersant Tall oil (a by-product of the kraft pulping process) is applications. Lignosulphonates are excellent dispersants; sold to convertors and used to make detergents, they prevent the clumping and settling lubricants and paint additives. Lignosulphonates as binders of undissolved particles in suspensions. • Lignosulphonates can be used on unpaved By attaching to particle surfaces, they Lignosulphonates (a by-product of the pulping roads to stabilise the road surface. keep particles from being attracted to process) are recovered from spent pulping liquors. • Lignosulphonates from Tugela Mill are sold other particles, reducing the amount of These are sold in South Africa to customers for to customers for use in a dust suppressant water needed to mix products effectively. product for the mining industry. This use in a dust suppressant product used in the product reduces environmental concerns This dispersing property makes mining sector and in South Africa and Europe to related to airborne dust particles and also lignosulphonates useful as an admixture in the cement and fertiliser industries. Tugela Mill reduces water usage (the conventional cement mixes, allowing concrete to be made in South Africa is conducting trials to the use method of dust suppression is to use with less water — which makes the concrete lignosulphonates in the brick industry. only water). The customer reports that stronger — while maintaining the ability of whereas previously excessive dust caused the concrete to flow. Lignosulphonates from considerable downtime during night shifts, Tugela mill are sold to concrete manufacturers. Gold Certificate the increased effectiveness of the dust Tugela Mill was awarded a gold certificate in the suppression product has meant that most New opportunity chemical category of a competition organised by the KwaZulu Natal branch of IWMSA (Institute mines supplied have increased their output The mill is also conducting trials to use of Waste Management of Southern Africa) and during night shifts. lignosulphonates in the brick industry. provincial regulators (DEA&RD). The mill was also • The binding qualities of lignosulphonates declared the winner of the Best New Entrant Award. makes them useful in a variety of pelleting 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 107 Our management approach to Planet Reducing solid waste and adding value continued Case Alfalfa andstudy dairy Case study Sugars and lignin extraction Case study Bio-oil through pyrolysis Dairy farmers in Carlton County, Minnesota The Sappi Technology Centre, based in Research into the pyrolysis of biomass and where our Cloquet Mill is situated were Pretoria, has been undertaking extensive solid waste to produce biofuel and biochar in desperate need of alfalfa hay, which bench and pilot plant trials using membrane are being conducted. contains more protein than native grasses. technology to remove hemicellulosic sugars The soil in the area is naturally strongly to — mainly xylose — from by-product streams Apart from generating potential new moderately acidic (pH 5.0-6.3) whereas at Saiccor Mill. This opens the opportunity products for Sappi, the process also hold the alfalfa prefers less acidic soils (pH>6.0). The for Sappi to produce higher value chemicals potential to reduce solid waste. Four Sappi mill had a possible solution — bottomand such as xylitol (a sugar replacement), ethanol post graduate students (A PhD and three fly-ash, by‑products of the pulp and paper and furfural, amongst others. Both ethanol MSc students), have designed, constructed manufacturing process, traditionally sent to and furfural are considered foundation and commissioned a dual-bed fast pyrolysis landfill. chemicals as they can form the basis for the bench‑top reactor at the University of manufacture of a host of other chemicals. Pretoria. The mill partnered with the University of Minnesota’s Carlton County Extension The membrane trials have also proven that The first batch of bio-oil was successfully Agency to develop a win-win solution. Now, the lignosulphonate stream can be enriched produced and the plant will now be used to thanks to this partnership, bottom ash and and precipitated for the production of ligninassess char, bio-oil and syngas production fly ash are being diverted from landfills and based higher value products, rather than be over a range of operating conditions and raw used by neighbouring farmers who capitalise used as a fuel or disposed of in a waste material feeds. on the ash’s alkalinity to increase the soil’s stream. pH to 6.9 — enabling them to growing The plant will also be used to assess the alfalfa, which in turn, can be used to feed A two-step process to recover high purity feasibility of up-scaling to a commercial size the local dairy cows. lignin from both Saiccor Mill’s waste streams plant. was developed at the Sappi Technology The partnership helps farmers remain in Centre in Pretoria. This new technology Further investigations are in hand to business during these challenging economic runs parallel with investigations into the investigate refining the bio-oil into higher times and Sappi significantly reduces ultrafiltration of the spent liquor streams and value chemicals and using the char as a waste to landfill. In addition to providing the could result in two high value products from nutrient replacement in our plantations. ash, Sappi also pays for the hauling and waste, namely lignin and sugars. Together spreading of the material — another boon with our biorefinery teams, these recovered to a community that is highly dependent on compounds are being tested for possible use animal agriculture. as feedstock into high value end products. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 108 Our management approach to Planet Promoting sustainable forest and plantation management EN In Europe and North America we source wood Prioritising wetlands in South Africa 12 fibre from sustainably managed natural forests According to the 2011 National Biodiversity A programme to clear alien vegetation from and Description of significant impacts and, in South Africa, from owned, leased and Assessment, South Africa’s wetlands — 2.4% around river courses on Sappi land by 2010 of activities, managed plantations and from other growers of the country’s total land area — are the most resulted in approximately 10,000ha of planted products, and services on in the region. threatened of all ecosystems. Wetland ecosystems land being withdrawn from timber production. biodiversity in are vital for purifying water and regulating water This resulted in increased streamflow and had a protected areas and areas of high Managing our South African landholdings flows, acting as sponges which store water and positive impact on biodiversity. biodiversity value Approximately one third of our landholdings in release it slowly, filtering pollutants and easing the outside protected areas South Africa is unplanted and actively managed for impact of droughts and floods in the process. biodiversity conservation. Species surveys using Withdrawn from timber production aerial photography are conducted on a 3-5 year Currently, a total of 2,148ha of Sappi Forests’ EN 13 cycle. landholdings are classified as wetlands (excluding 10,000 3% ha = Fibre producing landholdings rivers and streams). These are all inland wetlands Habitats protected or restored Currently 208 sites on our land are classified (as opposed to coastal wetlands) and consist of US$ 12.2 m/annum Opportunity cost as important conservation sites, conserving a variety of wetland types, including freshwater representative examples of grassland, forest or marshes, peat-lands, springs, swamp forests and woodland. Many of the sites are home to rare floodplains. EN 15 or threatened species including Oribi, various Number of IUCN crane species, the Karkloof Blue butterfly and Wetlands have long been a priority for Sappi Red List species the very rare mist belt moss frog (Arthroleptella Forests which ran a wetlands rehabilitation and national conservation ngongoniensis). To date 53 Red Data (rare, programme, from 1990 to 2005. list species with threatened or endangered) species have been habitats in areas affected by recorded on Sappi properties, including: 22 plant More recently, our environmental team has operations, by level species, one insect, two frogs, two snakes, six embarked on a programme to assess all the of extinction risk mammals and 20 bird species. In addition, 455 main wetlands on Sappi land using the wetland bird species — nearly half of all bird species that assessment toolkit, Wet-assess. This toolkit occur throughout South Africa — have been enables us to prioritise the importance of our recorded on Sappi property. These include 52 wetlands, assess their catchment areas and red data species. Some plantations have sites refine their management plans to ensure they dedicated to conserving high profile species. are maintained in a healthy sustainable condition and provide all the vital functions a good wetland should, such as a constant flow of good quality water. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 109 Our management approach to Planet Promoting sustainable forest and plantation management continued Grasslands in South Africa The grassland biome is the second largest in Extent of the impact Southern Africa after the savannah biome, and In the Grassland Biome (the most affected biome) is a relatively new concept to other sectors and occupies approximately 350 000km² or 27% of areas planted under commercial harvested trees when applied specifically to grasslands on forestry South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland. It is estimated cover 991,900ha or 2.87% of the biome. Plantation land. that almost 30% of the grassland biome has been forestry only makes up 18% of all the grassland permanently transformed. Grasslands are the least that has been transformed by agricultural crops. The task of identifying important grasslands on protected vegetation type in South Africa, and only forestry-owned land has been undertaken as part about 2% of the biome is conserved within nature Severity of the impact of the forestry sector’s contribution towards the reserves. When compared with other forms of land use, SANBI grassland programme. Twelve sites occur plantation forestry is ranked as second after urban on Sappi’s land, the bulk in Mpumalanga. Among many other vital functions, grasslands are development in terms of impact on biodiversity important grazing areas, support pollinator species integrity. In KwaZulu-Natal, Clairmont Mountain has been and act as sponges allowing the slow release of recommended for proclamation as a nature reserve water into catchments. In mitigation of this severe, though not very and K Block in Winterton could be proclaimed as extensive impact, plantation forest owners own a protected environment. Protecting grasslands in South Africa approximately a further 500,000ha of unplanted When timber plantations are established, nearly grassland, some of which consist of the best Several of the Mpumalanga sites have already been all the animal species in the area are displaced examples of moist grassland in the country. This assessed by the provincial conservation authorities and the vegetation is replaced with commercial constitutes a 50% offset for conservation which and recommended as nature reserves. The others tree species. This impact is generally mitigated significantly exceeds the international norm of have not yet been assessed but will most likely be by the fact that generally only 65% of the land is 10%. recommended as protected environments. planted, with about 30% of the unplanted land being managed for the conservation of the natural Grassland stewardship habitats and the biodiversity they contain. Many of Despite the rapid destruction of grasslands, there these unplanted areas on our land are important is hope for their survival in the form of grassland refuges for many rare and/or threatened species. stewardship. At the biome level the impacts of plantation Although the term 'stewardship' is not new to the forestry are felt in two ways; the specific extent forestry sector — forestry stewardship has been of the impact within the biome and the severity of promoted by the international Forestry Stewardship the impact on the site. Council (FSC™) for the past fifteen years or so — it 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 110 Our management approach to Planet Biodiversity and community EN 11 We may be limited in what we can do about the degradation of biodiversity on land undertaking; leases vary from month to month. With co-operation from Government we would be Case studyof Sappi’s Public enjoyment Location and size landholdings of land owned, beyond our plantation boundaries, but on our able to provide this information in the long term. leased, managed own property we can make a positive impact. In South Africa, Sappi provides extensive in, or adjacent to, protected areas Significant impact on biodiversity support for mountain biking, one of the and areas of high Biodiversity outside protected areas We have discussed protected areas on our own world’s fastest growing sports. biodiversity value outside protected We do not currently report specifically on protected land but we do not currently report on this indicator areas areas and areas of high biodiversity value because in detail because in South Africa, where we own, This support was recently extended to in South Africa, where we own, manage and lease manage and lease land, there is no official register of Europe, when we hosted the 70km, Royal land, there is no official register of areas of high areas of high biodiversity. In fact, the whole country Challenge mountain bike team time-trial race biodiversity. In fact, the entire country is regarded is considered to be an area of high biodiversity. through the Nijmegen countryside, around as an area of high biodiversity. We expect to be We expect to be able to report on this indicator Sappi’s Nijmegen paper mill. This was the first ever competitive bike race for clients, able to report on this indicator in the long term. In in the long term. In terms of broad aspects of this customers and Sappi employees in Europe. terms of broad aspects of this indicator, our most indicator, our most significant impact lies in the fact significant impact lies in the fact that the trees in that the trees in our plantations reduce water flow to The team with the best average time won. our plantations reduce water flow to rivers which rivers which run through areas of high biodiversity. Former world champion Marc Wauters run through areas of high biodiversity. from Belgium presented the prizes which Sappi Forests is working with the South African Case Working with study forest owners in included as first prize, 10t of Sappi | Royal North America paper. National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) to make 12 of our grassland areas available for conservation To assist landowners, we established the through SANBI’s grasslands programme which aims to mainstream biodiversity best practices in Sustainable Forestry Programme (SFP). Staffed with a full complement of licensed Case Promotingstudy 'green' thinking in terms of grasslands management. foresters, the SFP offers education regarding communities certification, timber value estimates and help In August 2012, Sappi Fine Paper North Land of high biodiversity value with developing and managing harvesting America hosted the first annual Green Although relevant to South Africa where we own, plans. Landowners do not pay for assistance, Community Day, a fun, informative and manage and lease approximately 554,000ha of but we will often negotiate timber purchasing activity-packed day at Sappi Westbrook Mill. land, we do not report on this indicator as we are agreements with the landowners. Aimed at educating local residents on how not sure what land adjacent to us is protected and they can positively impact the environment, what is not — nor do we know what the level of Sappi’s Green Community Day. protection is. Accessing this data is a considerable 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 111 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UN Global Compact In 2008, we signed the UN Global Compact, a CEO-led strategic policy initiative which The Compact has two principal objectives: mainstream the 10 principles which gives signatories a platform for advancing their commitments to sustainability and businesses commit to and catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals, including corporate citizenship. the Millennium Development Goals. GRI G3.1 The 10 principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 1 Support and respect the protection of At Sappi, we endorse the principles entrenched in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and conform to the core HR 1 international human rights within their sphere of labour standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). We also conform to — and in many cases exceed — the HR 2 influence. labour conditions stipulated by the governments of the countries in which we operate. In 2009, we formally published a HR 3 human rights policy. HR 4 2 Make sure their own corporations are not We adhere to the standards of the ILO and legal labour conditions. In 2008 we stated that we would look into the HR 2 complicit in human rights abuses. protection of human rights in our procurement standards. This has now been included in our supplier policy. HR 3 3 Freedom of association and the effective We recognise the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We consult with trade unions and employees HR 5 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. on a wide variety of issues such as organisational change and training . Globally, approximately 62% of our workforce is LA 3 represented by unions, with 66% covered by collective bargaining agreements LA 4 Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for individual wellbeing, but also to achieve our group goals and objectives. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure disciplinary procedures are applied consistently, while grievance policies entrenches the rights of employees, including the right to raise a grievance without fear of victimization, the right to seek guidance and assistance from a member of the HR department or their representative at any time and the right to appeal to a higher authority, without prejudice. 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and All labour is sourced on the open market. In rural areas, forest products companies like Sappi are often the only, or HR 7 compulsory labour. major, employers in the region which makes the local population very dependent on the company. However, Sappi pays market-related wages in accordance with local legislation. In Southern Africa, our plantations are 100% FSC™-certified or controlled and this forest certification system stipulates the protection of indigenous rights. 5 The effective abolition of child labour. This principle is inherent in our labour policies across the group. HR 6 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of Sappi is an equal opportunity company. Gender diversity is increasing steadily throughout the group and in South HR 4 employment and occupation. Africa we have employment equity targets to promote economic and social transformation among the previously LA 10 disadvantaged. LA 11 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 112 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UN Global Compact continued GRI G3.1 The 10 principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 7 Support a precautionary approach to The precautionary approach places the onus on Sappi to anticipate harm before it occurs and to take active steps to 4.13 environmental challenges. prevent any harm from occurring. We achieve this by: • Conducting ongoing research into the impact of our activities and investigating methodologies to improve our performance at our research centres around the world • Continuously monitoring our environmental performance • Conducting thorough environment impact or risk assessments before the start of any new activity. 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater In each region we sponsor environment-related publications accessible to the general reader. EN 1 environmental responsibility. Europe EN 2 • We have planted over 8,000 trees in the Sonian Forest in conjunction with the ANB (Agentschap voor Natuur en Bos), the equivalent of the Department of Forestry. EN 3 • We are partners in the Treehouse, a platform, both physical and virtual, for like-minded individuals and companies to EN 4 come together to find ways to embrace sustainability in their daily activities. EN 5 • We participated in Ecoprint, the world’s first exhibition and event 100% focused on sustainable print business. EN 6 North America EN 7 • We play an active role in Living Lands and Waters, a non-profit, environmental organization focused on cleaning up EN 8 America’s great rivers and forest restoration. • We participate in the River Quest programme. EN 9 • We held a Green Community Day at our Westbrook Mill. EN 10 EN 11 South Africa • The Sappi WWF Tree Routes Partnership aims to protect ecologically sensitive areas while establishing sustainable EN 12 business ventures for communities that help them understand and respect the value of these areas. EN 13 • We support the Two Oceans Aquarium in Cape Town EN 14 • We are a member of Birdlife SA and WWF-SA. EN 15 In South Africa and North America, we work to make forest certification more accessible to farmers. EN 16 EN 18 In 2012, we improved our score (based on our carbon disclosure and mitigation strategies) on the South African Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) from 80 to 88%. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 113 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report UN Global Compact continued GRI G3.1 The 10 principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Our research and development initiatives are focused on technical improvement of processes and products, EN 17 environmentally friendly technologies. and on the development of environmentally friendly technologies. It makes sense from both an economic and environmental standpoint to aggressively manage our raw materials and energy usage. For example, while a typical mill may use large quantities of fresh water, this water is re-used, often several times in the process, before it is treated and returned to the environment. Likewise, sources or air emissions are captured and either consumed in the process or scrubbed by pollution control equipment. Many of our mills are nearly energy selfsufficient and derive the majority of their energy from renewable, rather than fossil fuel sources. Globally, in 2012, our use of renewable energy stood at just over 50%. In addition, globally over five years: • Specific (per air dry ton of pulp) purchased energy usage has decreased by 19.6%, • Scope 1 (direct) and 2 (indirect) CO2 emissions have decreased by 18.5%, • The amount of solid waste we send to landfill offsite has decreased by 31.4%. • Our specific water usage has decreased by 10.5%. 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, Our commitment to combating corruption is embodied in our Code of Ethics which gives very clear guidelines SO including extortion and bribery. on the behaviour expected of Sappi employees, suppliers and contractors at all times. The Code is reinforced by independently operated hotlines, which guarantee callers complete anonymity. All calls are followed up and reports are submitted to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. IAR12 Generally speaking, corruption is not a key issue for Sappi. The countries in Europe were we operate all score very highly on Transparency International’s 2012 Corruption Index, as does the USA which is 19th on the Index. South Africa is ranked 69th out of 174 countries indicating that while the risk is higher than the other countries in which we operate, it is not severe. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 114 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures The table that follows details our reporting Integrated Report 2012 We express our commitment to compliance in respect of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and directs the reader to sustainability not only in the decisions detailed discussions in various reports published by Sappi. we make every day in running our We follow the G3.1 Content Index. business, but also through public forums Referenced documents such as the United Nations Global The two key documents which we reference are our Integrated Report and our Group Sustainability Compact which sets benchmarks Group Sustainability Report 2012 Report; these are referenced and linked (to the relevant pages) as IAR12 and SDR12 (this report) that help us improve our governance respectively. systems and our performance in terms Additional information available in our regional sustainability reports are referenced and linked of Prosperity, People and Planet. as follows: Europe ESDR12 North America NASDR12 South Africa ZASDR12 Through our participation in the Regional sustainability reports 2012 Other Sappi publications, that can be downloaded Global Reporting Initiative™, we aim from the Sappi website at www.sappi.com, are Sappi Fine Paper 2011 Europe Sustainability Report also hyperlinked, eg FAQ Forest Certification. to ensure that our disclosures are a Cross references to information in this report are valid representation of our sustainability indicated by this icon. Europe North America Southern Africa strategies, practices, progress and challenges. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 115 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 1. Strategy and analysis Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully SDR12 Message from the CEO, page 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully SDR12 Our Key Sustainability drivers, page 16 2. Organisational profile Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 2.1 Name of organisation. Fully IAR front cover and throughout SDR12 throughout 2.2 Primary brands, product and/or services. Fully IAR pages 28-29 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, Fully IAR pages 4-5 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Fully IAR page 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of Fully IAR pages 56 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully IAR pages 48-49 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Fully IAR pages 24-25 and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully Document 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Fully SDR12 Revised strategy, page 45 structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully SDR12 Accolades in 2012, page 11 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 116 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 3. Reporting parameters Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 3.1 Reporting period (eg, fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully SDR12 Scope of this report, page 5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 2011 — covering the financial year beginning October 2010 to end September 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc). Fully Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully Graeme Wild, Group Head Investor Relations and Sustainability 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully SDR12 Defining report content, page 8 3.6 Boundary of the report (eg countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased Fully SDR12 About this report, page 5 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully SDR12 About this report, page 5 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Fully SDR12 Joint ventures excluded, page 6 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Fully SDR12 Conventions, page 2 including assumptions and techniques, underlying estimations applied Also detailed throughout this report where applicable to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided Fully IAR page 50 in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (eg mergers/ IAR page 51 acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Fully No significant changes boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully GRI Index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Fully SDR12 External assurance, page 7 for the report. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 117 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under Fully IAR page 67 the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Fully The chairman of the board is a nonexecutive officer. executive director. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the Fully Board members: 14 number of members of the highest governance body that are Executive directors: 2 independent and/or non-executive members. Non-executive directors: 12 Independent directors: 11 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders page 72 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Fully IAR pages 73, Compensation Report governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Fully IAR page73 conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise Fully IAR page 67 of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders page 72 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Fully Social, ethics, transformation and organisation’s identification and management of economic, sustainability committee environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally IAR pages 70 agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 118 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 1 Profile disclosures 4. Governance, commitments and engagement continued Profile disclosure and description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation Direct answer indicate part omission not reported 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Fully Board charter performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Fully SDR12 UN Global Compact, Principle 10, principle is addressed by the organisation. page 114 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders, page 72 principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/ Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders, page 72 or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders, page 72 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders, page 72 engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders, page 72 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Fully SDR12 Engaging with our stakeholders, page 72 engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 119 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 2 Disclosures on management approach (DMAs) GR DMA description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part for reported in not reported omission DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully IAR page 6 IAR Financial highlights, page 48-66 Market presence Fully IAR pages 4-5 Indirect economic impact Fully SDR12 Adding value, page17 DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN Aspects Materials Fully SDR12 Sustainable fibre supply, page 22 SDR12 Planet overview, page 82 Energy Fully SDR12 Energy, page 36 SDR12 Energy consumption and associated emissions, page 90 SDR12 Energy self-sufficiency, page 97 Water Fully SDR12 Water, page 43 SDR12 Managing water use and effluent discharge page 99 SDR12 Saving energy and water, page 101 SDR12 Managing water in our plantations, page 102 Biodiversity Fully SDR12 Biodiversity, page 32 SDR12 Biodiversity and community, page 111 Emissions, effluent and waste Fully SDR12 Emissions, page 40 SDR12 Energy consumption and associated emissions, page 90 SDR12 Other emissions, page 98 SDR12 Managing water use and effluent discharge, page 99 SDR12 Reducing solid waste, page 105 Products and services Fully SDR12 Reducing solid waste and adding value, page 108 Compliance Fully SDR12 Monitoring compliance — driving performance, page 84 Transport Fully SDR12 Streamlining transport to reduce emissions, page 96 Overall Fully SDR12 Planet overview, page 82 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 120 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 2 Disclosures on management approach (DMAs) GR DMA description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part for reported in not reported omission DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA Aspects Employment Fully SDR12 Our relationships with our employees, page 25 SDR12 Profiling our people, page 54 Labour/management relations Fully SDR12 Our relationships with our employees, page 25 SDR12 How we engage with our people, contributes significantly to our success, page 53 Occupational health and safety Fully SDR12 Employee safety, page 28 SDR12 Prioritising wellbeing, health and safety, page 62 Training and education Fully SDR12 Employee training and development, page 29 SDR12 Promoting training and development, page 58 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully SDR12 Transformation in South Africa, page 27 SDR12 Change and diversity, page 56 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully SDR12 Remunerating fairly, page 61 DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR Aspect Investment and procurement practices Partially SDR12 Our management approach to prosperity, page 44 Investment Proprietary Investment practices practices information are viewed as business ZASDR12 Page 7 confidential FAQ BBBEE Non-discrimination Fully SDR12 Our approach to human rights, page 71 Freedom of association and collective Fully SDR12 Our relationships with our employees, page 25 bargaining Child labour Fully SDR12 Our approach to human rights, page 71 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Fully SDR12 Our approach to human rights, page 71 Security practices Fully GRI Index See HR section of this contents index Indigenous rights Fully GRI Index See HR section of this contents index Assessment Fully SDR12 Our approach to human rights, page 71 Remediation Fully GRI Index See HR section of this contents index 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 121 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 2 Disclosures on management approach (DMAs) GR DMA description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part for reported in not reported omission DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO Aspect Local communities Fully SDR12 Corporate social responsibility, page 30 SDR12 Supporting communities, page 70 Corruption Fully IAR page 94 Public policy Fully SDR12 Group corporate social responsibility policy, page 31 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully IAR pages 142 Compliance Fully GRI Index See SO section of this contents index 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 122 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Economic performance indicators Performance indicator Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part for reported in not reported omission DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR Aspect Customer health and safety Fully SDR12 Customers’ health and safety, page 69 Product and service labelling Fully SDR12 Customers’ health and safety, page 69 Marketing compliance Fully SDR12 Customers’ health and safety, page 69 Customer privacy Not Not The disclosure is not material material to our business because we do not operate in an industry where customer privacy is a key issue Compliance Fully SDR12 Monitoring compliance — driving performance, page 84 Economic performance EC 1 Direct economic value generated and Fully SDR12 Adding value, page 17 distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC 2 Financial implications and other risks Fully SDR12 Water, page 43 and opportunities for the organisation’s SDR12 Mitigating climate change, page 89 activities due to climate change. EC 3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined Fully IAR Compensation Report, pages 83-91 benefit plan obligations. EC 4 Significant financial assistance received Fully GRI Index No such from government. financial assistance received 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 123 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Economic performance indicators continued Performance indicator Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Market presence EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Fully GRI Index We negotiate salaries with unions and by gender compared to local minimum wage works councils on an ongoing basis at significant locations of operation. EC 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Partially FAQ BBBEE Only reported Only deemed material in South Africa, on locally-based suppliers at significant in South Africa, for purposes of Broad-based Black locations of operation. not reported in Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) NA and EU compliance and so data has only been collected in this region. EC 7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Partially FAQ BBBEE As above As above of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Indirect economic impacts EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully NASDR12 pages 38-41 investments and services provided primarily ZASDR12 pages 28-33 for public benefit through commercial, ZASDR12 pages 40-45 in‑kind, or pro bono engagement. EC 9 Understanding and describing significant Fully SDR12 Adding value, page 17 indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 124 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Materials EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Not available We do not currently report on this 2020 indicator as the systems for analysis and acceptance of the data are being constructed. We will be able to report in the long term (2020) EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are Not Not available As above 2020 recycled input materials. Energy EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully SDR12 Energy consumption and energy source. associated emissions, page 90 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Fully SDR12 Energy consumption and source. associated emissions, page 90 EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and Fully SDR12 Energy self-sufficiency, page 97 efficiency improvements. EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Fully SDR12 Renewable energy, page 38 or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Fully SDR12 Energy consumption and consumption and reductions achieved. associated emissions, page 92 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 125 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Water EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully SDR12 Managing water use and effluent discharge, page 99 EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by Fully SDR12 Managing water-use and withdrawal of water effluent discharge, page 100 EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water Fully SDR12 Water, page 43 recycled and reused. Biodiversity EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully SDR12 Biodiversity and community, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas page 111 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN 12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Fully SDR12 Promoting sustainable forest products, and services on biodiversity and plantation management, page 109 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN 13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully SDR12 Promoting sustainable forest and plantation management, page 109 EN 14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans Fully SDR12 Biodiversity, page 32 for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN 15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Fully SDR12 Promoting sustainable forest national conservation list species with and plantation management, page 109 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 126 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Emissions, effluent and waste EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully SDR12 Emissions, page 40 emissions by weight SDR12 Energy consumption and associated emissions, page 90 EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not Not applicable We do no report on this point since emissions by weight the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI guidelines is not applicable to our business as Sappi only emits very small quantities of methane from landfill and from biomass decay in our plantations. As these quantities are so small, they are not measured. EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Fully SDR12 Energy, page 36 emissions and reductions achieved. SDR12 Mitigating climate change, Page 89 EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Not SDR12 Saving energy and reducing Not applicable We do not report on this point since weight. emissions, Page 92 the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI guidelines is not applicable to our business. Sappi does not emit ozonedepleting substances EN 20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Fully SDR12 Other emissions, page 98 by type and weight. EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and Fully SDR12 Managing water-use and destination. effluent discharge, page 100 EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Fully SDR12 Reducing solid waste, method. page 105 SDR12 reducing solid waste and adding value, Page 106 -108 EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully GRI Index No significant spills in the year under review. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 127 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Emissions, effluent and waste continued EN 24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, Fully SDR12 Reducing solid waste, or treated waste deemed hazardous under page 105 the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN 25 Identity, size, protected status, and Not Not material We do not report on this issue as biodiversity value of water bodies and related the disclosure is not material to our habitats significantly affected by the reporting business. Only one of our operations, organisation’s discharges of water and runoff Enstra Mill in South Africa, is situated near a Ramsar site; water discharge from the mill does not affect this site. Products and services EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Fully SDR12 Described throughout Planet of products and services, and extent of section, starting on page 81 impact mitigation EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their Fully GRI Index The majority of our papers are packaging materials that are reclaimed by recyclable (the exceptions being wet category strength and release papers). Our Cape Kraft Mill in South Africa runs on 100% recovered fibre. Compliance EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully GRI Index No such fines or monetary sanctions number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 128 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Environmental performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Transport EN 29 Significant environmental impacts of Fully SDR12 Energy self-sufficiency, transporting products and other goods page 97 and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures Partially SDR12 Overview, page 82 Detailed by Not available We currently do not account and investments by type region but not separately for different types of by type environmental expenditure, but are working towards being able to do so, beginning with the SA region and working to extend this to other regions by 2020 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 129 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Labour practices and decent work performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Employment LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully SDR12 Profiling our people, page 54 employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA 2 Total number and rate of employee turnover Fully SDR12 Profiling our people, page 55 by age group, gender, and region. LA 3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Fully SDR12 Performance reviews and are not provided to temporary or part-time benefits, page 60 employees, by major operations. LA 15 Return to work and retention rates after Partially SDR12 Performance reviews and Only reported for Not available The systems for collection of this data 2016 parental leave, by gender. benefits, page 60 Europe, in other regions are currently under construction 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 130 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Labour practices and decent work performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Labour/management relations LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by Fully SDR12 Our relationships with our collective bargaining agreements. employees, page 25 LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Fully SDR12 Change and diversity, page 56 operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational health and safety LA 6 Percentage of total workforce represented Fully SDR12 Prioritising wellbeing, health in formal joint management–worker health and safety, page 62 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Fully SDR12 Safety performance, page 64 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA 8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, Fully SDR12 Health and wellbeing and risk-control programmes in place to initiatives, page 68 assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA 9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Fully SDR12 Safety management, page 63 agreements with trade unions. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 131 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Labour practices and decent work performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Training and education LA 10 Average hours of training per year per Partially SDR12 Promoting training and By gender Not available We do not report on this yet because the 2015/16 employee by gender and by employee development, page 58 systems for gathering the data are still under construction. category. LA 11 Programmes for skills management and Fully SDR12 Promoting training and lifelong learning that support the continued development, page 58 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully SDR12 Performance reviews and performance and career development benefits, page 60 reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully SDR12 Change and diversity, page 56 breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Fully SDR12 Remunerating fairly, page 61 employee category 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 132 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Human rights performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Investment and procurement practices HR 1 Percentage and total number of significant Not Not applicable The disclosure as prescribed by the investment agreements and contracts that GRI Guidelines is not applicable to include clauses incorporating human rights our business because we do not concerns, or that have undergone human make investments or enter into rights screening. contracts where human rights might be violated. HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Not Not material The disclosure as prescribed by contractors and other business partners that the GRI Guidelines is not material have undergone human rights screening, to our business because human and actions taken. rights compliance is covered by the legislation of the countries where we operate, by FSC™ principles and the UN Global Compact. HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies Not Not applicable The disclosure as prescribed by the and procedures concerning aspects of GRI Guidelines is not applicable to human rights that are relevant to operations, our business because we operate including the percentage of employees in countries where human rights are trained. understood and entrenched not only in legislation, but also in the culture of each country. Non-discrimination HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination Fully GRI Index No such incidents and corrective actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR 5 Operations and significant suppliers identified Fully SDR12 Our relationships with our in which the right to exercise freedom of employees, page 25 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 133 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Human rights performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Child labour HR 6 Operations and significant suppliers identified Fully GRI Index No such operations or suppliers as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour HR 7 Operations and significant suppliers identified Fully GRI Index No such operations or suppliers as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Security practices HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained Not Not applicable The disclosure as prescribed by the in the organisation’s policies or procedures GRI Guidelines is not applicable to concerning aspects of human rights that are our business because we do not relevant to operations. operate in post-conflict zones and there is little tension between Sappi and the communities in which our operations are located. Having said that, human rights considerations cut across a range of disciplines at Sappi, including health, safety, security, community, environmental, human resources, legal and regulatory, ethics, governance and labour relations. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 134 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Human rights performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Indigenous rights HR 9 Total number of incidents of violations Fully GRI Index The rights of indigenous people involving rights of indigenous people and are protected in terms of the forest actions taken certification systems we use. There have, however, been no such incidents to date. Assessment HR 10 Percentage and total number of operations Fully SDR12 Our approach to human that have been subject to human rights rights, page 71 reviews and/or impact assessments. Remediation HR 11 Number of grievances related to human Fully GRI Index No such grievances rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 135 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Society performance indicators Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Local communities SO 1 Percentage of operations with implemented Fully SDR12 Engaging with our local community engagement, impact stakeholders — communities, page 75 assessments, and development programs. SO 9 Operations with significant potential or actual Fully GRI Index No such operations negative impacts on local communities. SO 10 Prevention and mitigation measures Fully GRI Index No such operations implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO 2 Percentage and total number of business Not Not material The disclosure is not material to our business units analysed for risks related to corruption because corruption is not considered an issue for Sappi. The countries in Europe were we operate all score very highly on Transparency International’s 2012 Corruption Index, as does the USA which is 19th on the Index. South Africa is 69th out of 174 countries indicating that while the risk is higher than the other countries in which we operate, it is not severe. SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in Fully GRI Index All our employees (and suppliers) organisation’s anti-corruption policies and receive Code of Ethics training procedures SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Fully IAR page 94 corruption 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 136 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Society performance indicators continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Public policy SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in Fully SDR12 Engaging with our public policy development and lobbying stakeholders — general, page 72 SO 6 Total value of financial and in-kind Fully GRI Index As specified in the Code of Ethics, contributions to political parties, politicians, Sappi’s policy is not to make political and related institutions by country. contributions Anti-competitive behaviour SO 7 Total number of legal actions for antiFully GRI Index No such legal actions competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully GRI Index No significant fines or non-monetary number of non-monetary sanctions for nonsanctions. Should these arise, they compliance with laws and regulations. would be reported in our Annual Report on Form 20-F 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 137 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Product responsibility Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Customer health and safety PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Fully SDR12 Customer’s health and safety, impacts of products and services are page 69 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR 2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully GRI Index No such incidents with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labelling PR 3 Type of product and service information Fully SDR12 Customer’s health and safety, required by procedures, and percentage of page 69 significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR 4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully GRI Index No such incidents with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR 5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Fully SDR12 Engaging with our including results of surveys measuring stakeholders — customers, page 76 customer satisfaction 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 138 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index Standard disclosures part 3 Performance indicators Social | Product responsibility continued Performance indicator description Reported Cross-reference If applicable, Reason for Explanation To be Direct answer indicate part omission reported in not reported Marketing communications PR 6 Programmes for adherence to laws, Fully SDR12 Customer’s health and safety, standards, and voluntary codes related page 69 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR 7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully GRI Index No such incidents with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR 8 Total number of substantiated complaints Fully GRI Index No such complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonFully GRI Index No such fines compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 139 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Glossary ABET chemical cellulose — dissolving pulp contractor Adult basic education and training Highly purified chemical pulp intended primarily for Refers to an independent employer of self-employed conversion into chemical derivatives of cellulose and used person performing work for Sappi, excludes temporary or adt mainly in the manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent fixed-term employees Air dry tons — the industry standard is 90% fibre and 10% spin fibre and filament moisture CSR/CSI COD — Chemical Oxygen Demand Corporate Social Responsibility — previously referred to as AF&PA Untreated effluent is generally high in organic matter. Corporate Social Investment American Forest and Paper Association COD is the amount of oxygen required to break down the organic compounds in the effluent dissolving pulp air dry tons (adt) Highly purified chemical pulp derived primarily from Meaning dry solids content of 90% and moisture content chemical pulp wood, but also from cotton linters intended primarily for of 10% A generic term for pulp made from wood-fibre that has conversion into chemical derivatives of cellulose and used been produced in a chemical process mainly in the manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent BBBEE (Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment) spin fibre and filament Broad based Black Economic Empowerment – as CHP envisaged in the Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) Combined heat and power dissolving wood pulp legislation in South Africa Highly purified chemical pulp derived from wood intended coated paper primarily for conversion into chemical derivatives of black liquor Paper that contains a layer of coating material on one or cellulose and used mainly in the manufacture of viscose The spent cooking liquor from the pulping process which both sides — the coating materials, consisting of pigments staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and filament. Also called arises when pulpwood is cooked in a digester thereby and chemical cellulose removing lignin, hemicellulose and other extractives binders, act as a filler to improve the printing surface of from the wood to free the cellulose fibres. The resulting the paper ECF — elemental chlorine free black liquor is an aqueous solution of lignin residues, Refers to bleaching sequences in which no chlorine is used hemicellulose, and the inorganic chemicals used in the coated mechanical pulping process. Black liquor contains slightly more than Coated paper made from groundwood pulp which has EIRIS half of the energy content of the wood fed into the digester. been produced in a mechanical process, primarily used for A leading global provider of independent research into the magazines, catalogues and advertising material ethical governance of companies, as well as their social billion and environmental performance Sappi follows contemporary 'short scale' convention; coated woodfree defining a billion as one thousand millions Coated paper made from chemical pulp which is made EMAS from wood fibre that has been produced in a chemical A voluntary clean citizenship initiative of the European biofuels process, primarily used for high end publications and Union, constituting the highest environmental standards Organic material such as wood, waste and alcohol fuels, advertising material in Europe and requiring environmental stewardship, as well as gaseous and liquid fuels produced from these determined continuous improvement and detailed public feedstocks when they are burned to produce energy corrugating medium reporting Paperboard made from chemical and semi-chemical pulp, bleached pulp or waste paper, that is to be converted to a corrugated energy Pulp that has been bleached by means of chemical board by passing it through corrugating cylinders. Energy is present in many forms such as solar, mechanical, additives to make it suitable for fine paper production Corrugating medium between layers of linerboard form the thermal, electrical and chemical. Any source of energy can board from which corrugated boxes are produced be tapped to perform work. In power plants, coal is burned CEPI and its chemical energy is converted into electrical energy. Confederation of European Paper Industries COSO To generate steam, coal and other fossil fuels are burned, Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway thus converting stored chemical energy into thermal energy Commission 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 140 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Glossary continued ETC greenhouse gases (GHGs) liquor Education, Training and Consulting The GHGs included in the Kyoto Protocol are carbon White liquor is the aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, and sodium sulphide used to extract lignin during kraft Exciter perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride pulping. In addition to our more traditional R&D work, we started Black liquor is the resultant combination of lignin, water the Exciter programme in 2005 to deal with the persistent group and chemicals threat of commoditisation in the graphics paper markets. It The group comprises Sappi Limited, its subsidiaries and its is aimed at accelerating the development of breakthrough interest in joint ventures and associates LTIFR technological competency in our core markets. Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate = number of lost time HFO injuries x 200,000 divided by man hours fibre Heavy fuel oil Fibre is generally referred to as 'pulp' in the paper industry. linerboard Wood is treated chemically or mechanically to separate the ISO — International Standards Organisation The grade of paperboard used for the exterior facings of fibres during the pulping process Developed by the International Organisation for corrugated board. Linerboard is combined with corrugating Standardisation (ISO), ISO 9000 is a series of standards medium by converters to produce corrugated board used fine paper focused on quality management systems, while the ISO in boxes Fine paper is usually produced from chemical pulp for printing 14001 series is focused on environmental performance and and writing purposes and consisting of coated and uncoated management managed forest paper Naturally occurring forests that are harvested commercially IUCN Forestry SA The World Conservation Union market pulp The largest forestry organisation representing growers of Pulp produced for sale on the open market, as opposed timber in South Africa joint venture to that produced for own consumption in an integrated mill An economic activity over which the group exercises joint FSC™ — Forest Stewardship Council™ control established under a contractual arrangement mechanical pulp In terms of the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) Pulp produced by means of the mechanical grinding or scheme, there are two types of certification. In order for JSE Limited refining of wood or wood chips land to achieve FSC™ endorsement, its forest management The main securities exchange in South Africa, previously practices must meet the FSC™’s ten principles and other known as the Johannesburg Stock Exchange NBSK assorted criteria. For manufacturers of forest products, Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft pulp. One of the main including paper manufacturers like Sappi, Chain-ofkraft paper varieties of market pulp, produced from coniferous trees (ie Custody certification involves independent verification of Packaging paper (bleached or unbleached) made from spruce, pine) in Scandinavia, Canada and northern USA. the supply chain, which identifies and tracks the timber kraft pulp The price of NBSK is a benchmark widely used in the pulp through all stages of the production process from the tree and paper industry for comparative purposes farm to the end product kraft pulp Chemical wood pulp produced by digesting wood by NGO full-time equivalent employee means of the sulphate pulping process Non-governmental organisation The number of total hours worked divided by the maximum number of compensable hours in a full-time schedule as Kyoto Protocol natural/indigenous forest defined by law A document signed by over 160 countries at Kyoto, Japan Pristine areas not used commercially in December 1997 which commits signatories to reducing Green-e® their emission of greenhouse gases relative to levels newsprint An independent consumer protection programme created emitted in 1990 Paper produced for the printing of newspapers mainly from by the Centre for Resource Solutions for the sale of mechanical pulp and/or recycled waste paper renewable energy and greenhouse gas reduction (www. green-e.org) 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 141 OHSAS Scope 1 GHG emissions specific purchase energy An international health and safety standard aimed at The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope 1 (direct) The term 'specific' indicates that the actual quantity during minimising occupational health and safety risks firstly, by emissions as follows: direct GHG emissions are emissions the year indicated, is expressed in terms of a production conducting a variety of analyses and secondly, by setting from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper standards entity companies, the parameter is air dry tons of product packaging paper Scope 2 GHG emissions TAPPI – Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Paper used for packaging purposes The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope 2 (indirect) Industry emissions as follows: indirect GHG emissions are emissions Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry for PAMSA that are a consequence of the activities of the reporting the worldwide pulp, paper, packaging, and converting Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa entity, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another industries entity PEFC™ TCF — Total chlorine-free The world’s largest forest certification system, the PEFC™ silviculture costs Refers to bleaching sequences in which no chlorine is focused on promoting sustainable forest management. Growing and tending costs of trees in forestry operations containing compounds such as chlorine dioxide are used Using multi-stakeholder processes, the organisation develops forest management certification standards and SFI® — Sustainable Forestry Initiative thermo-mechanical pulp schemes which have been signed by 37 nations in Europe The SFI ® programme is a comprehensive system of pulp produced by processing wood fibres using heat and and other inter-governmental processes for sustainable objectives and performance measures which integrate mechanical grinding or refining wood or wood chips forestry management around the world the sustained growing and harvesting of trees and the protection of plants and animals tons plantation Term used in this report to denote a metric ton of 1,000kg tree farms SMMEs Small, medium and micro enterprises TSS — Total suspended solids (TSS) power Refers to matter suspended or dissolved in effluent The rate at which energy is used or produced solid waste Dry organic and inorganic waste materials uncoated woodfree paper pulpwood Printing and writing paper made from bleached chemical Wood suitable for producing pulp – usually not of sufficient Specialised Cellulose pulp used for general printing, photocopying and stationery, standard for saw-milling The new name for the expanded operating division within etc. Referred to as 'uncoated' as it does not contain a layer Sappi which oversees the production and marketing of of pigment to give it a coated surface red data list Sappi’s dissolving wood pulp from Saiccor Mill as well as A global index of endangered species published by the the dissolving wood pulp to be produced from the 2013 woodfree paper World Conservation Union financial year at Ngodwana Mill and Cloquet Mill. paper made from chemical pulp release paper speciality paper World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) embossed paper used to impart design in polyurethane A generic term for a group of papers intended for The world’s largest conservation organisation, focused on or polyvinyl chloride plastic films for the production of commercial and industrial use such as flexible packaging, supporting biological diversity synthetic leather and other textured surfaces. The term metallised base paper, coated bag paper, etc also applies to backing paper for self adhesive labels specific sackkraft When data is expressed in specific form, this means that Kraft paper used to produce multiwall paper sacks the actual quality consumed during the year indicated, whether energy, water, emissions or solid waste, is expressed in terms of a production parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper companies, this parameter is air dry tons of saleable product ©Sappi Corporate Communications – 2013 Version 03, 15 January 2013 2012 Sappi Group Sustainability Report Contents 142
