Global Compact – COP 2013 Global Compact Communication of Progress 2013 Copenhagen Denmark exima.eu Page 1 Global Compact – COP 2013 INDEX Our company ......................................................................................................................... 2 Statement of support ............................................................................................................. 3 PRINCIPLE 1 ........................................................................................................................ 4 PRINCIPLE 2 ........................................................................................................................ 4 PRINCIPLE 3 ........................................................................................................................ 6 PRINCIPLE 4 ........................................................................................................................ 7 PRINCIPLE 5 ........................................................................................................................ 8 PRINCIPLE 6 ........................................................................................................................ 9 PRINCIPLE 7 .......................................................................................................................12 PRINCIPLE 8 .......................................................................................................................13 PRINCIPLE 9 .......................................................................................................................14 PRINCIPLE 10 .....................................................................................................................16 Company Name EXIMA ApS Date 2013.05.12 Address Langøgade 17 2100 Copenhagen Ø Membership date 2009.05.18 Country Denmark Number of 20 employees Contact name Lars Munkøe Contact Position Director Sector Consultancy Contact telephone no. +45 8870 9007 Our company EXIMA is a provider of sustainability services to a wide range of organisations. From our offices in Denmark and Italy we assist clients worldwide in improving performance in the areas of Corporate Responsibility and resource efficiency within manufacturing. By demonstrating the sound benefits of integrating Sustainable Development into core business operations, we had value by assisting our clients address Social, Environmental and Climate Change related challenges. Page 2 Global Compact – COP 2013 Statement of support Since 2009, when EXIMA became a signatory of the UN Global Compact, we have worked diligently to embed the Compact’s ten principles into our core business activities. As a small consultancy, we make the most significant impact by utilising our services to encourage and assist our customers within the public and private sectors to become more sustainable. We do this by continuously developing offerings so they provide real business and sustainable benefits. Our philosophy is that being responsible and profitable go hand in hand. This past year we have been involved in a number of projects, which have provided real sustainable benefits. For example, we have been involved in setting up an energy management program; conducting a Greenhouse Gas Inventory and developing a clean production programme for 8 manufacturing industries. In addition, we have increased our stake in Purix ApS and will soon be bringing our solar air conditioning units to market. EXIMA is now the main shareholder of Purix ApS. As a small, sustainability consultancy much of our efforts have been directed to influencing and assisting our customers and business partners. Now with the increased ownership of Purix ApS we will begin incorporating the Compact’s ten principles into these operations, including our value chain. As a consultancy with many years of global experience we are able to provide best practice methods and services, usually only available to multinational companies, to underresourced organisations in developing economies. Now through Purix ApS we are able to bring innovative, sustainable products to the market as well. Lars Munkøe Director Page 3 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment As a company with activities around the world, we recognise our responsibility to uphold Human Rights standards by contributing to sustainable development in the societies in which we operate. Our responsibility applies not only to our own operations but also in our relationships with business partners. Compliance with the UN Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work are important to us and our ability to develop as a responsible and reliable organisation. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA Business Principles, which include Human Rights, are implemented in our operations. The principles are currently used as guidelines by our team and are regularly communicated to our key stakeholders. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA is in the process of strengthening the capacity of our team in identifying violations of internationally respected human rights. Working across industry sectors worldwide, we realised that our role as advisors may require additional capabilities of our team members. We have recently developed internal training materials and tools for our team, providing a framework for our organisation to identify and manage potential risks of human rights violations. Measurable Results or Outcomes Outcomes: Internal training materials and tools on internationally proclaimed human rights have been developed and will be rolled out in 2013. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Page 4 Global Compact – COP 2013 Our Commitment or Policy As a company with activities around the world, we recognize our responsibility to uphold Human Rights standards by contributing to sustainable development in the societies in which we operate. Our responsibility applies not only to our own operations but also in our relationships with business partners. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA has had no knowledge of direct or indirect incidents of human rights abuses. Nevertheless, the company is conscious of the possibility of facing situations where these could occur. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA will strengthen the capacity of our team for identifying violations of internationally claimed human rights and provide support for developing sustainable measures and preventive actions. Working across industry sectors worldwide, we recognize our role as advisors may require additional capabilities of our team members. We have developed internal training materials and tools for our team, providing a framework for our organisation to identify and manage potential risks of human rights violations. Measurable Results or Outcomes Outcomes: Internal training materials and tools on internationally proclaimed human rights have been developed and will be rolled out in 2013. Page 5 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy Compliance with the UN Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work are important to us and our ability to develop as a responsible and reliable organisation. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our position is that collective bargaining and the freedom of association is a universal right and should be respected. There is limited risk in our own organisation as we are small and have a flat organisational structure. To make an impact in this area we do our utmost to influence our business partners and other stakeholders to respect this right. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year A new Business Principles draft document has been developed incorporating our position on Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. This will be launched and communicated to stakeholders and business partners in 2013. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining are also included in our internal guidelines and training materials. Measurable Results or Outcomes Outcomes: o A new Business Principles draft document has been developed incorporating our position on Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. This will be launched and communicated to stakeholders and business partners in 2013. o Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining are also included in our internal guidelines and training materials. Page 6 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EXIMA supports the elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Together with our Clients, we develop the awareness, which enables organisations to recognize and respond to the exposure for facing forced and compulsory labour in the supply chain. By encouraging Clients to become signatories of the UN Global Compact and engaging in dialogue with stakeholders, EXIMA supports the abolition of child labour in our sphere of influence. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year A new Business Principles draft document has been developed incorporating our position on Forced and Compulsory Labour. This element is incorporated into our guidelines and training tools for employees. We are still in the process of developing a risk assessment and monitoring system for the identification of potential situations where incidents of forced and compulsory labour could occur. Measurable Results or Outcomes Outcomes: o A new Business Principles draft document has been developed incorporating our position on Forced and Compulsory Labour o This element is incorporated into our guidelines and training tools for employees. In Progress: o Company Risk assessment, o Internal monitoring system and formalised practices related to identification of potential incidents of forced and compulsory labour. Page 7 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EXIMA supports global efforts in the effective abolition of child labour A brief description of our Processes or Systems Together with our Clients, we develop the awareness which enables organisations to recognize and respond to child labour issues in the supply chain. By encouraging Clients to become signatories of the UN Global Compact and engaging in dialogue with stakeholders, EXIMA supports the abolition of child labour in our sphere of influence. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year A new Business Principles draft document has been developed incorporating our position on Child Labour. This element is also incorporated into our guidelines and training tools for employees. We are still in the process of developing a risk assessment and monitoring system for the identification of potential situations where incidents of child labour could occur. Measurable Results or Outcomes Outcomes: o A new Business Principles draft document has been developed incorporating our position on Child Labour o This element is incorporated into our guidelines and training tools for employees. In Progress: o Assessment of current operations for identification of situations where Child labour could potentially occur o Development of a business process for our team to deal with identified situations of potential child labour Page 8 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy We aim to employ people who reflect the diverse nature of society and we value the contribution they make, irrespective of gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, race, colour, religion, ethnic origin or political beliefs. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA’s practice for engaging people is based on professional skills and experience, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, race or religion. We offer a flexible work policy to our team members supporting flexible working hours for employees with families. Our remote workplace policy enables staff living remotely to support growth to rural areas and local communities. EXIMA strives to balance the gender distribution equally with within our team. The development of the organization over the past few years shows an increase of males from 60% to 67% from 2011 to 2013. This trend will be addressed in our recruitment strategy in the future. 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2013 2012 2011 Male Female Page 9 Global Compact – COP 2013 Providing global services with a local presence requires a dynamic organisation. The distribution of our employees reflects the nature of EXIMA as being a European organisation. The distribution of our team reflects this aspect with 85% of staff being located in Europe. This trend shows little variation over the course of the past years. 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2013 2012 2011 Europe Asia Africa Americas The nature of our services requires specific skills and experience in order to provide essential value to our clients. With more than 80% of our team holding a Masters degree and more than 60% having accumulated more than 15 years of core experience within our field, we have a wealth of knowledge in our organisation. Our staff have educational backgrounds such as environmental and mechanical engineers, chemists, biologists and business experts. 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2013 2012 2011 Master Bachelor Page 10 Global Compact – COP 2013 Having skilled staff with many years of experience is a valuable asset but at the same time we need to ensure that we bring younger staff on board to meet the future needs of our customers. At present and in the coming years we will strive to employ younger staff in order to transfer skills and expertise to new team members with less experience. Most recently we have offered thesis projects to various educational institutions in three countries with the objective of engaging with a new generation of candidates. 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2013 2012 2011 >15 years 10 15 years < 10 years Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have begun measuring and benchmarking our performance with our HR monitoring system. Actions will be taken in the recruitment phase to address designated areas Measurable Results or Outcomes Outcomes: o We have begun measuring and benchmarking our HR performance In Progress o We will strive to increase the number of female and young staff in our organisation Page 11 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy We recognize our responsibility for addressing the environment in our daily planning and operations. As part of our mission and services towards Clients we will encourage and promote environmentally responsible behaviour. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems As a small service-providing consultancy, EXIMA’s environmental impact is minimal. Our contribution to this area is the services and knowledge we provide to our clients for improving performance within corporate responsibility, including the environment and Climate Change. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA will continue to demonstrate value for our Clients by applying a precautionary approach to environmental challenges by tailoring and developing value adding services within Corporate Responsibility. Below is a selection of assignments contracted by our team in the past year, providing tangible benefits while improving sustainability performance: o Development of a climate change survey and roadmap in Poland and Russia for a large multinational o The further development of a food benchmark tool for the International Finance Group (World Bank) to evaluate the resource efficiency of new and existing clients in food industry sectors o Developed and conducted training of a cleaner production programme for 8 manufacturing industries in Russia for the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) o Responsible for the sustainable design of 2 industry investments in Russia for the UNIDO o Developed an energy management programme for a large, multinational telecommunications corporation o Conducted a GHG inventory and carbon offsetting services for Scantago, a service provider to the pharmaceutical industry Measurable Results or Outcomes In Progress: Providing support and guidance to companies on environmental issues, which seek to incorporate the precautionary principle into business and investments. Page 12 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy “Our mission is to meet the needs of our Clients for sustainable solutions to a wide range of Climate Change, Environmental and Social related challenges. The success of our activities is our ability to add value to business by integrating the principles of Sustainable Development into their strategies and operation.” Source: EXIMA Mission statement, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems As a service provider within corporate responsibility, EXIMA provides essential knowhow to Clients for improving environmental performance. Though the environmental benefit from the results of our services far exceeds the impact of our operations, we do take action to mitigate our environmental impact. For example, we have taken steps to reduce travel to a minimum by offering an infrastructure supporting the extended use of on-line meetings, and conferences for Clients and team members. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Through our core services related to environmental performance and management, EXIMA will continue to develop our portfolio of services for supporting our Clients in linking environmental performance and reducing costs. Measurable Results or Outcomes In Progress: Provide cutting-edge services demonstrating the benefits of improved environmental performance of existing and planned industrial operations. Page 13 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy “Our mission is to meet the needs of our Clients for sustainable solutions to a wide range of Climate Change, Environmental and Social related challenges. The success of our activities is our ability to add value to business by integrating the principles of Sustainable Development into their strategies and operation.” Source: EXIMA Mission statement, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA assists industries in improving environmental performance of existing operations and by improving the design of planned investments. By doing so, we demonstrate the environmental value and the economical feasibility of improving current technologies and processes. EXIMA actively encourages the development of environmental technologies by undertaking investments in Clean-Tech innovation projects. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA will continue to provide support to industries for the identification of environmental savings and strengthen our engagement in Clean-Tech projects. EXIMA has now become the main shareholder of Purix ApS (www.purix.com) with the purpose of bringing environmentally friendly air conditioners based on solar energy to markets in Southern Europe and Middle East. In 2013 we will be launching some of our solar air conditioning units in these markets. The demand for comfort cooling is increasing year by year and consequently so does electricity consumption and greenhouse gas emissions related to cooling. Though efficiency of electric air conditioners has improved, Purix has demonstrated a competitive alternative to conventional air conditioners reducing power consumption by 86% compared to best of class conventional units. The core mission of Purix will be to support our belief that we may improve and maintain living standards while reducing our environmental impact dramatically. Measurable Results or Outcomes In Progress: o EXIMA will continue to provide support to industries for identification and implementation of environmental savings from o Sustainable Design activities o Engaging in development and facilitation of carbon credit projects Page 14 Global Compact – COP 2013 o Carbon Management services o Reviewing and auditing services to industry for improving performance within Sustainable Production, Energy/Climate Change and the environment o Guidance in design and implementation of management systems within the environment and energy areas (EN16001 and ISO5001) o Greenhouse Gas Emission verification services o Strengthen our engagement and success in Clean-Tech innovation projects. Page 15 Global Compact – COP 2013 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy Conflict of Interests Persons working on behalf of EXIMA should not engage in activities which would conflict with their responsibilities as representatives of EXIMA, or involve themselves as representing EXIMA in any activities whatsoever with a third party in which the person has anything more that an insignificant direct or indirect economical interest. Fair Competition We respect the principles and rules of fair competition prohibiting anti-competitive behaviours and the abuse of a dominant market position. Bribery EXIMA does not give or receive whether directly or indirectly bribes or other improper advantages for business or financial gain. No employee or persons working on behalf of EXIMA may offer give or receive any gift or payment which is, or may be construed as being, a bribe. A bribe can be defined as an offer or receipt of any gift, loan, fee, reward or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust, in the conduct of the enterprise’s business. Any demand for, or offer of, a bribe must be rejected immediately and reported to management. If you are in any doubt or if you witness the offering or acceptance of bribes, you must immediately report this to management. Facilitation payments A facilitation payment can be defined as an extra payment of a minor sum of money to a person to expedite an action, for example to process a permit or issue a visa. We make no distinction between facilitation payments and bribes. EXIMA will not make facilitation payments in any countries in which we do business, and we will not allow others who work for us to make them. If you are in any doubt or if you witness the use of Facilitation payments, you must immediately report this to management. Gifts It is in many countries a custom and acceptable to provide and receive promotional tokens or gifts, provided that the value does not exceed a reasonable level, and provided that the items are not of such a character that they may be used to influence the receiver unduly or make him/her feel obligated to repay. It is not acceptable to receive or give gifts in the form of cash. If there is doubt as to whether a gift exceeds a reasonable level, a manager must be contacted. Page 16 Global Compact – COP 2013 Political contributions EXIMA does not engage in political activities, nor provide contributions or other support to political parties, local candidates or committees. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems A company policy provides guidance and describes our practices and operations with respect to corruption and bribery. The EXIMA Business Principles is available for download on the EXIMA website www.exima.eu. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We are still in the process of developing a monitoring system for the identification of cases where EXIMA or people working on our behalf of our company are exposed to attempts of corruption or bribery. This area is incorporated into our guidelines and training tools for employees. Measurable Results or Outcomes Outcomes: o This area is incorporated into our guidelines and training tools In Progress: o Integration of business principles into operations of EXIMA o Development of monitoring system Availability of COP for stakeholders The COP document is available for download at www.exima.eu Page 17
