CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY This is KMD’s statutory report on corporate social Together with the 10 principles of the UN Global Comresponsibility pursuant to Section 99a of the Danish pact and KMD’s CSR policy, the strategy forms the basis Financial Statements Act. The report provides an for KMD’s work on corporate social responsibility. overview of KMD’s work as a socially responsible For KMD, this means that we as a company do not company. A broader overview of KMD’s CSR efforts represent a barrier to but instead make a contribution can be accessed at www.kmd.dk/csr. This does not, to social, economic and environmental sustainability. however, form part of the reporting pursuant to Section 99a. This entails starting from KMD’s position as an IT company with a vision of creating digital shortcuts Over the last 40 years KMD has provided digital support for customers and society. In terms of CSR, this means to Denmark’s public sector. KMD is therefore a highly that KMD will create digital shortcuts that contribute integrated part of Denmark’s welfare state, and this to a richer, safer and more sustainable society. forms the starting point for KMD’s work on CSR. Work on corporate social responsibility in KMD is coordiIn 2012 KMD has focused on implementing the strategy nated by the company’s CSR Board, chaired by CEO for working on CSR introduced by the company in 2011. Lars Monrad-Gylling and comprising the Senior Vice This was done in conjunction with committing KMD to Presidents for Business Development, Sales and the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Marketing, Facility Management, Law, and HR and Communication. The CSR Board issues guidelines for the The strategy comprised five general themes: Welfare, company’s CSR efforts, and monitors and ensures Digital Denmark, Employees, Climate & Environment progress on the targets set for the various priorities. and Supply chain. The strategy was tightened further KMD’s works council also serves as a reference group in 2012 and now covers only four themes: Digital for the development of CSR work. welfare, Employees, Climate & Environment and Supply chain. Efforts in relation to each of these themes are KMD considers the overall achievements in relation described in more depth below. to the company’s corporate social responsibility to be satisfactory. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 28 DIGITAL WELFARE RESULTS ACHIEVED In 2012 KMD has chosen to focus on Digital welfare In 2012 online help with homework was provided in terms of citizen-focused service areas in the public on over 8,000 occasions, and more than 3,500 pupils sector: education and the health and care sector. created a profile, taking the number of profiles on KMD sees great opportunities for Denmark as a society lektier-online.dk to almost 10,000. In October 2012 to find digital solutions to the demographic and ecoLektier Online and KMD were presented with the prize nomic challenges facing the welfare model we have for “Partnership of the Year at Volunteering Day established. As one of Denmark’s largest IT providers, in Copenhagen. KMD seeks to support this in a responsible manner. We are therefore focusing on extending solutions and To build on the partnership, in September 2012 KMD sharing knowledge, but are aware of the challenges entered into an agreement with the State and University increased digitization may present for individual groups Library in Aarhus to further develop the digital platform in society. for Lektier Online. KMD will work with the State and University Library to expand the target group for online LEKTIER ONLINE homework help. The first pilot studies involving upperKMD has entered into a partnership with the State and secondary schools are planned for the first half of 2013. University Library in Aarhus to establish three online “homework cafés” at KMD’s sites in Ballerup, Odense Read more about Lektier Online at and Aalborg. The “Lektier Online” [homework online] www.statsbiblioteket.dk/lektier-online (in Danish). project involves up to 48 KMD employees providing online help with homework via the website www.lektierLØKKEFONDEN AND THE KHAN ACADEMY online.dk. The homework cafés opened in April 2012. In June 2012, KMD joined forces with LøkkeFonden – a charity with the mission “to bring boys back from KMD’s employees are able to swap their normal working the edge to become useful members of society” – in hours for shifts as online helpers. A total of 53 employannouncing the intention to provide a Danish version ees have now completed an introductory course from of the much-praised US online teaching universe, Lektier Online to become trained helpers, and further Khan Academy. training is offered on an ongoing basis. Khan Academy brings together several thousand The target group is primarily children and young people teaching videos that enable pupils to practice their skills, from disadvantaged areas. This target group typically primarily in the natural sciences. The videos and the has no opportunity to get help with homework from accompanying exercises have to date only been parents, and boys in particular do not use the physical available in English, but the videos will now be made homework cafés in their local communities3. available to all students in Denmark in Danish thanks to a collaboration between KMD and LøkkeFonden, KMD decided to get involved in the project because it founded by former Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke is a very clear example of how digital aids can increase Rasmussen. disadvantaged children’s chances of completing their schooling and going on to further education. By the end of December 2012, a total of 35 mathematics videos had been recorded and uploaded to Khan Academy’s Danish YouTube channel, and more than 100 videos had been translated, which have not yet been recorded. Read more at www.loekkefonden.dk (in Danish). 3 The State and University Library in Aarhus, study of pupils’ opportunities for help with homework, 2010. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 29 DIGITAL WELFARE ÆLDRE SAGEN Furthermore, in his capacity as a member of the Digital In May 2012, KMD joined forces with Ældre Sagen Council alongside the CEOs of TDC and Microsoft, CEO – Denmark’s largest organization for the elderly – to Lars Monrad-Gylling has co-developed a self-evaluation launch the e-learning program “Bliv dus med din tool to enable school heads to assess their own schools’ computer” [make friends with your computer]. The level of digital maturity. program is targeted at senior citizens with limited IT knowledge and is intended to be used as part of the As part of ongoing efforts to engage with the Company’s organization’s work to raise the general level of IT skills stakeholders at all levels, in 2012 KMD once again among senior citizens. co-hosted Welfare Innovation Day with the independent think tank Mandag Morgen and a number of other Through this collaboration, KMD seeks to highlight the players. fact that almost 400,000 senior citizens have never been online and the big social challenge this represents Along the same lines, in 2012 KMD set up two when 80% of communication between citizens and the communities that use the social media Facebook, public sector will be digital by the end of 2015. LinkedIn and Tumblr to engage stakeholders and encourage debate and knowledge-sharing on digitization The program has been jointly developed by developers of the health and education sectors under the names from KMD and volunteer IT teachers from Ældre Sagen “Sundhed med udsigt” [health with outlook] and and is used as a complement to the thousands of IT “Læring med udsigt” [learning with outlook]. The two courses the organization already runs each year. The communities have 2,160 and 4,620 followers goal is for at least 10,000 senior citizens to have used respectively on Facebook5. the course by the end of 2013. At the end of 2012 the program had already been used 14,970 times4. WORK EXPERIENCE WEEK In 2012, for the fifth time, KMD participated in the Read more about the partnership at Danish IT Industry Association’s work experience week, www.aeldresagen.dk/dus-med-pc (in Danish). welcoming 43 pupils in year 9 from across the country for a week of work experience and giving them the KNOWLEDGE-SHARING opportunity to grapple with the development of IT In 2012 KMD has focused on creating and sharing for schools. By doing this, KMD is helping make IT knowledge of the solutions that will be required to an exciting and contemporary subject with many realize the political ambitions for digitization of the possibilities. IT will be one of the key areas in the public sector, as well as working to bring about vigorous coming years in overcoming many of the challenges that debate on how we want to use IT in both the public and Denmark faces as a welfare state. By opening its doors, private sectors. KMD hopes to help stimulate interest in IT and KMD in the longer term. KMD’s analytical unit, KMD Analyse, has published three reports on digitization in 2012: two on digitization of the municipal primary and lower-secondary school and one on Danish people’s attitudes to welfare technology. The reports all focused on digitization of society and prompted broad debate. 4 5 As at 18 December 2012. As at 19 December 2012. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 30 DIGITAL WELFARE DONATION OF PCS In addition, KMD donated two sets of 10 PCs to Danish In 2012 KMD donated old PCs to three different Red Cross Youth – Denmark’s largest humanitarian projects. The largest was the collaboration with youth organization – for use in a project involving NordVirk, an organization based in northern Jutland, disadvantaged young people, and Lysholmskolen, Denmark, that aims to give young people with autism a special school for children with various diagnoses spectrum disorders the opportunity to get a job where and disabilities. they can make a positive contribution to an organization or a company’s bottom line. In 2012 NordVirk received KMD considers the overall CSR work relating to Digital more than 400 old PCs from KMD, which have been welfare to be very satisfactory. equipped with new software and sold via NordVirk’s website. GOALS FOR 2013 EDUCATION CARE AND HEALTH Lektier Online: KMD will continue the partnership with Ældre Sagen: KMD and Ældre Sagen have set a target Lektier Online in 2013. The goal is for a minimum of 45 of having 20,000 users of the e-learning program employees to be involved in the project on a continuous “Bliv dus med din computer” [make friends with your basis during the year. KMD will also work with Lektier computer] by the end of 2013. In addition, KMD and Online to launch a new version of the digital platform. Ældre Sagen will jointly evaluate the product and assess whether to carry out further development. Khan Academy: In 2013 KMD will work with LøkkeFonden to open a Danish version of Khan Academy. Collaboration with patient organizations: In 2013 KMD The Danish version of Khan Academy will contain will establish a collaboration with one or more patient a minimum of 400 videos by the end of 2013. organizations concerning improvements to patients’ conditions in connection with implementing more digital Partnerships in the education sector: KMD will develop solutions in the care and health sector. a partnership with University College Copenhagen (UCC) on use of Tech-Tutors – a group of students particularly KNOWLEDGE-SHARING interested in IT, which will support the expansion of In 2013 KMD will publish a minimum of three analyses digital tools in teaching at UCC. from KMD Analyse, continue its work on the Digital Council, co-host Welfare Innovation Day and increase the dialogue in our online communities on the social media. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 31 DIGITAL WELFARE Lektier Online provides help with homework for children and young people In 2012 KMD has collaborated with Lektier Online [homework online] to establish its own online homework cafes, manned by KMD employees. Employees are able to swap their normal working hours for shifts as online helpers. KMD decided to get involved in the project because it is a very clear example of how digital aids can increase disadvantaged children’s chances of completing their schooling and going on to further education. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 32 EMPLOYEES RESULTS ACHIEVED KMD wants to be an attractive workplace where HEALTHY EMPLOYEES employees are proud of the contribution we make to In 2012 KMD carried out a workplace assessment; this society – by virtue of both our products and our did not reveal any major problems in terms of either the behavior and knowledge. physical or psychological working environment. Fewer than 1% of KMD’s employees designated the We also believe that if KMD as a company is to remain psychological working environment as very strong, we will need to create clear frameworks for our unsatisfactory. Follow-up of the individual employees employees, providing them with scope for personal and concerned was carried out and efforts made to resolve professional development and flexibility in their working the respective issues. life. We believe that we as a company must have room for differences and have big ambitions, giving Where the physical working environment is concerned, employees the personal freedom to achieve the common the workplace assessment revealed, among other goals and optimizing our opportunities for success. And things, particular problems in relation to neck tension be somewhere that employees can do this irrespective and other ergonomic challenges. Efforts will be made to of their gender, age, religion, disability or sexual address this in 2013 by means of a special scheme orientation. involving on-site physiotherapists with whom employees can book an appointment for advice and guidance on PRIDE working posture. KMD’s annual employee satisfaction survey for 2011 revealed a downturn compared with 2010. KMD There has also been a particular focus in 2012 on therefore appointed four working groups, comprising 80 promoting the company’s health scheme. This has led to employees and managers, which worked on four general an increase in use from 30% of the sum assigned in themes: job satisfaction and pride, management and 2011 to 75% in 2012, thus nipping several potential communication, skills and tools, and procedures and health problems in the bud. processes. In 2012 average sickness absence at KMD was 6.01 Each of the groups included a union representative, a days – 11% below the national average for private health and safety representative, an HR representative companies. This is on par with 2011 (6.0) and is and a member of the Executive Board as chair. All the something that KMD will work to maintain in 2013. groups completed their work by recommending to the Executive Board selected measures that can help to In 2011 KMD became the main sponsor for the triathlon make KMD a better place to work. A total of 10 concrete events KMD Challenge Copenhagen and KMD Challenge measures were selected for further attention within the Aarhus, and a KMD 4:18:4 triathlon was also areas: Cutting-edge technology, Prioritizing competency introduced, covering one-tenth of the full Ironman development and Visible leadership. distances of a 3.8 km swim, 180 km bike ride and a marathon. In 2012 organized training was initiated at In combination with a campaign focusing on KMD’s KMD’s sites, and more than 400 KMD employees took overall contribution to Danish society, these measures part in the summer 4:18:4 and KMD Challenge. A total succeeded in raising the general level of employee of 830 KMD employees also took part in the DHL relay satisfaction from 80% to 84%, with the sense of pride in race. KMD’s contribution to Danish society increasing from 80% to 88%. In connection with the collaboration with Lektier Online (see Digital welfare), KMD set up a scheme that makes it possible for employees to record the time they spend on projects such as Lektier Online as working hours. In this way, KMD allows employees to swap their working hours for hours spent as volunteer homework helpers, for example. The scheme is restricted to selected projects with a corporate social responsibility aspect chosen by KMD’s CSR Board. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 33 EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY In 2012 KMD continued its partnership with the In 2012 KMD carried out a baseline analysis of KMD’s Specialist People Foundation, which employs and trains performance within the classic diversity parameters. young people with autism spectrum disorders. Among This analysis will be translated into concrete policy and other things KMD has employed young people from the strategy in the area in 2013, and in this way KMD will Foundation for tasks such as migrating electronic HR strive to ensure that the best talents among potential records and in this connection also took on four trainees employees on the Danish labor market choose KMD, from the Foundation for work ability testing. irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, age, religion or sexual orientation. KMD considers the overall CSR work relating to Employees to be satisfactory. GOALS FOR 2013 PRIDE In 2013 KMD will continue to allow employees to swap In 2013 KMD will introduce a scheme to enable working hours for voluntary work on selected projects individual employees to get onsite instruction from a with a CSR aspect. KMD’s goal is to spend at least 2,000 physiotherapist in connection with work-related physical hours on such projects in 2013. problems. DIVERSITY KMD will introduce a keyhole scheme to ensure By the end of 2013 KMD will establish a diversity policy compliance with the requirements of KMD’s healthy and associated initiatives. eating policy, providing employees with a lunch primarily based on high-quality ingredients (ideally HEALTHY EMPLOYEES organic), to promote the consumption of fruit, KMD will maintain the focus on a healthy workplace vegetables and fish, and reduce the intake of fat, salt based on its already successful sports clubs. and sugar. Special training teams for employees wanting to participate in KMD 4:18:4 or KMD Challenge will continue across the company. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 34 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT RESULTS ACHIEVED In 2012 KMD adopted a new environmental policy and Part of the explanation for the relatively small increase strategy comprising new targets intended to further can be found in an employee-directed campaign carried KMD’s ambitious approach to its work on climate and out by KMD in 2012. This focused on making visible the the environment. Going forward, KMD will concentrate energy consumption per employee in KMD’s office on making its energy consumption as efficient as buildings across Denmark. Employees were able to possible. In addition, KMD will focus on recycling more use klima.kmd.dk and a smartphone app, KMD Klima of its waste – both paper and electronic waste. At the [climate], to follow the consumption and get useful tips same time we will reap the rewards of a structured on reducing their personal consumption. This has approach to environmental efforts in KMD and take contributed to a drop of more than 30 kWh in average the next step toward ISO 14001 certification in 2013. energy consumption per employee in the office buildings, which is very satisfactory. Since the initial targets for energy efficiency improvements were set in 2009, KMD has managed to find KMD’s total CO2 emissions fell in 2012, continuing the energy savings equivalent to an overall saving of 18.5% trend from 2011. Whereas the decrease in 2011 was of our total energy consumption in 2008 (target 17%). attributed to KMD’s switch to district heating that year, the decrease in 2012 can be attributed to the fact that KMD has also been CO2-neutral since 2009, when KMD the equivalent used to convert kWh to CO2 in relation entered into a Climate partnership with DONG Energy to to electricity consumption is less CO2-heavy than purchase electricity from the Horns Rev 2 offshore wind previously, as the overall electricity mix in Denmark has farm corresponding to the Group’s total direct energy become more environmentally friendly. However, the consumption. long, cold winter of 2012 meant an increase in heating consumption of just over 844 MWh. This means that CO2 EMISSIONS total CO2 emissions ended the year at 13,026 tons In 2012 KMD achieved energy savings totaling 883,047 – a fall of 12.6% compared with 2011. This is compenkWh. This means that since 2008 KMD has achieved sated, as mentioned previously, through the purchase overall energy-savings of 6,910,074 kWh – equivalent of REC certificates and CO2 quotas. to the annual consumption of more than 1,000 detached houses. This corresponds to 18.5% of the total energy KMD expects a slight increase in total energy consumpconsumption in 2008, and means KMD has achieved its tion in 2013, primarily as a result of a continued overall target (17%) for energy savings set in 2010. increase in the customer base for outsourcing and hosting agreements. The energy savings are complemented by the purchase of electricity from offshore wind farms corresponding to In terms of CO2 emissions from transport, KMD had KMD’s total direct energy consumption, plus CO2 quotas a target of reducing the carbon footprint from transport equivalent to KMD’s total emissions from heating by 10% in 2012 from a 2010 baseline. This target was consumption. The purchase of electricity is part of not achieved. KMD’s emissions from transport fell by KMD’s Climate partnership with DONG Energy, in which only 1.82% in the period. DONG Energy has also undertaken to help to identify and verify energy-saving projects in KMD. This relatively small decrease can largely be attributed to increased transport between KMD sites, which is why Despite the many energy-saving projects, KMD’s total in 2013 and 2014 there will be a special focus on cutting electricity consumption has risen by 253,320 kWh, transport between KMD’s own sites with a target of an increase of just under 0.8% compared with 2011. reducing this by 10% by the end of 2014. This can be attributed to some degree to the growth in KMD’s outsourcing business and the resulting 10% One of the methods employed will be making greater increase in capacity in the data centers. KMD has also use of electric cars – both for transport between sites added another office building at the head office in and for transport to customers. To this end KMD has Ballerup following the acquisition of Rambøll Informatik purchased three electric cars from Better Place that use in 2011. replaceable batteries and charging at stands. The cars AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 35 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT are located in Ballerup, where there are the most which are “cover pages” that are printed to enable customers within a reachable radius as well as the employees to find their own printouts among all the possibility of reaching the sites in both Herlev and others in the communal print rooms. This practice was Odense without changing battery too many times. reduced in 2012 with the introduction of “follow-me In addition, KMD will make increasing use of videoprinting,” which requires employees to scan their ID conferencing, unified communications solutions and card in order to print and thus does not generate cover car-pooling to reduce the total burden from transport. pages. KMD’s total CO2 emissions from transport in 2012 were ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 2,921.5 tons against 2,975 tons in 2011. In 2012 KMD carried out a satisfactory preliminary audit in relation to introduction of the environmental manageWASTE ment system ISO 14001. Another area of focus for KMD in 2012 was print consumption in the office buildings. In total, each year KMD considers the overall results relating to environKMD prints more than 13 million pages, 3 million of mental efforts to be satisfactory. GOALS FOR 2013 CO2 EMISSIONS In addition, KMD will continue to offer employees In 2013 KMD will continue to focus on finding energy “commuter cards” to reduce the price of public savings in both data centers and office areas, but transport, as well as offering electric cars on particularly expects a slight increase in energy consumption as attractive terms and setting up a special bicyclea result of an ever-increasing customer base. servicing facility for employees. In 2013 KMD will continue to focus on reducing WASTE employees’ transport between sites. KMD expects to be In addition, there will be a continued focus in 2013 on able to reduce the Company’s carbon footprint from KMD’s print consumption in office buildings. The transport by 10% by the end of 2014. Further steps will breakthrough of “follow-me printing” will be followed up be needed to achieve this, which is why in 2013 KMD by campaigns directly targeting employees and their will implement a series of new measures focusing on print consumption. KMD’s target is to increase the total a more climate-friendly meeting culture in the company. proportion of waste recycled by 5% by the end of 2014. As well as introducing electric cars, steps will be taken to increase opportunities for car-pooling, and there will ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT also be a focus on increased use of video communication KMD will implement ISO 14001 certification in 2013. between KMD’s sites and use of unified communications, This will enhance the quality of KMD’s data in the which will reduce the need for physical meetings and environmental area, and reassure our customers and hence transport. partners of KMD’s continued commitment in relation to climate and the environment. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 36 SUPPLY CHAIN RESULTS ACHIEVED Signing the UN Global Compact committed KMD to 10 CORPORATE COMPLIANCE fundamental principles relating to protection of human 2012 was the first full year of implementation of KMD’s and labor rights, climate and environmental consideraethical code, which sets clear guidelines for employees’ tions, and anticorruption measures. This provides KMD conduct in the seven focus areas covered by its with a concrete framework for the requirements the corporate compliance program: anticorruption, company makes of itself and its suppliers. At the same information security, competition law, contractual risk time, KMD wants to keep tight control of its own management, intellectual property rights, authorizations processes to ensure that the company complies with and document management/storage. The corporate relevant legislation and its commitments under the UN compliance program is being rolled out to existing and Global Compact, and makes requirements of its own new employees by means of a compulsory e-learning suppliers that support these commitments. course. Additionally, a corporate compliance subsite has been created on the company’s intranet. PARTNERSHIPS In 2012 KMD introduced a new code of conduct for KMD also introduced a whistleblower scheme, after the suppliers based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Danish Data Protection Agency finally authorized KMD’s Compact. This will be introduced for all KMD’s suppliers application in April 2012. The whistleblower scheme and must be signed when concluding contracts between makes it possible for KMD’s employees, including the KMD and the supplier. The code of conduct is intended Executive Board and the Board of Directors, to report to send out a clear signal that breaches of the principles irregularities in any of the seven aforementioned focus of the UN Global Compact will not be tolerated. The areas either to KMD’s own corporate compliance team code of conduct is also the starting point for dialogue, or to an independent external lawyer. Two matters were which KMD will use to achieve the overall goal of supply reported to the whistleblower scheme in 2012. chain management, namely for all KMD’s key suppliers to be working with the principles of the UN Global KMD considers the overall CSR work relating to supply Compact by the end of 2015. chain to be satisfactory. KMD also had a goal of developing a concept for suppliers on the take-back of electronic hardware, but this was postponed until 2013 as a result of implementation of the key supplier management concept. GOALS FOR 2013 PARTNERSHIPS CORPORATE COMPLIANCE In 2013 KMD’s code of conduct for suppliers based on KMD will continue the implementation of KMD’s ethical the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact will be rolled code, including policies and processes for each of the out to key suppliers. seven focus areas, for new employees and maintain the focus on the Company’s corporate compliance program. In addition, KMD will work to establish partnerships with suppliers, for example on take-back of electronic hardware. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 37 SUPPLY CHAIN Make friends with your computer In 2012 KMD joined forces with Ældre Sagen to launch a new e-learning program that will support the organization’s work to teach senior citizens to use IT. The program has been developed in a collaboration between KMD and Ældre Sagen, with KMD having overall responsibility for the development, while Ældre Sagen was responsible for identifying the topics senior citizens should be taught. AG046095 v2.0 14-03-2013 CHE/CFH Godkendt 38
