GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication in Progress Madrid April, 2013 Our Vision: Being an exemplary company with a business model based on sustainability, responsible investment, transparency and continuous engagement with the stakeholders. I am pleased to confirm that GLOBALVIA INVERSIONES S.A.U. supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to make the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day – to – day operations of our company, and we are engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. GLOBALVIA INVERSIONES S.A.U. will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Juan Béjar Ochoa CEO CONTENTS I. CONTENTS CONTENTS I. Introduction – CEO statement 02 II. Resumé 05 III. Human rights principles 10 III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals 11 III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 15 III.3 Measurement of human rights outcomes 18 IV. Labor principles 19 IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals 20 IV.2 Implementation of labor actions 24 IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes 29 V. Environmental principles 33 V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals 34 V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 36 V.3 Measurement of environmental outcomes 40 VI. Anti-corruption principles 45 VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals 46 VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions 48 VI.4 Measurement of anti-corruption outcomes VII. Conclusions 50 4 4 5 II. RESUMÉ 5 II. RESUMÉ An overall 42 assessments, actions and indicators that measure their outcomes have been developed in Globalvia that confirm the strategy and operations alignment with UN Global Compact ten principles in four different dimensions. Human rights “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Code of Ethics • Corporate Governance policy and principles • Specific goals for the upcoming years: Internal Audit and Risk Control Committee, and collaboration with Foundations Implemented actions: • Application of the Code of Ethics • Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles • “Coming in” training Globalvia presents • Collaboration with Fundación Carmen Pardo Valcarce assessments, policies, • Havaneras music spectacle goals, implemented actions and its measurements, related Measurement of outcomes: to human rights, labor, • Harassment report environment and anti• Human rights training corruption • Code of Ethics distributionn 6 6 II. RESUMÉ Labor “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms or forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor and; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics • Labor Risk Prevention policy • Appraisal process • Training and development plan Implemented actions: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation • Communication of Labor Risk Prevention policy • Social benefits por employees • Talent Management Review • Prometeo internal project • Photo contest • Sport promotion within the Company • Children sport promotion Measurement of outcomes: • Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level • Accidents, absenteeism and illness records • Internal quality of service survey • Organizational climate survey 7 7 II. RESUMÉ Environment “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Assessment, policy and goals: • ISO certifications 9001 and 14001 • CSR strategic plan (and specific on Concessions) • Environmental Impact Declaration Implemented actions: • Training on ISO certifications • CSR strategic plan (and specific Concessions) implementation • Túnel de Sóller archeological site Measurement of outcomes: • Corporate • Ruta de los Pantanos • Concesiones de Madrid • Túnel de Sóller 8 8 II. RESUMÉ Anti-corruption “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Fraud procedure • Compliance Manual Implemented actions: • Compliance Committee Measurement of outcomes: • Public legal cases statement • Internal Audits carried out and its actions 9 9 10 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 10 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights…” Globalvia supports the three principles related to human rights by the definition of certain actions, codes and manuals:  Code of Ethics  Corporate Governance policy and principles  Specific goals for the upcoming years: Internal Audit and Risk Control Committee and collaboration with Foundations “…and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses assessment, policy and goals.”  Code of Ethics Globalvia has designed the Code of Ethics as a guide for all employees and executives of the Company to perform their professional tasks. This code is related to their daily working lives, as well as to the resources used and the business environment they work in. According to this, Globalvia respects Globalvia respects and and adheres to the human and employment rights that are recognized adheres to the human under Spanish and international legislation and the principles behind the employment rights that World Compact, the UN standards on the responsibilities of transnational are recognized under and other organizations in the field of human rights, the OCDE guidelines for Spanish and multinationals, the tripartite declaration of principles on multinationals, and international legislation the social policy of the International Labor Organization, respecting the laws of each country and the ethical principles of their respective cultures. This Code includes the following paragraphs: • Declaration of principles, stating that the compliance with the Code of Ethics is mandatory for all employees of Globalvia and its subsidiaries • Values of the Globalvia, as part of the Organization’s culture in means of i) integrity (as acting ethically and responsibly), ii) team work (as in collaboration, cooperation and communication), iii) quality management (in regard to constant ongoing learning; clear, precise and rigorous action procedures; and last but not least, respect for the environment), iv) results-driven (as in organization and efficiency), v) customer service, and finally, vi) innovation, imagination and anticipation. • Professional Standards and Conduct, which states that the compliance to the Code of Ethics is compulsory for all Globalvia personnel and an inherent obligation as they fulfill their mission. All employees therefore accept specifically and irrevocably that any failure to observe or infringement of this Code of Ethics may be considered as a serious 11 11 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals breach of their contractual conditions and Globalvia may apply any disciplinary measures as appropriate, without prejudice to any other civil or criminal proceedings that may ensue. The breach of this Code is not negotiable under any circumstances. Furthermore, guidelines for professional conduct may include: › Confidential information and professional secrecy › Concurrence and conflict of interests › Intellectual property, means and resources • Standards of conduct between Globalvia professionals, as in general terms and more specific lines related to managers and executives › Always encouraging relations driven by mutual respect and avoiding any kind of discrimination or other actions that may conflict with the Organization’s values and ethics › Any conduct that limits any professionals’ dignity, whether physically or verbally, creating an intimidating, hostile or humiliating working atmosphere will be considered unacceptable › Any conduct considered inappropriate will be reported to Human Resourced for its study Globalvia establishes the basis for development of their  Corporate Governance policy and principles activities following the criteria of transparency Corporate Governance policy represents a guide to all Globalvia’s employees and confidentiality in and executives in the performance of their professional duties and in their their relationship with daily work, as well as in relation to the resources used and the business the stakeholders involved in its business environment in which it operates; it is also, an example of its commitment to transparency. This policy includes the following issues: • General principles, since the Company operates in OECD countries, its governance principles are based on the foundations laid in this organism and it nourishes from the Spanish Corporate Governance Code due to its shareholders nature. It includes the following principles that need to be followed by every employee: › Rights and fair treatment of shareholders › Interests of other actors, stating that the Organization takes its responsibilities with other non-stakeholders (legal, contractual, social and market) that may be related to its activity (employees, investors, creditors, suppliers, local communities, customers and government) › Role and responsibilities of the Board 12 12 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals › Integrity and ethical behavior › Communication and transparency • Corporate Governance, stating General Counsel’s functions and responsibilities, which are to keep updated the information related to ownership structure, direction structure, related operations and any other interesting information, as well as to make it available to shareholders. • Current Company’s bylaws • Operation of the Board of Directors, its composition and member and delegated bodies, as expressed in articles 17 to 22 of the Company’s bylaws › Ways of organizing the Administration › Nomination / Designation › Term of office › Powers of the Management Body › Remuneration of the Management Body › System and operation of the Board of Directors › Board composition and its Delegated Bodies • Committees, within the powers granted by the applicable law and the provisions of the Bylaws, the Board has delegated certain functions by creating committees. As of today, there are two committees: Executive Committee and Designation and Retribution Committee. • Side agreements, Globalvia’s shareholders have entered into a Shareholders Agreement that governs the development of the Company.  Specific goals for the upcoming years: Internal Audit and Risk Control Committee and collaboration with Foundations • Internal Audit and Risk Control (IARC) Committee, is being designed. This Committee would be a body of the Board and therefore, would be composed by the Company’s directors. Members of the same would mostly be external non-executive advisors designated by the Board of Directors and its Chairman would be elected from them. With these requirements the Commission would strengthen and guarantee the independence of their views and considerations. 13 13 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals • Collaboration with Foundations, as of today, Globalvia is in the middle of a selection process to chose a project in which to invest. Specifically, the Company is considering a project presented by a Sport foundation recognized worldwide to enhance the social integration of children at risk of exclusion in Latin America. Globalvia would ​finance the project to build a sport school in the countries where the company operates. 14 14 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions This present chapter focuses on the description of concrete actions to implement human rights policies, address human rights risks and respond to human rights related concerns.  Application of the Code of Ethics  Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles  “Coming in” training  Collaboration with Fundación Carmen Pardo Valcarce  Havaneras music spectacle  Application of the Code of Ethics In the chapter above, “III.1 human rights assessment, policy and goals”, Globalvia’s Code of Ethics has been described. At the end of that same document a specific paragraph is dedicated to the application of the Code and may be considered as its implementation. According to this, the Code of Ethics is effective from the date of its The application of the approval by the Chairman, after which it was communicated to all Code of Ethics is a employees and remains in force until it is cancelled or replaced by a new guarantee of ethical Code. integrity for Globalvia and a reflection of the Thus, all employees will be under the obligation to be aware of, uphold and Company’s adherence to the human and comply with this Code of Ethics. Any breach of the standards contained in employment rights this Code will be considered as an infringement and result in the corresponding disciplinary action being taken. Managers requiring any other legal requirements for formal effectiveness must enforce due compliance. If employees do not agree with the application of any of the principles and standards, they may set out their objections within 10 days of receiving it from HR. If no such communication is received, it will be understood to consent to the full content of this document.  Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles The Code of Ethics is handed over to all employees along with their welcome pack on their first working day. Also, the Code of Ethics and the Corporate Governance policy and principles are available to everyone on the intranet. 15 15 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions  Coming in training Coming in is a welcome training session given to all the employees that have recently join the Company and has a duration of two days. The aim of the course is to present the Company, its mission, vision, values and culture. All business processes, quality management and environment processes, and support processes are also explained to all assistants.  Collaboration with Fundación Carmen Pardo Valcarce Globalvia ​collaborated with Fundación Carmen Pardo Valcarce in order to promote and encourage the integration of disable persons. For this, the company hired two people with intellectual disabilities who gave support General Services department, by acquiring the following functions: Employee 1 Employee2 • Manage and report employees • Copy services Globalvia supports expense in the ERP • Bind documents integrating people with • Scan documents • Scan documents disabilities since it involves committing to • Support reprography functions • Update intranet directory the right of everyone to • Monitor office supplies • Shred paper play an active role in delivered to employees • Errands and small society under • Support reception room engagements conditions of fairness and equal opportunity. management • Check, order, and replace kit • Check furniture or equipment items in bad condition and notify it • Manage, organize and classify • Print training documentation external mail and other • Support internal pouch service • Destroy paper – confidential • Inventory of computer documents equipment • Update phone numbers list • Meeting rooms management • Regularly check fire extinguishers Steering Committee was in charge of sensitizing Globalvia’s employees and teams to ensure the successful integration of these two people. 16 16 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions  Havaneras music spectacle Globalvia, in line with the Right to participate in the Cultural Life of Community, ​collaborated by financing the third “Trobada de Havaneres” edition in its Concession Túnel de Soller. The video of the music spectacle can be seen in the following link: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Heyj8LHUBaM 17 17 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.3 Measurements of human rights outcomes Globalvia has various ways of monitoring and evaluating the performance related to human rights issues:  Harassment report  Human rights training  Code of Ethics distribution  Harassment reports As the chapter related to Labor policies will detail, there is an external figure to whom any Globalvia’s employee has the right to report any harassment situation of any kind. During 2012, number of reports related to harassment of any kind is 0.  Human rights training As the chapter regarding Labor policies will detail, within Globalvia’s training and development policies for its employees there are few specific sessions related to human rights and the Company keeps records of the assistance to them. During 2012 and as of March 2013, two editions of this specific training have taken place, one in Chile and Costa Rica and the other one in Spain. A total of 20 employees have attended first edition and 11 employees the second one. The module is defined to be taught at least once a year and the target group is all Globalvia.  Code of Ethics distribution As the chapter related to Anti-corruption policies will detail, there is an external figure to whom any Globalvia’s employee has the right to write to report any harassment situation of any kind. During 2012 and as of March 2013, number of people receiving the Code of Ethics accounts for 31. 18 18 19 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES 19 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The following actions have been defined and implemented, these supports Labor principles:  Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics  Labor Risk Prevention policy  Appraisal process  Training and development plan “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining…”  Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics includes a specific paragraph that describes the protocol for prevention and action in mobbing and / or sexual harassment in the workplace. The Moral – Protocol states the compliance of the Company with the Spanish Constitution, European Union (EU) legislation and the Workers’ Statute and the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the Construction Sector, related to the safeguarding of dignity, the right to The Moral – Protocol equality, moral integrity and non-discrimination. states the compliance of the Company with It also defines the concepts that involves moral harassment: the Spanish • Moral harassment or “mobbing”, that may take three different forms, Constitution, European depending on who is doing the harassing: Union (EU) legislation and the Workers’ › Descending: when the person doing the harassing is the victim’s Statute and the hierarchical superior. Collective Bargaining › Horizontal: When the person doing the harassing is on the same Agreement for the hierarchical level as the victim. Construction Sector › Ascending: When the person doing the harassing is hierarchically below the victim. • Sexual harassment • Gender-based harassment  Labor Risk Prevention Policy In line with the policy framework on labor risk prevention, from Human Risks department of Globalvia, various activities take place related to this matter with the aim of improving working conditions and workers safety and health. To this end, the Company leans on the support and advice of a risk 20 20 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals prevention accredited service, with which various activities are developed aimed at the identification, evaluation and monitoring of risks condition arising from the Company’s activity. Globalvia’s Direction, consistent with the guidelines established by the International Labor Organization and the Europe Union and also in compliance with internal regulations related to labor risks prevention, has developed a labor risk prevention management system that is fully integrated in the Company, at all hierarchal and functional levels, and that is consistent as well with the fundamental right workers health. “…the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor”  Appraisal process Globalvia’s employees are remunerated with a fixed annual salary and a variable salary. This last one is a part of the Integrated Management System framework applied by the Company’s Human Resources. The Board determines the strategy and overall objectives of the Company which will be applied in the variable salary. Globalvia’s personnel, including those subsidiaries where the Company holds a majority stake are included within the Integrated Management System (IMS) Human Resources. The variable salary is assigned to each of the managers to ensure that there is a complete alignment between the objectives assigned and the objectives and interests of Globalvia and its shareholders / investors. The variable salary is composed of three types of targets with different weights depending on the degree of responsibility and job to do. There is also a fourth type that is not taken into account for the variable salary. The types of objectives are called R1 (Results-1), R2, R3 and R4: • R1, Corporate objectives: global Globalvia’s objectives › The entire organization has the same goals, with different weights. › The aim is that everyone participates in the Group’s development. 21 21 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals • R2, Team Goals: specific goals of each team › Business Direction: same goals that R1, but disaggregated to a specific scope: country or concession. › Corporate Areas: specific objectives to provide the service and to generate tools to manage the Company and the business line. • R3, Employee Assessment of Competence: › Specific employee competencies that a person should show executing a particular job (Human Resources has established a set Globalvia’s appraisal of 12 competencies, aligned with the strategy and objectives of process ensures a Globalvia). complete alignment of › As a result of this assessment an action plan is defined to be the interests between coordinated with the career plan (specific training, functional and people and the geographical mobility, promotion opportunities, etc) Company • R4, Complete Employee Assessment of Competence: › In R4, every employee is evaluated in the 12 competencies based on a behavior survey The weight assigned to each of the objectives sets out the degree of importance of each. With this system Globalvia ensures a complete alignment of interests between people and the company.  Training and development plan Globalvia’s development plan sets the attitudes, skills and expertise needed for an employee to take over the responsibility of the next hierarchal level in the organization. Based on the analysis of the Company’s main functions, Organizational Families are extracted (Finance, Support, Business Development, Highways and Railways). A development path for each family has been also defined and established that details the trail that each functional level needs to follow for their development. 22 22 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals Globalvia’s development plan takes into account: › Skills assessment result › Performance evaluation › Individual assessment › TOEIC level (English level) › Training › Individual development needs The training policy is included within the Company’s development plan. The development modules provide four training blocks defined according to the Organization needs: • Corporate culture: › It includes common training activities to all the employees, regardless of the area or department › The training aims to present the Company, and enhance the employees development within the Company (vision, mission, values, processes and systems) • Skills: › This blocks gathers skill training activities common to all employees and graded by level / category › The aim is to train the employee for its development within the Organization • Technical competences: › Specific training actions are included for each of the departments, areas, or professional levels › The objective is to develop the employee skills and enhance the development of their daily activities • Languages: › Globalvia offers English classes to their employees › In societies where there is another language (different from English), the Society offers classes › It requires students commitment and follow-up The training modules may be taken at certain points of the development paths, although there are mandatory actions that must be successfully completed in order to access the next functional level. The training sessions take place at Globalvia’s campus, a space where to develop the Company’s talent. 23 23 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions “…the effective abolition of child labor; and…” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions:  Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation  Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy  Social benefits for employees  Talent Management Review  Prometeo internal project  Photo contest  Sport promotion within the Company  Children sport promotion  Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation Related to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics, some measures to prevent harassment of any kind have been implemented within the Company: • Communication, it is necessary to build awareness among the workforce and assure their effective knowledge not only of the definitions and different types of harassment but also of the action procedures set out in this protocol if harassment occurs. • Responsibility, everyone at the Company is responsible for upholding the principle of not tolerating any conduct of this kind, if necessary by taking the disciplinary action provided under the applicable employment legislation. All personnel are also responsible for upholding the principle of co-responsibility in the monitoring of conduct in the workplace. This is especially applicable to supervisors and managers. • Training, this topic is included in the Company’s training programs for the whole workforce. The purpose of these programs will be to identify the factors that contribute towards creating a harassment-free working environment, fostering communication and proximity between supervisors and their teams at all the Organization's hierarchical levels. • Action procedure, has been drawn up and is available to all employees for them to communicate complaints in guaranteed confidentiality and protection of the privacy and dignity of all people involved. • Compliance Officer, an external figure that has been created as an expert in such procedures and whose mission is to channel any complaints and reports of harassment of any kind, working with the worker or, as the case may be, acting with the worker’s authorization, to attempt to solve the conflict impartially. This Compliance Officer’s details 24 24 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions may be obtained by the affected worker from the HR Manager on request. The Compliance Officer, upon being made aware of a case, will write up a report of the complaint made by the worker, which the worker then signs, in order for the corresponding formal investigation to be launched. Consequently, the Compliance Officer will have sufficient powers to interview any member of the Company’s personnel, regardless of their hierarchical level, to obtain the information necessary to resolve the conflict to the satisfaction of all parties, in confidence. If no such solution can be found, the Compliance Officer will refer the case to HR, attaching all the information obtained during the investigation and submitting a report on the action taken with a view to reaching a solution. The Compliance Officer may propose setting up an ad hoc committee to monitor the harassment reported, made up of the following members: › A staff delegate and/or representative of the Company’s tradeunion committee, or, if the company has no union representation, any Company employee proposed by the employee who does not work in the same department as the alleged victim. › A representative of the Company — the HR Director or whoever the HR Director may delegate the task to. › The Compliance Officer who was involved in the first stage of the process. This ad hoc committee, making use of the powers conferred under this protocol, will attempt to find an appropriate solution for the conflict in question. If the parties involved accept the proposed solution, they should explicitly say so in writing. However, if after the procedure described the existence of moral, sexual or gender-based harassment is confirmed, the penalties considered appropriate in each case will be imposed. • Additional provisions, to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics that include: › Precautionary measures: while the procedure is under way, Management will apply any precautionary measures necessary to put an immediate end to the situation of harassment, without negatively affecting the working conditions of the persons affected. › Assistance for the parties: During the processing of the action, the parties involved may be assisted by another person, who must undertake not to disclose any information obtained in consequence of holding this position of confidence. 25 25 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions › No reprisals: Any reprisals against complainants, witnesses, assistants or any other persons involved in good faith a harassment investigation are prohibited. › False complaints: if no harassment, in any of its modalities, is found to have taken place and the complainant is found to have acted in bad faith by falsely reporting improper conduct, the corresponding disciplinary action will be taken.  Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy The above detailed policy related to Labor Risks Prevention is available to all employees in the Company’s intranet, stating all the principles that everyone needs to know in order to ensure security and health in the daily work.  Social benefits for employees Globalvia ​has different measures to control and improve the working environment related to health, safety and hygiene in the workplace. • Health insurance, according to this, the Company subsidize up to 50% , extended to partners and children of the employee. By the voluntary adherence, the employees will have access to benefits such as dental coverage or up to 80% refund when assisting to non-subsidized medical centers and / or hospitals, provided they do not exceed a specific monetary amount. • Risk prevention and health surveillance, the aforementioned agreement related to labor risk prevention offers every employee a yearly medical examination according to the protocol set out in the Company’s prevention plan. • Accidents and professional diseases, a Spanish Social Security collaborating institution manages and protects from accidents and professional diseases that may occur at the workplace and / or during working hours, by providing emergency medical assistance and also manages the transfer to hospital if needed. 26 26 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions  Talent Management Review Globalvia ​has established a Talent Management process in order to align the current and future needs of the organization, with the ability, potential and aspirations of its employees. To do this, twice a year the Steering Committee meets to analyze the employee’s developments in order to detect High Potential Performers (HIPO), meaning a person with ability, motivation and commitment to successfully perform the duties of a more senior and critical role than the one currently performed.  Prometeo internal project Prometeo is a learning and development action launched in January 2012. Globalvia employees were divided in six teams that for two days worked on improving teamwork while sharing the mission, vision and values of the Company. At the end of each edition the group was asked to identify the key indicators for Globalvia’s success.  Photo contest In July 2012, Globalvia encouraged all its employees to participate on a Corporate Photo Contest, offering them the opportunity to take part on the Company’s calendar design. The Communication Department set the basis: › 12 pictures were going be chosen as the ones to be published and print in the Corporate 2013 calendar › Any employee, no matter their hierarchal level, could participate › The theme of the pictures was the Company’s values › All the photos needed to be sent to the Communication Department that was in charge of uploading them in the intranet in order to be available to everyone › Once in the intranet, any employee could vote their 12 favorite pictures › A total of 107 photos were sent › The upload of the photos was anonymous › The owner of the most voted photo won an iPad › The 12 most voted pictures were the ones published in the Corporate calendar 27 27 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions  Sport promotion within the Company During 2013, Organization and CSR Department has organized and sponsored the first Couple Paddle Contest. Anybody from the Company could participate and games took place by couples. A total of 10 couples have participated and the two best couples won 100€ each and 50€ each, both on gift cards to be spent on Spanish stores. The winners were announced on the Company’s intranet. Globalvia also subsidies a soccer team. This is a great recreational activity for the whole Company. In addition to competitive soccer, there is a relaxed social aspect which fosters great team camaraderie. The team plays at least one a week against other organization’s teams.  Children sport promotion Globalvia promotes sports to be practiced among children by financing the creation of a handball school league, with the participation of seven teams. 28 28 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes “…the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions:  Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level  Accidents, absenteeism and illness records  Internal quality of service survey  Organizational climate survey  Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level Records from April 2013 shows the following employee at Corporation (Concessions and Societies not included) distribution by gender en hierarchal level: 57 28 Women Men Other 18 47 Business Director 1 2 Deparment Director 3 6 Direction Assistant 1 1 Manager Direction Assistant 5 1 From its 85 employees, 28 (33%) are women. From these women, 10 of them (36%) are at seniority level in the Company. As of today, Steering Committee is composed by 13 members, 3 of them are women. (figure shown in the next page). 29 29 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes As of today, Globalvia’s CHAIRMAN Steering Committee is & CEO composed by 13 Man members, 3 of them are Audit and Risk women. Control Director Woman Corporate Business Managing Managing Director Director Man Man Spanish Highways Director Corporate Woman General Counsel Communications Man Director Woman European Highways Director Man Construction and LATAM Highways CFO Operations Director Director Man (Acting) Man Man Railways Director (Acting) Man Procurement and Business Development HR Director and Bids Director Man Man Assets Management Director Man 30 30 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes  Accidents, absenteeism and illness records The Company keeps record of every accident and absenteeism of their employees • Accidents, as of April 2013, 3 accidents have taken place since 2007. • Absenteeism and illness, split into gender and absence reason, as of April 2013 the results are the following: 13 3 7 10 1 1 5 Women Men  Internal quality of service survey During 2012, as part of the CSR Plan a internal satisfaction survey has taken place. With this, Globalvia evaluates the perceived satisfaction of the Company’s employees, regarding the service provided by the Corporative Services as well as their perception in relation to the requests made to them by the different Business Areas. The survey is based on four pillars: culture, excellence, efficiency and management 31 31 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes A total of 138 people were invited to respond to the survey and 103 people did so, producing a total participation of 75%. This data leads us to the conclusion that there was a 33% rise in participation in 2012, compared to participation in 2011. 75% 42% 2011 2012  Organizational climate survey Globalvia undertakes surveys to analyze employees' perceptions and perspectives of the Organization once every two years. The surveys addressed attitudes and concerns of all Globalvia employees and the results have helped to instill positive changes. This survey has been sent to all employees and its participation was not mandatory. Its results have been recently communicated to the whole company stating that: › The survey was sent to Corporate, all Country Offices and every Globalvia’s Society in all geographic areas where it operates, Europe, South America and North / Central America. › The participation rate accounted up to 90% › The survey concludes that there is a high level of satisfaction with the policies, management style and work environment with a result of 71% › The responses reveal a high commitment by all partners at all geographic areas › Leadership is said to be the highlighted strength 32 32 33 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 33 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges…” As of today, Globalvia has ISO 9001 and 14001 certification and has developed various CSR Strategic plans. Globalvia upholds a  ISO certifications 9001 and 14001 commitment in  CSR strategic plan (and specific on to Concessions) conducting its business  Environmental Impact Declaration around the environmental preservation and the  ISO certifications 9001 and 14001 struggle against climate change In March 2012 the Organization and CSR Department launched GlobalQuality. The aim of this project was to redefine all processes in order to ensure that all subsidiaries applied the same approach to everyday work. This project was a success that culminated in the 9001 and 14001 certification. • ISO certification 9001, is the internationally recognized standard for the quality management of businesses. It applies to the processes and services Globalvia supplies, and prescribes systematic control of activities to ensure that customers needs are met. http://www.ISO.es/ISO/certificacion/buscador/fichacertificado.asp?emp resaISO=AEN&codigo=112031#.UWf3YqIvm8A • ISO certification 14001, Maps out a framework that a company or organization can follow to set up an effective environmental management system and helps identify and control Globalvia’s environmental impact and constantly improve its environmental performance. http://www.ISO.es/ISO/certificacion/buscador/fichacertificado.asp?emp resaISO=AEN&codigo=112032 The scope of this certification refers to management (acquisition, operation, control and monitoring) of concessions infrastructures (highways, motorways and railways), and the preservation, maintenance and operation of highways and motorways. Its includes 4 Globalvia’s centers.  CSR strategic plan (and specific to Concessions) With the objective of assessing Globalvia’s situation regarding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and devising the lines of actions necessary to lead its commitment to sustainable development, an internal diagnosis on CSR 34 has been carried out in 2011, as well as a comparative study of its 34 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals shareholders and leading competitors, positioning on this subject; with the aim of better defining, from the obtained results, the sustainability guidelines for the forthcoming years. As a result of the conclusions reached, the Company has pledged a Strategic Plan to horizon year 2014 to establish the framework and guidelines to be followed by the Company in this field. The Strategic Plan defines global short, medium and long term initiatives for each key issue needed to develop CSR at Globalvia. The implemented actions or initiatives related to this matter and focusing on environment are described in the next chapter “Implementation of environmental actions”.  Environmental Impact Declaration Spanish legislation establishes the obligation to prepare en Environmental Impact Declaration, prior to the administrative decision related to the authorization and development of constructions and activities, is adopted. The process starts with the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure, where the General Directorate of Quality and Environmental Assessment examines the record sent by the Highways Directorate. The dossier includes an informative study, an environmental impact study and the result of public information. Once analyzed, the General Directorate of Quality and Environmental Assessment submits to the Highways Directorate a report detailing various alternatives / performances considered, the content of the environmental impact study and protected natural areas affected. The Environmental Impact Declaration includes: › Environmental adaptation of the layout. › Soils protection and conservation. › Water system protection. › Territorial permeability and wildlife protection. › Cultural heritage protection. › Noise pollution. › Location of quarries, spoil, landfill and ancillary facilities. › Defense against erosion, environmental restoration and landscape work integration. › Monitoring and surveillance. 35 35 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions “…undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and…” Here are few concrete actions that support the implementation of environmental policies, reduce environmental risks, and respond to environmental incidents:  Training on ISO certifications  CSR strategic plan (and specific to Concessions) implementation  Túnel de Soller archeological site  Training on ISO certifications Within the Company’s training and development plan, there is a specific learning session related to Environmental issues that is given during the Coming in Welcome session. This specific session is known as Training on Quality and Environmental Management System and is given to all Globalvia’s employees, following a scheme that includes: › Management system definition focusing en environmental issues › Environment, pollution and sustainable development definition › Environmental Management System: objectives and processes (identification and analysis / evaluation of environmental issues, identification and analysis / evaluation of legal requirement compliances, targets and planning, operational control and monitoring) › ISO 14001 Requirements: general requirements, environmental policy, planning, implementation and operation, controlling and monitoring, Board review Related to the last point, the final Board review has recently stated that: › The Quality and Environmental Management System implementation has required a remarkable effort throughout the organization. › Specific Environmental and Quality objectives have been defined for each Concession to reduce environmental impact “…encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” 36 36 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions  CSR strategic plan (and specific on Concessions) implementation The CSR Strategic Plan involves the entire Company and enables the CSR strategy to be deployed throughout all business areas through specific initiatives adapted to the social reality of the different communities in which Integrating Globalvia is present. environmental protection in the Among the different strategic lines governing the CSR strategy there is a management policy of specific one related to Environment where the Globalvia upholds a infrastructures is a commitment in conducting its business around the environmental constant challenge in preservation and the struggle against climate change. Globalvia's activity Globalvia has the following commitment with the environment: “Reduction of the environmental impact of Globalvia’s activities, also maintaining a respectful approach that benefits the environment”. The overcome this statement, there are two core objectives for the whole organization: • Promoting improvements and innovation projects with an environmental impact • Diagnosis of the environmental impact of operations through a single Environmental Management System for the entire Group. The system's support is mainly based on comprehensive systems certified under standards that contribute to reducing environmental risk, contemplating compliance with both the law and the various international commitments assumed as well as with internal regulations Globalvia also defines a group of objectives to be applied on each phase of the business engagements: • Project › Maintaining strict laws’ consideration and excellent performing of the environmental studies. › Studying and integrating minimization measures concerning acoustic protection, draining waters treatment, landscaping and ecological passages. • Construction › Including specific environmental considerations in the building contracts. › Minimizing the impact by means of environmental training, environmental monitoring, archeological follow up and recovering and reintegrating affected areas. 37 37 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions › Environmental Impact Analysis review and follow up in order to identify, predict, evaluate and mitigate the biophysical, social, and other relevant effects of Globalvia's activity. • Operation › Cooperating with the Environmental Management System, not only in terms on monitoring, but conducting the appropriate initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact. Aligned with these objectives, Globalvia plans to perform the following initiatives for the period 2013-2015: • Joining the Carbon Disclosure Project (CPD): Along with Globalvia’s commitment to environmental preservation comes the need to know the impact of its activities, and to clearly expose to the stakeholders both the measures and the actions towards it’s reduction. The CDP provides a disclosure capability, allowing Globalvia to provide visibility to its stakeholders and also to obtain a disclosure and efficiency score that allows itself to analyze the effectiveness of its policies against market players. • Energy Efficiency Plan: Strategies to reduce the environmental impact aim to make less polluting processes and anticipate future regulations that affect the Company's business, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and waste management. As a result, Globalvia has planed to launch an Energy Efficiency Plan during next year. To do so, it is required that the Company conducts an energy audit at the corporate Head Offices and concessions to identify potential energy-saving opportunities. The energy audit consists in a situation analysis that provides information on the operation of the building, the level of demand for energy used by services, the operation of its power systems and facilities and the condition of the components, energy consumed and associated operating costs. After that some targets of reduction will be established through the implementation of energy efficiency measures. On the other hand, Globalvia has developed a specific CSR strategic plan in Costa Rica (Autopistas del Sol Concession, known as AUSOL) to help communities surrounding the Company’s concession and highways by ensuring and facilitating both human and finance resources. AUSOL CSR strategic plan activities are split into three action pillars: • Education 2011 – 2012, with the aim of developing a road safety education campaign in schools located in the area of influence of the 38 38 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions Concession, in order to raise awareness in children between 7 and 12 years: › Road safety education lectures in collaboration with Asociación Aconvivir, an association of traffic victims and their families. › Distribute road safety game for children, “Learning to drive” › Contribute to maintenance work in educational infrastructure • Environment 2013, Globalvia has identified various actions to develop during this present year in order to protect the environment, both internal and externally: › Provide users with recyclable garbage bags for cars › Create a volunteer program for clean-ups and tree planting › Participate and sponsor environmental projects, such as the creation of the country's first universal path. AUSOL was one of the companies committed to ensuring that all people with disabilities could visit a National Park › Energy saving, recycling and scratch paper campaign for all the employees • Fauna 2014, the Company has identified various actions to be implemented during 2014 to support fauna near AUSOL Concession: › Place signals, as a preventive measure, in animal aisles › Castration campaign in communities with high rates of domestic animals abuse › Partnerships with institutions to provide care to wild animals injured on the road and Care program for dogs and cats injured on the road › Partnership with animal shelter or rescue organizations  Túnel de Soller archeological site Globalvia’s is committed to support the excavation of a XIII century Arab site that has been found near the Company’s Concession Túnel de Soller. 39 39 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Globalvia ​has identified and assessed all environmental issues generated as a result of its activities in all the Societies and areas included in the ISO 14001, which are:  Corporate  Ruta de los Pantanos  Concesiones de Madrid  Túnel d’Envalira The following table shows the indicators defined for each Society, that helps monitoring the impact of the Company on the environment in each of the 4 Societies / areas: Ruta de los Concesiones de Túnel d’ Corporate Pantanos Madrid Envalira • Power • Electricity • Electricity • Electricity consumption consumption consumption consumption • Water (highway and (highway and (highway and consumption control center) control center) control center) • Paper • Water • Water • Water consumption consumption consumption consumption • Solid waste (control center) (control center) (control center) generation • Paper • Paper • Paper • Plastic consumption consumption consumption containers (control center) (control center) (control center) generation • Waste from • Meta junk • Contaminated • Alkaline cleaning ditches • Waste from containers. batteries • Pruning cleaning ditches • Metallic waste generation • Paper and • Other urban • Paper and cardboard waste cardboard waste • Wood generation • Salt (winter • Paper and • Fluorescent maintenance) cardboard generation • Paint waste • Toner consumption • Plastics and generation (road and packaging • Generation of graffiti) waste batteries • Pesticide • Salt (winter containing consumption maintenance) mercury • Solvent • Vehicle fuel • Electrical waste consumption consumption and electronic • Vehicle fuel and machinery equipment consumption • Electrical waste generation and machinery and electronic equipment 40 40 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes  Corporate In September 2012, the first identification and evaluation of environmental aspects is performed in Corporate, obtaining the following relevant results: • Electricity consumption, regarding this matter, the Company has not enough data to compare 2011 and 2012. This lack of information is the reason why this indicator has been considered as relevant. Therefore, based on the guidelines defined during Quality and Environmental Management System implementation, the Company will continue raising awareness among its employees to reduce energy consumption and analyze energy efficiency measures implementation feasibility. 2,96 2,78 2,76 2,68 2,68 2,64 2,58 2,65 kWh/sqm/month 2,5 2,5 2,50 2,42 2,45 Alarm value 2,39 2,22 Expected value Optimal value oct-11 nov-11 dec-11 jan-12 feb-12 mar-12 apr-12 may-12 jun-12 jul-12 aug-12 sep-12 oct-12 nov-12 dec-12 • Water consumption, the reduction is noticeable and is due to the bathroom faucets replacement. Also, the Company will continue raising awareness among its employees regarding this matter and analyze energy efficiency measures implementation feasibility. 0,0345 0,035 0,0345 0,034 0,033 0,033 0,033 0,0345 0,0345 0,0335 m3/sqm/month 0,033 0,033 0,033 Alarm value 0,030 Expected value Optimal value mar-11 jul-11 sep-11 nov-11 mar-12 jul-12 sep-12 nov-12 ene-11 may-11 ene-12 may-12 41 41 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes  Ruta de los Pantanos Ruta de los Pantanos made ​the first identification and assessment of environmental issues, obtaining the following relevant results (measured both in highways and Concession centers and calculated per million vehicles or by number of employees): • Electricity consumption, this indicator shows an irregular behavior with a noticeable drop during summer period, probably due to the longer duration of the daytime period. A future analysis will allow to compare similar periods (2013 and 2012). 95 90 82 kWh/employee/mont 82 h Alarm value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expected value Optimal value mar-12 jul-12 sep-12 nov-12 mar-13 jul-13 sep-13 nov-13 ene-12 may-12 ene-13 may-13 • Water consumption, this indicator has been recorded since September 2012 in all the Concession’s facilities, thanks to the installation of a counter at the supply connection. As of today, the data is still not representative because time series are short. 5,5 4,9 4,9 4,8 m3/employee/month Alarm value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expected value Optimal value mar-12 jul-12 sep-12 nov-12 mar-13 jul-13 sep-13 nov-13 ene-12 may-12 ene-13 may-13 42 42 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes  Concesiones de Madrid As Ruta de los Pantanos, Concesiones de Madrid made ​the first identification and assessment of environmental issues, obtaining the following relevant results: • Electricity consumption, as in previous cases, highest levels are recorded in winter period due to fewer daylight hours. The next review will allow to gather, record and present more representative results. 700 kWh/employee/mont 500 550 h 500 400 465 Alarm value 415 370 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expected value Optimal value ene-12 mar-12 jul-12 sep-12 nov-12 mar-13 jul-13 sep-13 nov-13 may-12 ene-13 may-13 • Water consumption, results shows a jagged line because the invoices issued by the Canal de Isabel II are bimonthly. The average monthly consumption is below the alarm value. 2,25 2,2 1,9 1,65 1,25 m3/employee/month 1,20 1,00 Alarm value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expected value Optimal value mar-12 jul-12 sep-12 nov-12 mar-13 jul-13 sep-13 nov-13 ene-12 may-12 ene-13 may-13 43 43 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes  Túnel d’Envalira Like the other Concessions, Túnel d’Envalira made ​the first identification and assessment of environmental issues, obtaining the following relevant results: • Electricity consumption, this indicator shows an irregular behavior with a noticeable drop during summer period, probably due to the longer duration of the daytime period. The rest of fluctuations may be due to the tunnel ventilation system, operation which is motivated by uncontrolled weather conditions. 94.000 83.000 94.000 85.000 80.000 kWh/units/month 80.000 70.000 50.000 Alarm value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expected value Optimal value mar-12 jul-12 sep-12 nov-12 mar-13 jul-13 sep-13 nov-13 ene-12 may-12 ene-13 may-13 • Water consumption, this indicator has been recorded since September 2012 in all the Concession’s facilities, thanks to the installation of a counter at the supply connection. As of today, the data is still not representative because time series are short. 1,0 0,8 0,8 0,7 m3/employee/month Alarm value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expected value Optimal value mar-12 jul-12 sep-12 nov-12 mar-13 jul-13 sep-13 nov-13 ene-12 may-12 ene-13 may-13 44 44 45 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 45 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Globalvia ​presents the following assessments, policies, goals that prove the relevance of anti-corruption for the company.  Fraud procedure  Compliance Manual  Fraud procedure Globalvia has identified two main types of potential fraud: › Internal fraud; carried out by employees › External fraud; carried out by people / entities out of the Company The Group has established several procedures to mitigate the internal fraud: › Company Level Controls; the Company has established and adequate control environment that is transmitted from top management to all the employees. Management’s commitment to integrity and ethical behavior is effectively communicated throughout the Company, both in words and deeds. › Management incentives are balanced. Compensation policy does not promote an excessive level of interest in increasing the entity’s earnings trend. › Adequate segregation of duties. › The Company has established adequate policies and procedures for authorization and approval of transactions at the appropriate level, specifically in Purchase, Payments and Treasury areas. › Hiring policies are centrally defined at Group level. Hiring requests of the management team from subsidiaries are centrally approved. › Management shows a willingness to consult with the auditors on and address significant matters relating to Internal Control and accounting issues. › The Group has a whistleblower scheme in place in order to detect any potential fraud situation (annex of the code of ethics). › Management takes appropriate disciplinary action in response to departures from approved policies and procedures or violations of the Code of Ethics, if any. › The Group has an Internal Audit Function that monitors that Internal Control activities are being performed and policies and procedures are being duly applied. 46 46 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals Special consideration should be given to a recent new regulation on Spanish Penal/Criminal Law that was passed on December 2010. Although the recent amend of legislation has not yet been applied in place by Courts, Globalvia response has been to carry out together with an external advisor an exercise to identify risk map in this field as well as the potential gaps that may exist with its internal control procedures. This initiative is led by the Internal Audit Area together with the Legal and Procurement&HR Areas. The result of this task will be the achievement on an Antifraud and Crimes Procedure that shall be a binding internal procedure and that, from a penalty perspective, will help to minimize or exempt the company potential responsibility. For external fraud, the main procedures in place are focused on the safeguarding of assets (both tangible and intangible). All locations of the Group have physical access security procedures in place. Regarding intangible assets, mainly data and information stored in the computers, the Group has established access controls to the network and servers in order to prevent or detect unauthorized accesses. Additionally, all the computers have logical and physical security controls in place.  Compliance Manual The Organization and CSR Business Direction of Globalvia has defined, in May 2012 (recently updated on January 2013), a Compliance Manual that establishes the functions and responsibilities related to the identification, review and compliance with the service requirements provided by the Company. This Manual applies to offers, orders and contracts with customers and it details the following issues: › Service requirements identification, both related to Corporate and Country Offices, as well as Concessions › Internal and external services provided by Globalvia › Operating procedure, both for internal and external customer › Compliance Committee, further details are included in the next point “VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption action” 47 47 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions Globalvia has established a Compliance Committee which aim is to identify, advise, assess, warn and monitor any compliance risk. This meant as any case of receiving sanctions by statutory or regulatory violations, financial loss, or reputation loss due to non-compliances with current law, regulations, ethics codes, and best practices standards defined in QEMS procedures. Compliance Committee comprises the following members: › Committee Leader: Internal Audit and Risk Management Director › General Counsel responsible › Organization and CSR Director › Head of Department of Labor Relationships › Assistant to Finance Direction The meeting will take place semiannually in which a Compliance Report will be defined, for its further validation from the President and therefore its communication to the Steering Committee and Country Offices and Concessions / Societies responsible. The Compliance Report includes the following issues: › Critical regulatory issues to monitor. › Critical internal regulations issues to monitor. › Developments in regulatory areas: responsible for updating the legislation and providing full legal text as it is published in the official papers. It is also advisable to know in advance its publication and any other applicable regulations, in order to anticipate potential investments and interventions › New identified risks. › Proposed mitigation actions. Also, to report any irregular situation or potential fraud, the employee should contact immediately with General Counsel via email. 48 48 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.3 Measurements of anti-corruption outcomes Regarding Globalvia’s anti-corruption performance, the Company’s Internal Audit and Risk Management Direction has made the following statement: “Globalvia has not been involved in any legal cases, ruling or other events related to corruption and bribery. Globalvia has an external audit company to perform different internal audits every year (9 in 2012) and the report is directly submitted to the CEO. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported to the period.” In regard to the measurement of anti-corruption outcomes, various internal audits have taken place during 2012: • First semester › A general procedure review (first part) › Internal audits of four different concessions • Second semester › A general procedure review (second part) › Internal audits of 6 different concessions › ERM methodology › Procedures and valuation models From these, a total of 197 actions were identified. 49 49 50 VII. CONCLUSIONS 50 VII. CONCLUSIONS VII. Conclusions Globalvia is consolidating its position as a reference player in all the countries in which it operates by conducting its business in a responsible manner and establishing trusting relationships with our stakeholders. This commitment is key to understand the effort carried out for the past two years. The company has accomplished the task to review and redefine all processes, is investing in learning and development initiatives for its employees and is making a great effort to manage environmental issues. These activities have now become part of Globalvia’s business daily operations. We care about the impact we make on the environment and this concern is totally aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity, internally and externally, with the hope that the reward will be a better world for today and a greater hope for tomorrow. 51 51 IRELAND USA Luttrellstown Road N.Y Diswellstown Castleknock 1230 Avenue of the Americas, 7th Dublin 15, Ireland Floor -Offices 706 y 707 New York, New York 10020 Tel. + 1 212-618-6310 Fax+ 1 212-618-6309 MEXICO Monte Pelvoux, 220 Int 404 Edificio Virreyes CHILE Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Rosario Norte 100 Of. 902-904 Del. Miguel Hidalgo Edificio Rosario Norte 100 9ª planta 11000 D.F. (México) Las Condes Santiago Chile Tel. +52 55 52763430 Tel. +56 2 565 9011 ( Oficinas Centrales) Paseo de la Castellana, 141, 5ª Planta Edificio Cuzco IV 28046 Madrid – SPAIN Tel. +34 91 456 58 50 Fax +34 91 662 56 07 52
