CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 IN NUMBERS FINANCIAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED* £1.7bn * The excess of premiums and other income over costs and claims paid ENVIRONMENT 700,000 customers encouraged to join in the WWF Earth Hour action to highlight energy use COMMUNITY £1.6m corporate donations SAFETY & SECURITY 275,000 free reflectors, high-vis vests and belts handed out in Scandinavia, Estonia, Lithuania and the UK BUSINESS OVERVIEW £8.35bn net written premiums, a growth of 5% £479m profit before tax (at constant exchange) 10.1% underlying return on equity £14.3bn investment funds RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 01 INTRODUCTION With a 300-year heritage, RSA is one CONTENTS 02 OUR CORPORATE of the world’s leading multinational RESPONSIBILITY AT A GLANCE listed insurance groups. We have major 04 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE operations in the UK, Scandinavia, Canada, INTRODUCTION Ireland, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, 06 OUR APPROACH 10 ENVIRONMENT the Middle East and Latin America and 14 COMMUNITY have the capability to write business in 18 SAFETY & SECURITY 22 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS more than 140 countries. We provide 28 HOW WE REPORT property, motor, pet and household insurance and have strong positions in the marine, renewable energy and construction and engineering sectors. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 02 AT A GLANCE OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT A GLANCE Our corporate responsibility activities range from supporting renewable energy to promoting road safety. Environment, Community and Safety & Security are our main focus areas throughout the Group, from Argentina to Estonia, Canada to China. 2 19 22 7 3 20 23 4 18 10 24 8 5 6 11 17 26 27 15 13 16 9 14 21 25 1 12 ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY SAFETY & SECURITY 1 Brazil ‘Seeing is Believing’ competition trip 12 Chile donating a share of premiums to 19 Canada launched an online tool to give 2 Canada investigating environmental risks help finance house building homeowners expert advice on preventing from changing sea-ice distribution 13 China supporting fundraising to benefit home losses 3 Denmark helping customers cope with 6,000 schoolchildren 20 Denmark handing out free reflectors and the threat of floods 14 Colombia raising money to help rebuild high-visibility jackets 4 Ireland supporting research into the houses for vulnerable families 21-22 Colombia and Latvia promoting safe benefits from the renewable energy sector 15 Italy volunteering to support local industries driving and managing risks in 5 UK insuring offshore wind farms in Emilia Romagna following the earthquakes commercial fleets Oman training young people in 23 Russia a responsible driving campaign 6 UK introducing a more sustainable 16 approach to drying flooded properties workplace skills aimed at experienced drivers UK a new intranet site to inspire 24-26 Globally helping school children stay 7-11 Globally Earth Hour and environmental 17 volunteering in Canada, Denmark, employee activity safe on the roads in Lithuania, Hong Kong, Lithuania and the UK 18 Ireland supporting a sporting association Singapore and the UK for people with learning disabilities 27 UK campaigning for better eye tests for motorists RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 03 AT A GLANCE 15 I taly The earthquake that struck the Emilia Romagna region in northern Italy in 2012 threatened the region’s economy and in particular, its parmesan-cheese producers. Our employees volunteered to help the region’s farmers sell their cheese and helped them earn around €80,000. 25 S ingapore 11 U K and other countries We took road safety Employees around the world messages into primary supported WWF’s Earth Hour schools, in Singapore, action including our offices in Lithuania and the UK Canada, Denmark, Hong Kong, with advice on how to Lithuania and the UK. Our UK stay safe on the roads. brand MORE Th>N was the official UK partner and encouraged customers to participate. 22 L  atvia 12 C hile We promoted safe driving We developed an insurance skills in commercial fleets in product that gave a percentage Latvia and Colombia, including of premiums to TECHO, a co-sponsoring the BALTA charity that builds houses annual Safest Corporate Fleet and creates communities award for best practice in safe for vulnerable people fleet management, covering throughout Latin America driving skills, preventative and the Caribbean. safety action and improved fleet maintenance. for more information on CR activities visit: www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/en/corporate-responsibility RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 04 CEO INTRODUCTION GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE INTRODUCTION This year alone we helped thousands of individuals The work we undertake on the environment “Protection is at the heart and businesses recover from the effects of natural is helping to tackle one of the great challenges of everything we do at RSA. catastrophes such as earthquakes in Italy, Hurricane of our time. Climate change can be seen in the Sandy in North America and flooding in the UK increasing incidence of major weather events We work with our customers caused by record wet weather. which devastate people’s homes and businesses. to identify and manage the Our products and services mean people can invest In 2012 I saw for myself what can happen when risks they face and have been for the future knowing we will be there to support disaster occurs. I travelled to the Atlantic rainforest them and get them back on their feet if the in Brazil with the winners of our ‘Seeing is Believing’ doing this successfully for more unexpected happens. competition which we ran with our partners at than three centuries.” Insurance gives people confidence and our industry the WWF. Landslides caused by deforestation and heavy rainfall scar the landscape there and is most valuable to society when it helps customers have had tragic effects on local communities. to be successful and secure. We are determined to raise awareness of Our value also depends on being a responsible issues like these and gain a better understanding business. We continue to consider carefully our of environmental risks. We are also committed relations with our customers and suppliers and the to reducing our own environmental impacts ways we engage with our employees. Diversity, and through our work in the energy sector inclusion and ensuring we have a healthy workplace we are helping to reduce reliance on which supports people’s wellbeing are top priorities. non-renewable resources. Simon Lee, Group Chief Executive The winners of the ‘Seeing is Believing’ competition in the Atlantic rainforest in Brazil. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 05 CEO INTRODUCTION Simon Lee, Group Chief Executive, in Brazil during the ‘Seeing is Believing’ trip. “Insurance gives people confidence and our industry is most valuable to society when it helps customers to be successful and secure.” Meanwhile our community activities enable I take ultimate responsibility for the entire employees in the 31 countries we operate programme and am supported by four members in to receive support for the charities and of the executive committee because leadership on good causes which matter to them. In 2012 this should come from the top and flow all the we made £1.6m in donations and over 1,600 way through the organisation. We will be talking RSA volunteers devoted almost 8,000 hours more about our renewed strategy in 2013. to charitable activities. We are addressing social We continue to play a leading role in supporting and financial exclusion by improving access to the work of other organisations in this field, insurance for less-advantaged people and helping endorsing the principles of the UN Global young people to improve their prospects Compact. We are also committed to integrating by developing their skills and employability into our business the principles in the UN through internships and mentoring schemes. Declaration of Human Rights and the International And our work on safety and security includes Labour Organisation core labour standards and campaigns to reduce road accidents, enhance are active in the UN Environment Programme night-time visibility and teach children to be safe. Finance Initiative. As a leading marine insurer we We also provide our customers with advice on are a member of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative how to avoid events such as flooding and fire and we are also a member of Climatewise. which can damage their properties and disrupt Our history and track record of supporting our their businesses. customers, communities and our employees show After five years with the same corporate RSA takes a responsible, sustainable and practical responsibility (CR) strategy we felt the world – view about how we operate. and RSA – had moved on and so we undertook The ambitions we have as a business, the a strategic review. This recommended that the commitment we show to our customers and initiatives we undertake under the three main the enthusiasm of our people combine powerfully pillars of our CR activities – Environment, in our work on CR. That is a source of motivation Community and Safety & Security – should and pride for us all. be fully integrated into our day-to-day business. We are making sure this happens. We are committed to all three pillars for the long term. They fit our business, engage our employees and contribute to the places where we operate. Meanwhile we have strengthened our CR governance structures, as recommended by the review. In conjunction with the Board, RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 06 OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RSA is a leading player in a £3 trillion global insurance industry which provides vital financial protection for individuals, businesses and the economy. We give people the confidence to live their lives and do business with the security of knowing they are protected if things go wrong. £5bn RSA has underwritten risks since 1710 and is KEY GLOBAL ISSUES a leading multinational insurer. We are a global company with businesses in both mature and emerging markets, employing about 23,000 people and serving approximately 17 million customers in 140 countries. Our focus is on general insurance products and services including motor and property as well as speciality lines such as marine and renewable-energy projects. We contribute to society by using our understanding of risk to provide our customers with the security they need to progress. We help improve safety and give confidence to undertake FLOOD CLAIM COSTS activities from buying a home to building a PAID BY UK INSURERS SINCE 2000 business. The protection we provide against ISSUE financial losses helps to sustain demand and Increase in frequency and magnitude of extreme reduce economic volatility. Our understanding weather events. of risks means we design innovative products RELEVANCE which can help tackle global challenges ranging from climate change to social exclusion. The increase in extreme weather events, including storms, hurricanes and floods, threatens lives and habitats, disrupts Beyond these contributions, we believe we business and leads to escalating claims. UK insurers have paid have a duty to respond to global trends and around £5 billion in flood claims since 2000, increasing the stakeholder concerns. Our corporate responsibility need to adapt to the effects of climate change. (CR) strategy is designed to prioritise these issues and to embed a responsible approach in all our business activities. In 2012, our business generated direct economic value amounting to £1.7 billion, the excess of premiums and other income over costs and claims paid. Our employees received the greatest share of this (£1 billion) our income tax charge and social security payments on employment amounted to £255 million. We distributed £336 million to shareholders. See ‘Our Direct Economic Value to Society’ table on our CR website. Direct contributions to charities, excluding the fundraising efforts of our employees (see page 17), were worth £1.6 million. Responsibility is central to how we operate, with ‘Doing the Right Thing’ an intrinsic part of our values. We strive to conduct our business with integrity and in a fair, transparent manner, adhering to ethical standards and responding appropriately to stakeholders’ needs. Our CR strategy is designed to address environmental, social and economic issues most relevant to our industry, particularly those highlighted on these pages. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 07 OUR APPROACH for more information on CR activities visit: POPULATION CHANGES www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/en/ corporate-responsibility ISSUE 25% estimated increase in world population by 2050; 70% 70% of the planet’s 9 billion people will live in cities. RELEVANCE Rapid growth creates new and expanding markets but puts enormous pressure on social and physical infrastructure. Safety and security will be a growing issue in cities. Demands on services and access to energy, food and water will also present challenges in many countries and could lead to political and social instability. ACCESS TO FINANCE ISSUE 2.5 billion people with no access to financial services. RELEVANCE Financial services underpin modern economies and help people escape poverty and encourage enterprise and entrepreneurship. People and businesses can take bolder decisions with the confidence that insurance will protect them if things go wrong. 2.5bn 60% CONSUMPTION GROWTH ISSUE 60% increase in amount of food needed by 2050. Society will also need 80% more energy. RELEVANCE Increased demand for resources will spur economic growth but raise the likelihood of further deforestation, water scarcity, habitat damage and climate change. The resulting environmental degradation would present new and increased risks for communities and businesses. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 08 OUR APPROACH OUR STRATEGY Our CR strategy is founded on our analysis of the global issues highlighted on the previous page. We focus on issues most significant to our business and on those where we can make the greatest positive difference. MATERIALITY MATRIX We develop our CR strategy following the principles of AA1000 – inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness – which involves wide Social inclusion consultation. The first step is the identification Flooding/Climate of stakeholder groups that can influence or be Economic situation Safety affected by our business, including customers, Disasters employees, investors, suppliers and NGOs. We engage stakeholders to understand STAKEHOLDER PRIORITY their concerns and views on a wide range of issues and our CR approach. This analysis Transparency is enhanced through collaboration with Customer service Ageing populations Employee wellbeing industry and sustainability organisations, Employee training including ClimateWise and the Sustainable Shipping Initiative. The range of issues addressed through our CR Obesity Product innovation Corruption strategy is determined by considering materiality Water scarcity Ecosystem decline Supply chain – the significance and relevance to our business Urbanisation Diversity New technology and stakeholders – of each issue. We respond Emerging markets Direct environmental impact Energy security Resource prices Business ethics by developing CR programmes to address the most material issues. This report summarises our main response to stakeholders on our OUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE approach and performance. IDENTIFYING PRIORITIES REVIEWING OUR CR STRATEGY We have created a new governance structure Each year, we commission international research In 2012, we under took a thorough review (see page 22), with senior executive responsibility, into the detailed views of analysts, institutional of our CR strategy to ensure it addresses accountability and high-level ownership for each investors, NGOs, academics and other experts. stakeholder and business priorities. The focus area. Our revised CR strategy, to be Priorities identified in the 2012 survey included: process involved interviewing senior managers launched in 2013, will help us: addressing social exclusion, building transparent to understand their aspirations and the actions • Capitalise on market opportunities such relationships with customers and brokers; they see as critical to the success of RSA. as increased demand for clean energy; building trust and confidence in the insurance We also benchmarked our progress against • Anticipate and manage the material social industry; responding to environmental impacts; our peers to understand our strengths and and environmental risks we face through and tackling climate change. weaknesses; assessed socio-economic and our value chain, such as extreme weather environmental trends and how they could The views of our employees are also important. and flooding; impact our business; and carried out an We survey them annually and in 2012 they • Provide practical information, products and extensive stakeholder engagement exercise. highlighted consumer confidence in financial services to customers to help them manage services companies and climate change as This review concluded that the three broad risks and reduce claims; and the issues most important to RSA. themes central to our CR strategy in the past • Create greater involvement and engagement continue to be the right areas to focus on: among our people; We reviewed the combined feedback of this Environment, Community and Safety & Security. • Continue to reduce our direct environmental research to create the materiality matrix, However, we need to reposition our activities impacts; and which identifies our priorities. These are: in each area to engage employees more • Increase our contribution to our communities. • Social inclusion; effectively and improve alignment with • Flooding and climate change; business goals. • Safety; and Our CR strategy also needs to be more • Disasters. closely integrated into the business in all We are responding to these issues through regions, based on a company-wide long-term the three focus areas of our CR strategy: vision with strategic goals that fit with regional Environment, Community and Safety & Security. priorities. This process will require greater Each of these areas is covered later in this report. senior executive leadership. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 09 OUR APPROACH GLOBAL ISSUES Unprecedented social, economic and environmental developments worldwide present both risks and opportunities to our business. Demand for energy Population growth Climate change Urbanisation Scarcity of resources Access to finance Emerging markets growth Political and economic instability Global interconnectivity Technological change MATERIALITY We focus on the issues most significant to our business and stakeholders and where we can make the greatest difference. ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY SAFETY & SECURITY Environmental issues Our business prospers Safety and security including climate change in strong communities is fundamental to effects have the potential where everyone can insurance. We provide to affect our business benefit from insurance. advice on keeping and stakeholders. We We support social people and property apply our insurance inclusion through safe, protect against expertise to increase organisations that help loss, and address risks understanding of the people challenged by that are relevant to related risks and to issues such as poverty, our business and our support our customers. unemployment and lack customers, such as We minimise our of work skills. We also road safety. environmental footprint develop products and and also encourage services that meet employees, customers specific local needs. and suppliers to do so. RESPONSES RISK ANALYSIS FOOTPRINT REDUCTION WORK SKILLS ACCESS TO INSURANCE SAFETY ADVICE ROAD SAFETY We work with partners We are on track to We help young We develop We alert customers to We encourage safer to improve understanding achieve our 2020 target people to develop products and services weather-related risks using driving with discounts for of environmental risks for a 50% reduction the work-related skills designed to break down emails and text messages, drivers who have a good and opportunities ranging in CO2(e) emissions that will expand their barriers to insurance. and in some countries record and training for from the integration (relative to net written opportunities, using the In India we work with incentivise customers business customers. We of environmental premiums). Our operations experience of RSA staff. the government to to reduce their risks. promote safe behaviour considerations in in the UK and Ireland bring health cover by other road users, bond portfolios to the remain carbon neutral. to the rural poor. including children. prospects for sustainable aquaculture. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 10 ENVIRONMENT CASE STUDY: ISSUE BETTER UNDERSTANDING ACCELERATING GHG* EMISSIONS COULD LEAD TO A ENVIRONMENTAL RISK 3–6ºC WARMING Changing sea-ice distributions could present new risks to the sensitive environment in the Barents Sea within the Arctic Circle. In 2012, research with WWF used RSA’s AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS CLIMATE CHANGE EFFECTS mapping technology to gather data RESPONSE on the effect of changes in shipping on specific species of fish, mammals WE ARE WORKING WITH EXTERNAL PARTNERS SUCH AS WWF and birds. WWF is using the data to TO IMPROVE UNDERSTANDING OF develop guidelines safeguarding the area, while RSA is using the data to improve our understanding of ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS environmental risks in the region. * Greenhouse gas IMPACT OUR MAPPING OF CHANGES IN SEA-ICE INFORMS MULTIPLE AGENCIES IN THE ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE ARCTIC REGION for more information on CR activities visit: www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/ en/corporate-responsibility RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 11 ENVIRONMENT In 2012, with WWF, we carried out research on a number of topics including the systemic nature of global environmental risks, the prospects for sustainable aquaculture and the ENVIRONMENT integration of environmental considerations into bond portfolios. In Ireland, we sponsored WWF’s Positive Energy report:* which concluded that renewable energy could meet more than 70% of the country’s electricity demand by 2030. These research findings provide our business with risk insight and information to support new product and service development. In some cases, this has provided thought leadership and supported our engagement with policymakers. For example, we have been active in industry negotiations with the UK Government on insurance for flood-prone areas. RAISING ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS Engaging employees and customers in understanding the issues is key to the success of our environmental strategy. In 2012, we launched a Group-wide Green Network, an online forum supporting RSA environmental The risks from climate change effects, including flooding, champions around the world. These champions generated action and volunteering including are of great concern to our business and stakeholders. support for the annual WWF Earth Hour They are therefore prioritised in our materiality process campaign see www.earthhour.wwf.org.uk/. and core to our environmental strategy. Our UK brand, MORE Th>N, was the official UK partner for the Earth Hour and our employees joined in with a vigorous communication campaign, 70% RENEWABLE ENERGY Our strategy is focused on gaining a better encouraging over 700,000 customers to switch understanding of environmental risks, including their lights off for an hour to raise environmental those related to the effects of climate change. We awareness. In Copenhagen, employees visited aim to use this information to help our customers companies, shops and restaurants, persuading and wider society better understand, mitigate and approximately 600 organisations to support adapt to these risks. At the same time we have a Earth Hour. responsibility as a major global business to continue We also help customers to reduce their risk to reduce our own environmental impacts and exposure, using social media in many countries By 2030 70% of Ireland’s electricity demand could be met by renewable energy support our employees, suppliers and customers to warn of impending extreme weather (see in doing this as well. Helping Customers to Stay Safe, page 20). Our risk-mapping technology pinpoints locations 600 UNDERSTANDING CURRENT AND EMERGING Working with a number of external partners, liable to flooding and identifies customers at EARTH HOUR including the WWF, Forum for the Future risk so that we can react quickly. In Denmark, and Climatewise, we carry out research to customers get a discount for installing devices understand better current and emerging which protect against drains backing up and environmental risks. flooding basements. Employees supporting WWF ‘Earth Hour’ in Scandinavia. Organisations in Copenhagen supported Earth Hour * Found at: www.assets.wwf.org.uk/downloads/positive_ energy_summary_roi_nov_2012.pdf RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 12 ENVIRONMENT In the UK and Ireland, RSA’s Engineering Inspection and Consultancy business worked with the Carbon Trust to promote the benefits of installing new energy efficient equipment and adapting energy management best practice. They jointly developed an Energy Action Pack, designed to provide business clients with pragmatic guidance on managing their energy costs and consumption, and we will roll this out to our clients in 2013. Myles McCarthy, Managing Director of Implementation at the Carbon Trust said “Having worked with over 35,000 organisations in the UK, we know how improved energy management as well as the implementation of high-quality, energy-efficient technologies can have a significant impact on a business’s bottom line. We are very pleased to support RSA’s leadership position as it broadens its sustainability goals beyond its own operations, to support the thousands of customers its 450 engineer surveyors engage with each day.” PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Insurance for renewable energy projects supports the growth of the low-carbon sector, “We’re empowering staff to find new ways to tackle which plays a critical role in reducing fossil fuel use and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions. environmental risks as well as cutting our own emissions. RSA is a market leader in renewables, with a Our continued work with external experts will contribute network of underwriters in 15 countries and expertise across renewable technologies. to both of these. I’m proud to be taking the business We insure some of the world’s leading wind forward in this important area.” turbine manufacturers and are involved in the insurance programmes of more than 60% Vanessa Evans, of all offshore wind farms around the world. RSA Group Human Resources Director, For the second year running, we ran Environment Focus Area Director our ‘Seeing is Believing’ competition, which encourages employees to develop environmentally sustainable products and services. Three employees from Johnson in 60% Newfoundland beat 50 other teams with their idea for linking eco-friendly domestic improvements with cheaper home insurance. Winning a trip to Brazil to see deforestation at first hand, they are now developing a pilot project for the product. RSA insures more than 60% of all offshore windfarms around the world. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 13 ENVIRONMENT ISSUE 80% INCREASE IN ENERGY DEMAND BY 2050 COMBINED WITH THE NEED TO REDUCE OUR CARBON EMISSIONS RESPONSE OUR ‘SEEING IS BELIEVING’ COMPETITION SUPPORTS DEVELOPMENT FOR A LOW CARBON ECONOMY IMPACT THE WINNING PROPOSAL FROM CANADA IS FOCUSED ON DOMESTIC ENERGY-EFFICIENT AND RENEWABLE PRODUCTS CASE STUDY: Our ‘Seeing is Believing’ competition supports the transition to a low carbon economy.. KEY ENVIRONMENTAL DATA See our CR website for more environmental KPI data 2010 2011 2012 Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2(e)) Scope 1 14,804 12,379 13,262 Scope 2 29,165 27,195 27,263 Scope 3 17,210 20,949 20,276 TOTAL 61,179 60,523 60,801 Energy consumption (MWh) 121,986 113,898 107,282 Water consumption (m3) 199,180 222,532 210,424 Paper consumption (tonnes) 2,248 2,288 2,111 Waste production (tonnes) 3,943 2,800 5,398 Waste recycling (%) 30 43.8 33 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT • Building energy – we continued to optimise • Waste – we worked with third-party As a major global business, we understand offices, installing energy-efficient technologies contractors to improve the accuracy of the importance of continually reducing our such as building management systems. These our waste data. As a result, we recorded direct and indirect environmental impacts. initiatives resulted in a Group-wide reduction a significant increase in the volume of waste in emissions. Our new head office in Canada produced. Waste reduction will be focused Our progress is certified Silver on the LEED rating system on as a priority across the Group in the new In 2012, improved data collection caused some and designed to use 30% less energy than environment strategy, launching in 2013. regional key performance indicators (KPIs) to comparable buildings. • Paper usage – most RSA businesses have been rise, resulting in varied progress against targets. • Business travel – we continued to encourage progressing the use of electronic documents We remain committed to monitoring and the use of video and teleconference facilities for both end customers and brokers, targeting reducing our impacts across the Group and and implement sustainable travel policies, a reduction in paper consumption as well as in 2013 we will launch a new environmental resulting in a Group-wide decrease in improving communication. In Scandinavia alone, strategy with comprehensive targets. emissions. In Italy, the travel policy was this project will help reduce up to 8.3 million Highlights in 2012 include: refreshed to emphasise the use of remote mailings each year. • We are on track to achieve our 2020 Group meetings, train travel and car-pooling for • Supply chain emissions – we continue to work target for a 50% reduction in CO2(e) missions frequent trips such as Milan to Genoa. with suppliers to reduce environmental impacts. (relative to the value of net written premiums • Water consumption – continued integration In 2012, we introduced new claims processes, (NWP)) from 2006 levels. of water-saving initiatives and technologies resulting in significant reductions in our carbon • Our operations in the UK, Ireland and Group into our buildings resulted in a Group-wide emissions. See Supplier Relationships, page 27. Corporate Centre remain carbon neutral, offsetting reduction in consumption. Water-saving features their equivalent emissions in renewable energy in our new Canadian head office are forecast for detailed progress against our 2012 Group projects in China, India and South America, which and regional targets, visit: www.rsagroup.com/ to reduce consumption by 40% annually. rsagroup/en/corporate-responsibility are certified to the Voluntary Carbon Standard. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 14 COMMUNITY CASE STUDY: ISSUE 2.5bn HEALTH CARE IN INDIA PEOPLE In India, we work with the government-sponsored Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna (RSBY) to bring health cover to the rural poor. WORLDWIDE Families pay just Rs. 30 to join the scheme, with premiums covered by the government. In three years we HAVE NO ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES have enrolled 3.8 million families and over 100,000 people have RESPONSE received treatment that would otherwise have been unavailable. WE WORK WITH THE GOVERNMENT IN INDIA TO REMOVE BARRIERS TO INSURANCE FOR ILL-HEALTH IMPACT IN JUST THREE YEARS 3.8 MILLION FAMILIES HAVE BENEFITED FROM HEALTH COVER for more information on CR activities visit: www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/ en/corporate-responsibility RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 15 COMMUNITY Our stakeholder and material issues analysis highlighted social inclusion as a key area where we can make a contribution. Our community programme is therefore focused on addressing COMMUNITY these issues. Our fundamental contribution to supporting vibrant communities comes from the economic value our business generates and the activities which insurance makes possible. We have developed products designed specifically to provide access to insurance for those who might otherwise be excluded. We also support communities with charitable contributions and encourage employees to get involved with causes close to their hearts, using their skills and experience to support charities in fostering social inclusion. ACCESS TO INSURANCE Barriers to insurance can be a significant factor in financial exclusion and it is often the most vulnerable that do not have access to the protection that financial services can provide. Through our products and services we can address those barriers for low-income households. In Colombia we provide products specially designed for such households. Basic levels of We provide a positive contribution to society and invest cover are provided for low-value items at low premiums that are paid monthly. in our communities through our products and services, In the UK, our Tenants Contents Insurance policy our corporate donations, employee fundraising and employee aims to be affordable for social housing tenants, volunteering programmes. We work with and fundraise for providing insurance cover for relatively small sums with no cancellation or mid-term amendment charities which are active in supporting people challenged fees. We also offer various flexible payment by issues such as poverty, unemployment, health, or a lack methods and schedules. of financial education or work skills. The example (in the case study) from India demonstrates the wide reach we can have when we work in partnership and when the distribution channel is right for the local market. RSA employees volunteering in London. 1,651 VOLUNTEERING RSA employees volunteered during 2012 7,776 VOLUNTEERING hours spent volunteering during 2012 RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 16 COMMUNITY DEVELOPING SKILLS AND EMPLOYABILITY Creating opportunities for young people to develop their skills was a focus of our community activity in 2012. We recognise that work-related skills are an important enabler of economic activity and therefore essential in addressing social and financial exclusion. Our skill-share and mentoring programmes use the experience of RSA staff to benefit young people. The partnership with Career Academies UK is one example. The charity works with 16 to 19-year-olds to raise aspirations and inspire them RSA employees act as mentors, providing students with one-to-one support. to reach their full potential. RSA employees act as advisory board members and mentors, providing students with one-to-one support for their coursework and employability skills. Since 2007, we have provided nearly 100 mentors or ‘Partners in Business’ and in 2012 a further 40 members of staff signed up to begin mentoring students in 2013. We also provided 11 six-week paid internships for students on the Career Academies UK programme. Experience shows that students who have a mentor are more likely to complete their studies and go on to further education or jobs where “RSA has supported Career Academies UK since 2007, they continue studying. It is also an opportunity for our people to develop key skills in mentoring, providing opportunities to raise young people’s aspirations by communication and leadership. giving them access to real experiences of the world of work.” In Oman, our team received an award from the Ministry of Manpower recognising their support James McCreary, for local talent and job creation. We are also Chief Executive, Career Academies involved in a government talent-development programme and have pledged to employ nine of the trainees that have completed six months of training in English, customer service and IT skills, followed by a three-month work placement with Al Ahlia (our Oman brand). 7% RSA developed an insurance product that gave 7% of property premiums to TECHO. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 17 COMMUNITY ISSUE 100 MILLION FEWER PEOPLE WORLDWIDE DONATED MONEY OR VOLUNTEERED TIME IN 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 RESPONSE IN IRELAND, WE RAN 4 CHARITABLE EVENTS EACH MONTH IN 2012 IMPACT RSA IRELAND RAISED JUST OVER €100,000 FOR 43 CHARITIES, INVOLVING MORE THAN 1,000 VOLUNTEERING HOURS OF EMPLOYEE CASE STUDY: RSA supporting Special Olympics Ireland. “I’m inspired by the charitable VOLUNTEERING AND FUNDRAISING In 2012, RSA made corporate donations and for more than 6,000 schoolchildren in 22 schools. In Ireland we supported Special Olympics Ireland, efforts of our people across encouraged our employees to raise money a charity that helps people with an intellectual for charities important to them and their local disability to use sport for physical and the world and delighted to be communities. We achieved our target of rolling emotional development. able to support them in this. out a global matched-funding facility, doubling In September 2012 we launched ‘The Every One the amount of money available. Matched-funding We’re determined to do even is now available to all our staff and we also provide Fund,’ an internal website in the UK, to make it easier for employees to become involved in more and I’m excited about time off for volunteering. In 2012, charities around community activity. It enables employees to share the world received £1.75 million through these leading this programme globally.” efforts and more than 1,600 volunteers throughout their experiences and enthusiasm, upload photos, promote their favourite causes and connect with the Group spent 7,776 hours helping charities. Adrian Brown, colleagues who have similar interests. They can In Hong Kong, around 60% of all employees also see the results of their efforts, as the site Chief Executive – UK and Western Europe, were involved in supporting charities. displays a running total of volunteering and Community Focus Area Director The contributions came in many forms. In Chile, fundraising efforts. In the first month alone, we developed an insurance product that gave more than 30 staff fundraising activities a percentage of premiums to TECHO, a charity were added to the site. that builds houses and creates communities for vulnerable people throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. The Supporting A Roof for Colombia Foundation benefited from local employees raising enough money to rebuild three houses for vulnerable families, while in China teams helped the Shanghai United Foundation raise over RMB 2 million (£200,000) RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 18 SAFETY AND SECURITY CASE STUDY: ISSUE ROAD SAFETY IN DENMARK ONE MILLION PEOPLE+ In Estonia, Lithuania, Scandinavia and the UK we handed out free equipment to customers and the ARE KILLED ON THE ROADS EVERY YEAR WORLDWIDE general public to help improve the visibility of pedestrians and cyclists during the long, dark winter months. This activity relies on enthusiastic employees and over 300 of our people volunteered to distribute the safety equipment in 2012. In RESPONSE Denmark, we celebrate National STAFF VOLUNTEERS IN MULTIPLE COUNTRIES HANDED OUT MORE THAN Reflector Day with the Children’s 140,000 HIGH-VISIBILITY VESTS AND Accident Foundation and offer free accident insurance for children who 135,000 REFLECTORS join the Foundation. We spread the safety message using social media, adverts and short films in cinemas and on public transport. IMPACT 1/3 POPULATION OF THE DANISH HAS BENEFITED FROM OUR SAFETY MESSAGE IN JUST TWO YEARS for more information on CR activities visit: www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/ en/corporate-responsibility RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 19 SAFETY AND SECURITY RSA ‘Fit to Drive?’ campaign. SAFETY & SECURITY The function of insurance is to protect against risks, Our products encourage safer driving with discounts for drivers who have a good record, providing a safety net for when things go wrong. while our campaigns raise awareness of road But we also want to keep people, property and safety issues. In the UK, we have championed the need for improved eye tests for motorists, possessions safe by promoting responsible behaviour backed by research showing the dangers of the and by taking practical steps to address the risks current approach (see the case study). We are also taking the safety message into primary most relevant to our business and our customers. schools, reaching more than 6,000 children in the UK. In 2012, we extended this approach to schools in Bahrain and Singapore. Visibility is particularly important in the winter 6,000 ROAD SAFETY We help customers manage risks with specific months in northern countries and every year safety advice in our policy documents and we we distribute free reflectors and high-visibility provide additional information for customers vests to customers and the general public through our network of brokers, websites and in Scandinavia. In some cases, we provide the media. In some cases we provide people targeted advice on road safety for business with safety advice about specific risks such as customers. For example, in Colombia we ran primary school children educated floods and storms, using services such as SMS a series of training programmes attended by on road safety in 2012 in the UK messaging. Our materiality analysis confirms that 250 people from 45 different fleet customers. our stakeholders view this as an important part These technical courses make customers aware of our role. Safety & Security is therefore a key of the risks and how to manage them. We took 250 FLEET CUSTOMER SAFETY pillar of our corporate responsibility strategy. a similar approach in Latvia, working with the ROAD SAFETY Safe Driving School to promote driving skills Personal and Commercial Motor insurance are in commercial fleets, improving road safety among our largest business lines, so we have and reducing claims. In 2012, we created the a clear interest in making roads safer. Globally, BALTA annual Safest Corporate Fleet award more than a million people are killed in traffic with the Safe Driving School and the Employers’ people attended fleet road safety accidents every year and a further 50 million are Confederation of Latvia. The award is for best training in Colombia injured. Road safety is therefore one of our key practice in safe fleet management and recognises business and CR priorities. We are working to efficient resource management as well as driving reduce risks through our products, education skills, preventative safety action and improved programmes and public-policy campaigns. fleet maintenance. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 20 SAFETY AND SECURITY HELPING CUSTOMERS TO STAY SAFE Water safety is another important area where We use social media to alert customers to there is scope to reduce accidents, especially for dangers and give advice on staying safe and children. In Sweden, where one in five children on seasonal risks such as winter driving dangers aged between four and 17 can’t swim, we have a and increased fire hazards during dry seasons. long-standing life buoy sponsorship programme. For example, in Lithuania we use our website, Trygg-Hansa (our Swedish brand) sponsors around publications and customer newsletters to 80,000 life buoys that are placed around lakes, promote campaigns such as ‘Secure Me’ and shores, harbours and boat clubs. These save an ‘Summer Storm’, highlighting how risks can estimated 11 lives per year. In 2011, we launched increase at certain times of the year. a new social media campaign with the Swedish Similarly, in Ireland we set up a dedicated Life Saving Association to make people more website in 2012 www.winterchecklist.ie urging aware of the importance of these life buoys. customers to take extra care to prevent common This ‘Hunt for Life Buoys’ Facebook campaign events that result in claims, such as freezing pipes, invited people to upload pictures of life buoys flooding, fire and road accidents. The website and we donated two Swedish Krona for each contains practical advice on reducing the risks one photographed to the Swedish Life Saving as well as claims forms for when the worst does Association. Where the picture showed damage to happen. A special Christmas booklet available the buoys, we will pay for them to be replaced. on the RSA Ireland website focused on fire Since the campaign began, we have had nearly risks over the holiday period. 20,000 life buoys photographed and almost 1,000 reported as damaged and requiring replacement. “In 2012, we worked alongside RSA to call for action on driver eyesight under the campaign ‘Fit to Drive?’ This is an issue Brake has campaigned on for many years, but in 2012 RSA made the crucial contribution of funding research that for the first time estimated the extent of casualties resulting from poor eyesight – as many as 2,900 each year.” Julia Townsend, Deputy Chief Executive, Brake ISSUE 2,900 CASUALTIES EVERY YEAR IN THE UK DUE TO DRIVERS’ POOR VISION RESPONSE OUR ‘FIT TO DRIVE?’ CAMPAIGN CALLS FOR COMPULSORY EYE TESTS EVERY10 YEARS IMPACT OUR RECOMMENDATIONS WOULD SAVE THE UK ECONOMY £14 MILLION CASE STUDY: Adrian Brown, Chief Executive, UK and OVER 10 YEARS Western Europe, signs the RSA ‘Fit to Drive?’ pledge. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 21 SAFETY AND SECURITY “It’s our job as insurers to make sure our customers’ families, homes and businesses have the protection they need. Our people are motivated to 80,000 deliver that and I’m delighted to play my part.” life buoys sponsored by our Swedish brand Trygg-Hansa, saving an estimated 11 lives per year. Mike Holliday-Williams, Chief Executive – Scandinavia, Safety & Security Focus Area Director Helping customers to improve home security in Denmark. We also help customers improve home security. In Ireland and Scandinavia we offer discounts to encourage customers to fit burglar alarms. Also in Scandinavia, a wide-ranging publicity campaign highlighted the risks of inadequate security. The police worked with us on the campaign in Denmark and they now use the materials in their crime prevention work. The campaign video aired on national TV, reaching an estimated 650,000 viewers. In Sweden, the video emphasised the real risks of poor security by featuring ex-offenders demonstrating how they used to break in to vulnerable properties. Approximately 3,000 people visited the campaign homepage and more than 600 people requested a visit from the security firm we worked with to install the alarms. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 22 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Strengthening the governance of our CR programmes and fully integrating the initiatives into our daily business were two recommendations of our strategic review (see page 8). This was the catalyst for implementing the changes to ensure we continue to build responsible relationships with employees, customers and suppliers. CR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Responsibility for implementing the strategy lies Our new governance approach reflects our with the Director of External Communications, own assessment – supported by stakeholder the Group CR team and a network of CR views – that greater executive accountability is managers in each operating country. Each needed if we are to demonstrate CR leadership country CEO is responsible and accountable and effectively manage our material issues. By for integrating CR into their operations, subject creating accountability from the top, it makes to guidance from the CR Steering Committee. it easier to engage employees with our CR Please see our annual report, found at www. strategy. This is why we have created a new ar2012.rsagroup.com, for more information Group CR Steering Committee with several on corporate governance. executive members. The Committee directs our CR Strategy and is responsible and accountable Managing risks for setting the direction and tone of our three Our Group CR policies apply to all operations, focus areas. The Group CEO retains overall including our majority-owned subsidiaries and responsibility for CR (see the diagram below). companies in which we have management control, and are available on our CR website. Our CR policies form part of RSA’s risk framework CR GOVERNANCE DIAGRAM and define our risk appetite in relation to social and environmental issues, including human rights. Focus Area CR Steering Each region reports any breaches every quarter. Directors’ Committee Our internal risk function reviews compliance, progress meetings reporting to the Group Executive Committee Meeting – three to four times per year and Group Board. Social and environmental risks Meeting – At least quarterly facing the insurance industry from threats such Chairman of the CR Steering Committee – Derek Walsh, Group General Counsel as climate change are incorporated in the Group and Group Company Secretary Risk Framework and reviewed each year. Our Environment Focus Area Director for Community – analysis of risks feeds into the annual materiality Vanessa Evans Adrian Brown, UK and Western Europe CEO Group Chief assessment we use to identify CR priorities Focus Area Director for Safety & Security – Mike Holliday-Williams, CEO Scandinavia Executive (see page 8) and develop our response. Focus Area Director for Environment – reporting: Vanessa Evans, Group HR Director Quarterly update Please see our annual report for more on risk Chief Risk Officer – David Weymouth Community management, found at www.ar2012.rsagroup.com Canada Operations Representative – Adrian Brown Scott Tabachnick, Director, Communications Emerging Markets Operations Representative – Alexandra Moon, General Counsel, Emerging Markets Committee Scandinavia Operations Representative – reporting: Jeanette Fangel Løgstrup, Safety & Director Corporate Communications and CSR Updates as required Security UK Operations Representative – Mike Holliday-Williams Karen Myers, UK and Western Europe HR Director Director of External Communications – Louise Shield Group Head of CR and Committee Secretary – Peter Collins RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 23 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RSA employees at the CIPD awards. Human rights We constantly monitor global developments in human rights and other social and political risks. We are committed to protecting human rights and eliminating discrimination wherever we operate. We are signatories to the UN Global Compact, a strategic policy initiative for businesses which are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We will not underwrite business in countries where to do so would breach sanctions or where we identify a high human rights risk unless the activity we insure is carried out for humanitarian purposes. We review our register of high-risk countries at least twice yearly, based on HM Treasury’s sanctions lists, our analysis of socio-political developments and information from local managers. “We have created greater EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIPS Our business needs a diverse, engaged Employee engagement We encourage open, honest dialogue through senior accountability for our workforce that meets the highest standards formal and informal communications, particularly of conduct. We provide the conditions and on our intranet where employees can comment CR Strategy, which in turn will opportunities to achieve this, and for employees on all company information except financial create the impetus to involve to develop and succeed. In 2012, we met our results. In 2012, we introduced a Twitter-like target for performance to be linked to rewards element, called Crowd Comms, which employees and excite our 23,000 employees. for 90% of employees. The ethical behaviours use to post comments and ideas in a companyI’ve already seen the positive we expect of our people are founded on values wide conversation as part of leadership events encapsulated in our Brand Beliefs, which set out and engagement activities. Over 2,000 employees impacts this approach has what we stand for and employees are required used Crowd Comms to communicate with the produced and remain committed to comply with. UK CEO after the publication of financial results. to ensuring it continues.” To reinforce employees’ understanding of our expectations, in 2011/12 we met our target of Trade union issues are dealt with formally through our annual European Consultative Forum and Derek Walsh, distributing across the Group a Guide to Business consultations with the Unite trade union in the UK. RSA Group General Counsel Conduct, which is the basis for our culture of In 2012, 93% of employees took part in our and Group Company Secretary, ‘Doing the Right Thing.’ We ran mandatory Chairman of the CR Steering Committee annual, anonymous employee engagement training on anti-bribery and corruption, and survey, run by Gallup. Although we just missed provided additional modules on issues such our target of remaining in the top quartile, as as insider information for relevant staff. engagement levelled off after 4 years of strong See our careers website for policies and improvement, RSA continues to have engagement programmes in areas including reward, levels in the top quartile of Gallup’s global database recognition, training and development. for companies with over 1,000 employees. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 24 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS DIVERSITY DATA In 2012, women made up 50% of our global workforce and over 30% of managers. Region Operating unit Total Female Total Male Total Scandinavia Denmark 633 829 1462 Dubai 1 1 Finland 2 2 “RSA is a long-standing member Norway 103 140 243 Singapore 1 1 of Business in the Community. Sweden 808 1057 1865 They have also played a key Total 1546 2028 3574 Canada 2180 957 3137 leadership role, helping us Canada Total 2180 957 3137 shape our campaigning UK and Ireland 457 374 831 work locally.” Western Italy 180 191 371 Europe UK 4288 4050 8338 Stephen Howard, Total 4925 4615 9540 CEO BITC GCC India 17 12 29 UK 122 155 277 US 1 1 Total 139 168 307 Diversity and inclusion Emerging Argentina 173 240 413 Valuing diversity helps us recruit and retain Markets Bahrain 8 5 13 the best people and to relate more closely Brazil 177 159 336 to our customers. Chile 317 255 572 In 2012, we launched a programme to China 57 31 88 integrate Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) into Colombia 158 145 303 strategic priorities, processes and operations. Dubai 3 20 23 This programme is founded on a better Estonia 70 31 101 understanding of our current workforce Hong Kong 63 51 114 profile, based on new data collected India 195 1065 1260 during the year (see table). KSA 13 120 133 We created governance, diversity and inclusion LARO 16 28 44 structures with global and regional sponsors Latvia 503 136 639 and teams. A new Steering Group includes Lithuania 729 193 922 the Group CEO, Human Resources Director Mexico 133 213 346 and regional CEOs, while a D&I Council includes independent experts to provide N. Antilles 39 12 51 advice and inputs from external research. Oman 56 116 172 Poland 251 228 479 Russia 132 57 189 Singapore 83 58 141 UAE 79 78 157 UK 27 41 68 Uruguay 43 48 91 Total 3325 3330 6655 Grand Total 12115 11098 23213 * Based on data compiled in August 2012. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 25 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS EMPLOYMENT AWARDS In 2012, we were delighted to be recognised across the globe as a great place to work in all of the markets in which we operate. This included winning the Gallup Global Workplace Award for the second year running, as well as winning in both the Employee Engagement category and being named overall winner at the prestigious 2012 CIPD People Management Awards. GLOBAL GLOBAL UK LITHUANIA HONG KONG Winner of the 2012 Gallup Winner of the Employee Placed 6th in the 2012 Best employer in central Granted Caring Company Global Workplace Award – Engagement category and Sunday Times Best Big and eastern Europe status for the tenth year presented to the world’s named Overall Winner at Companies to Work For sponsored by the Lithuanian running. by the Hong Kong most engaged and the 2012 CIPD People (in our first year of entering). Ministry of the Economy. Council of Social Service. productive organisations. Management Awards. LATIN AMERICA MEXICO CANADA LATVIA SCANDINAVIA Awarded 14th Best 14th in Top Companies Recognition in the Top 50 Employer of the Year Employer of Choice status Multinational in Latin in Mexico ranking Places to work in Canada. America by the Great Place to Work Institute. Training and development Team, rewarding members with fitness classes Group 2010 2011 2012 We provide continuous learning and and fruit. Columbia’s Equilibre Arre Programme Reportable injuries 34 79 19 development opportunities so employees can provided a wide range of activities, including build the skills needed to do a great job and cooking classes and tango lessons. Minor non-reportable 348 287 232 injuries progress their career. Employees discuss their In 2012, we saw a decrease in the number of Accidents per 16.5 16.0 10.6 achievements and agree goals and development reportable and minor non-reportable injuries, 1,000 employees needs with their managers during twice-yearly due to both an increasing awareness of Health reviews. In addition to traditional courses, our & Safety risks, and a move to a more accurate intranet Learning Zone contains training data collection system. As a result, the number materials and modules on a wide range of topics, of accidents per 1,000 employees decreased from technical aspects of insurance to project from 16 in 2011 to 10.6 in 2012. The majority management and communications. Promoting of injuries continue to be minor non-reportable the Learning Zone in the UK spurred a tenfold incidents, e.g. minor cuts and strains. increase in its use in 2012. Risk assessment Health, safety and wellbeing In 2012 we reviewed and updated UK guidance to Our policies and procedures comply with employees when arranging volunteering days and regulations as a minimum. Beyond that, we seek undertaking fundraising activity. Team volunteering to involve and engage colleagues in operating a events undertaken in work time require a formal healthy workplace that supports their wellbeing. risk assessment to be completed. The risk Occupational Health services build on health assessment template is also available for use and safety practices to help employees deal with by employees wishing to undertake individual difficulties that can lead to illness, absenteeism or team-based fundraising in their own time. and poor productivity. The updated guidance and risk assessment For example, in India in 2012, we launched requirements are available on our UK Health Health Care Magic, a preventative programme & Safety webpages and on our fundraising pages with special events and an online health risk on the intranet. This review was undertaken by assessment for employees and their spouses. In senior representatives from our HR, H&S and the UK we launched a Wellbeing Zone intranet CR functions in response to a tragic accident site for employees to learn and share techniques in which a member of UK staff died when and tips. A work/life balance programme in descending Ben Nevis as part of a guided Argentina encouraged employees to eat healthily charity fundraising expedition. and stay fit while Chile created a RSA Running RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 26 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 27% CUSTOMER SATISFACTION CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS In Scandinavia, our Think! Customer programme RSA has customers in 140 countries. Our is designed to build customer understanding products and services help them cope with and engagement across the business. In a recent events that cause loss and disruption but we survey, 99% of our people had heard about the also encourage safety at home, on the roads initiative, 83% believed the strategy has had an and at work to reduce risks and claims. impact on customers and 76% had changed improvement in customer (See the Environment and Safety & Security the way they work as a result. satisfaction with call centre sections for more on claims prevention). In the UK, we measure feedback at 30 different staff since 2010 Delivering for our customers points to improve continuously our customer We believe that understanding and satisfying experience. We have increased satisfaction customers’ expectations is the key to sustainable, with our call centre staff by 27% since 2010. profitable growth. We want to deliver the kind Customer complaints of experience which inspires customers and Unfortunately, there are times when customers brokers to seek out RSA, purchase new feel we have not met their expectations. We take products, renew policies and recommend us. all complaints seriously and have training and Getting clear, actionable customer feedback processes in place to ensure they are handled is essential. We invest heavily in research and fairly and in a timely manner. The UK Financial insight across the globe, measuring satisfaction Conduct Authority (FCA) requires us to publish and advocacy in all our markets. Since 2011, we complaints data for our UK operations and, in have used common measures across the Group, 2012, we received just over 16,000 complaints, allowing us to compare performance and identify equivalent to about 0.2% of our customers. best practices to be shared. Our Customer Every six months we publish results for our agenda is central to our strategy. An Executive latest complaints data and full details can be Customer Review Group meets regularly, found on our website at: www.rsagroup.com/ covering all RSA’s businesses, to maintain a rsagroup/en/aboutus/commitments. In the strong focus on customer service, with findings last reporting period of 2012, we upheld 58% shared at our Group Leaders’ Conferences. of these complaints and resolved 94% within the eight-week period the FCA specifies. UK customers still unhappy with the way their complaint is handled can refer it to the independent Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS). In the last six months of 2012, 595 cases were referred to the FOS and 36% of these resolved in the customer’s favour, ahead of the general insurance industry average of 43%. We use the lessons learnt from all complaints to amend our processes and improve our customer service. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 27 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Excellent claims management SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS In 2012, we piloted a new approach When customers suffer loss we aim to get their Improving standards in our supply chain is a to domestic and commercial property claims lives and businesses back on track as quickly and key part of being a responsible business. The management in the UK following a flood or fire, efficiently as possible. scale and diversity of our supply chain presents implementing the principles of sustainable claims a range of environmental, social and governance developed through a Climatewise initiative. We Speed of response is the critical factor, based (ESG) risks which we manage by working with introduced better project management, more on highly responsive loss adjusters. In the UK, suppliers to encourage more sustainable business efficient processes and more efficient technology we have one of the largest internal loss-adjusting practices. Our Responsible Procurement Principles resulting in “demonstrable and significant carbon teams in the industry and pride ourselves on set out how we interact with suppliers and the reductions” (The Carbon Trust) through lower being there when our customers need us most. high standards we expect of them, such as material use and better control of the drying process. In 2012, our Italian office demonstrated our eliminating discrimination and protecting human Through our claims suppliers we are uniquely expertise when the Emilia Romagna region, the rights. The principles are part of our contract placed to encourage our customers to become heartland of Italy’s manufacturing sector, was hit agreements and are available to procurement more environmentally sustainable though by two earthquakes in May 2012, both with a staff on our intranet. In the UK, CR specialists retrofitting energy-efficient technologies into magnitude of 6 on the Richter Scale, the strongest work directly with our regional procurement domestic and commercial properties as part recorded earthquakes in the region for more managers to ensure ESG standards are of our claims processes. Our motor claims team than 500 years. We alerted loss adjusters when incorporated in buying decisions. We assess repair thousands of vehicles every year. As part the first quake hit and set up a dedicated team suppliers against the Principles early in the of our vehicle repair processes, we assess the to manage our response, helping to settle two procurement process, focusing on companies in potential to increase the amount of recycled large claims (more than €1 million each) within high-risk categories to ensure we address the parts, potentially leading to fewer vehicles three months. Customers and brokers praised greatest risks and maximise opportunities to being written off and lower costs. In Denmark, our rapid response and flexibility in making control them. When we identify a weakness, customers can choose energy efficient interim payments, supporting the region in we work directly with suppliers to help them replacements for items such as windows and its economic recovery. Similarly, in Canada, in improve performance and meet our expectations. appliances and in the UK we consider repairs advance of Tropical Storm Leslie, RSA was one In 2012, we met our target for launching an of damaged goods or the use of recycled of the only insurers open and taking claims on internal assessment for developing a sustainable parts instead of automatic replacement. the day of the storm. supply chain strategy. The objective of this Efficient processing of claims has to follow a INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT assessment is to ensure we continue to manage quick response to incidents and we are ensuring business risks across the Group, realise efficiencies RSA holds approximately £14.3 billion of we maximise efficiencies through technology. and support development of sustainable products. investments, with the majority of these funds in Customers can send us pictures of damage, Our new approach will be launched in 2013 as bonds. Most of our UK equity assets continue which can avoid the need for a site visit. We also part of the overall CR strategy launch (see page to be managed by F&C Asset Management. provide loss adjusters with equipment which 8). Focusing on this assessment meant a small F&C applies a policy of active engagement on enables the damage to be assessed accurately number of targets were not met: ensuring 85% environmental, social and governance issues and efficiently. We can then pass this data onto of our supply chain was assessed against our through its Responsible Engagement Overlay our recommended builders who can quantify CR standards; extending the number of suppliers (reo®). reo® is a global engagement and proxy and cost with accuracy.The Home Claims Customer in Canada receiving CR questionnaires to 30; voting service through which F&C encourages Tracker, designed for use in emergency events, running four supplier workshops in the UK; companies to adopt and develop industry monitors the progress of claims and ensures all and implementing a water escape policy in the best practice. stages integrate as smoothly as possible. In 2012, UK for holiday homes. These targets are being we won the UK’s Insurance Times Claims Initiative reviewed as part of the internal assessment. In 2012, F&C engaged with 16 companies on of the Year award for this technology. a wide range of issues from climate change to SUSTAINABLE CLAIMS labour standards across our portfolios. In 2012, we A significant component of our supplier spend commissioned research with WWF to investigate is handled by our claims team who, through a the extent to which environmental risks are, or global network of several thousand suppliers, could be, factored into bond prices. The research provide motor, household and other services found that environmental risks can be financially on behalf of our customers. By working with material in some sectors, such as water and and encouraging these suppliers to improve energy, even though they may only emerge the sustainability of their business practices, gradually. It concluded that investors should we strengthen our relationships and collectively therefore monitor the risks and assess the enhance our own, our suppliers’ and our customers’ relative exposures of companies in a sector. positive social, environmental and economic impacts. In 2013, this research will be shared with our investment team and pension fund trustees. We will continue to evaluate the best options for the integration of these issues into the business, taking into account the requirements of our regulators, policy holders and shareholders. RSA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PAGE 28 HOW WE REPORT HOW WE REPORT This report describes how we approach CR and presents the key developments in 2012. It can be read in conjunction with our CR website and Annual Report and Accounts. PARAMETERS ASSURANCE GRI INDEX The 2012 RSA Insurance Group plc (RSA) RSA engages external assurers to ensure the RSA is committed to the Global Reporting CR reporting covers the 2012 calendar year, data and claims within our reporting are fair Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting continuing from where the 2011/2012 CR and accurate. Guidelines (“The G3 Guidelines”), which report left off, as part of our annual reporting continue to provide a valuable framework for Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) has issued a cycle. Reports are published in May for the our CR reporting. Our 2012 CR reporting, limited assurance report based on a review of Annual General Meeting. including our printed and online CR report, community, environmental, diversity, and health additional content on the RSA CR website, SCOPE and safety data, as well as the status of our and Annual Report and Accounts 2012, has Our CR reporting covers our Group structure, regional environmental performance targets as been assessed by GRI and they have declared including Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Western part of RSA’s 2012 CR reporting. With respect to we meet GRI Application Level B+. Please see Europe; and Emerging Markets businesses. stakeholder engagement, the review procedures our CR website under Reports for our full GRI Further information on our current reporting were performed in accordance with the AA1000 Standard Disclosures Index for RSA’s 2012 boundaries can be found on our CR website AS (2008) Standard. PwC’s limited assurance reporting. Where applicable, we have also under Reports. As part of the wider CR strategy report can be found on our CR website included the corresponding United Nations review, we are carrying out a review of Group under Performance and Assurance. Global Compact (UNGC) and Climatewise structure to identify: In addition to the external assurance provided Principles for reference. • Entities that generate significant sustainability by PwC, our environmental data is quality impacts; and/or assured by Ecometrica, a Carbon Disclosure • Entities over which we exercise control or Project accredited specialist environmental significant influence with regard to financial consultancy. Their report can be found on our or operating policies and practices. CR website under Performance and Assurance. Once identified, we will ensure these entities continue to be or are incorporated within the scope of our reporting. This review will be complete by the end of 2013. for more information on CR activities visit: www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/en/corporateresponsibility EXTERNAL RECOGNITION Winner of the Placed 6th in the Ranked Prime status Achieved Platinum Ranked Bronze in A constituent of the 2012 Gallup Global 2012 Sunday Times by Oekom Research status in Business in Dow Jones Sustainability FTSE4 Good Index Workplace Award Best Big Companies the Community’s Investor Index to Work For CR Index PARTNERS BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITY Forum For The Future BITC Sustainable Shipping UNEP FI The Principles for WWF Brake Initiative Sustainable Insurance Sustainable Insurance SOURCES Please see our CR website for sources of information. CONTACTS We welcome feedback on our corporate responsibility strategy and activities; please contact: Peter Collins, Group and UK Head of Corporate Responsibility: peter.collins@gcc.rsagroup.com Maeve McLoughlin, Group and UK Environment and Reporting Corporate Responsibility Manager maeve.mcloughlin@uk.rsagroup.com Natalie Tickle, Group and UK Charity and Communities Corporate Responsibility Manager natalie.tickle@uk.rsagroup.com For general enquiries, please contact us at the following address: corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com Or see our website: www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/en/ corporate-responsibility Designed and produced by Salterbaxter. Written by Context and RSA. Cover image courtesy of London Array Limited. Printed by Pureprint Group. Pureprint Group are ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral®, Alcohol Free, and FSC and PEFC chain of Custody certified. The inks used are vegetable oil based. Printed on Oxygen – an FSC-Certified grade manufactured at a mill which is accredited with the ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management standards.
