Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals The core values of Dewan supports and firmly believes in human rights by proclaiming respect and fairness to all individuals, both employees and clients alike. The human resource team has exceptional knowledge and experience in the field of human rights, labour laws and health and safety. Dewan firmly goes against anti discrimination to both genders and different races. Implementation Dewan respects and protects human rights in the daily operations. Human resource policies of the firm are all in line with protection the employee against human rights violations where employees have direct and easy access to a team member of the human resource team to discuss any issues. An employee handbook is given to each and everyone employee on their first day after a briefing and introduction with the human resource department outlining their rights and they are entitled to get abiding by the ministry of labour. Also within this document are policies, which reflect Dewan’s pro-active stance on human rights including maternity leave, paternity leaves, bereavement leave as well as flexible working conditions with required special cases. Dewan is expanding around the region and the same policies in the headquarters are implemented in all other offices equally. Outcomes In the past year Dewan has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights, which applies to both external and internal operations. Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Dewan recognizes the importance to provide an organizational culture based on respect and trust throughout the organization on all levels. Each employee is introduced to his/her rights and responsibilities along with compensation and mandatory benefits such as health insurance in Abu Dhabi, UAE. Dubai employees also are provided with health insurance regardless of not having to be mandatory. Should an employee need to work extra hours compensation is always provided. Implementation An annual performance appraisal takes place between the employee and their supervisor discussing goals, achievements and future goals. Employees are always given feedback and shown a sense of ownership to the firm. Personal development and training courses are encouraged to be taken from the employees and the company fully handles all costs with regards to that. Outcomes Employees who show personal growth and take the initiative to take on training and courses are likely to be internally promoted which in turn provide a low turnover at Dewan. Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Being environmentally friendly is a huge aspect in the construction industry and Dewan has surpassed expectations to becoming sustainable and green. Internally, paper is recycled as well as any other materials that could be reused. With construction standards on sustainability with LEED and Estidama, Dewan has delivered many projects attaining the minimum standard and higher which require a certain percentage of construction materials to be recyclable and reused. Implementation Architects are provided with training courses and time off to take the sustainability exam to make them certified as a LEED & Estimada approved architect which focuses on the sustainability of the buildings and its “green” factor. Paper bins are available around the office for any paper that can be reused for printing again or sent out for recycling. Dewan has also newly signed a contract with a recycling company providing a large recycle collector of all kinds of materials, which is picked up weekly. Outcomes Dewan has achieved high ratings for the sustainability standards of their buildings and have not had any reportable environmental incidents. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Dewan does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Dewan supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate with organizations that are corrupt. There are strict guidelines on how to act incase of bribery or extortion. Integrity is a vital part in the human resource policy as well as the code of conduct. As we expand into new international markets in this coming year briefings will be given to staff in relation to bribery and corruption to ensure our continuing integrity as an international business. Implementation Dewan has strict anti corruption and anti bribery philosophy with clients, sub consultants and contractors. In the contracts the following is mentioned as an example for bribery: Bribery The Consultant shall not accept any commission, discount allowances, advantage, gift, gratuity, reward or bribe offered or promised or benefit of any kind whether directly or indirectly, or any royalty of any patented or protected article or process used on or for the purpose of this project. The Employer shall, in addition to any criminal liability incurred by the Consultant, subject the Consultant to the termination of the Agreement and all other contracts, which he may have with the Employer. Other clauses also mention corruption and fraud. Dewan does not engage in business with businesses that have a previous track record of corruption. Outcomes Dewan has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or any other incidents related to corruption or bribery.
