UN Global Compact communica on on progress 2013 Table of Contents Message from the CEO .....................................3 About us in brief................................................4 Scope.................................................................4 UN Global Compacts 10 principals....................5 Progress on key targets.....................................6 Social Sustainability...........................................8 Environmental Sustainability...........................11 Economic Sustainability...................................14 Page 2 of 14 Message from the CEO It is my pleasure to present Møbeltransport Danmark’s first Communica on Ge ng a third party to evaluate our environmental and quality manageon Progress report, which shows our support and commitment to the 10 ment systems is an eﬀec ve way to demonstrate to our customers and UN Global Compact principles. society at large, that we are a transparent and reliable company, who constantly seek to improve our business prac ces. This is important, as our Møbeltransport Danmark manages its business in a profitable and sustaincustomers demand for reassurance of our business conduct has become able manner, and we are commi ed to comply with applicable na onal legeven greater in recent years, which has led us to systema ze and document isla on, and interna onally recognized ethical guidelines and conven ons, our work processes. At the same me we are encouraged to become even such as Global Compacts ten principles. be er at iden fying areas of improvement, measure our performance and report on our results. As Danmark’s largest movingand reloca on company, we acknowledge our responsibility for the society in which we operate. Where there is a 2012 was a year with many new ini a ves for Møbeltransport Danmark. natural connec on with our core competences and business area, we wish We launched Møbeltransport Danmark’s new interna onal brand Aspire to act voluntarily and proac vely in protec ng our employees, society and Mobility, we acquired the Danish company Windum and opened a Swedish the environment at large. In 2012 we therefore formulated Møbeltransport aﬃliate, Aspire Mobility AB. Danmark’s first CSR policy, based on our commitment to our employees’ health and safety, to reducing air emissions to our surrounding environAs our business ac vi es expand, so does our corporate responsibility and ment and using our core competences and logis c skills to benefit society in the coming years we therefore seek to implement our management sysat large. tem and policies in our aﬃliates as well. During 2013 we plan to make further progress in regards to implemen ng our code of conduct, which is curOur CSR policy was further endorsed in Septemrently being documented. Our code of conduct will represent a strict set of ber 2012, when our environmental management ethical values to guide us in our business opera ons and is based on the ten system proudly became cer fied as ISO 14001 principles of the UN Global Compact regarding people, planet and profit. compliant by DS Cer ficering. We furthermore plan to integrate our environmental management system into an ISO 9001 quality system, which will also support our interna onal FIDI-FAIM cer ficate a quality assurance for the interna onal moving industry approved by Ernst & Young. Niels Bach CEO Page 3 of 14 About us in brief Scope Conduc ng our business in a responsible and ethical manner has always Companies in the Group are: been part of Møbeltransport Danmark’s culture. However, last year we Møbeltransport Danmark A/S The main opera ng en ty in the Group, and here adopted a more strategic approach to Corporate Social Responsibility, by under also our interna onal brand Aspire Mobility. documen ng policies, targe ng our eﬀorts and measuring and repor ng Reloc A/S Providing reloca on advisory services for Danish corporate clients. on our progress. Aspire Mobility AB Sweden, our Swedish branch of Aspire Mobility. Scan Transport S.L. Spain, providing our European transport solu ons. Møbeltransport Danmark’s eﬀorts and ini a ves have first of all been imLyngby fly eforretning Specializing in private moves within Denmark. Windum Denmark, specializing in commercial transport. plemented in all na onal oﬃces. This Communica on on progress therefore applies for Møbeltransport Danmark’s four oﬃces in Copenhagen, All above companies are managed and owned by Bach Salicath Danmark A/S Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg, our Aspire Mobility brand and our aﬃliates Reloc A/S and Lyngby fly eforretning, as they are residents in the same oﬃce buildings. All of these departments and aﬃliates will be collec vely Møbeltransport Danmark can be traced back to 1879 and is today Denreferred to as Møbeltransport Danmark throughout this report. It is Møbelmark’s largest moving and reloca on Company. With oﬃces in Denmark’s transport Danmark intent to further implement our overall CSR managefour largest urban areas and several aﬃliates in Denmark, Sweden and ment system in our other aﬃliated companies. Spain, we can provide a wide range of services within the moving and reloca on industry, globally as well as locally. The following report will describe Møbeltransport Danmark’s top priories for ac on and provide informa on on our performance in 2012. Our Our interna onal brand, Aspire Mobility, annually helps more than 2.500 challenges and opportuni es along with our objec ves for the future are families and corporate employees move to new homes worldwide. We also furthermore described. assist the families through the whole reloca on and se ling-in process, including applying for visas and residence permits, finding a new home, a school for the kids or obtaining knowledge about the new residences public services, health care system and culture. Na onally, Møbeltransport Danmark is the largest provider of logis cs of fine art transport. We are also recognized for our extensive exper se in planning and carrying out oﬃce reloca ons and domicile changes. We specialize in helping customers with everything from interior design drawings, IT cabling, internal rota ons and storage of household goods. Addi onally, we oﬀer quality moves of private households anywhere in Denmark. Page 4 of 14 UN Global Compacts 10 principals UN Global compact is a United Na ons ini a ve that encourages busiThe rest of the report will first present and overview of all our commitnesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, ments, ac ons and results in regard to the all principles under People and to report on their implementa on. planet and profit. The report will herea er further describe all of Møbeltransport Danmark’s ini a ves under Social sustainability, Environmental Møbeltransport Danmark joined the UN global Compact in July 2012, sustainability and Economic sustainability. thereby commi ng us to annually report on our progress in rela on to UN Global Compacts 10 principles regarding human rights, labour, the environment and an -corrup on. These areas are also referred to as People, Planet and Profit. Environment Human Rights Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau onary approach to Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec on of environmental challenges; interna onally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: undertake ini a ves to promote greater environmental Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human responsibility; and rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour An -Corrup on Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve recogni on of the right to collec ve Principle 10: Businesses should work against bargaining; corrup on in all its forms, including extor on Principle 4: the elimina on of all forms of forced and compulsory and bribery. labour; Principle 5: the eﬀec ve aboli on of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimina on of discrimina on in respect of employment and occupa on. Page 5 of 14 Progress on key targets Møbeltransport Danmark joined the UN Global Compact in 2012 and is The table below presents an overview of Møbeltransport Danmark’s key commi ed to con nuous implementa on of the ten principles covering targets in rela on to the UN Global Compact’s principles and outlines how the areas of human rights, labour, environment and an -corrup on. Our we have performed in 2012 in mee ng these targets. Our ac ons and tarcommitment is aﬃrmed in our CSR policy and in our code of conduct, gets will be further explained through the rest of this communica on on which will be implemented during 2013. progress. UNGC Principal Our commitments System Ac on and implementa on Status/ result People Ensuring con nuous HR Update of our Employee manual Ongoing (principal 1-6) improvement in employee sa sfac on and mo vaHR Re-asses all employee jobdescrip ons In progress on HR Conduct a comprehensive Workplace assessment In progress Ensuring employee health HR Oﬀer all employees health insurance In progress and safety Emergency plan Conduct a fire drill annually Ongoing Emergency plan Buy two defibrillators for two largest oﬃces. Completed Emergency plan Train those employees in using the defibrillators. Ongoing Safety commi ee Keep all first aid equipment up to date Ongoing HR Oﬀer all employees a discount on fitness subscrip ons Ongoing Use our core compeCSR We support the non-governmental organiza on Globe Town with Ongoing tences to benefit society collec on, storage and transport of music equipment and sportsat large wear for children and young people in Africa. Page 6 of 14 UNGC Principal Our commitments System Ac on and implementa on Status/ result Planet Reduc on of CO2 ISO 14001 Set up a fuel consump on measurement system for each vehicle Ongoing (principles 7-9) emissions ISO 14001 Give all drivers an Eco-driving techniques course In progress ISO 14001 Reduce our fuel consump on by 5% in 2013 and 2014. Ongoing Improved energy ISO 14001 Monthly repor ng on all oﬃces energy consump on. Ongoing eﬃciency ISO 14001 Develop and implement a strategy for saving energy on light bulbs Completed ISO 14001 Measuring our buildings quality in rela on to energy consump on In progress Responsible waste ISO 14001 Responsible handling of waste herunder also our customer’s waste Ongoing handling ISO 14001 Re-use of packing materials Ongoing Na onal departFacilitate dona on of customer’s disposed furniture to organisaOngoing ment ons Become a paperless Business system Implementa on of our business system ReloAssist which has Ongoing oﬃce moved our interna onal department closer to becoming paperless ISO 14001 Op miza on of our collec on of used paper for recycling Ongoing Installa on of a printer op on where codes control when and ISO 14001 where a document should be printed, to minimize misprints. In progress Profit Preven ng fraud and Business Code of Prepare and implement a Business code of conduct for all our In progress (principle 10) corrup on conduct employees Supplier code of Conduct a supplier code of conduct and implement it in the In progress conduct na onal and interna onal department Page 7 of 14 Social Sustainability Møbeltransport Danmark support and respects interna onally proclaimed who seek moving staﬀ posi ons, however, we do have a fair distribu on in human rights as well as ILO’s eight core conven ons in all our opera ons gender ra o in amongst our oﬃce staﬀ, and in senior management. and works towards elimina ng any human rights viola ons from Møbeltransport Danmark’s business ac vi es. As a large player in our industry, we 'ĞŶĚĞƌZĂƟŽ have an obliga on to advocate for compliance in all our departments. We 100% furthermore recognize and value that an inclusive, safe and healthy work environment creates a dedica on and commitment from our employees. 80% 60% Labour rights 40% An inclusive environment is important to Møbeltransport Danmark and we 20% therefore strive to develop a workplace that oﬀers our employees the best condi ons, regardless of gender, ethnicity, skin colour, religion or faith, po0 li cal beliefs, sexual orienta on, age, disability, na onality or educa onal Total workforce Senior Total Workforce KĸĐĞ Management all background. Møbeltransport Danmark’s working environment is also characterized Møbeltransport Danmark is known for having a tolerant working environby a large diﬀeren a on in age and employment types. We have several ment that is built on mutual respect and has a zero tolerance approach trainees and appren ces in diﬀerent departments, who will rotate between towards bullying and harassment. This was also emphasized in the ar cle diﬀerent job areas so they can learn several aspects of the business and that the Danish Employers’ Union of Transport and Logis cs, ATL, wrote in students who support their educa on with a part me posi on within March 2013 about Møbeltransport Danmark’s social responsibility and our our organisa on to gain work experience. In 2013 we will also have a diverse workforce. Møbeltransport Danmark is proud of our inclusive work Danish appren ce abroad in our Spanish aﬃliate. Furthermore, we culture and our diversity in gender ra o, age diﬀeren a on and employhave several employees who, due to illnesses or other reasons, ment according to individual needs and abili es. work part me or on flexible hours; we also provide temporary employment for those people who would like to test their The moving and reloca on industry has always been characterized as male work abili es a er a longer period of illness. Last but not dominant, especially in rela on to moving staﬀ. This is also evident from our least, we have several re red employees, who have gender ra o schema, from where women only represent 15% of the overall worked for the company for many years, who s ll workforce. These condi ons aren’t likely to change, as it is rarely women help out in the company from me to me. Page 8 of 14 A large number of students and trainees, along with several re red Møbeltransport Danmark oﬀers all employees health insurance, which personnel s ll working at our oﬃce, create a large diverse workforce with en tle them to the best and fastest medical treatment. Furthermore, to employees of all ages, as the table below shows. enhance the health and wellbeing of our employees, we oﬀer discount on fitness subscrip ons and have a summerhouse available for vaca on rent. ŐĞĚŝīĞƌĞŶƟĂƟŽŶ Møbeltransport Danmark has always been blessed with a commi ed and engaged workforce, which has enabled us to keep a rela vely low employee 2% 1% turnover rate. To express our apprecia on, we oﬀer anniversary bonuses 4% 16-19 år to employees who have shown their commitment to our company for 4% 27% 20-29 år several years. By striving towards ensuring good working condi ons for 10% all employees and to be an exemplary employer, we aim to con nuously 30-39 år a ract and retain competent and ambi ous employees. 40-49 år 50-59 år One of the challenges of the moving industry is seasonable periods where 23% demands for services are higher than in other periods. This aﬀects the 60-69 år working environment for our employees, which we try to address by hiring 29% 70-79 år third party providers and oﬀering compensa on to those employees who wish to work over me or who agree to postpone their vaca ons to a less 80-89 år busy period in compliance with local legisla on. During 2013 and further on into 2014 it is Møbeltransport Danmark’s goal to re-assess all sec ons and policies in our employee handbook and all employees’ job descrip ons. We believe that targeted policies and Workplace quality dialogue about each employee’s area of responsibility will ensure As a service provider, our ability to a ract, retain and develop the right skills a good working climate and job sa sfac on for the individual is a cri cal factor for our success. Møbeltransport Danmark therefore seeks employee in Møbeltransport Danmark. Furthermore, we will to provide its employees with a rac ve benefits and to create commitment conduct a comprehensive workplace assessment in the and mo va on, through a balanced focus between performance and welllast part of 2013, to assess employees overall opinion being. We acknowledge that developing and retaining mo vated and goal about our working environment. From the results oriented employees are important contributors in reaching and achieving we will herea er priori es areas and targets for the company’s business goals. ac on. Page 9 of 14 Health and safety mee ngs and measures have been taken to prevent accidents of a similar nature occurring again. Crea ng and con nuously controlling and developing a safe working environment is a key priority for Møbeltransport Danmark. This is evident To us, ac vely managing health and safety risks means regularly ensuring from our CSR policy where it is clearly stated that it is company policy to: that our employees have the right informa on, training and equipment specific to their job area. All of our fire preven on equipment is annually tested and all employees in Copenhagen and Aarhus par cipate in fire drills “… maintain high standards for employee safety, through con nuous on a yearly basis to ensure, that in the event of fire, everyone knows their improvement of safety measures and training and preven on of designated responsibili es and will react in an eﬀec ve and orderly manner. workplace injuries and accidents.” The first couple of minutes when someone suﬀers from a cardiac arrest All work-related incidents, along with health and safety issues, are are vital and in 2012 Møbeltransport Danmark therefore invested in two discussed and reviewed during our health and safety commi ee mee ngs. defibrillators for Copenhagen and Aarhus, our two largest oﬃces. Therefore, It is therea er assessed what measures should be taken to prevent future 76 of our employees have received training in using the defibrillators, to injuries and if more health and safety training is required. ensure that they have the proper knowledge and are ready to act in case of an emergency, whether it is a colleague or a person outside of our company who needs help. work-related Sick days due to workaccidents related accidents Because we are in the transporta on industry, accidents can not only 2011 11 71 happen within our oﬃce and terminal buildings, but anywhere our staﬀ drive or work. We have therefore equipped not only all of our oﬃce 2012 12 253 buildings, but also all vehicles with first aid kits, which is controlled and updated annually. Furthermore, all drivers a end a first aid course every fi h year, so they can react and provide lifesaving first aid if In our line of business, accidents may happen and keeping a safe and they should witness or be involved in a traﬃc accident. responsible work environment for our employees on a daily basis is therefore a key priority for Møbeltransport Danmark. In 2012 we had considerable higher number of sick days due to work-related accidents in 2012, than 2011, as the table shows. This is primarily a ributed to accidents which required two employees to stay at home for several months. Both accidents have been assessed on the health and safety commi ee Page 10 of 14 Environmental Sustainability Protec ng the environment around us has always been of high priority to performance, within their respec ve departments. On a daily basis the Møbeltransport Danmark. However, in 2012 we decided to adopt a more environmental commi ee thereby ensures that environmental ini a ves systema c approach to environmental management, and concentrate our are embedded in all our processes and that employees’ environmental eﬀorts on reducing emissions and resource consump on and op mizing awareness are raised throughout the organiza on. The commi ee regularly our recycling process. meets to share best prac ces and explore opportuni es for improvement of the overall system. Environmental management Because our environmental management system is rela vely new, our first priority, besides se ng objec ves and verifying our compliance with During 2012, Møbeltransport Danmark started implemen ng an eﬀec ve na onal and local regula ons, has been to increase the measurability ISO 14001 environmental management system to constantly control our of our conduct, so our environmental progress can be monitored, ac vi es, processes and competences towards an improved environmental compared, documented and reported. Increasing the measurability of performance. Our management system is regularly reviewed by our our performance enables us to be er priori s objec ves and make any environmental commi ee and annually audited by the accredited Danish necessary adjustments along the way, to ensure that we meet our goals cer fica on company DS Cer ficering. and con nuously improve our environmental impact. Fuel eﬃciency As a service provider in the transporta on industry, our largest environmental footprint stems from our fuel consump on and vehicle emission control is therefore one of our primary priori es. To reduce air emissions all of our trucks in our large fleet complies with Euro norm II or above and all trucks that are Euro norm II and III have been fi ed with par cle filters. Trucks that are Euro norm V are priori zed for interna onal assignments, The environmental commi ee consists of managers from diﬀerent thereby reducing air emissions on long distance trips. departments and oﬃces in Møbeltransport Danmark, who are responsible for implementa on, communica on and monitoring of our environmental Page 11 of 14 EURO NORM move Møbeltransport Danmark schedules transporta on of more than one shipment on each trip. 90-95% of our customers choose a combina on 3% 9% move, which both benefits the customer economically and the environment in terms of reduc on of air emissions per cubic meter transported, whilst VI our flexibility is increased and our resource consump on decreased. 27% II Another key priority with regards to op mizing our vehicles fuel eﬃciency 49% III has been to establish a fuel consump on measurement system for each of Møbeltransport Danmark’s vehicles, which enables us to assess how IV close or far we are from reaching our targets. Each vehicle’s fuel eﬃciency V is closely monitored and all of our drivers have been on a five day course in eco-driving to further enhance the distances of mileage driven pr. liter. 12% The course incorporates lessons on eco-eﬃcient driving techniques and is chosen as an addi onal course to the drivers’ statutory EU educa on course, which all drivers have to a ain every fi h year. Waste management and recycling Controlling and reducing each vehicle’s fuel consump on is an important As a licensed waste carrier and waste collector, we acknowledge our environmental objec ve for Møbeltransport Danmark. With four oﬃces in responsibility to manage our waste along with our customers waste, the largest urban areas of Denmark, we can cover all na onal customers responsibly. We therefore have several containers from where we sort our within rela vely short distances, which reduces our fuel consump on own waste along with customers waste, in terms of paper, cardboard, and air emissions. Constantly striving towards high u liza on of our wood, steel and recyclable furniture. We also only use waste brokers trucks capacity also reduces our environmental impact. Møbeltransport that are licensed by the Danish Environmental protec on agency, Danmark’s fleet consists of trucks, trailers and vans in diﬀerent sizes, which to ensure that all waste is handled properly. on na onal assignments enable us to choose the vehicles with the right capacity to any of our customers’ needs and requirements. The moving industry is heavily reliant on natural resources; in par cular materials such as paper, cardboard, tape On interna onal assignments, Møbeltransport Danmark oﬀers two service etc. for both oﬃce use and as packing materials. solu ons to customers, a priority or a combina on move. On a priority Our moving crew subs tutes the use of plas c move, the customer chooses their moving date, whereas on a combina on Page 12 of 14 materials with cardboard, where it is possible, and reuses all packing materials un l the quality has been compromised, therea er it is sorted for recycling. Our largest resource consump on in our oﬃces is paper. However, Møbeltransport Danmark has, for the last couple of years, implemented eﬀec ve business and management systems and One of our largest purchases as a moving company is our op mized work processes, to move us closer to becoming a paperless moving boxes, and using sustainable material is therefore oﬃce and we are s ll striving towards this goal. important to Møbeltransport Danmark. Waste represents a large environmental issue in today’s consumer Møbeltransport Danmark moving boxes consists of: society. As a waste carrier for large corporate customers, we take a responsibility by advising those of our customers who have a greater 69% recycled FSC cer fied paper amount of usable furniture for disposal, to donate it to organiza ons 31% wood from sustainable forestry in Sweden or public ins tu ons who can benefit from it. In this way, we help reduce waste while at the same me benefi ng these organiza ons. Page 13 of 14 Economic Sustainability Møbeltransport Danmark is a privately owned company who has always Suppliers been proud to conduct our business in an economic, responsible and ethical Møbeltransport Danmark wants a transparent and fair market and we manner and we are therefore known for being a trustworthy, transparent therefore expect our suppliers to adhere to the same ethical conduct as and responsible business partner. we do. Our code of conduct will therefore be supported by a Supplier code of conduct. Integrity is a key value in our internal and external business conduct and Møbeltransport Danmark therefore applies a zero-tolerance approach to The Supplier code of conduct will be implemented in con nua on of our corrup on and bribery in all its forms, including extor on and facilita on code of conduct and will first of all apply to all na onal suppliers. Denmark payments. We are commi ed to comply with Global Compacts principal 10 is amongst the countries in the world where corrup on is least common, along with local and interna onal an -corrup on and bribery laws, both in as Danish legisla on is in line with the Council of Europe Conven on on our business and in rela on to our customers and partners. corrup on and the OECD Conven on on Comba ng Bribery of Foreign Public Oﬃcials in Interna onal Business Transac ons. This is expressed in the no ce of the Criminal Code, Act No. 1068 of 6 November 2008, §122, Code of conduct 144, 290, 299.2 and 306. However, our Supplier code of conduct addresses Møbeltransport Danmark is currently finalizing our code of conduct which human and labor rights, as well as environmental requirements and sets will be implemented during 2013. The code will include a framework of demands that go further than compliance with local law and regula ons. company policies with regard to corrup on and bribery and will outline how employees should manage any situa on that may arise. The purpose Our interna onal suppliers are, primarily, chosen on the basis of their of the code of conduct is therefore to serve as a useful reference guide for membership in FIDI FAIM, which is a global alliance of independent all employees and clearly state that Møbeltransport Danmark prohibits our quality interna onal removal companies. It is a requirement in FAIM employees from accep ng or oﬀering bribery of any kind. that cer fied companies have a formulated code of conduct and have communicated this code to its staﬀ. As Møbeltransport Danmark By implemen ng a code of conduct, Møbeltransport Danmark seeks to primarily chooses interna onal service providers that are FAIM con nue to create a prosperous and profitable business, within an ethical cer fied, we can be certain that these suppliers have taken framework. an corrup on measurements into considera on themselves and documented their ethical requirements. Our Supplier code of conduct will therefore ini ally apply to all non-cer fied des na on service providers, when implemented. Page 14 of 14
