ENIGMA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT ENIGMA SECURITY SOLUTIONS LTD CONTINUES TO SUPPORT AND PROMOTE IMPORTANT RESPONSIBLE INITIATIVES SUCH AS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT GROUP OF COMPANIES Enigma UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Statement of Continuing Support Enigma Security Solutions Ltd continues to support and promote important responsible initiatives such as the UN Global Compact. Glen Webley Chief Executive Officer THE UN GLOBAL IMPACT and SUSTAINABILITY Issued July 2013 Chief Executive’s statement “For Enigma, becoming a more sustainable business goes hand in hand with the ten principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact.” Our performance 2012-2013 Enigma continued its drive for sustainability and compliance within the parameters of the UN Global Compact principles and integration with ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007, ISO 14001:2004 and Achilles accreditations. This was achieved while undergoing significant business growth. In 2013 Enigma was again able to achieve a top rating in the Security Industry Authority’s assessment scheme for Approved Contractors, and for the second year running Enigma was placed in the top 10% (SIAACS) of UK Contractors. Enigma maintained its excellent record in the area of Health and Safety for staff, clients and others affected by our operations. Enigma continued to refine its carbon reduction strategy which was first implemented in 2010 by introducing a more rigorous measurement of Enigma’s recycling schemes and of carbon emissions from fuel use (vehicle and office/energy use). Due to our concerted efforts at carbon reduction initiatives, Enigma is on course for a significant reduction in carbon emissions relative to our increased business growth and despite an enlarged car fleet. Of course the on-going purchase and hire of green award vehicles for staff continues to assist in achieving success with our emissions strategy. Results show a substantial comparative reduction in Enigma’s overall carbon footprint between June 2011-2012 and June 2012-2013. Associated environmental programmes on transport and energy supply in conjunction with service efficiency were refined and improved. Enigma’s long-term sustainability strategy is certainly on track. As part of our community engagement, we maintained our arrangements with the Social Landlord and Regenerations Charity in London enabling disadvantaged people to gain valuable employment training and certification via our training partner. Enigma also continued to provide financial support to various youth sporting groups in different regions of the UK. Looking towards 2014 Enigma will continue to engage our employees, clients and business associates in the responsibility of creating sustainable social and environmental improvements through the development of more principled and successful businesses. To assist in this development, Enigma will actively encourage awareness programmes and the commitment of all Stakeholders through the application of Enigma’s Sustainable Supplier Charter and through the development of Carbon Measurement in all aspects and links of Enigma’s business activities. Glen Webley Chief Executive Officer OUR MISSION Is to achieve profitable growth while making the world a better place. To succeed in our mission, Enigma believes that we must plan our business growth based on a comprehensive sustainability strategy which integrates the United Nation’s ten principles relating to human rights, labour governance, the environment and anti-corruption. On Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses must ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The aim of Enigma Security Solutions is to communicate to all our employees, business connections and communities in which we operate our commitment to respect and uphold human rights. We endeavour to observe and promote the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of achievement for all people and all nations. The guidelines and conventions of the United Nations and International Labour Organisation on the Rights of the Child are also fundamental to instructing our policy provisions. Commitment • Enigma human rights policy • Enigma Group ethical code for all our suppliers Implementation • Enigma employs a widely diverse workforce who are guaranteed an “equality for all” policy to prevent discrimination in hiring, promotion and work conditions based on race, caste, colour, national origin, sex, age, religion, disability, marital status, actual or perceived sexual orientation, employment status or political affiliation. We endeavour to ensure that employees of sub-contractors and our suppliers have similar guarantees against discrimination. Enigma also expects that all of our employees and those of associated companies are able to work in an environment free of physical, psychological and verbal abuse and harassment, and in an environment free of the threats of such abuse and harassment. • Enigma has a published statement on human rights which is implemented through internal management systems and staff training, both introductory and on-going. In March 2011, Enigma introduced a formal, periodic revision course for employees with more than 12 months company service. This course is now given to each employee at 12 monthly intervals and covers policy statements and job-specific information. It is now provided continuously, along with other training and updates, as required. The course aims to ensure awareness of content and of changes to the initial induction training that all employees are traditionally given at the beginning of their employment. • Enigma’s employment handbook and site instruction booklets are comprised of all Policy Statements including those based on ethical commitments and legislative requirements. Appropriate procedures for implementation of policy are also comprehensively described. The Policy Statements and procedures are checked and reviewed on an annual basis at a minimum and are upgraded if and when necessary. • Whereas Enigma has long had a broad mix of employees from varying national and ethnic backgrounds, our gender mix was poor due to the traditional male dominance of our core business. In January 2011, we introduced new recruitment procedures which helped to almost double the number of female employees from 7% to 13% of the total workforce by mid-2011, and to 16% by June 2013. • Enigma endeavours to provide enhanced working conditions regarding safety, comfort, and the ability to profit for its employees. This is a prime consideration when applying for contracts, and increasingly, this is a strict requirement from clients seeking to contract products and services from providers. It is Enigma’s policy to only seek work contracts from clients adhering to UN principles in their own Corporate Social Responsibility/ Sustainability Policy. • Enigma has implemented a proactive information, advice and complaints structure for through the provision of: a) 24 hour local management contact phone and internet b) 24 hour national management contact (through our ARC centre) • To ensure Global Compact principles are incorporated into Enigma’s sustainability strategy and operations, a management committee has been established. This is chaired by our CEO and includes two directors and Enigma’s Compliance Manager. This committee is linked to all operational issues regarding aims of improving work and living conditions under the umbrella of sustainability. The development of sustainable communities and workforce, best practice health and safety procedures, natural resource protection and environmental enhancement, are the essential priorities. All key business areas are represented at the committee which is given external specialist advice from SSAIB and Achilles. The committee, in turn, reports to Enigma directors who set up sustainable practices to be implemented throughout Enigma. • Enigma’s ethical code for suppliers highlights all ten principles of the UN Global Compact to which our suppliers are expected to adhere to, throughout their operations. Enigma has linked this to the ISO. 9001.2008 quality assurance manual, which is documented, audited and reviewed. Please see Enigma’s Sustainable Suppliers Charter (below). On Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment • Managing equality and diversity policy • Enigma code of conduct • Enigma ethical code of conduct Implementation • Enigma’s written Code of Conduct and Policy Statements provide a clear outline to all employees, of policies, procedures, and boundaries of various aspects of employment relating to terms, conditions and conduct that must be adhered to. Together, they inform that Enigma supports all legislative and applicable common law and regulations concerning an individual’s right to freedom of association and right to Collective Bargaining. They also inform that no employee should be expected to work below national wage and benefit standards, or under forced, unsafe, or unsatisfactory conditions; or that any employee, at any level, should allow anything to compromise their own commitment to Enigma’s health and safety, environment, and social policies. • All employees can access our national ARC centre on a 24 hour basis either to request information and advice, or otherwise to report or raise concerns over possible breaches in policy, conduct and other standards. • Enigma provides all staff with a risk assessment (including hazard identification) and an environmental impact assessment for their particular place of employment. These assessments are reviewed at regular intervals with a compulsory minimum 12 month reassessment period and comply with British Standards OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2004. • In March 2011, a trial introduction of quantitative testing for job candidates was established. Two tests were devised: one for literacy, and the other for industry-specific knowledge. They were introduced in order to increase objectivity and to help eliminate undesired discrimination in the recruitment process. Within a short period the testing partly contributed to a small but significant improvement in our female to male staff ratio. Enigma aims to continue this development of greater gender equality in the company. • Enigma, through its ISO 9001: 2008 accreditation has asserted minimum expected ethical standards for suppliers through 2010 to June 2013 (Please see Enigma’s Ethical Code and Sustainable Suppliers Charter). This is documented, audited and reviewed based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact covering the area of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, bribery and corruption, and sets out the standards that are expected from all suppliers engaged by Enigma. A. Code of Conduct Advisory Service: Reports & Enquiries by category (year June -June) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (209 calls) ( 302 (498 (522 (504 calls) calls) calls) calls) Health & Safety Risks 10.0% 7.3% 5.0% 5.5% 6.5% Accidents 1.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.7% Unsuitable workplace 14.3% 11.5% 11% 11.5% 10.0% behaviour Harassment, racial and 1.5% 1.0% 1.0% 0% 0% sexual Co-worker conflict 5.5% 6.2% 4.0% 3.0% 2.5% Work conditions/ comfort 11.5% 5.5% 4.5% 6.0% 4.0% Personal issues assistance 8.5% 11.1% 17.5% 18% 19.5% Policy& Procedural 40.5% 44.5% 47.4% 48.0% 47.5% External Theft/Fraud 5.1% 7.5% 6.6% 7.0% 7.0% Other 1.3% 3.8% 2.5% 0.5% 1.5% Table A: shows a significant increase between June 2009 and June 2013 in the number of calls seeking information/advice while at the same time demonstrating an overall reduction in the need to make enquiries relating to “Work conditions” and “Health and Safety”. In 2013, there was a slight rise in H & S enquiries due to contract expansion involving isolated workplaces which has been addressed. Note that almost all enquiries regarding “Unsuitable Workplace Behaviour” and Theft/Fraud involved either client staff or the public. The increase in “Personal Issues” enquiries may be part explained by the introduction of a computerised employee information and roster management system into the Control Room in January 2012. A dual increase seems to have developed in the overall frequency of calls from employees due to the increased role of Control Room staff in altering rosters and reporting personal issues raised by employees to HR and relevant managers – which was all part of Enigma’s aim to improve access for employees seeking advice and to enable a more comprehensive and rapid response of staff deployment in Contingency/Continuity and Sustainability Planning. B. Percentage of employees receiving regular Policy & Performance Reviews 2009 2010 2011 2012 June 2013 Front Line Staff 45% 76% 94% 98% 98% Section Managers 80% 80% 90% 100% 100% Table B: shows the results of our recent efforts to intensify training through monthly and yearly appraisals for all staff. Note that from 2012, the Section Managers are monitored monthly using the Achievement Monitoring System. On the Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment • Enigma’s Environmental Policy: The environmental objective of Enigma is to provide effective environmental awareness and control, seeking to continually improve all aspects of its environmental performance within its sphere of operation as far as is economically viable. Implementation • Enigma will endeavour to care for the environment through continual review and improvement to working practices relating to environmental impacts. • Enigma will comply with the requirements of relevant legislation and regulations. • Enigma will encourage the efficient use of energy, materials, products and services together with minimising and eliminating pollution and waste wherever possible. • Enigma will apply health and safety considerations throughout all activities. • Enigma will provide employee awareness training in its environmental policy and procedures. • Enigma has established shared environmental objectives with clients and suppliers. • Enigma employees, directors and consultants are required to carefully consider environmental issues when making decisions in the planning, controlling and execution of work for the company. • In July 2011, Enigma approved the purchase of a fleet of new “green award” cars for managers, supervisors, and mobile response drivers. These cars which included electronic/fuel hybrids have significantly reduced fuel costs and Enigma’s carbon footprint. This reduction is expected to continue over the next few years as new improved additions to the fleet were made in late 2012 and early 2013. • Enigma has operated an intensive office recycling programme for several years. This has led to a now very refined division of all office waste (for example: high grade white paper; mixed white paper; newspaper; coloured paper) and a methodical procedure ensuring an almost 100% recycling score for all recyclable waste materials. • Through a policy change first initiated in 2010, approximately 95% of Enigma employees were receiving information and rota bulletins by email as opposed to post by July 2011. By June 30, 2012 this figure had crept up to 98% which also includes Employee Pay Slips and Monthly Newsletters. • As part of its carbon reduction initiatives, Enigma has established teleconferencing as the default format for management meetings and by June 2012 had achieved the 75% target for inter-branch meets. • Enigma’s environmental policy implementation will be based on BS. ISO 9001: 2008 and ISO 14001: 2004. • Enigma was first assessed 31st March 2009 for accreditation by Achilles UVDB category B2 and certificated, and has been successfully reviewed annually through to 15th February 2013 (Supplier number 056588). ANNUAL EMISSIONS DATA: 2011-2013 Enigma: Green House Emissions/ tonnes CO2e 50 45 40 35 30 tonnes CO2e 25 20 15 10 5 0 Tonnes 2011Tonnes 2012Tonnes 2013Tonnes 20142012 2013 2014 2015 Diesel/Hy Vehicles 6.8 7.89 0 0 Petrol/Hy Vehicles 15.06 17.48 0 0 Electricity/ Offices 21.51 20.12 0 0 Total 43.37 45.49 0 0 2011-2012 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 Diesel 2639 litres (x 3060 litres (x 2.583) Used/Litres 2.583) = Kg CO2e 6809 Kg 7895 Kg = Tonnes CO2 6.80 tonnes 7.89 tonnes Petrol 6722 litres (x 7806 litres (x 2.242) Used/Litres 2.242) = Kg CO2e 15057 Kg 17485 Kg = Tonnes CO2 15.06 tonnes 17.48 tonnes Electricity 41374 KWh (x 38690 kWh (x 0.52) Used 0.52) = Kg CO2e 21514 Kg 20118 Kg = Tonnes CO2 21.51 tonnes 20. 12 tonnes NOTES 1) The Fuel Emission Conversion Factors used are based on Defra’s Petrol and Diesel used by UNIT VOLUME (per unit litre used of typical bio-fuel blends as sold in the UK), under TOTAL DIRECT GAS HOUSE EMISSIONS (CO2, GH4, N2O) only (also called TAIL PIPE or AT SITE emissions, which exclude emission costs of fuel and car manufacture and distribution). In 2012 the conversion factor given for Diesel was x 2.58 and Petrol x 2.24. (Defra Annex Tables 1b & 6a; also see Calculators National Energy Foundation and Carbon Footprint Ltd for comparable figures). Note that these Conversion Factors differ from those used to determine emissions per km or mile driven per vehicle type and size. 2) The Electricity factor 0.52 is obtained from Defra’s tables, as advised, for Converting Purchased Electricity/ Grid Rolling Average, KgCO2e per kWh, Annex Table 3c. Source: Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Guidelines for Defra/Decc GHG Conversion Factors for Company Requirements, 2012. Enigma managed to reduce kWh and GHG between 2011-12 and 2012-13. Past and Future Strategy: Emissions Defra provide conversion factors for Passenger Road Transport/Units travelled (km and miles) according to car type and size and fuel used. They also provide conversion factors for other modes of transport (air, rail, sea) and road freight. Conversion factors most relevant/applicable to Enigma’s ability to adopt more efficient energy use would include the following (For Total Direct GHG in kgCO2e per mile) Small Petrol Car to 1.4 litre x 0.265 per mile Medium Petrol Car to 1.4-2.0 x0.334 per litre mile Small Diesel Car to 1.7 litre x0.230 per mile Medium Diesel Car 1.72.0 litre x0.285 per mile Medium Hybrid x 0.187 per mile National Rail (av. per passenger) x0.093 per (0.0582 per km) mile Domestic Air Travel (av. per x0.267 per (0.1668 per km) Greater distances allow passenger) mile increased efficiency London Underground x0.116 per (0.0719 per km) mile From the above data it is evident that average emissions by Medium Hybrid cars are lowest, followed by Small Diesels. London Underground and National Rail are shown to produce less GHG per person than car travel for cars occupied by drivers only. Enigma has used this information, similarly available prior to 2012, to assist in deciding purchases of new vehicles (in 2011, 2012, and planned for 2013 as has been required in our expanding business) and also in organising travel arrangements between London, Newcastle and other areas of the UK. Enhanced teleconference arrangements have also been instituted over the past two years. From 2010, Enigma’s car fleet grew from six cars to fifteen in 2013. Four of the new cars are Medium Toyota Prius Hybrids; five are small diesels (1.3 litre ecoflex active). Although Enigma anticipate making further purchases of Hybrid cars in 2013 as part of its Carbon Reduction Strategy, for more effective planning a more rigorous breakdown and analysis of miles travelled by each vehicle will be carried out during 2013. To limit expense and oversupply of vehicles, Enigma will target a hire scheme of Eco rated vehicles for periods of heightened work activity and otherwise encourage greater car sharing and train travel where feasible. On Anti Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment • Enigma Code of Conduct. Due to its primary involvement in the security industry business, Enigma, as both a company organisation and a group of people, has a duty to fulfil strict legal and social obligations relating to all forms of corruption and illegality. This duty is accepted in accord with the underlying principles and technical requirements of both UK and internationally acclaimed law. Implementation • Enigma’s Code of Conduct addresses issues of bribery and corruption. As detailed in the Enigma Employment Handbook and the Enigma Instruction Manuals, employees are both protected and encouraged to raise concerns about possible or known acts of corruption. Legal protection is assured under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998. • As a provider of both manned and CCTV security services Enigma carries a great deal of responsibility in the management of public behaviour and Data Protection. Enigma’s staff are expected to act with enhanced sensibility and unquestionable integrity at all times. • Enigma is often obliged to carry out internal investigations and provide reports for incidents of suspected criminality involving the property and viability of businesses belonging to clients. These incidents generally involve theft and unlawful property damage but may also include forms of corruption including trade in illegal services and also stolen and/or counterfeit goods. See Table C for percentage of incidents resolved to the satisfaction of both Enigma and Client. Note that this past year has also proved very satisfying in terms of increased business with reduced Incidents of Suspected Criminality being reported. Table C. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Reported Incidents of 26 21 19 24 18 Suspected Criminality % Resolved to Enigma’s 86% 94% 91% 96% 96% and Client’s Satisfaction Looking Ahead: Global Compact and our Sustainable Future As part of its sustainable and principled growth model, Enigma seeks to embed sustainability into all of its operations. As part of this objective, Enigma has aligned its growth model with that prescribed in the UK Government’s Sustainability Development Strategy. This strategy focuses on four priority areas: • Sustainable communities and workforce • Natural resource protection and environmental enhancement • Climate change and energy • Sustainable consumption and production. It is our intention to deliver more sustainable solutions for our people, our customers and the wider community and environment in which we all work and live. This strategy reflects our commitment to ensuring sustainability is paramount in all aspects of our business. The Four Priority Areas: 1. SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES: “We will be good neighbours who engage with, work with, and support our local communities. We will create an excellent workplace where our people are respected, motivated and competent, and where excellence in Health & Safety is our goal.” 1.1 Health and Safety. Through the way we work and behave all our people and stakeholders will be protected from the risks of occupational injury and ill health. 1.2 Our People. We will attract, develop and retain the best people and promote diversity in a way that underpins our values. We will ensure equal opportunities, eradicate discrimination and create a happy and motivated workforce. 1.3 Community. By engaging, respecting and understanding our community stakeholder we will make a positive contribution to their environment and quality of life. 2. NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENT: “We will minimise our impact on environment through the prudent use and responsible management of natural resources, minimising waste and by protecting and enhancing the environment in which we work and live.” 2.1 Environmental Impacts We will not pollute or contaminate land or water and will manage our waste responsibly. We will seek to enhance and improve the environment where possible through good design and management. 2.2 Bio Diversity We will endeavour to understand and manage our biodiversity impacts and seek opportunities for all forms of wildlife and their habitats. 2.3 Supply Chain. We will work with our supply chain to deliver mutually sustainable solutions that deliver value for money. 2.4 Resource Use. We will do “more with less” by maximising resource efficiency in planning, design, waste minimisation and recycling. 3. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY: “We will work to reduce our impact on climate change by minimising all our uses of energy.” 3.1 Atmospheric impacts. We will actively reduce our use of energy and emissions of greenhouse in transport use, design, maintenance and operations of our facilities. 3.2 Design. Sustainability will be a key objective of our designs. We will achieve excellence in life-cycle design and exceed our customer expectations by delivering more cost effective, sustainable solutions. 4. SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION. “We will work with our customers and suppliers to achieve “more with less” through more efficient use of human and material resources, considering life cycle impacts, and delivering profitable yet sustainable and environmentally beneficial outcomes”. 4.1 Value and Risk We will improve our business margins and create shareholder value in a sustainable way. We will be recognised as a leader in the way we understand and manage our risk profile. 4.2 Customer. We will aim to be renowned for understanding and exceeding our customer expectations; and for responding rapidly to their demands for more sustainable solutions. 4.3 Governance We will be recognised as a company which upholds its values in all of its activities and one that demonstrates an ethical approach across all areas of corporate responsibility. Our Sustainability Strategy Enigma first established a Sustainability Management Committee in 2010. It was chaired by the CEO and included the senior management team with advice given by external specialist organisations such as “Kelvin Holmes Associates” who have links to the UK government’s Sustainability Development Commission and “Achilles” who are strongly involved in the UN Global Compact. The SSAIB is also used to gain advice through their Business Leaders Forum in which key players meet regularly to share best practice information and to develop sustainability plans and objectives for Enigma. The Sustainability Management Committee refined the company’s strategic direction and targets using input from all operational groups within the company. To help clarify the company’s sustainability policy vision, a long-term strategy model was developed to illustrate the links between Key Performance Indicators and Enigma’s Corporate Objectives. After several intensive discussions, thirteen key performance indicators (KPIs) were established by the committee to measure progress and an independent audit procedure was set up. This was done via external auditors using our BS 9001:2008, ISO 14001 2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 systems. See the Enigma Chart: Value through Sustainability & Strategic KPIs. Our strategy will be delivered by: • Generating a culture that actively encourages and communicates best sustainable practices. • Ensuring the real involvement of all our people, our supply chain and stakeholders. • Conducting our business in accordance with our core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, professional delivery, innovation, sustainable and profitable growth. Health and Safety and Sustainability As part of Enigma’s integrated approach to sustainability, a management based Health and Safety cultural assessment was incorporated in its strategy as part of a structured framework with which to assess Health and Safety across Enigma’s business. This assessment continues to form the structure for driving Health and Safety improvements, including those in Enigma’s supply chain. The assessment is based on four key elements: • Awareness. “All our people and stakeholders have an awareness and understanding of Health and Safety hazards and risks that affect our people and business”. • Competence. “All our people and stakeholders have the competence to undertake their work with minimum risks to Health and Safety”. • Compliance. “Our work activities achieve compliance with legislation, and our people are empowered to take action to minimise Health and Safety risks”. • Excellence. “Enigma is recognised for excellence in the way it manages Health and Safety”. These four elements of Awareness, Competence, Compliance and Excellence form the framework for Enigma to: • Facilitate the management of Health and Safety excellence. • Communicate the Health and Safety policy, objectives, procedures, guidance, plans and performance. • Realise and maintain continuous improvement in Health and Safety performance. • Ensure compliance with all relevant Health and safety legislation. • Fulfil the structural requirements of OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Specifications. Awareness Enigma’s risk assessments & training Excellence Industry Enigma’s Competence recognition for Systematic H&S management Health & Safety reviews, tests & appraisals Compliance Fulfil structural requirements of OHSAS 18001. Sustainability: Strategic KPIs Results and Targets PRIORITY IMPACTS Measures 2010 2011 2012 2013 AREAS results results results results Sustainable Health & Safety Complete monthly & 78% 92% 100% Communities & yearly training/ Workforce assessments (ACCE) Reportable accidents and 0.04 0.04 0.02 incidents (520,000 manhours) Our People Employee turnover based 8% 6% 5% on voluntary leavers Employee satisfaction 83% 88% 95% ratings: High & Above Grievances raised of an 7 cases 5cases 0 ethical nature: internal/external Equality & Diversity Policy yes yes yes implemented Donations made to local £1000 £1450 +20% Community communities Engagement: support 30 36 +20% training for placements placements disadvantaged people Participation British Heart £400 £480 +20% Foundation Charity Ride Natural Environmental Percentage of 76% 85% 95% Resource Impacts sustainability targets Protection and achieved Environmental Biodiversity Percentage of 81% 89% 100% Enhancement contracts/clients with Environmental Biodiversity Policies Supply Percentage of suppliers 90% 95% 100% with ISO 14001 Resource Use Follow our resource plans 74% 85% 100% Climate Change Atmospheric CO2 reduction by 10% 14% 20% and Energy Impacts revenue (fuel, energy) Sustainable Customer Satisfaction Score 92% 94% 100% Consumption Satisfaction and Production Levels Customer Percentage renewed 95% 92% 100% Retention Governance Adoption of UN, 85% 95% 100% European & UK Industry Standards APPENDIX: ENIGMA TOOL BOX TALK SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Introduction When getting involved with ideas about environmental and social best practice it doesn’t take long to realize there are many different ways of looking at the subject. This easily leads to confusion even when people are heading in the same direction. Enigma uses the ideas and practices of sustainable development throughout the Company but increasingly the term Corporate Social Responsibility is being used in the business world. What does this actually mean for us? Corporate Social Responsibility How does CSR relate to sustainable development? (CSR) Sustainable development is… Has been defined as… “Development which meets the needs of the present “achieving commercial success in ways that honour without compromising the ability of future generations ethical values and respect people, communities and to meet their own needs”. the natural environment”. The UK government addresses this definition of sustainability with 4 key objectives: There are laws and regulations that set minimum 1) Social progress which recognises the needs of requirements for everyone. all people. 2) Effective protection of the environment. CSR encourages behaviour that goes beyond 3) Prudent use of natural resources. basic legal obligations bringing real business benefits 4) Maintenance of high and stable levels of by reducing risk, enhancing brand values and economic growth. improving staff efficiency and morale. These definitions echo the call from CSR to think about more than the economic bottom line, an issue particularly relevant to business. With CSR business can contribute to the overall goal of sustainable development… CSR ISSUES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ENIGMA’S IMPACTS Community Social Progress which recognises Health & Safety Ethics the needs of all people Our people Human Rights Community Workforce Learning & Development Effective protection of the Land Impacts environment Biodiversity Environment Water Atmosphere Resource Use Prudent use of natural resources Supply chain Design Waste Marketplace Maintenance of high and stable Cost & Risk Vision & Values levels of economic growth Customer Shareholder Community Investment
