Represent Communications United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2013 ABOUT THE COMPANY Represent Communications is the largest agency for integrated communications in Serbia and the Balkans region, successfully operating for 10 years. Our company has gained experience through working with prestigious clients from different areas. Today, our team of more than 50 dedicated professionals provides services for 50 clients across five markets. We are a Weber Shandwick global network affiliate and part of Interpublic Group. COMPANY’S CORE VALUES 1. QUALITY AND EXPERIENCE 2. TALENT HUB 3. COURAGE 4. TEAM DEVOTION 5. OPTIMISM COMMITMENT STATEMENT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR We are very pleased to publish our first Communication on Progress (COP) report within the United Nations Global Compact in Serbia, as Represent Communications, being the first communications agency in Serbia that became a member of the UNGC, is fully committed to the Global Compact principles. Last year strengthened our commitment to stay focused and maintain the socially and environmentally responsible approach towards our society, professional environment and first of all our employees. While working on this document, we had an opportunity to once again evaluate our accomplishments and to review goals we defined for the upcoming period. In regard to the Global Compact, our major achievement is the sustainable implementation of CSR principles within the Agency, by promoting labor equality principles and creating a working environment that ensures equal opportunities for everyone and promoting the same rules for a single person. Our responsibility towards the environment is demonstrated by taking initiatives in supporting disabled individuals and helping small groups together with capacity building in local NGOs. Also, by making a smart choice of our partners and clients that are confirmed as being aware from the humanitarian and environmental aspect, we are promoting responsible and ethical conduct in business. We also invest efforts in implementing global initiatives locally, to a full extent. We are more than glad to contribute to the further promotion of the Global Compact principles in Serbia and in that regard we are submitting this report, hoping you will share with us best business practices and cases from other markets. I am looking forward to empowering our cooperation in the years to come. Sincerely, Jelena Kovacevic Managing Director OUR APPROACH TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Represent Communications supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is committed to developing a particular organizational culture which implements a policy to support the Declaration. Our Company’s goal is to motivate our employees and partners to participate and actively respond to human rights-related concerns aiming to secure dignity and equality for all. Implementation We are currently in the process of creating procedures which will directly support the Universal Declaration of Human rights. Our company has taken the following measures in order to actively respond to issues related to human rights: We have organized numerous actions to provide support to those who are on a verge of existence or in need of basic living necessities  We have provided financial support to children from Belgrade shelters, securing them with food, hygiene products and clothes  Our employees have also organized donations of clothes and financial support to two families living in adverse conditions  The activism of our employees has also spread to support single mothers who had financial difficulties raising their children. In the cold winter days, we have gathered to organize and participated in an action of selling tea and warm beverages in the street and donated the raised funds to an organization which provides help to single mothers  In cooperation with one NGO, our education department has initiated and implemented the training on selling techniques for the youth living in shelters and sell a magazine titled “The Face of the Street”. By participating in this action, these young people have a 50% profit of every magazine they sell. In this manner, we have contributed to helping solve the ever-growing issues of numerous young people from the shelters committing illegal actions. We have provided them with a chance to work and earn in a more respectful manner Measurement of outcomes We have a system in place that encourages our employees to report if they recognize any human rights issue within the Company. The Company also has annual (and six month) evaluations as a tool in employees’ hands to report on human rights violations. Our Human Resources Department regularly documents and keeps track of grievances in this area. Labour principles Assessment, policy and goals Our company is fully committed to the proclaimed labour principles. We obtain written documents which clearly state and identify employee’s rights, responsibilities and benefits. Additionally, we have created a separate email address where employees can report on violation of any labour rights and principles. Implementation Our HR department has an open door policy which enables employees to report on or to express grievances on violation on labour principles once a week. We systematically invest in our employees in various manners: organizing educational trainings, informal activities and team buildings, creating personal development plans and special programs for work from home. With great attention we take care of our employees on maternal leave, providing them with programs with beneficiary healthcare and working conditions. Our company has initiated a trainee program where 1/3 of our trainees get hired after the program is finished. Continuously, we track safety issues and implement new prevention methods. Measurement of outcomes Our HR department regularly documents employees’ reports on violation of labour principles. Continuous upgrade of policies regarding labour principles most adequately demonstrates improvement in this field. Environment Assessment, policy and goals We aspire to reduce the environmental impact of our business by educating our employees and motivating them to act environmentally friendly in and outside the office where we perform our daily activities. Implementation Activities within our company We encourage our employees to recycle paper, plastic and cardboard and in regard to this we have placed several recycling boxes in our offices. Our policy is to use energy saving light bulbs in the entire building. We are pleased to say that our company has also implemented and internally promoted a small-scale campaign in order to encourage employees to use bicycles as a tool of transportation to work, instead of using a car or a bus. Activities outside our company As a PR agency, we have supported many of our clients’ activities which encourage environmentally friendly conduct. Our employees have alone participated in many environmentally oriented actions, such as the “Danube Day” launched in 2004 by the Coca-Cola System and the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River, which established the “Partnership for the Green Danube“ in 2005, in order to protect the largest European river. Measurement of outcomes Represent Communications records the number of employees who participate in environmentally encouraging actions and stimulate them to continue with these activities. The company also tracks the progress on recycled materials and compares the situation on progress to previous periods. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals As a board member of the Serbian Public Relations Association, the Company is obliged to respect and act in accordance with the Code of Ethics proclaimed by this Association. The Code identifies concrete violations in the mentioned area of work and emphasizes fraud, harmful damage to reputation and disclosure of protected information as key violations. Implementation As we are a member of the Serbian Public Relations Association, our employees have to respect and implement the Code proclaimed provisions in their everyday work. If they suspect or obtain evidence of any type of fraud, they can report it to our HR department. In addition, our Company’s HR director has initiated and is a board member of the Maja Marsicevic-Tasic Fund, which annually awards women who have “fought for freedom” in the past decade. Several awarded women in the past several years were the ones who managed to persistently and strongly fight corruption in our country. Measurement of outcomes If the Code of Ethics proclaimed by the Serbian Public Relations Association is violated, the members will appear in front of Association’s Court of Honour and suffer already identified consequences. Our Company also has a system in place where violations in regard to anti-corruption can be reported and evidenced.
