UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 DECEMBER STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that JUAL reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment VENTILATION and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, DRAINING Martin Thomsen Director JUAL JUAL JUAL manufactures high grade building products made from metals and injection moulded plastic parts and has always been a reliable supplier of roof accessories. We design the solution that matches the specific requirements for quality and ease PROFILES of installation for any given roof construction. The UN Global Compact membership is a way of showing our customers, shareholders and other relevant stakeholder’s our devotion to uphold the principles of UN Global Compact mainly related to the daughter company in China, JUAL Metal Products (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Where all standard products and components are manufactured and exported to the sister company in Denmark. CONSOLE SYSTEM HUMAN RIGHTS  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should Aim support and respect the protection JUAL supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures of internationally proclaimed that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. human rights; and It is the company policy to ensure that such rights are assured for everyone at all levels of  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they processes and activities. By promoting a culture of respect for the law, and consideration of all are not complicit in human rights members within the organization and with others with whom the company come in contact with. abuses. JUAL continues to be fully committed to ensure that the company is not knowingly complacent in any Human Rights abuse. It is the company policy to ensure that it will not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in respect of Human Rights abuses. JUAL complies with Danish legislation, which fulfils international conventions. Progress JUAL has a strong sense of corporate JUAL has continued to review and update policies and procedures to ensure they are suitable and responsibility with regards to industrial sufficient to meet the needs of the employees and those of the company. safety. JUAL provides occupational health and safety training in an effort to Results promote a healthy and safe working There have been no reported incidents during the last 12 months, or over the company’s history. environment for all employees. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed Human Rights for all, with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. LABOUR  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Aim right to collective bargaining; JUAL supports the international Labour organization’s Declaration on Fundamental principles and rights at work and complies with Danish work legislation and Labour Laws of the PRC.  PRINCIPLE 4: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Progress JUAL maintains an extensive employee handbook, which every employee must read and be  PRINCIPLE 5: the elimination of all affiliated with. The handbook is reviewed on an annual basis so that it is in accordance with forms of forced and compulsory JUALs goals and experience. JUALs hiring policy and collaborative relations are based on labour; educational and professional experience and skills, and do neither take race, gender, sexuality, religion nor political beliefs of the involved persons into account.  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of Employment including labour contract, probation period, working condition, working hours, rest employment and occupation. days and holidays, remuneration and benefits shall strictly abide by the Labour Laws of the PRC. All employees are permitted to report unfair treatment to their superior directly or through an elected representative. JUAL will respect the rights and privacy of any employee who reports violations of this CSR policy and shall protect that employee against possible retribution. JUAL operates under the ISO 14001, environmental management scheme, which offers a way for JUAL to implement and manage sound sustainable procedures, as well as constant improvement opportunities through its circular managerial structure. Results The employee handbook has provided JUAL with strict guidelines on child labour, which has eliminated the risk. We have no reports on unfair treatment or violation of our CSR Policy. If this should occur we will take immediate action. Specific company goals have been set under the ISO 14001, to eliminate explosions, fire, and mitigate noise, in all fostering a healthier work environment. JUAL monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through employee talks, as well as keeping up-to-date with clients and collaborators through the UN Global Compact website. Furthermore we conduct a stakeholder perception survey from suppliers, local community, and customers, amongst others. JUAL will always seek to improve labour conditions for all parties involved in our business. We will continue our work ensuring a healthy work environment in the production facilities, and the annual review of the employee handbook. ENVIRONMENT  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should Aim support a precautionary JUAL is committed to building a sustainable future, by meeting the needs of today without approach to environmental compromising the possibility for future generations to meet their needs. challenges; Progress  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake JUAL operates under the ISO 14001, environmental management scheme, which offers a way for initiatives to promote greater JUAL to implement and manage sound sustainable procedures, as well as constant improvement environmental responsibility; opportunities through its circular managerial structure. and All storage and use of chemicals and dangerous materials on JUAL premises shall adhere to the  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the requirements of the Safety Production Law of the PRC. Handling instructions can be found in the development and diffusion of safety instructions which is made available to the staff. To ensure a sustainable removal of toxic environmentally friendly waste we have made contract with a professional company who has certificate to dispose of our technologies. hazardous waste. Results The work with ISO14001 has proven to bring results and we will continue to work with the ISO. Relevant local environmental legislation and policies have been implemented in our supply chain, and all hazardous waste management have been outsourced to a highly professional subcontractor. To assure continual improvement, and review our target we test the waste water and air on an annual basis. Doing environmental responsible business includes continuous improvement in line with new technology and national as well as internationally recognised initiatives. We continue to strive towards conservation of water, power, and any other resources, through careful stewardships. ISO 14001 PROJECTS The ISO 14001 is the world’s most recognized framework for Environmental Management Systems implemented from Argentina to Zimbabwe – that helps SAVINGS IN CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY. organizations both to manage better the impact of their activities on the environment and to demonstrate Since our last Communication on Progress we have exceeded sound environmental management. our own expectations and more than reached our goal. We set out to reduce the total consumption of energy and managed to demonstrate a reduction of 0,25 percent higher than expected. CHARITY We give attention to initiatives that help to improve our local community through acts of charitable giving and/or volunteer work. This has been done through the S.I.P. charity organization and Red Cross. ANTI-CORRUPTION Aim  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses JUAL maintains high standards of integrity by being honest and fair in all our dealings and personal should work against corruption conduct. We shall not permit or tolerate engagement in bribery or other forms of corruption. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Progress Through our international collaborations we constantly work to secure that no corruption or other illegal activities take place. An anti-corruption policy is included in the employee handbook, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The handbook also presents guidelines on presents and other gratitude’s. Results We have had no incidents inflicting with our policies, or international guidelines. As the national legislation, as well as the international guidelines and progress in anti-corruption procedures, we will continue to maintain and improve our high standards, and ensure our processes are updated and revised.
