CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Communication on Progress Fiscal Year 2011 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 1 Communication On Progress Characteristics of the Report This report covers the fiscal period between 08.01.2011 and 07.31.2012. Part I contains the continuous endorsement and support statement to the United Nations Global Compact Principles by the KRETZ S.A. Chairman, a description of the company profile, its products and its outreach in the world. Part II states our vision on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and outlines aspects of the strategy designed for the organization. Part III introduces the CSR Company Policy, the programs implemented, a matrix of the impacts they generate and the details of the activities carried out during this period, showing their relationship to the Global Compact Principles and the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) indicators in each case. Finally, the list of GRI indicators with no direct association to the CSR programs and a complete summary of indicators. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 2 C o m u n i c a c i o nT d aeb lPer o g f rceosnot 2 e0 n1 t2 s PART I Chairman’s letter  5 Company Profile  8 Our History 8 Our People 10 Our Design 11 Our Products 11 Our Markets 11 Products  12 Kretz In The World  18 Awards  19 PART II Commitment  21 How do we understand CSR at Kretz? 21 CSR as company philosophy 22 Our Vision 22 Our Mission 22 Our Values 22 CSR Through Our Products and Processes 24 PART III Kretz Csr Policy  27 CSR Programs in Kretz  28 Impact Matrix 29 Activities Performed  30 Kretz Culture  31 Decent Employment  34 Integrated Management System  36 Intensive Knowledge  39 Sustainable Company  41 Values Chain 45 Service Excellence  47 Company, State and Community  49 GRI Indicators with No Direct Association to CSR Programs  52 Summary Of Indicators  56 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 3 PART I Chairman’s letter Ing. Daniel Kretz President Kretz s.a. On this opportunity, we present KRETZ’s fifth Progress communication to the United Nations Global Compact. This report, which constitutes the company Social Balance, makes it possible to systematically assess the activities performed in terms of social, environmental, work and transparency parameters. The period reported corresponds to financial period 2011-2012. The corporate social responsibility policy, structured around the quality of the products and services we provide, the management of the knowledge that triggers innovation, and the commitment taken as a philosophy for action guide the strategy and arrange the impacts generated in our sphere of influence. Our five-year experience has allowed us to consolidate and maintain eight action programs which make our decisions easier and guarantee compliance with the ten principles of the Global Compact. Each program, which contributes to a certain number of principles, may impact inside the company or in its sphere of influence, achieving improvements not only in the operation but also in the culture of the organization. During this fiscal year, we introduced to the market the AURA scales series, which constitutes a significant product evolution because of the design and the technology implemented, as well as its performance and functionalities. This launching provides the mass segment of commercial scales users the possibility of printing the receipts of their operations, which in turn contributes to the transparency of their commercial transactions. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 5 Chairman’s letter This new line is added to the REPORT scales series, the PLURA Price Checker, the NUMA cash register and the iTegra management program to put forward a robust offer of solutions for the business sector. Matching different initiatives, mainly started in Japan, we have established the month of November as the Quality Month in the company. In 2005, we had adopted the KAIZEN philosophy (KAI: change – ZEN: good), understood in the business world as “ongoing improvement through team work”, and in 2009 we adopted the KRETZ Quality Award in order to prioritize it and disseminate it throughout the company. The award, to be granted annually during the month of November, acknowledges the best jobs done by people in our company. In this third series of the Quality Award, the participants were five teams from different areas in the company and the winner was a proposal for the improvement of product quality and competitiveness. In March 2012, we renewed the CSR KAIZEN team made up of twelve people representing all the areas of the company. This team’s mission is to facilitate the transfer and treatment of initiatives coming from all the members of the organization, and to coordinate the social and integration activities. In this period, we managed to obtain a 26% reduction in the electric power used in our plant in Pueblo Esther, we continued developing the afforestation plan and we planted 80 bushes along the median of the highway that connects Rosario and Buenos Aires, which exert a positive environmental impact and act as a barrier to avoid accidents. As part of the “values chain” program and in order to contribute to the dissemination of the Global Compact principles, we continued receiving visitors from schools, institutions and Universities and we adapted the tours around the plant and the presentations according to their different levels of education and personal interests. During this fiscal year we implemented the “help desk”, which provides technical support to distributors, technical service departments and customers, both in Argentina and in all the countries where we operate. As part of the activities carried out in the Center for the Companies–University COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 6 Chairman’s letter Connections V+ (Centro de Vinculación Universidad-Empresas V+) inaugurated in March 2011 by the National University of Rosario and KRETZ, we continued delivering classes corresponding to the Postgraduate Studies course on the Management of Innovation and Technological Connection (Gestión de la Innovación y la Vinculación Tecnológica, GTEC), we offered refresher courses for professionals and businessmen on specific subjects related to the different value chains, and we organized trips and tours to technological companies, laboratories and research and development centers in the region. In KRETZ we intend to translate the values of integrity and leadership into responsibility for products quality, people’s development, protection of the environment, full compliance with the standards, and the progress of our community. On behalf of all the people who make up KRETZ, I thank all the people and organizations that support us in our corporate life, allowing us to establish and maintain relationships of mutual benefit and growth of our moral capital. I insist on our vocation to disseminate and promote the Global Compact principles to achieve the necessary progress towards a society which is in harmony with nature and the planet. Daniel Kretz Daniel Kretz Chairman KRETZ S.A. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 7 Company Profile KRETZ S.A. is a limited liability company established under the laws of the Argentine Republic. With 49 years of experience designing innovative technological solutions for the industry and commerce, KRETZ has positioned itself as the leading company in the development and commercialization of electronic scales. Our increasing presence in Latin America and our search for new markets stimulate our development of new products and the constant evolution and progress of Plant Entrance Side our company. From the beginning, we have preserved the same values of integrity and leadership in KRETZ. That is the root of our philosophy, supported by enthusiasm in teamwork, devotion for excellence, commitment with the customer, respect for the environment and passion for the development of new solutions. The company has become one of the leading companies in the Argentine technological industry and a prominent exporter in the country. Our History The company was born in 1963 in the city of Rosario, Argentina, out of Engineer Carlos Kretz initiative to manufacture equipment for home doorbell intercom systems and for the automatization of foyer lights, introducing the use of transistors, a novelty for the national market. Soon, the offer was spread to the industry, first with the design and manufacture of devices intended to cover specific needs, and then with the The beginnings gradual incorporation of standardized models, which brought industrial and commercial advantages. Gradually, a very wide variety of equipment was developed, which included timers, thermostats, photoelectric detectors, liquid and solid level controllers, flame controllers, voltage and intensity controllers, and controllers for varied processes. In 1969, Kretz could obtain the representation of Hewlett-Packard for its line of measurement and electro-medical devices, which was maintained for years until the growth of the company made it necessary to concentrate its commercial efforts on its own products. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 8 Company Profile In 1973, Kretz designed and implemented the stage and auditorium lighting control system of a theatre, equipment which was later replicated in a local TV channel. The first equipment for electronic weighing was developed in 1981 and it had an industrial application; in 1985 KRETZ launched to the market its first commercial scales, model 5500. The Novel scales, introduced in 1994, allowed the company to reach a relevant position in the national market, thanks to its conceptual innovations, which later went beyond borders. In 1998, Kretz launched the Report scales, which included a self-adhesive label printer, which could be connected to a network and had a great capacity to manage information. In 2003, there was a generational change in the company management which, since then, has been taken over by the founder’s son, Engineer Daniel Kretz. In 2004, the company moved to a new industrial plant in Pueblo Esther. The 5 (five)-hectares site, strategically located on the highway connecting the cities of Rosario and Buenos Aires, has smart buildings within an area of 4,000 m2 (four thousand square meters), specifically designed to merge harmoniously with the surrounding landscape. In 2005, we developed the iTegra management software, which integrates all the KRETZ equipment as it is able to set up the network remotely and get consolidated reports in real time. First developments In 2006, the first version of the Plura information kiosk, the price verifier, was launched to the market. In November 2007, KRETZ adhered to the United Nations Global Compact with the aim of adopting a comprehensive model to guide the business development and spread and disseminate an ethical commitment. A year later, the first Progress Report (Comunicación de Progreso, CoP) was sent to the COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 9 Company Profile United Nations, comprising the most important practical initiatives and actions adopted by then. This document, identified as Progress Report 2008, had the aim of organizing and systematizing future presentations. In 2008, we gained the representation of Shimadzu for its analytical and precision scales line, as well as its humidity analyzers, and in 2010, the Citizen representation for its printing solutions. At the beginning of 2011, we introduced the Numa cash register, which is the first product of the company for the fiscal market. In May 2012, we launched Aura to the market, which is a series of scales with a built-in receipt printer that represents a significant progress for the retail and self-service stores segment. With functional and technological characteristics which arose from the current needs of scales users, it integrates multiple operation modes in only one piece of equipment. Our People In KRETZ, we believe that excellence is only achieved through continuous training and teamwork. To accomplish this, it is crucial to create an atmosphere of harmony in the work environment, a space where the channels of communication remain open and where creativity, cooperation and Engineering Area Staff responsibility guide each of our actions. Commitment to people and the company is at the core of our values. All the members of the KRETZ team know the role they play to perfection and contribute their individual effort to achieve collective goals. The relationship with our customers is governed by the same principles. We are committed to helping them run their business by offering a courteous and friendly service and ongoing assistance. Our commitment to product quality is reflected in the ISO 9001 certification. However, KRETZ’s interest extends beyond this field, in order to show its concern about the environment, which is reflected in the ISO 14001 certification for Environmental Management, as well as in the creation of a decent and harmonious work environment, certified by the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 10 Company Profile Our Design Our mission is to help our customers run and manage their business. To achieve this, we rely on a team of professionals in the area of Research and Development that permanently work to satisfy your concerns and needs. Kretz philosophy of design is based on a human conception of technology, in the search for a design oriented to enhance every person’s quality of life, including the concepts of inclusive design and sustainable design, as well as structural synthesis, simplicity, harmony and rationality. Our Products Our constant search for innovation, functionality and adaptability has allowed Kretz Showroom us to develop a range of products and solutions that meets the diverse needs of our different customers. Our products range from scales, fiscal controllers and custom-designed solutions for supermarkets to a wide industrial line. All KRETZ products also have an efficient after-sales service, which is also ISO 9001:2008 certified. It is worth noting that in 2012 we started a project to reconvert the whole company product offer with the aim of improving satisfaction with the market demand and optimize the productive processes. This led to the consolidation of the offer in fewer products with greater performance and functionalities. Good design Award Our Markets The company regularly operates in the following countries: • Bolivia • Guatemala • Peru • Colombia • Lebanon • Uruguay • Costa Rica • Mexico • Venezuela • Chile • Panama • Ecuador • Paraguay COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 11 Products Supermarket Series REPORT REPORT NX The Report model is a scale for The Report NX line represents a registering Weight, Price and new generation of KRETZ scales, Amount due, which features a designed to satisfy the needs of robust thermal printer. It is ideal the most demanding markets as to for stores with weighing and weighing, labeling and information labeling, as well as information management. It has a greater management needs. It allows the capacity for loading products user to optimize the management (PLU), as well as high-contrast LCD of business operations in self-service displays, and it enables the design stores, retail stores, supermarkets, of labels that include images and hypermarkets and general retailing. nutrition facts table. Its two versions, low display and pole display, can be easily adapted to the space needs of the different PLURA MM stores. The Report technology This version of Plura features a features network management of Truecolor screen that allows video up to 99 scales. Its interconnection reproduction with stereophonic does not require any additional sound, apart from displaying interfaces or network cards, as all information about prices, the necessary hardware is built-in in promotions and offers. There is a each unit. Wi-Fi version which provides total flexibility for the arrangement of The network is managed through the consultation points. the iTegra management software, especially developed by Kretz. SOFTWARE iTegra Depending on the model, Software developed by KRETZ in communication is established multiplatform JAVA language, through the RS 232/485 protocol, which can be used with Windows, TCP/IP or Wi-Fi, which gives great MAC OS and Linux, among other flexibility and helps to adapt operating systems. It enables the to the customer’s technology user to manage the information requirements. of all the interconnectable KRETZ equipment such as Report, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 12 Products ReportNX, Aura, Plura and Numa. It offers the possibility to control access to the system by means of user access code and password. It can be adapted to the management software of every store. COMMITMENT UPDATE The electronics of the Report Nx and Plura lines was redesigned on the basis of superficial assembly plates, with the aim of conforming to the 2002/95/CE directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic equipment. This directive seeks to restrict the use of substances which are hazardous to the environment such as lead, mercury, cadmium, chrome, PBB and PBDE. Commercial Series AURA NOVEL II It is a Weight, Price, Amount (Peso, It is a PPI (Spanish acronym for Precio, Importe, PPI) scale with builtWeight, Price, Amount) scale, ideal in receipt thermal printer, which for use in baker’s, grocer’s and can also provide service based on butcher’s shops and in self-service the current needs of traders. Ideal stores, among others. for small and medium-sized stores that want to manage their business DELTA professionally. It is a PPI (Weight, Price, Amount) scale which provides excellent With an innovative design and new features and has been designed for functionalities, Aura provides the various applications in greengrocer’s, mass segment of commercial scales butcher’s and baker’s shops, and users the possibility of printing self-service stores, among others. the receipts of their operations, For counter-top use, it is very easy which in turn contributes to the to operate, it is highly accurate and transparency of their commercial improves business performanc transactions. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 13 Products CENIT GALA It is a PPI (Weight, Price, Amount) It is a scale for people. Ideal for scale, but with hanging scales use in pharmacies, gymnasiums physical features. Ideal for stores and hospitals where precision and with reduced counter space or strength are essential. It includes an for greengrocer’s, butcher’s and easy-to-read adjustable-tilt display. fishmonger’s shops. VET SINGLE Designed for use in veterinary This model displays weight only clinics, the Vet model is ideal to and was developed to measure control the weight of animals and the weight of incoming goods. It pets. It provides a large platform is mainly used in gastronomy, post and a digital weight indicator to be offices, ice-cream parlors, hardware mounted on the counter or wall. stores, offices and warehouses. DIXIE R ELITE Designed to provide solutions for This model is aimed at the same the meat industry. Ideal to meet sector as the Single model; however, the weighing needs of hanging its distinctive versions and features carcasses. It comes with two were developed to satisfy the displays, one for the operator, specific demands of each type of the other one for the customer, a customer. Also, it can be connected reinforced hook, tare function, and to a PC or cash register. zero and tare indicators. DIXIE RIELERA Hanging scale, ideal for those This model is a solution for stores with no counter space and industries which need to control for street selling. Widely used weight during operation. Ideal in greengrocer’s, butcher’s and to be used in meat-processing fishmonger’s shops. It is a heavy-duty industries, as it helps to determine scale with electronic components weight reductions in the deboning that are not damaged by aggressive and freezing process. Excellent for materials (for example: fluids and weighing carcasses. Designed to dust). It provides an shockproof and endure hostile environments. overloading protection system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 14 Products MASTER It has an RS-232 serial Counter-top scale featuring an communication port outlet for indicator with adjustable viewing connecting to KRETZ computers or angle mounted on a tower. It has printers. The stainless steel platform zero, tare and printing keys and is 520 x 440 mm. We offer an zero, tare and movement indicators. optional bag holder. TRANSPARENT BUSINESSES The nonautomatic weighing instruments for commercial use are governed by Law 19511 of 1972, and the 2003 Decree 788 and Resolutions 48 and 49 of Legal Metrology; and they must comply with the metrological and technical regulations of the SCyNEI No. 2307 Resolution. All weighing equipment commercialized in Argentina by KRETZ is approved by the National Office of Legal Metrology. Furthermore, the company quality system is audited annually by the National Institute for Industrial Technology (Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Industrial, INTI). All this ensures users and consumers have weighing instruments that guarantee transparent commercial transactions and, thus, avoid any possible corrupt practices. Printers Series of KRETZ solutions to the business. PANDA It allows the user to manage up Matrix printer for self-adhesive to 100 departments and 35,000 labels to connect to Novel scales. memories (PLU). It has 20 direct keys associated to departments and Fiscal Series memories, and it can issue total or partial reports daily or periodically. NUMA The equipment was designed to It has an electronic identification enter the highest segment in the system with Chip Cards, a graphic fiscal controllers market. Developed LCD display and another one for entirely in the company following the customer with blue LEDs of international standards, this first great visibility. cash register is added to the offer COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 15 Products It has a robust keyboard with lid make roll replacement easy. individual keys as well as a matrix printer. NUMA is commercialized with a metallic compartment for the As an innovation, the equipment money and the iTegra management has ultraviolet LEDS for detecting software. counterfeit banknotes. Furthermore, its self-threading paper system and its easy-to-open CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT The electronics of the new Numa series was designed with superficial mounting technology, in compliance with standard 2002/95/ CE concerning the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic devices. Such restriction seeks to limit the use of substances which are hazardous to the environment such as lead, mercury, cadmium, chrome, PBB and PBDE. LAW ENFORCEMENT In Argentina, the use of approved fiscal controllers allows users to have a fast and intuitive way of performing commercial transactions pursuant to Tax Procedure Act No. 11683 (T.O. 1998). NUMA was approved by the Federal Administration of Public Revenue (Asociación Federal de Ingresos Públicos, AFIP) pursuant to Standard RG 259, according to General Resolution No. 2992/2010. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 16 Products Analytical and Laboratory Series To extend and complement the This wide line of products is KRETZ products offer, KRETZ aimed at segmented markets such has the official representation of as pharmaceutical and medical analytical and laboratory scales of laboratories, food quality controls, the Japanese company SHIMADZU agro-industry and industrial CORPORATION. processes in general, among others. SAFETY All the products are certified by the Argentine Standards and Certification Institute (Instituto Argentino de Normalización y Certificación, IRAM) pursuant to Resolution No. 92/98 which states that all low-voltage electrical equipment commercialized in Argentina has to comply with essential safety requirements. FUTURE GENERATIONS The packaging of all KRETZ products is carried out with 100% recyclable material. In this way, the positive impact we intend to exert with our products at the commercial level, offering innovative solutions to our customers, combines with our care for the environment. From the design of our products and packaging to the choice of the materials used and the productive processes performed, we always intend to preserve the environment, which translates into an improvement of our quality of life and that of the future generations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 17 Kretz In The World Countries where Kretz operates. INDUSTRIAL PLANT PROVINCE OF SANTA FE > Located on the highway that connects the cities of Buenos Aires and Rosario. > 79% of suppliers in the province. > 5-hectares site with 92% of Afforested Area. > Provincial support in Business Tours. > 3,800 m2 Smart Building which optimizes energy consumption. > Participation in Rosario’s Strategic Plan. > Materials Recycling Program. ARGENTINA LATIN AMERICA > 960 Active Customers in the Fiscal Year. > Growth Rate of 350%. > Customer Satisfaction Index of 9.33 / 10. > Average Price of Exported Ton: USD 54,000 > National Distributors Network. > Main Exporter of Scales and Cash Registers. > Products Approved by the Argentine State. WORLD > Adherence to the UNO Global Compact. > ISO9001 / ISO14001 / OHSAS18001 Standards Certification. > SAP/R3 Management System. > Financial Audit of International Level (Horwath). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 18 Awards KRETZ S.A. has obtained the following awards that encourage all the people who make up the company to seek new objectives, challenges and commitments. • Tecnópolis 2012, exhibition of AURA and NUMA as national products of outstanding design. • Sello del Buen Diseño (Good Design Seal) 2012, granted by the Ministry of Industry of Argentina for the AURA scales. (Second series of the Award). • Best Sustainable Management for Export 2011, granted by La Nación Newspaper and Banco de Galicia (Galicia Bank). (First series for the Category). • Tecnópolis 2011, exhibition of NUMA in the “Industry and Work: National Pride” pavilion. • Sello del Buen Diseño 2011, granted by the Ministry of Industry of Argentina for the NUMA cash register. (First series of the Award). • 2011 FePI Website Recognition, Advertising Festival of the Interior in the interactive sector. • UNDP (United Nations Development Program)Contributions for Human Development in Argentina 2009, company chosen as case study for the first edition of the publication. (First Publication) • Small and Medium-Sized Business of the Year (PYME del Año) 2008, granted by the PuntoBiz specialist magazine. • Technological Company of the Year 2007, granted by the PuntoBiz specialist magazine. (First series for the Category). • Santa Fe Exports 2007 (Santa Fe Exporta 2007), granted by the Province of Santa Fe Administration. • Smoke-Free Company 2005, granted by the Municipality of Rosario • Recognition for Competitiveness 2004, granted by Fundación Mediterránea (Mediterranean Foundation). (First series of the Award). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 19 PART II Comunicacion de Progreso 2012 Commitment How do we understand CSR at Kretz? In KRETZ, we believe that our Corporate Social Responsibility is part of a new conception of the company and society, promoted by the spread of good practices. The company is not seen as an isolated actor, but rather as being part of networks of cooperation and competence, trust and social capital with their sphere of influence. Thus, the company becomes a social change agent operating under the belief that the value of an action is not measured exclusively by its material results, but by its adherence to key principles such as social justice and human dignity. Furthermore, in KRETZ we believe that CSR responds to another concept regarding the development of societies. The development dilemma is precisely being able to make the economic efficiency, social equity and environmental balance merge into the right strategies and policies and complement one another. But this is only possible if we add a fourth dimension, Ethics. No development is possible unless it is based on the ethical conception that competitiveness is only valid if achieved with social and environmental responsibility. Thus, CSR is a constituent element of the company activity and not a collateral action. It is embedded in all its operation system to also assure that the customer understands it as a distinctive feature at the time of buying a product. We understand that this interpretation is clearly compatible with the Global Compact principles. Moreover, we are nurtured by these principles and they guide our actions. Thus, for some years, KRETZ has been carrying out a series of actions aimed at improving its relationships with all the stakeholders: employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, users, the community where the company interacts, its institutions and governments. Those actions have developed into a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, which arises from the company philosophy itself and enriches each one of the parties. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 21 Commitment CSR as company philosophy At KRETZ, we believe that the CSR is a way of building a company. The United Nations Global Compact principles guide our deepest strategies. We always aim our efforts towards the search of technological solutions. Over the past years, we have defined ourselves as an organization whose main mission is to help people run and manage their businesses. This means the human being should be considered as an axis around which all decisions are made. In that respect, we develop our work philosophy, which involves a way of understanding the design of our products, of organizing ourselves, of managing the company, and with the same logic, of planning the future. Guided by our company conception, we try to focus on the people interacting with the environment, the community surrounding them and the place they belong to. Thus, we can commit ourselves to sustainable actions which will improve the quality of life in our sphere of influence. Because CSR is not marketing or welfarism, it is a company philosophy. Our Vision “To be recognized internationally for designing innovative technological solutions, supported by the excellence of our people”. Our Mission “To help our customers run and manage their businesses”. Our Values KRETZ intends to foster an enjoyable working environment, openness in the face of change and, above all, commitment to the company, its goals and its people. Furthermore, we seek to maintain open communication channels to enhance this environment and to facilitate the flow of relevant information. The company strength is based on two cornerstones: Integrity and Leadership. From these core values derive the values or principles that rule our life: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 22 Commitment Integrity • Behaving ethically and responsibly • Encouraging and exercising solidarity and cooperation • Establishing new internal and external relations on the basis of trust, honesty and respect • Keeping our promises • Recognizing other people’s initiatives and achievements Leadership • Feeling involved with the company and its people • Committing to the company’s goals and objectives • Feeling the company as our own • Contributing our individual effort to achieve collective goals This model has been designed to meet the company’s specific needs, to increase its value and outcomes. It is also a key aspect for individual development, since it directs the efforts of employees toward the expected work performance. However, it also applies to all stakeholders: employees and their families, customers, suppliers, shareholders, users, the community where the company interacts, its representative institutions and administration, and the governments. This universe constitutes our “sphere of influence”. Logically, this influence prevails among the parties who are directly linked to the company operations, the workplace and the market, then, in the supply chain, weakening in our interaction with the community and its institutions and in our participation in public policies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 23 Commitment Sphere of Influence CSR Through Our Products and Processes KRETZ CSR culture is evident from the first stages of our product design to the interaction experienced by the users and the impact the products have on the environment. Through our own design philosophy we have established a concept that guides the research and development of all the new products ad solutions. Our design philosophy is supported by a concept that helps to communicate the company spirit and be coherent in all the line of products. The leading idea is inspired by the human genome, which we consider the most representative and innovative scientific revolution of our times and marks the beginning of a new era, a new paradigm. Using it as inspiration for design, we seek to exceed the coldness inherent in the technological universe, providing a human element to our new line of products. Combining functionality and aesthetics, each product responds to an organic conception of technology, where the objects that surround us act as a projection of the human body. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 24 Commitment Another of KRETZ main policies is the standardization of processes to ensure a constant level of customer satisfaction. To such aim, we are committed to management, quality, care for the environment and occupational safety to guarantee the sustainability of the organization and its stakeholders. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 25 PART III Comunicacion de Progreso 2012 Kretz Csr Policy KRETZ’ corporate responsibility is based on three main cornerstones. • Quality, as the basis of the company competitiveness. • Knowledge, as the basis of ongoing innovation. • Commitment, as the basis of ethics, integrity and leadership. The basis of our CSR policy lies in the combination of these three dimensions. KRETZ S.A. fulfils its responsibility towards its customers and consumers by providing quality products, its responsibility towards progress by adding value through constant innovation, and its responsibility towards all stakeholders by developing its activity based on values. Therefore, the general goals of our CSR policy are: • To consolidate strong intra-company as well as inter-company relationships based on trust among stakeholders. • To promote actions that add wide social, institutional and environmental objectives, complementary to the economic objectives of the company, as essential components of a comprehensive corporate model. • To promote education and innovation as the main cornerstones of the development of an “intensive-knowledge” company. • To contribute to society’s overall cultural change through the promotion and dissemination of technological and organizational excellence. As a reinforcement of our commitment, in November 2007, KRETZ adhered to the United Nations Global Compact, a volunteer network of organizations, agencies, trade unions and non-governmental organizations that support 10 (ten) universal principles which promote a number of essential values in terms of Human Rights, Labor Laws, Environment and Fight against Corruption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 27 CSR Programs in Kretz By endorsing the United Nations Global Compact, the company’s CSR Policy is mainstreamed and structured according to its principles, and it is materialized through 8 (eight) Programs which cover all the areas of operation of the company. The following chart outlines the company’s CSR programs and their link to the Global Compact Principles. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1 KRETZ PROGRAMS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 KRETZ CULTURE 1 2 DECENT EMPLOYMENT 3 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 1 4 INTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE AIN 5 SUSTAINABLE COMPANY 6 VALUES CHAIN 7 SERVICE EXCELLENCE 8 COMPANY, STATE AND COMMUNITY, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 28 IMPACT MATRIX The following is a matrix reflecting the impact generated by CSR programs in the organization. Performance Of Culture Of The The Organization Organization M Impact On The Organization K External Impact On Stakeholders In order to link the commitments made to the programs implemented and the business relevance of the Global Compact principles, we have developed this matrix, which combines, on the one hand, the impact of the actions exerted both on the organization and on the stakeholders, and on the other hand, the impact exerted on the performance or culture of the organization and/or stakeholders. Thus, the matrix developed reflects every CSR program regarding how each of them contributes to make ongoing performance improvements within the company and between the company and its value chain, and how each program contributes to the promotion of values and a new concept of business ethics in the community. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 29 Activities Performed The following are the activities performed in each of the different programs. In each case, there is a description of the object of the program, the principles of the Global Compact with which it contributes, the starting date, the interest groups involved, the concrete actions performed from 01.08.2011 to 31.07.2012 and the possible impacts that they can exert. Afterwards, the results obtained are shown through GRI (Global Reporting Initiatives) indicators. References EC: economic aspects EN: environment LA: labor practices HR: human rights SO: society PR: product responsibility The impact matrix generated by the 8 (eight) CSR Programs in our sphere of influence is presented. Finally, there is a presentation of those GRI indicators which do not have a direct association with the CSR Programs and a summary of all the indicators. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 30 Activities Performed K R E T Z C U LT U R E This program seeks to consolidate values and improve the social environment in the company. Its aim is to enjoy work and promote interaction. The KAIZEN philosophy was adopted as an instrument to favor integration and awareness of the importance of each person’s role in the organization. Thus, we align to principles 1, 2 and 10 of the Global Compact. Starting date: 2004 Delivery of award to vendor Interest groups involved: shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, employee’s family members and local community. Actions: On August 10th, we organized an afternoon integration snack in the central Integration Conference hall of the company, where new employees were introduced and an award was granted to the best partner of each area, the awards corresponding to a “POOL–type” contest organized due to the Copa América de fútbol (America Football Cup) were also granted. Employees and their relatives participated in this last activity, and the money collected was used to finance CSR activities. On Saturday, November 5th 2011, the family day was organized in the Pueblo Esther plant, with different games and activities for children and their parents. On this opportunity, there was a mechanical bull, a climbing wall structure, a trampoline and we organized different contests imitating the TV programs Vendors meeting “Minute to Win” (Minuto para Ganar) and the “Apple Cut” (Corte de la Manzana). On December 21st, we made a heartwarming end-of-year toast to bring employees together, pointing out the importance of human values and the welfare in the work environment. We carried out a retrospective analysis of the year and we thanked everyone for the individual and team efforts made. Finally, there was a brief projected description of the activities and challenges the company would face during 2012. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 31 Activities Performed In the month of November 2011, we closed the 3rd KRETZ Quality Award. As the company adopted a work methodology based on the Japanese KAIZEN (Kai= change, ZEN= good) philosophy, which we conceive as “ongoing improvement through team work”, the award intends to prioritize it and to disseminate it throughout the organization. The projects of the five participating groups were presented and the “SixSigma” team was granted the award, for its proposal of “Optimization and Visit of Shimadzu representatives reduction of costs in products”. Another of the papers presented was about ethics. The “Searching for EtiK” (Buscando EtiK) team, following the guidelines of Dr. Bernardo Kliksberg, author of several books and publications, demonstrated that the great world economic crises are the result of the lack of ethics. Furthermore, through a series of short videos, it showed that ethics improves people’s quality of life. This paper was also presented in May 2012 in the Argentine Society for NUMA Area Operator Continuous Improvement (Sociedad Argentina Pro Mejoramiento Continuo, SAMECO) meeting organized by the school of Exact Sciences, Engineering and Land Surveying at the National University of Rosario (Universidad Nacional de Rosario, UNR). By considering CSR as a quality that is spread across the organization and not as a specific area with people in charge and an assigned budget, we find that the ideal work methodology for its management is the KAIZEN philosophy. In March 2012, the CSR KAIZEN, made up of 12 people representing all the Family Party corporate areas, was renewed. This team, which is renewed annually, facilitates the transfer and treatment of concerns and initiatives coming from all the members of the organization. Turnover makes it possible for all the people to participate at a given time, which in the long run will lead to the understanding and dissemination of the good practices promoted by the CSR. Possible Impacts: • Integration of families to the work environment • Comprehensive understanding of the organization’s operation • Dissemination of team work • Dissemination of the Global Compact principles COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 32 Activities Performed LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR July 2011 July 2012 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA6 Percentage of the total workforce represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and 6.59% 100% advise on occupational health and safety programs. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 33 Activities Performed DECENT EMPLOYMENT Starting date: 2004 Interest groups involved: shareholders, staff, suppliers and customers. Decent Employment is a program aimed at promoting working conditions within the company that create a decent and stimulating work environment, promote access to information and freedom of association, and guarantee worker’s health and safety. At KRETZ we are convinced that quality in the workplace translates into quality at the level of products as well as all the organization. With this program, we endorse principles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact. Actions: Pursuant to Provincial Law number 12,913, the Occupational Health, Hygiene and Safety Committee was formed. Eliana Acosta and Alejo Furthermore, we have permanent professional counseling in this subject, which aims at preventing and preserving the workers’ health. We continue to offer a catering service that looks into the key features of good nutrition: complete, varied, sufficient and balanced. All aspects of foods are controlled ensuring they provide the necessary nutrients and watching they are low in fat, cholesterol and sodium. Nutrition at work is a shared responsibility. Our duty is to encourage the change of unhealthy habits and to offer easy access to healthy food. We continue to offer a system of extended maternity leaves of five months and extended paternity leaves of five business days. In the assembly workstation of crosses for the commercial line, a pneumatic impact tool was replaced by a pneumatic impulse tool, which improves the ergonomic condition of the operator and eliminates the risks of illness caused by “carpal tunnel”. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 34 Activities Performed The company offers transport service to the industrial plant in Pueblo Esther for all the staff. Possible Impacts: • Improvement in people’s health • Reduced absenteeism LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR July 2011 July 2012 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA4 Percentage of employees covered Employees under agreement over the by collective bargaining agreement. total number of employees 43,33% 52,17% LA8 Current education, training, Work garments and uniforms orientation, prevention and risk-control $ 13.501 $ 47.392,07 programs to assist the staff, their families or members of the community Staff transportation regarding serious diseases $ 348.331 $ 445.818 Implementation of ergonomic elements $0 0 Food provision to staff $ 390.393 $ 427.370,07 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether operational changes, including whether they are specified in the collective they are specified in the collective 2 months 2 months bargaining agreements. bargaining agreements. LA7 Work-related injuries and illnesses, Lost days lost days and absenteeism and total 58 48 number of work-related fatal victims, by region Minor accidents 2 4 Serious accidents 0 0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 35 Activities Performed I N T E G R AT E D M A N A G E M E N T S Y S T E M Starting date: 2004 Interest groups involved: senior management, employees, external counselors, official regulatory and control agencies, suppliers, customers. It is a program that seeks to create the necessary conditions for continuous improvement in the productive, managerial, organizational and relational processes within the company. Course for Internal Auditors Thus, the company complies mainly with principles 4 to 10 of the Global Compact. Actions: During this fiscal year, we consolidated the procedure for the development of new products emerged from the SILOG (Systematizations and Logistics) R&D strategy Group project in the area of technology. It proposes the participation of all the areas of the company and the organization of specific KAIZEN work teams for each new development. The method proposes a description of the different stages, decision-making and documentation, as well as the cost and time management and the scope of the projects. The methodology started to be implemented in other areas of the company like supplies, warehouse, quality, sales and after-sales. Presentation of new SAP During this fiscal year, we continued integrating the Integrated Management System (Sistema Integrado de Gestión, SIG) to the computer system that links all the activities of the company (SAP) This integration is achieved by setting up and replacing procedures, instructions and logs in the SAP. The INTI maintenance audits and the ISO 9001: 2008 quality management audits were carried out successfully. It was also possible to obtain recertification for three more years of the ISO 14001:2004 for environmental management Presentation of SILOG and OHSAS 18001:2007 for occupational health and safety. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 36 Activities Performed The internal training and audits plan continued to be carried out as usual. Within this framework, an in-company training of Internal ISO 9001 Auditors was carried out following the guidelines of the ISO 19011:2012 certification. People from different areas of the company participated in the course and passed it. The performance evaluations were planned and they were carried out on all the people in the company. This initiative enables us to know the strengths and the aspects people have to improve regarding the development of their work, as well as to define the training they need. We defined the annual frequency in which evaluations will be carried out. We also carried out the satisfaction survey for distributors. Having collected the answers of 30 (thirty) distributors from different areas in the country, the survey allowed us to know the level of fulfillment of their expectations, as well as their suggestions and aspects to improve. The general level of satisfaction of the distributor with KRETZ was 9.33 out of 10. INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM – COMMITMENTS ASSUMED Certification or legal Certifying or accreditation Subject Description instrument entity ISO 9001:2008 Bureau Veritas Quality Management It grants national and international System recognition by the reduction of complaints and claims through the standardization of procedures and improvement Internacional ISO 14001:2004 Bureau Veritas Environmental It enables us to optimize processes and Management System identify potential impacts enabling people to adopt preventive actions and demonstrating compliance by integrating all the staff in a project for the protection of the environment. It enables us to adequately manage the waste generated. OSHAS 18001:2007 Bureau Veritas Health and Occupational Minimize the risk for employees and Safety Management premises among others. System. Greater control on the compliance of legal requirements. GLOBAL COMPACT United Nations Corporate Social Generate and disseminate an ethical Responsibility and commitment ensuring its legal Commitment with the commitment to all the interested parties Fight against Corruption. around the world. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 37 Activities Performed RN 92/98 IRAM Electrical safety by brand It includes all the products of the company, every product undergoes a compulsory electrical security control and National can only continue in the market if it is approved. DN 788/03 INTI / LEGAL METROLOGY Products approval All the weighing equipment has to comply with a series of metrological tests as ordered by the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce. Possible Impacts: • Quality improvement of the production processes, which results in the quality improvement of the final product • Commitment to people’s health and safety • Environmental commitment LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATORS July 2011 July 2012 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA 12Percentage of employees who are periodically assessed in terms of perfor100% 100% mance and professional development. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 38 Activities Performed INTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE Starting date: 2005 Interest groups involved: senior management, employees, and educational institutions. Training gives our staff the opportunity of acquiring higher knowledge, abilities Visit of Dr. Klaus North and skills, which improve their performance and allow them to be successful at work and in life. This program aims at consolidating a company based on knowledge and innovation as a competitive variable, and it allows us to comply with principles 1 and 9 of the Global Compact. Actions: • In March 2012 we received the visit of Dr. Klaus North from the University of Wiesbaden, Scientific Director of the German Knowledge Management Award and Founder and Chairman of the German Society for Knowledge Management. The relationship was established through the National University of Rosario and resulted in the conduct of a case study, based on our company, about knowledge management, applying the methodology called wheel of growth. • During this fiscal year, we continued offering the training courses on KRETZ culture, safety and hygiene at work, and integrated management system, which are given at the beginning of the working relationship. • The staff from the area of quality were offered training courses on sampling techniques, which helps to optimize the quality management during the entry of goods and during internal audits. • The people in the supplies area received training on the requirement circuit Training for Chilean Distributor and the generation of purchase orders, with the purpose of optimizing the operating time. • In April, we offered an in-company training course on ISO 9001 Internal Auditors, given by GC&A. Nine people from the different areas participated COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 39 Activities Performed in the course. • We continued enlarging the Carlos Kretz Library, which is in the Pueblo Esther plant, with books ranging from text books for different professions to novels and entertainment books, and it even has an area with children’s books. During this fiscal year, the available books increased to 20% (twenty per cent) and we granted an award to reader No. 500 (five hundred). Presentation of Sinus Project Possible Impacts: • Reduced absenteeism • Reduced staff turnover • Improvement of the person’s knowledge • Reduced accident rate • People’s change of attitudes and behavior • Professional development and increase in employability Training on Shimadzu LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR July 2011 July 2012 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA 10 Average hours of training per Average hours of training per year year and per person 19 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 40 Activities Performed S U S TA I N A B L E C O M PA N Y Starting date: 2004 Interest groups involved: Shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, employees’ families and the community. This program aims at promoting a culture of environmental responsibility, Waste sorting fostering education and awareness, as well as managing the impact on the environment and life cycle of products since their design. We seek to meet the needs of our customers without compromising the welfare of future generations. Thus, we align to principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. Actions: In this fiscal year, we managed to get a 26% reduction of the electric power used compared to the value hired for fiscal year 2011-2012 for the Pueblo Esther plant. For the following fiscal year, we intend to achieve a new reduction of 15% compared to the fiscal year reported. We continue analyzing the use of non-polluting alternative energies. In 2011 we started working on the assembly of an experimental aerogenerator to be set up at the site. Afforestation with stakeholders Regarding the environment, we continued with the waste recycling plan (classification and recycling of aluminum, stainless steel, carbon steel, copper, plastics, paper and cardboard) and the recycling of batteries, and the hazardous waste destruction campaign. Our paper-use reduction initiative is still valid through the digitalization of documents. We implemented the automatic delivery, by e-mail, of the customers’ current account statements with information obtained from SAP. In the area of quality, we worked on the waste materials recovery through reprocesses, which enabled cost-saving and the reduction of environmental pollution. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 41 Activities Performed We continue developing the afforestation annual plan started in 2004 to replace, in the following months, about 100 trees of 21 different species around all the surface of the plant. Furthermore, with the aim of contributing not only to the protection of the environment but also to the prevention of traffic accidents, we planted 80 bushes of the variety “grataegus” on the median of the highway connecting Rosario and Buenos Aires. Those bushes cover the west side of the plant. Possible Impacts: • Foster environmental awareness. • Energy saving • Reduction of environmental pollution LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR July 2011 July 2012 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE EN1 Materials used by weight or Aluminium volume (Kg). 37103 30717 Cardboard 30651 27069 Plastic 38732 35117 Electronics 63417 56651 EN2 Percentage of recycled materials Cardboard used as supplies. 572 739 Plastic 85 111 Metals 0 23,75 Batteries 5 2 EN3 Direct energy consumption from Direct energy consumption from primary primary source. source. No data No data COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 42 Activities Performed EN4 Indirect energy consumption from Indirect Energy consumption from primary source. primary source. No data No data EN5 – Energy saved due to Electric power improvements in conservation and 0 26% efficiency. EN8 – Total water withdrawal, by Total water withdrawal 900m / 900m / sources. año(Approx) año(Approx) EN11 Location and size of land owned, Location and size of land owned, leased, exploited or adjacent either to leased, exploited or adjacent either to protected areas or areas of high value protected areas or areas of high value No data No data due to its biodiversity. due to its biodiversity. EN12 Description of significant impacts Description of significant impacts of of activities, products and services on activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and in biodiversity in protected areas and in No data No data other areas of high biodiversity value other areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. outside protected areas. EN14 Percentage of afforestation 92% 92% EN 16 Total direct and indirect Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions, by weight emissions, by weight No data No data EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight emissions, by weight No data No data EN19 Emissions of substances that Emissions of substances that damage the damage the ozone layer, by weight ozone layer, by weight No data No data EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant NO, SO and other significant emissions emissions that affect the air, by type and that affect the air, by type and weight No data No data weight EN21 Total wastewater discharge, by Total wastewater discharge, by nature nature and destination and destination No data No data EN22 Urban solid waste (Kg per year) 7200 Kg/anual 7100 Kg/anual EN23 -Total number and volume of the Total number and volume of the most most significant spills significant spills No data No data EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Initiatives to mitigate environmental environmental impact of products and impact of products and services, and No data No data services, and degree of reduction of that degree of reduction of that impact. impact. EN27 Percentage of products sold, Percentage of products sold, and and its packaging materials which are its packaging materials which are No data No data recovered at the end of their shelf-life, recovered at the end of their shelf-life, by products categories. by products categories. EN28 Monetary value of any significant Monetary value of any significant fines fines and total number of non-monetary and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance of sanctions for non-compliance of 0 0 environmental laws and regulations. environmental laws and regulations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 43 Activities Performed EN30 Total environmental protection Green spaces expenditure and investments, by type $ 4.580,61 $ 4.784,17 Waste classification $ 428,33 $ 1249,17 Waste collection $ 669,24 $ 976,21 Hazardous waste destruction $ 120,91 $ 300,28 Chemical and bacteriological analysis of the water $ 57,50 $ 36,46 Sterilization of pathogenic waste $ 132,38 $ 0,00 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 44 Activities Performed VALUES CHAIN Starting date: 2005 Interest groups involved: Senior management, suppliers, customers, shareholders. Sharing our values with the people who come into contact with our business is something we consider of vital importance. The program is intended to spread Product presentation to Kretz the CSR values and the Global Compact principles across the company’s supply vendors chain. Thus, this program promotes the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Actions: In this period, we organized meetings, visits and audits for suppliers or possible suppliers. Considering different aspects and the real possibilities of improvement, we evaluate the commitment and responsibility assumed in their activities. The auditor inquires into the commitment the supplier assumes towards the protection of the environment and the actions taken, in case the processes performed exert a high environmental impact. Our plant admission policy for suppliers and contractors states that, among other documents, they have to submit AFIP (Asociación Federal de Ingresos Públicos [Federal Association of Public Incomes) form 931 (Integrated System of Retirement and Pensions) with the appropriate proof of payment and pay statement. This implies a clear commitment to fight against unregistered employment. As regards recreational activities, new soccer matches were held in the soccer field located at the industrial plant in Pueblo Esther. We continue to enlarge the “children’s library” under the motto “a child that reads is an adult that thinks”. Visits from schools and universities The spreading of the Global Compact Principles among the stakeholders also forms part of this program. Visitors are given institutional gifts together with the last progress report submitted. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 45 Activities Performed We received visitors from different schools, institutions and universities with different levels of education and personal interests. We conducted guided tours of the plant, oriented and adapted depending on the circumstances. During the winter months, we continued with the planting a tree plan for visitors and students. KRETZ started to be present in the Facebook social network, publishing activities and commercial and institutional updates, as well as news about the company and its sphere of influence. Possible Impacts: • Increased dissemination of the Global Compact. • Environmental awareness. • Human rights policy shared with Suppliers. • People’s change of attitudes and behavior • Children being encouraged to read. LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR July-2011 July-2012 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE RH2 Percentage of important suppliers Visits to suppliers and contractors that have undergone 95 visits and 25 25 visits screening on human rights and actions audits taken. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 46 Activities Performed SERVICE EXCELLENCE Starting date: 2007 Initiators and people accountable for service excellence: Employees, customers, consumers and suppliers. Service excellence is one of our main commitments, and this program is intended to establish criteria and actions that foster excellence in customer and consumer service. Thus, we adhere to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Actions: During this period, the company has attended different exhibitions from the retail and gastronomic sectors in order to interact with customers, consumers and suppliers. Regarding foreign trade, we have participated in the SAFEX (45th Argel International Fair) and in the Maize Fair (Feria del Maíz) of Guadalajara, Mexico. Product Presentation Tour Our after-sales service includes a large network of technical service throughout the country, as well as another significant number in the countries where we operate. In this fiscal year, we practically duplicated the number of authorized technical services in Argentina. We have intensified the commercial and products training courses for distributors. They have taken place at the industrial plant and in the different areas of the country. We believe that constant updating leads to greater efficiency in management and in the strengthening of commercial bonds. In the fiscal market, we have trained more than 100 (a hundred) fiscal technicians. The support to the foreign market was achieved in two big groups of technical support, on the one hand the Mexican market and on the other hand the remaining international markets. Corn Show, Mexico COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 47 Activities Performed In Mexico, as in previous years, we worked constantly on the development of adaptations that could match the needs and special characteristics of the market. We mainly improved the competitiveness of the Single and Report NX lines and the iTegra program. Regarding the remaining foreign trade markets, we further worked on the different support lines and products adaptation. But the main milestone was the launching of the company’s first product in English: the Report NX scale. Commercial Fair, Algeria The project also included the development of the iTegra management system in English, as well as commercial brochures and manuals of the equipment. We also continued to offer our telephone technical support service 7/24, called the tireless, to give advice on the installation and operation of KRETZ products. Possible Impacts: • Customer satisfaction Visit of Middle East Representative • Recognition of our products in the international market LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR July 2011 July 2012 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE RP5 Practices related to customer Weighted average rate for customer satisfaction, including the results of satisfaction 9.3 out of 10 9.3 out of 10 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Investment on market research $ 0.00 $ 0.00 Delivery deadlines reduction 0 0 RP7 Total number of incidents due Total number of events registering to non-compliance of regulations renon-compliance of regulations and garding marketing communications, voluntary codes related to marketing including advertising, promotion and communications, including advertising, sponsorship, distributed based on the promotion and sponsorship, by type of type of results of those incidents. result. 1 0 RP8 – Total number of duly grounded Total number of substantiated complaints regarding respect for privacy complaints, regarding breaches of and disclosure of clients personal data. customer privacy and losses of customer data. 0 0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 48 Activities Performed C O M P A N Y, S T A T E A N D C O M M U N I T Y Starting date: 2004 Interest groups involved: Shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, institutions, governments and community. It is a program that seeks to promote a good relationship with the community and to encourage voluntary work, action and social initiatives. It is designed to build partnerships with institutions and governments to foster development. Visit of National Deputy Agustín Rossi The promotion of intergenerational solidarity is one of the key elements used to face the challenge of having an increasing ratio of population. Thus, we intend to adhere to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Actions: In January 2012, we received the visit of National Deputy for the Province of Visit of Governor Dr. Antonio Bonfatti Santa Fe and current Chairman of the Frente para la Victoria Party for Deputies in the National Congress, Agustín Rossi, Engineer. Near the end of the current fiscal year, we received the visit of the Governor of the Province of Santa Fe, Dr. Antonio Bonfatti, and his Ministry of Production, Carlos Fascendini, Public Accountant. Both meetings constituted real milestones for our company, due to the hierarchy of the visitors. The Center for the Companies–University Connection V+ is a space open to the academic world and to all the companies, especially those within the region, which operates in the building given by KRETZ to the National University of Rosario in July 2010. One of the activities carried out at the Center V+ is the Postgraduate Studies Course on GTEC, which grants a degree in “Specialization in the Management of Innovation and Technological Connection”. The GTEC Centro-Este program is the result of a consortium of associated national universities, which support, organize and provide their technical teams, which is made up by the National University of Entre Rios (Universidad Nacional de Entre Ríos, UNER), the National Facade Connection Center V + University of the Northeast of the Province of Buenos Aires (Universidad Nacional COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 49 Activities Performed del Noroeste de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, UNNOBA), the National University of Rosario (UNR) and the National University of Technology (Universidad Tecnológica Nacional, UTN) together with their Regional Schools in Rosario, San Nicolás and Venado Tuerto. It is worth noting that the postgraduate career has the accreditation of the National Commission for University Evaluation and Accreditation (Comisión Nacional de Evaluación y Acreditación Universitaria, CONEAU), a decentralized body which works in the jurisdiction of the National Ministry of Education. Donation of Counting Scale In this fiscal year, the program included the delivery of refresher courses for professionals and businessmen on specific subjects of the different value chains, and connection and integration activities among students from the different sites of the consortium, like trips and tours to technology-based companies, laboratories and research and development centers in the region. In the month of April, there was an integration conference in the company, with the visit of Prof. Derna Isla, Chair of Allegro Foundation, Argentina. The mission of this organization is to create and strengthen a Network of Orchestra Schools, as a means to promote socio-educational excellence, aimed at children and adolescents from different socio-economic and cultural areas. The foundation has a bank of solidarity instruments which are provided to the different orchestras and an archive of juvenile-children’s literature scores. The company is committed to give a monthly collaboration to help the organization comply with its mission. In this same month, we donated a 150 kg platform to the Food Bank of Rosario (Banco de Alimentos de Rosario, BAR) to facilitate the division of food to be delivered to community dining rooms. BAR is a non-profit organization whose mission is to contribute to the reduction of hunger by asking for the donation of food suitable for consumption, keeping and distributing it efficiently to direct assistance entities. It also educates on the nature of the problem of hunger and its solutions. The company donated a counting scale to the Protected Workshop of Villa Gobernador Gálvez. Thirty-six (36) children participate in the workshop, where they carry out tasks like cutting plastics for the assembly of helmets, the construction of didactic boxes, the packaging of Cachamay tea bags and the packaging of olives. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 50 Activities Performed In May, and for the fourth consecutive year, we participated in a meeting organized by SAMECO (Argentine Society for Ongoing Improvement) in the School of Economic Sciences, Engineering and Land Surveying of the National University of Rosario. In this opportunity, we dealt with the subject “More ethics, more development”, which was one of the papers presented at the 2011 KRETZ Quality Award. In May, we also received the visit of a group of students attending the last year at the career on electronics in the Escuela Gral. Manuel Savio (Manuel Savio General School) of the city of Rosario. In the month of July, the company donated a platform to La Segunda Insurance Group (Grupo Asegurador la Segunda), as a contribution to their paper recycling activities. We donated a scale to CODISCO, a non-profit civil and public association of the nearby city of Villa Constitución, which provides education to people with different intellectual abilities to achieve their social and work insertion. The activities performed are the manufacturing of polyethylene bags which are commercialized in the city, field work for the harvest and growing of fruits and vegetables in an organic orchard, and the production of home-made jams. Possible Impacts: • Promoting solidarity, voluntary work • Fostering education • Career development • Encouragement of Social Inclusion COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 51 GRI Indicators with No Direct Com Au sn si oc ca ic ai to ino nd e t oP r Co Sg R rPersoog 2 r0 a1 m2 s RELEVANT GRI LEVEL OF INTERNAL KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR July-11 July-12 INDICATORS ACCEPTANCE Direct economic value generated and distributed, including incomes, operating costs, payments to employees, donations EC1 No data No data and other investments in the community, retained earnings and payments to capital suppliers and governments. Financial consequences and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activiNo data No data ties due to climate change Coverage of obligations of the organizaEC3 tion due to social benefit programs No data No data Significant financial aid received from the EC4 government 1738221.46 5853771.75 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior managers from the local commuEC7 0 0 nity in places where significant operations are carried out Development and impact of investments in 2 years of operation 3 years of operation of infrastructures and services rendered mainEC8 of the School of Crafts the School of Crafts from ly for public benefit through commercial from P. Esther P. Esther commitments, pro bono or in kind Types of information on products and services required by the applicable proRP3 cedures and regulations, and percentage No data No data of products and services subject to those information requirements Programs of compliance with laws or adherence to standards and voluntary codes RP6 mentioned in marketing communications, No data No data including advertising, other promotional activities and sponsorships. Nature, scope and effectiveness of programs and practices for evaluating and SO1 managing impacts of operations on comNo data No data munities, including entry, operation and exit from the company. Health and safety subjects covered in forLA9 mal contracts with trade unions. No data No data Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements, including human RH1 0 0 rights clauses or which have been analyzed in terms of human rights. Company activities in which freedom of association and participation in collective RH5 bargaining may be exposed to important 0 0 risks and measures adopted to support those rights. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 52 GRI Indicators with No Direct Com Au sn si oc ca ic ai to in o nd e t oP r CoSgR rPersoog 2 r0 a1 m2 s Identified activities that pose a potential RH6 risk for child labor exploitation, and meas0 0 ures adopted to eradicate them Operations identified as posing a high risk of leading to episodes of forced or nonRH7 0 0 consented labor, and measures adopted to help eradicate them. Percentage of employees trained on antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures in the 0 0 organization Actions taken in response to corruption SO4 incidents No data No data Total number of events registering noncompliance of regulations and voluntary PR7 codes related to marketing communica0 0 tions, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of result. Total number of substantiated complaints, PR6 regarding breaches of customer privacy 0 0 and losses of customer data. Total number of incidents of discrimination RH4 and actions taken 0 0 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 0 0 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcome Late submission of tax returns SO8 400 1200 Participation in chambers of commerce So5 7 7 Monetary value of any significant fines for non-compliance with regulations concernPR9 0 0 ing the provision and use of products and services Percentage and total number of business So2 units analyzed with respect to risks of 0 0 corruption Total value of financial and in-kind conSO6 tributions made to political parties, politi0 0 cians and related institutions, by country. Percentage of locally-based suppliers comEC6 pared to internationally-based suppliers 77.72% 87% Rate of employee turnover LA2 0.48 0.27 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 53 GRI Indicators with No Direct Com Au sn si oc ca ic ai to in o nd e t oP r CoSg R rPersoog 2 r0 a1 m2 s Percentage of women Direction per position 50% 50% Administration and 33,33% 60% Finance Trade 15,38% 16,66% Purchase 20% 20% Quality 0,00% 0,00% LA13 Manufacturing 13,79% 2,56% After-sales Service 0,00% 0,00% R&D 8% 16,66% IT 50% 50% Maintenance 0,00% 0,00% Ratio men-women Address wages 1.22 1.22 Administration and 1.7 1.7 Finance Trade 2.8 2.8 Purchase 1.24 1.24 Quality No data No data LA14 Manufacturing No data No data After-sales Service No data No data R&D No data No data IT 0.82 0.82 Maintenance No data No data Average range of ratios of standard entry Average: 1.85 Promedio: 1,98 level wage for direct staff members. Minimum: 1.43 EC5 Minimo: 1,39 Maximum :2.10 Máximo:2,56 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 54 GRI Indicators with No Direct Com Au sn si oc ca ic ai to in o nd e t oP r CoSgR rPersoog 2 r0 a1 m2 s Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. 97 90 LA1 Total workBy employment type and employment force by employcontract. 43/54 48/44 ment type, employBargaining employees / Non-bargaining ment contract and employees region. and by Region 95/2/0 84/2/2 Rosario + P Esther / Rest of the country / Mexico. Legal actions identified by anti-competiSO7 tive, anti-monopolistic behavior, and mo0 0 nopolic practices. Percentage of employees trained on antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures in the 0 0 organization. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 55 Indicadores GRI sin asociacion C o m udniirceac Sct uia momn aa d rpe y r oP Ogr froa Igm nra des iscodae2 t0 o R1 r S2 s E Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including incomes, operating costs, payments to employees, donations and other investments in EC1 52 the community, retained earnings and payments to capital suppliers and governments. Financial consequences and other risks and opportunities for the organizaEC2 tion’s activities due to climate change. 52 Coverage of the organization’s liabilities for social benefit programs. EC3 52 Significant financial aid received from governments. EC4 52 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum EC5 wage at places where significant operations are being carried out. 54 Policy, practices and proportion of spending corresponding to local suppliEC6 ers in places where significant operations are carried out. 53 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior managers from the EC7 local community in places where significant operations are carried out. 52 Development and impact of investments in infrastructures and services EC8 rendered mainly for public benefit through commercial commitments, pro 52 bono or in kind. Environmental Performance Materials used, by weight and volume. EN1 42 Percentage of recycled materials used as supplies. EN2 42 Direct energy consumption from primary source. EN3 43 Indirect Energy consumption from primary source. EN4 43 Energy saved due to improvements in conservation and efficiency. EN5 43 Total water withdrawal, by source. EN8 43 Location and size of land owned, leased, exploited or adjacent either to EN11 protected areas or areas of high value due to its biodiversity. 43 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and in other areas of high biodiversity value 43 outside protected areas. Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 biodiversity. 43 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. EN16 43 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 56 Indicadores GRI sin asociacion C o m udniirceac Sct uia momn aa d r pe y r oP Ogr froa Igm nra des iscodae2 t0 o R1r S2 s E Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. EN17 43 Emissions of substances that damage the ozone layer, by weight. EN19 43 NOx, SOx emissions and other significant emissions that affect the air, by EN20 type and weight. 43 Total water discharge, by quality and destination. EN21 43 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal method. EN22 43 Total number and volume of significant spills. EN23 43 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN26 extent of impact mitigation. 43 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are recovEN27 ered, by category. 43 Monetary value of any significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 sanctions for non-compliance of environmental laws and regulations. 43 Total environmental expenditures and investments, by type. EN30 44 Responsibility for Products Performance Type of information on products and services required by the procedures, PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to those infor52 mation requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunPR4 tary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by 53 type of outcome. Information requirements. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including the results of customer PR5 satisfaction surveys. 48 Programs of compliance with laws or adherence to standards and volunPR6 tary codes mentioned in marketing communications, including advertising, 52 other promotional activities and sponsorships. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and spon48; 53 sorship by type of outcome of those incidents. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 privacy and losses of customer data. 46 ; 53 Cost of those significant fines due to non-compliance with the norm in rePR9 lation to the provision and use of the organization’s products and services. 53 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 57 Indicadores GRI sin asociacion C o m udniirceac Sct uia momn aa d r pe y r oP Ogr froa Igm nra des isco dae2 t0 o R1 r S2 s E Human Rights Performance Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements, includHR1 ing human rights clauses or which have been analyzed in terms of human 52 rights. Percentage of important suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 screening on human rights and actions taken. 46 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. HR4 53 Operations in which the right to freedom of association and to celebrate HR5 collective bargaining agreements represents a significant risk, and actions 52 to support those rights. Operations in which there is a significant risk of child labor incidents, and HR6 measures to help eradicate it. 53 Operations in which there is a significant risk of forced or compulsory work HR7 incidents, and measures to help eradicate this form of work. 53 Labor practices and ethics performance within the workplace Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. LA1 55 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and LA2 region. 53 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA4 35 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including LA5 whether they are specified in the collective bargaining agreements. 35 Percentage of total workforce represented by formal joint managementLA6 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on 33 occupational health and safety programs. Rates of work-related injuries and illnesses, lost days and absenteeism and LA7 total number of work-related fatal victims, by region. 35 Current education, training, orientation, prevention and risk-control LA8 programs to assist the staff, their families or members of the community 35 regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. LA9 52 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA10 40 Percentage of employees who are periodically assessed in terms of LA12 performance and professional development. 38 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and 54 other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. LA14 54 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 58 Indicadores GRI sin asociacion C o m udniirceac Sct uia momn aa d rpe y r oP Ogr froa Igm nra des isco dae2t0 o R1r S2 s E Social performance Nature, scope and effectiveness of programs and practices for evaluating SO1 and managing impacts of operations on communities, including admission, 52 operation and exit from the company. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed with respect to SO2 risks of corruption. 53 Percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and proceSO3 dures in the organization. 53 ; 55 Actions taken in response to corruption incidents. SO4 53 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 lobbying. 53 Total value of financial an in-kind contributions to political parties, politiSO6 cians, and related institutions by country. 53 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and monopoly SO7 practices, and their outcomes. 55 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 53 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 59 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 60
