A n n u A l R E p o R t 2 0 1 2 extreme Catering in Environments B A S E C A M P M A N A G E M E N T A N D I N T E G R A T E D S E R V I C E S Brésil Guinea-Conakry Bolivia Algeria Contents Message from Régis Arnoux 3 Key figures 6 CIS' 20th year anniversary 9 Geographical positioning 10 Core business 13 Integrated service offering 15 Sustainable development and social responsibility 17 The CIS Foundation 21 Group organisation 22 Board of Directors 24 Share information 26 Financial report 27 ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 1 Always be daring, “ sometimes make compromises, never give up RéGIS ARNOUx Interview with Régis Arnoux In an uncertain global economic environment, how would you characterize CIS' performance in 2012? Founded in 1992 by Régis Arnoux in Marseilles, CIS achieved growth of 18% in 2012 to reach sales of CIS is one of the world's leading providers of €315.6 million, a result that overall I would qualify as remote site management services in extreme satisfactory, particularly with an annual order intake for conditions. In this capacity it works with top-tier in the period of US$435 million. This performance was the oil, mining, construction and civil engineering driven in particular by strong expansion in the mining sectors throughout the world. Specialised from its industry segment, in New Caledonia, Mauritania, creation in providing living accommodations and Mongolia, Guinea-Conakry, Sierra Leone and Peru. catering services, today CIS' offering has been In New Caledonia, a successful model for development expanded to include an extensive range of support at all levels, we were able to sign directly one year and facilities management services covering such extension for all our agreements. In Mauritania, our areas as waste management, engineering and contract was renewed for an additional three years at construction as well as telecommunications and more favourable terms and providing some additional security systems. services. CIS today has nearly 12,000 employees working at In Guinea-Conakry, despite a political context that slowed 170 operating sites in 41 countries with revenue the pace of development for our customers, we were of €360 million in 2012. nevertheless successful in achieving a twofold increase Listed on NYSE Euronext Paris (Segment B mid in revenue. caps) since 1998, CIS remains majority-held by its In South America, we have refocused business activities founder and the family shareholder group. in Peru on more profitable contracts and are optimistic about prospects for development in the mining and hydroelectric sectors. In Brazil, our subsidiary was not successful in returning to a profit but necessary remain hidden during the 40 hours period before he measures were taken to reverse the trend in the course was freed. I also wish to acknowledge my appreciation of the year. And already, the first signs of improvements for the unwavering support from all our teams in Algeria, from these measures are visible. As a result, 40% of who under the responsibility of Arezki Mazri, the General contracts signed with Petrobras were renewed on the Manager, and Amir Bourokba, Chief Financial Officer of basis of higher margins. our Algerian subsidiary Cieptal, continued to assure their Finally, Algeria, that accounts for 22% of CIS' revenue, mission for our different sites that are still operating in maintained its cycle of virtuous growth, bolstered by the this country. They all demonstrated enormous courage regular addition of new major contracts, among which and professionalism during these events. In fact, the first may be cited those awarded by the Sonatrach/BP lesson that may be drawn from this dramatic event was joint venture. Favourable trends resulting from legal the importance of solidarity. All my employees, regardless provisions adopted with respect to national preference of their position, throughout the world and at the head should facilitate the transfer of dividends with a positive office, demonstrated an enormous bond of cohesion. impact on our margins. This represents the true corporate spirit of CIS! In reference to Algeria, what lessons can be drawn from Will these events alter the way CIS operates in the the hostage crisis at the site of the In Aménas gas future? facility? Yes, as a matter of necessity this is an inevitable consequence. First, I wish to commend the great courage of our 151 We find ourselves forced to manage a situation of crisis employees present at the site, all of whom fortunately for which no one was prepared. Since these tragic events, escaped this ordeal unharmed. More specifically, the we have added the services of two crisis management case of Alexandre Berceaux, the catering manager and specialists and formed a special unit able to be prepared only French expatriate employee at the site, as well as for any eventuality. We have also taken preventive measures Djamel Moktari, the site manager, along with Ali, to secure the access within the living compounds. his head chef, merit special mention. These latter This episode in Algeria has made us stronger, and risk employees took enormous risks to help Alexandre management represents a major priority for CIS. ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 3 Interview What priorities have you set for development in the To this purpose, CIS must in consequence acquire knowshort-term? how and expertise in high value-added services in a number We will focus on three key areas. First, strengthen and of areas. It is for that essential reason that we continue develop our subsidiaries in those countries where we to expand our commercial offering. are already present and that offer significant growth potential, with the goal of increasing our market share. How is CIS doing in the process of developing local Secondly, expand into new countries where capacity for partners? growth in the oil, mining or gas sectors is very strong. Local partnerships also constitute a priority and even Finally, we must continue to expand the range of our service essential area for development. In effect, when we first offering. In effect, even though living accommodations expand into a new country, our development strategy is and catering services constitute a core component of not focused exclusively on a management contract that CIS' DNA, we must support the successful transformation is limited by nature in time. To the contrary, we are guided of our business. The major principals and decisionby a long-term vision. The management of this new makers with whom we work are currently increasingly project is always pursued on the basis of a long-term looking for service providers able to provide turnkey perspective. And the best way to ensure the lasting solutions. On that basis, while maintaining catering as a nature of our international operations is by joining our common denominator in our service offering, our business efforts with a top-tier local partner with a solid reputation. model will gradually evolve in favour of the management In this same spirit, we consistently seek to positively of integrated services. Our objective, as a leading provider promote opportunities for the local population and of catering solutions remains to always be able to meet economy in the countries where we operate. the demands of our customers. Development phases ■ Signature of major multi-service contracts: Mongolia (Ivanhoe), Yemen (Yemgas Technip, JGC, KBR), Algeria 2005-2012 (Sonatrach), Madagascar (SNC LAVALIN), New Caledonia (KNS), Mauritania (Tasiast). ■ Expansion into new markets: Guinea-Conakry, Eritrea, Burkina Faso, Congo (DR), Sierra Leone, Iraq, Peru… Fine-tuning ■ ISO 9001 certification of the head office and certification for other ISO standards for several of our operating and recognition sites: ISO 9001, ISO 22 000, ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001. ■ First acquisition: Cieptal, Algeria's leading provider of catering services. ■ Signature of the first major catering contracts: in Chad and Cameroun with KBR and ExxonMobil 1999-2004 (pipeline), Algeria with KBR (In Salah & In Amenas), Russia with Total, Starstroi and Schlumberger, Growth Brazil with Petrobras… ■ Opening of several CIS subsidiaries, notably in Kazakhstan and Bolivia in response to strong growth 1996-1998 in activity. Investment ■ IPO and listing on the Second Market of the Paris stock exchange (today Segment B of NYSE Euronext Paris). and Development ■ Recognised by the international financial community, the company received its first prizes and awards. 1993-1995 ■ Signature of several contracts in Asia, Africa and the ex-Soviet union. During this phase, the company Initial learning phase developed its organisation and adjusted its key positions. 1992 ■ Creation of CIS: specialised in the management of remote sites in extreme environments. Creation C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S From left to right: Alain AILLAUD (Human Resources Manager) Franck BRIESACH (Financial Manager)Régis ARNOUX (Chairman and CEO) Julien SALAS (Managing Director). “ Are trends for the commodities management services. At the same market still strong? time, a business model would be Demand and capital investments in nothing without the people. In this I have been the energy and commodity sectors respect, the management methods remain sustained, particularly in applied have also demonstrated their fortunate at emerging countries where we are effectiveness. I often say that without already present. In the oil and gas passion it is impossible to work. CIS to be market, if customers continue to give I have however been fortunate at CIS preference to extending existing to be surrounded by staff who are projects instead of launching new passionate about what they do, loyal to ones, demand remains high. In the mining sector that accounts for 51% surrounded the company and its ethical principles, highly responsive and with a thorough of CIS' revenue, worldwide demand is constantly growing. Certain energy by staff who knowledge of their business. I have also been supported by directors and sources such as coal considered are passionate advisers of quality who serve on our “ obsolete, are once again subject to different committees and contribute strong demand and several projects are in the process of being launched. about what to the effective performance of CIS' operations and its global stature and CIS was also just awarded a contract for nearly US$50 million in Mozambique, they do influence. a new market we recently entered You are accordingly rather with significant potential in the mining confident about CIS' future? and gas sectors. Without a doubt! There are many positive indicators and negotiations in How would you explain CIS' winning strategy? progress on several large-scale projects which are We have a particularly good business model. The choice particularly promising. At 31 March 2013, order intake when the company was created 20 years ago to position for the first quarter was up 18% on last year’s same CIS as a specialist in catering services for extreme period to US$200 million. The medium and long-term environments in the segment for major petroleum, outlook for revenue growth for our business lines mining and gas companies, has proven today to be remains sustained. On that basis, CIS expects further particularly relevant. revenue growth in 2013 and we maintain our target for This is clearly illustrated by a rate of annual revenue sales of €500 million by 2015. We accordingly look growth since its creation of nearly 40%. And of course to the future with optimism, accompanied by rigour, while competition has increased since the company's discipline and determination. beginning, we are today a major provider of remote site ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 5 Key figures for 2012 >11,600 CIS employees worldwide >170 Operating sites >120,200 Meals served per day > 41 Countries where we are established > 50 Nationalities within the Group C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 2012 REVENUE MIX 2012 REVENUE MIX by geographic area by customer industry segment Other African countries 28% Mining 51 % Central Asia-Oceania 27% Oil and gas 47 % North Africa 22% Other 2% South America 18% CIS 4% Middle East 1% ANNUAL REVENUE TRENDS (€m) 315.60 + 18.3 % 266.84 + 35.7 % 196.62 + 23.2 % 159.58 + 5.3 % 2009 2010 2011 2012 ANNUAL EARNINGS TRENDS (€m) ANNUAL EARNINGS TRENDS (€m) Net income Operating profit 20.80 Equity Cash flow 58.95 18.72 53.28 15.42 44.18 37.37 38.28 36.62 12.53 9.85 25.36 9.40 9.28 24.86 6.80 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 7 CIS’ 20th anniversary At Régis Arnoux's invitation, employees, the Company's directors, friends, prominent figures, customers and partners of the Group gathered together from four corners of the globe to celebrate CIS' 20th anniversary. Everyone had answered the invitation by Régis Arnoux This was followed by a few words from the Mayor by their presence at the magnificent venue of the Palais of Marseilles and Senator of Bouches-du-Rhône, de la Bourse of Marseilles. Jean-Claude Gaudin, who highlighted the success of Régis Arnoux and CIS, the success of an entrepreneur The atmosphere was warm with several high points of talent of particular significance for the city of marking the evening event. Régis Arnoux's speech that Marseille. struck a balance between emotion and good humour was among the main events. After regretting the All CIS' country managers and their ambassadors absence and paying homage with emotion to the dressed for the occasion in traditional local attire joined memory of his friend and partner, Alain Aloyan, who on stage for a large family photo. A short interlude that prematurely passed away in 2006, CIS' founder recalled was met with considerable applause by the gathering. the circumstances that were at the very least colourful Régis Arnoux and Jean-Claude Gaudin returned to the of the signature of his first catering service contract in podium and called Franck Briesach, the Chief Financial Siberia in 1992. He then considered how far CIS had Officer of CIS, to award him a medal for his long years come over these twenty years in building a Group with a of professional service. A moment charged with emotion worldwide dimension and reputation. An adventure that for the latter, for the celebration of his 20 years of Régis Arnoux did not bring to a close, leaving to the distinguished service to the company. contrary the door open for the future. ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 9 CIS Worldwide 1. USA 2. Panama 3. Venezuela 4. Peru 5. Brazil 6. Bolivia 7. UK 8. Headquarters (France) 9. Algeria 1 10. Mauritania 11. Mali 12. Niger 13. Chad 14. Libya 15. Egypt 16. Sudan 17. Guinea-Conakry 18. Sierra Leone 19. Burkina Faso 20. Nigeria 10 21. Cameroon 22. Central African Republic 23. Equatorial Guinea 2 17 24. Congo Brazzaville 18 3 25. DR Congo 26. Uganda 27. Angola 28. Madagascar 4 5 29. Eritrea 30. Iraq 6 31. Yemen 32. Russia 33. Ukraine 34. Georgia 35. Kazakhstan 36. Uzbekistan 37. Turkmenistan 38. Mongolia 39. China 40. Indonesia 41. New Caledonia C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 32 7 38 35 33 Headquarters 36 8 37 34 39 30 9 14 15 11 12 13 31 29 19 16 20 22 21 23 26 24 25 40 27 28 41 ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 11 Mongolia Peru Guinea-Conakry Core Business CIS' core business: remote site catering and living accommodation services in extreme conditions. Our teams provide remote site catering and living In environments where the unforeseeable is a daily accommodation services for major groups in the oil, reality, only the experience of our men and woman and mining, construction and civil engineering sectors logistics management expertise make the difference. operating throughout the world, often in very challenging Supply and storage are always guaranteed whatever the climatic, environmental and political conditions. destination, the climatic conditions or the means of We make sure that our customers are provided with transport. A challenge our staff is capable of meeting at optimal on-site living conditions and comfort for their all times. day-to-day operations. CIS teams exercise complete control over the storage To provide catering services, our teams require expertise and supply chains on a permanent basis. in managing the entire logistics chain from sourcing We possess equipment best adapted for ensuring food supplies to meal service. continuous compliance with cold chain and conservation Our cuisine, designed in compliance with the most stringent standards to guarantee the safety of food transport. health standards and balanced diet requirements, is For living accommodation services, CIS must provide its prepared by highly qualified chefs and served by staff customers with the same level of comfort and health always on hand. conditions as an international standard hotel. Our teams respect all culinary and religious practices and prepare special menus for holidays and special events. ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 13 Mauritania Madagascar Yemen Integrated Services offering Meeting the needs and expectations of our customers is our priority. In addition to accommodation and catering services, managing a living compound calls for a wide range of other services to meet the day-to-day needs of teams working in hard conditions on projects located at remote sites throughout the world. Through its offering of integrated services, CIS is capable of meeting the full range of customer needs by providing turnkey solutions. And because every site is unique, CIS accordingly offers a large selection of services directly adapted to the specific needs of each. Engineering Utilities management Conception and design of living compounds, refurbishing Supply, purification, desalination, evacuation of water ageing infrastructures, extension work and adapting and waste water management; waste collection, facilities to environmental conditions and ensuring separation and processing, waste incineration and compliance with health and safety regulations. delivery of fuel (electrical transformers). Building Other support services Planning, site preparation, worksite project coordination Implementation of integrated IT solutions (access and delivering living compounds. control, room allocation, laundry and stock management, etc.), telecommunications. Equipment Fleet management and maintenance, landscaping Supply, installation and testing of all kinds of equipment and upkeep of green areas, pest-control, fire safety, necessary for our business, as well as after-sales organisation of leisure activities (events, sports hall service for equipment. management), establishing points of sales for basic necessities, medical services, etc. Facilities management Maintenance (electrical generators, machinery, etc.), upkeep and repairs (painting, plumbing, etc.) and reparations of the structure (buildings, roads and equipment) installed at the remote site. ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 15 Turkmenistan Sierra Leone Chad Sustainable Development Sustainable development and social responsibility. As a responsible corporate citizen, since its creation the Group has consistently sought to pursue a path of sustainable development in a manner that benefits local populations and economies in the countries where it operates. Through its position as a worldwide leader in remote site management specialised in providing living accommodations and catering services, CIS has an increasing responsibility to its customers, consumers, staff suppliers and citizens. With this objective, the Group has developed a comprehensive process built around the three pillars of sustainable development organised on the basis of the following priorities: Economic responsibility and performance Customer and consumer satisfaction: Guaranteeing effective processes to ensure profitability for our shareholders Contributing to sustainable local economic growth Publishing information on sustainable development Environmental responsibility and performance Reducing the environmental impacts of our products and services Limiting greenhouse gas emissions With the goal of limiting waste, waste separation, compaction and recycling procedures are systematically deployed in countries where we operate. Social and corporate responsibility Our subsidiary Cieptal in Algeria manages the CWAA and performance (Central Waste Accumulation Area), a waste separation Staff safety facility where plastic and paper waste is compacted in the form of bales and then resold to specialists for Monitoring human resources regulations and recycling. Non-recyclable waste is burnt in incinerators. anticipating regulatory developments In Chad, after each meal service, waste is measured Ethical development of CIS and the results are displayed in the restaurant as a measure to raise awareness and reduce waste. Strengthening relations with stakeholders ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 17 Chad Turkmenista Sustainable Development A people-centric business For a services business like that of CIS, the human dimension is fundamental. Customer satisfaction is the critical factor and benchmark for the company's success. Without the professionalism of our staff, the men and women that form the most valuable asset of our company, nothing would be possible. With its 12,000 employees working in the four corners of the globe, while possessing a uniquely international dimension, CIS has retained its culture as a company with a human scale where all employees have an opportunity to evolve to achieve his/her professional goals and job satisfaction. Workforce Training and promoting talent At 31 December 2012, CIS had 11,637 employees (up In 2012, training through internal and external 12% on the prior year), with women accounting for only programs represented 21,994 hours, a 20% increase 12% of the workforce. This imbalance is a direct on 2011. With its focus on quality service but also consequence of our presence in certain countries promoting professional development for all staff, training where religious rules prohibit the presence of women in is a major priority of CIS. For 2012, the budget for the workplace. At the head office, women account for training was €92,600 (up from €73,000 in 2011). nearly half the CIS workforce (46 %). Persons with disabilities represent 2%. The principle of gender equality Professionalization is respected on the Board of Directors. Finally, personnel CIS promotes a policy of using local employees to fill at the head office and expatriate staff represent 29 positions. On that basis, 97% of its operations are different nationalities. assured by local employees that receive in certain cases diploma-based professional training. Training and promoting talent CIS favors local employment and professional mobility Safety of its employees. Measures in favour of QHSE ( (quality, health, security, environment) and Sustainable Development: In 2012, Testimonial: 21,516 hours were devoted to training and employee Frédéric Andrianantenaina, QHSE Manager in Mongolia information initiatives on quality, health, safety environment and sustainable development, representing 98% of total Since my years as a student it training. has been my dream to work abroad and with CIS this has been made Nutrition possible. From Madagascar of CIS served 44 million meals in 2012. The Group Malagasy origin, I accordingly began my career at CIS in attaches considerable importance to health issues that country on the Ambatovy project in 2008. relating to a balanced diet. The internal training programmes available to me To fight against cardiovascular illnesses and obesity, CIS provided me with opportunities for advancement within head chefs receive specific training on measures for CIS. My devotion and ambitions were thus rewarded and reducing saturated fats, sugar and salt in their recipes. my wish to pursue my career in another country was granted as since January 2012 I have been stationed in Mongolia.” ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S 19 Sustainable Development New Caledonia Sourcing characteristics and needs. Burkina Faso represents one such example where CIS supports a cooperative venture For every new operation in a country, CIS conducts an of Gnogondémé women of the village of Yona for the assessment of its needs in relation to local production manufacture of shea butter soap. In this way, all soap used capacity. Our objective is to promote in priority local at our different sites in this country are manufactured sourcing for our sites. CIS encourages local production by this women's group cooperative. of fruits and vegetables by independent local producers or cooperative farms, while ensuring them a sales outlet CIS also makes regular donations of all types of supplies for a certain volume of their production. (food, equipment, etc.) to local associations. When resources are not available or available only on a very limited basis in the region, and a long-term interest exists from the population, we adopt different measures of support to help these small producers meet our needs. Such measures take the form of developing farms and cooperatives, introducing new vegetable species, creating slaughterhouses and farms for laying hens, etc. Local employment Every CIS subsidiary participates in the development of Madagascar a local project taking into account the specific regional RAPPORT ANNUEL 2012 20 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S The CIS Foundation For six years the CIS Foundation The other members are Bruno Favret, has devoted efforts to assist youth Jean-Lucien Tassy and Natacha originating from under-resourced Gouvernet. For the first time in the urban district in the Marseilles region. history of the CIS Foundation, one of its scholarship recipients is currently Its primary goal is to help fund their pursuing an end-of-course six-month training and contribute to their entry internship at our subsidiary in New into professional life. Caledonia. In addition to providing project funding, CIS Foundation Under the responsibility of Valérie Dourel, the also seeks to foster contacts between youth and subsidiary's QHSE Manager, Quentin Mercier, 23 years the business community with a focus on its economic, old, is working on issues relating to traceability and the social and human diversity. This Foundation is chaired health control plan. by Loïc Souron (Chairman) and Monique Arnoux (Vice Chairwoman). “ The Foundation viewed by Quentin Mercier I was put into contact with Loïc Souron, the Chairman of the CIS Foundation by the Fondation de France. I was trying to find funding to complete my university program. The CIS Foundation not only financed the last year of my Management and Quality Masters degree programme ,but it also offered me an internship at one of CIS' largest subsidiaries in New Caledonia. I was in this way given an unique opportunity to discover the workings of a group like CIS and develop my professional knowledge working alongside teams that were highly motivated, competent and passionate about their business. I am currently enjoying my first steps in the world of catering where I am learning a great deal. As for dozens of youth, CIS reached out to give me a chance, proving in this way that a great company can combine both a competitive spirit with human values . ” ANNUAL R E P O R T 2012 21 statements > Corporate social responsibility report Our commitments Our responsibilities OUR BUSINESS: SERVICE. OUR OBJECTIVE: CIS: A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN QUALITY CIS Group since its creation has consistently sought to pursue a Our business is providing food, living accommodations, service and care path of sustainable development in a manner that benefits local for thousands of people around the world working on major projects as populations and economies in the countries where it operates. a specialist in international catering services. Through its position as a worldwide leader in remote site Today we are recognised worldwide for our expertise in management specialised in providing living accommodations managing remote sites in the four corners of the globe, and catering services, CIS has an increasing responsibility to the professionalism of our teams and the quality of our its customers, consumers, staff and suppliers. Financial services. Our business has undergone major transformations in recent To maintain and improve the performance of our services, years. In response to this trend, CIS has decided to regularly I initiated a quality process at CIS that in February 2004 introduce practices increasingly responsible, forward-looking received ISO 9001 certification and has subsequently been and proactive. CIS has developed a comprehensive process renewed every year since. built around the three pillars of sustainable development, divided into ten areas: All necessary means and resources have been implemented for this process seeking to: Economic responsibility and performance ■ Consolidate CIS’ position in order to respond to major calls ■ Customer and consumer satisfaction for tender and facilitate its access to new markets, ■ Guaranteeing effective processes to ensure profitable ■ Improve the efficiency of our organisation and working operations for our investors practices, ■ Strengthen the interfaces between the headquarters and ■ Contributing to sustainable local economic growth the sites, ■ Publishing information on sustainable development ■ Ensure a consistent level of quality over the long-term of our services to meet the growing demands by our customers, Environmental responsibility and performance particularly in the area of QHSE, ■ Promoting and respecting core values in the areas of human ■ Reducing the environmental impacts of our products and rights, working condition standards and the environment, and services the fight against corruption. ■ Limiting greenhouse gas emissions These quality objectives are reviewed, measured and analysed each year. Social and corporate responsibility and performance ■ Staff safety In this context, and because the satisfaction of our customers and consumers is our top priority, I ask all staff, ■ Monitoring human resources regulations and anticipating including those working at the operating sites to actively regulatory developments continue to contribute to this collective and company-wide undertaking, with the Chief Quality Officer. ■ Ethical development of CIS “Our values: team spirit in respecting others” ■ Strengthening relations with stakeholders Régis Arnoux Chairman and Chief Executive Officer FINANCIAL REPORT 2012 39 statements The following information is presented in accordance with the Our ethical values disclosure requirements established by Article 225 of the «Grenelle II Act» of 12 July 2010 and the implementation decree of 24 April 2012. The reporting boundary for indicators THE CIS BUSINESS ETHICS CHARTER: CORE presented covers the entire Group (CIS France as well as all VALUES SHARED BY ALL GROUPS STAFF subsidiaries and companies that it controls), calculated by consolidating data collected from 41 countries where CIS operates. As such the reporting boundary for social data and the Group’s environmental impacts is consistent with the financial reporting boundary. Additional information on our sustainable development commitments and policy is available at CIS Group’s website www.cis-catering.com. As the first reporting year subject to compliance with this implementation decree of Article 225 of the Grenelle II, Act, there was not a sufficient time to evaluate measures taken by the Group to adapt to climate change. It was also not Financial possible to evaluate the severity rate for occupational accidents on a meaningful basis as this indicator is in the process of In 2004, CIS incorporated a business ethics charter into its being defined for reporting purposes starting in 2013. Land management system that defines and highlights the ethical, use, noise pollution and other forms of pollution specific to moral and professional rules of conduct to be applied in our an activity have also not been measured as indicators not business practices and relations with third parties (customers, applicable to our activity. Furthermore, certain indicators are suppliers, partners, authorities, shareholders etc.). presented herein on the basis of a limited reporting boundary (headquarters or headquarters and expatriate staff) in light Indeed, our actions must comply with the principles of integrity, of the relevance or availability of such information. These impartiality and openness in order to maintain and increase reporting boundary limitations are specified within the report the confidence of our shareholders, partners, customers and for each indicator concerned. suppliers, and ensure our continuing success. Our commitments consist in particular in combating money The CIS Group employer profile laundering, fighting against corruption, complying with the rules of fair trade and confidentiality, avoiding any situations giving Our teams rise to conflict of interests, strictly comply with all applicable At 31 December 2012, the Group had a total workforce of laws and regulations, and adopting environmentally friendly 11,637 employees, up 18% from the end of the previous and sustainable development practices. In line with these year. Women accounted for 12% of the total workforce (for objectives, CIS has been a member of the UN Global Compact headquarter and expatriate staff). This significant gender since 2005 and regularly publishes on this basis the report to imbalance within the Group is a direct consequence of our stakeholders entitled “Communication on Progress”. activity as a provider of catering services in extreme conditions and our presence in certain countries where religious rules In addition, CIS is actively engaged in its day-to-day operations prohibit women from working with the safety of our teams and in promoting diversity, equal opportunity employment, operating countries remaining our priority. occupational health and safety. These values are shared by all CIS staff and management with the Business Ethics Charter applying to both. CIS teams: a significant presence in international markets 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Average payroll 12 months % 12 months % Asia/Pacific 1,812 16 1,590 16 Africa 6,769 58 5,691 58 CIS 825 7 816 8 South America 1,895 16 1,493 15 Expatriates 287 3 247 3 Head office 49 0 49 0 TOTAL 11,637 100 9,886 100 Changes in the headquarters and expatriate workforce (336 employees in 2012) linked to growth in our business generated 68 recruitments and 28 departures (including 1 dismissal) in fiscal 2012. FINANCIAL REPORT 2012 40 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S statements CIS teams: highly experienced staff Training programmes available to teams cover: Headquarters and expatriate ■ Quality workforce by age (%) 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 ■ Safety Less than 25 1 3 ■ Technical-business line skills 25-29 8 12 ■ Managerial skills 30-34 19 13 ■ Information technology 35-39 10 15 External and internal training provided to staff represented 40-44 20 17 21,944 hours in 2012 or 20% more than in 2011. All staff, regardless of their responsibilities, are offered a training 45-49 16 15 programme adapted to their skills, providing them with a 50-54 14 13 possibility, according to their wishes, for vocational retraining for a career change, an international assignment or a career 55-59 9 9 advancement. 60 or older 3 3 Financial 100 100 €92,600 AVERAGE AGE 43 42 The annual training budget in 2012 (€73,000 in 2011). Work-time organisation The legal number of working hours for headquarters staff of the Group is 39 hours per week (including 4% part-time). The Compensation trends absenteeism rate in 2012 was zero as in 2011 (calculated The following charts provide a breakdown for headquarters as the number of unjustified days of absence for employee and expatriate staff on permanent contracts by gross monthly and per year). compensation: Working hours for local employees in operating countries are 2012 determined in reference to local regulations. 2% 14% ROTATION 32% The frequency of expatriate field assignments in operating countries. 33% The duration of expatriate assignments is largely dependent on the customer contracts. Expatriates, depending on their contract and operating country, work according to assignments defined in terms of weeks or 19% months of continuous presence in the field versus the length of their home stay (for example « 8/3» corresponds to an Less than €2 000 eight week assignment in the field for three weeks at home). €2 001 to €3 000 €3 001 to €4 000 The organisation of dialogue between employees and €4 001 to €5 000 management More than €5 000 In light of its workforce, CIS France has established a dialogue of quality with employee representatives who may be consulted, 2011 in particular, on subjects relating to occupational health and safety. Employee representation bodies exist at the subsidiary 4% CIS New Caledonia with which the company’s management 16% maintains regular dialogue. The other subsidiaries are not 27% concerned by these provisions. Promoting and developing talent; Staff training: developing skills to achieve continuous improvement in the quality of our service and promote professional fulfilment for all our staff 16% 37% FINANCIAL REPORT 2012 41 statements Average monthly salaries (including social charges) for local employees by geographic region break down as follows (in 2012): €438 €318 Financial €882 €857 Safety of our teams: our priority without discrimination relating to gender, ethnic origin or The occupational health and safety management methods of physical condition. By way of example, headquarters and CIS Group comply with ISO and OHSAS guidelines. This also expatriate staff represent 29 different nationalities, with women applies to subsidiaries not engaged in a certification process. accounting for 12% (46% for the Group’s headquarters), and Compliance with these guidelines by all Group staff is further disabled employees 2% (headquarters). reinforced by provisions that have been incorporated into the In addition, CIS’ Board of Directors complies with the provisions Business Ethic Charter of Law No. 2011-103 of 27 January 2011, pertaining to balanced gender representation. 2,600 Furthermore, the Charter requires within the Group the promotion of and strict compliance with the ILO core The number of days with no lost time injuries (LTI) conventions (freedom of association and protection of the right in Chad. to organise and negotiate collective bargaining agreements, eliminating employment and occupational discrimination, Occupational accidents are systematically analysed to abolishing forced labour and the effective abolition of child determine the causes and take corrective actions, by taking labour). measures to secure the site, train personnel or implement preventive actions. In 2012, 28 lost time injuries compared Fair business practices call for an engagement by all employees with 17 in 2011, representing a lost time injury frequency Promoting the fight against corruption, and in particular, the rate of 0.90 in 2012 and 0.65 in 2011 (where this rate policy of accepting and offering gifts within the framework of equals number of lost time injuries in relation to the number the relations of Group employees with interested third parties of hours worked multiplied by 1,000,000). At the Group’s (supplier, customer, local public authority, board, etc.) is strictly headquarters, no lost time injuries or occupational illnesses defined by the Group’s Business Ethics Charter. Furthermore, were reported in 2012. consumer health and safety is guaranteed by compliance with the ISO and OHSAS guidelines within Group subsidiaries. Our Business Ethics Charter: an internal code of conduct Ethical recruitment and promotion practices Recruitment and promotion within the Group are based exclusively on the skills and qualifications of each employee, FINANCIAL REPORT 2012 42 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S statements CIS Group as an active environmental stakeholder QHSE ANd Sd The QHSE and Sustainable Development department of CIS Group is responsible for applying the social and environmental policy established by Executive Management. The Group’s headquarters and certain subsidiaries have engaged in certification processes: ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 22000 2014 2014 Peru Peru Peru Guinea Mauritania Certifications planned Financial 2013 Mongolia Brazil Brazil Russia Russia Mongolia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 22000 2012 2012 Kazakhstan 2011 Chad Algeria Algeria Kazakhstan Chad 2010 New Caledonia New Caledonia Certifications obtened 2009 Chad 2008 Bolivia Bolivia Bolivia 2007 Brazil Brazil 2006 2005 Algeria 2004 2004 France Our commitments in favour of protecting the environment to-day operations and poster campaigns are carried out on a regular basis on good practices for reducing consumption. Responsible consumption of resources Some of our customers have also allowed us to carry out In 2012, water consumption totalled 308 m3 for the Group awareness-raising initiatives for users on water and energy headquarters and electricity consumption 139 MWh. Based conservation methods. on those levels, recourse to renewable energy is not required. It was not possible to obtain this data for subsidiaries. In Our procurement policy provides for sending a questionnaire effect, due to the nature of our activity, we use on a temporary on ethical practices to suppliers prior to their selection. basis the installations of our customers. In consequence, only Supplies of food products for operating sites are dependent the latter are able to manage water and energy consumption on contractual terms (which generally set minimum quantities efficiency for the sites. However, our teams receive training for food supply inventories to be maintained on site). and information on sustainable water and energy use for dayFINANCIAL REPORT 2012 43 statements CIS Group promotes the protection of biodiversity and refuses CIS Group efforts in favour of QHSE and SD to use any endangered species (such as bluefin tuna) in the Employee training and information initiatives on quality, health, menus proposed to customers. Subsidiaries themselves safety and the environment and sustainable development are responsible for taking their own initiatives to promote represented 21,516 hours in 2012 or 98% of total training. In biodiversity at the local level. Buyers and head chefs receive 2011, 17,940 hours of internal and external training focusing training from the QHSE and SD department on ways to on QHSE issues was provided to CIS staff. improve product freshness (by giving priority to local sourcing, respecting the growing seasons for fruit and vegetables, etc.). In 2012,CIS Group did not incur expenditures (as in 2011) for the prevention of environmental and pollution risks, as it is our customers who are the owners of the installations and consequently responsible for decisions on environmental measures. At 31 December 2012, there were no provisions for contingencies and guarantees for environmental risks. Our societal commitments The CIS Nutrition-Health programme Financial With nearly 44 million meals served every year, CIS Group is very conscious of the health effects of an unbalanced diet. In response, to combat cardiovascular illnesses and obesity, CIS head chefs receive specific training on measures for reducing saturated fats, sugar and salt in their recipes. Onsite awareness raising initiatives are also regularly conducted. Regional impact of CIS Group activities in operating countries With a policy of giving preference to recruiting staff originating from the countries where it operates, 97% of CIS Group activities are assured by local employees. Employees are offered Reducing the Group’s carbon footprint both job opportunities and training formations (in certain cases The carbon impact of CIS Group’s activities is measurable by leading to a professional diploma),while subsidiaries promote carbon assessments for travel by headquarters and expatriate the transfer of expertise from expatriates to local staff. employees. In 2012, travel thus generated 1,184 tonnes of CO2 (information unavailable for 2011). We encourage our The commitment of Group companies to local development personnel to limit their travel to reduce our environmental In light of the breakdown of CIS activities throughout the world, footprint, notably by using videoconferencing communications we have not considered it useful to undertake initiatives in to avoid unnecessary travel. Electricity consumption of the the different countries based on a common global project. headquarters represented 19 tonnes in secondary production Instead, CIS Group emphasises the importance to Country of CO2 in 2012. Managers and expatriate staff on the necessity of safeguarding the local environment. In this way, each subsidiary contributes Release of hazardous substances to local projects of its own choosing, based on specific regional The Group’s activity does not generate air, water or ground needs and considerations. Through this approach, each of pollution with an environmental impact. our local projects receives the support of teams on-site, thus providing a way to propose initiatives considered relevant and Limiting waste effective by local stakeholders. The number of such projects Recycling and limiting waste can have a meaningful impact on is very extensive and the list of undertakings presented below contributing to environmental protection. represents only selected examples: In this way, 2.5 tonnes of paper was recycled in 2012 by ■ Employment opportunities for women: the headquarters (2.9 in 2011). In priority we systematically Since 2012, CIS Burkina Faso has supported the Gnogondémé print documents in PDF format and scan photocopies with women’s cooperative in the village of Yona. This cooperative the objective of limiting paper consumption and protecting the manufacturers shea butter soap among other products. Within environment. Waste separation procedures for packaging are the framework of this support, the subsidiary has abandoned applied at all our subsidiaries, including Cieptal (Algeria) which the use of industrial soaps that has been replaced by soap manages a waste separation facility (CWAA). We also carry produced by this cooperative and are used at all our sites in out awareness-raising initiatives on behalf of customers with Burkina Faso. respect on ways to avoid food wastage. For example in Chad, food waste is weighed every day and the results are displayed. FINANCIAL REPORT 2012 44 C A T E R I N G I N T E R N A T I O N A L & S E R V I C E S statements ■ Partnerships: ■ Contributing to the economy and employment In Chad, through a partnership concluded between the The catering activity involves to a significant extent the “Hospitality & Tourism Management Centre” and the subsidiary, acquisition of food supplies by Group subsidiaries. As much we undertake every year to offer internships to students of as possible, these supplies (and in particular fresh fruit and the school. vegetables) are sourced locally. To improve the quality of the meals we serve and to promote local companies, local QHSE ■ Donations and corporate sponsorship initiatives: teams work closely with the corporate QHSE department at CIS Group provides funding, food or equipment to local the headquarters to: associations that the subsidiaries wish to support. • Promote awareness by CIS teams of the importance of ■ Education: local sourcing; In Madagascar a vocational training agreement has been • Work with local suppliers so that they are able to develop signed with the national institute of tourism and hotel services and adopt an appropriate organisation and in this way (I.N.T.H.) of Tanarive. This agreement contributes to improving become more capable of meeting our demanding the level of training of our employees while recognising their specifications. Financial experience by the issuance of diplomas. ■ Environment: Cieptal, CIS Group’s Algerian subsidiary, manages the CWAA (central waste accumulation area) where paper and plastic waste is separated and compacted to be resold. Non-recyclable waste is burnt in incinerators. Furthermore, CIS Group has been a member of the UN Global Pact since 2005 and regularly publishes on this basis the report to stakeholders entitled “Communication on Progress “on promoting and respecting human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption measures. Finally, in Marseilles CIS Group created a corporate foundation to which it has provided an annual budget of €30,000 since 2008 to young adults from the PACA region originating from under-resourced districts, to provide them with opportunities to join or pursue an educational programme, and in so doing, gain access to jobs in the workforce that corresponds to their ambitions for success. In 2012, the foundation supported 25 youth in pursuing their educational projects. Since 2008, 41 youth have participated in this initiative and certain gained access to permanent employment contracts made possible by the training programs financed by the CIS Foundation. FINANCIAL REPORT 2012 45
