“Give a man a fish; you have fed him for today. Teach a man to fish; and you have fed him for a lifetime” -Author unknownWe would add, “… Teach a man how to teach others to fish: and you have fed the whole village for a lifetime” This statement brilliantly illustrates what sustainability is all about. Technically, sustainability is defined as “Meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet theirs.” Sustainability is all about the future. It is all about fulfilling our responsibility to ensure that the world would keep on going after we are gone. Since of late, the term sustainability has gotten into the business jargon. We talk about sustainable development, sustainable buildings, sustainability reporting and so on. With all this interest about sustainability, we also have taken the initial steps to be a party to this global initiative. Let us share with you our understanding of sustainability and how we have internalized it into our day-to-day operations. Corporate Sustainability Team Access Engineering Limited CONTENTS Message from the COO 05 Organizational Profile 06 Corporate Governance 08 Principles and Policies 09 Key Sustainability Issues and Challenges 10 Stakeholders Engagement 12 Reporting Principles 13 Economic Contribution 14 Direct Economic Contribution Indirect Economic Contribution Market Presence The Environment 20 Environmental Management System Saving Electricity Going Green Employee Relations 26 Employment Performance Management Training and Development Health, Safety and Welfare Sharing the Ownership Employee Rights Community Relations 32 Differently-abled Community War-affected Communities Product Responsibility 36 Procuring of Business Core Competencies Quality Assurance Looking to the Future 42 03 HIGHLIGHTS Total economic value distributed in the year 2010/11 is Rs. 2,836 million Tree planting programme continued during the last year as well with 530 trees being planted at various locations which brings the total to over 6,000 trees Added a new chapter to Sri Lanka’s corporate history by gifting 120 million shares worth Rs. 3.0 billion among over 1000 employees of the Company Initiated the process of obtaining ISO 17025:2005 for the Geotechnical and Laboratory Services Division in order to further improve the quality of its operations 04 Message from the Chief Operating Officer “Establishing a strong business case for sustainability required the identification of key sustainability issues and how to deal with them as a part of the Company’s strategy and performance management system” Although most organizations recognize a need for action the business case to highlight what sustainable in the area of sustainability, action itself is often lacking, development means to the organization, and how improved or is poorly executed. There is a need to go beyond adsustainability performance can translate into enhanced hoc philanthropic activities, and to incorporate a wider business performance has enabled us to rally the support perspective. Due to this narrow, myopic view, sustainability of all stakeholders towards sustainability initiatives. It has often manifests itself in well-presented promotional also contributed to a better understanding of the benefits material, but with little indication of whether sustainable that might be achieved from embedding sustainability. development is embedded in the organization’s business model or whether senior management take sustainability AEL is a complex and highly decentralized company, issues seriously. At Access Engineering Limited (AEL), carrying out multidisciplinary engineering projects we have identified that it requires a wider, strategic organized into nine construction sectors, being present perspective on the impact of the company’s operations on all over the island, and being managed through three the economy, environment and society, to call ourselves a offices called Projects Offices. Being project-based, the sustainable business. organization is constantly changing shape as teams of employees and subcontractors form, disband and reform A strategic perspective promotes the integration of over the lifetime of a project. The workforce turnover sustainability issues at a strategic level, so that they at project level can be as much as 20-30% per month. are embedded in organizational development covering Nevertheless, our commitment to contribute to a more strategy, planning, risk management, and organizational sustainable world is resolute and we have made every learning processes. Thinking about sustainability effort to overcome these challenges in order to achieve issues strategically has enabled us to establish and reour sustainability objectives. establish the ‘why’ of sustainability, and to recognize what sustainable development stands for, i.e., what we enjoy On the following pages we point out challenges, today should not impact the livelihood and enjoyment opportunities and risks that we face, the policies and of future generations. This understanding has made it strategies we employ to address these and evidence that easier for us to integrate sustainability into our day-to-day we do our best to ‘walk the talk’. We welcome you to take operations and also to share a clear understanding of its a glimpse of our sustainability efforts during the last year meaning and how it relates to the organization. and our plans for the future. Establishing a strong business case for sustainability required the identification of key sustainability issues and how to deal with them as a part of the Company’s strategy and performance management system. It was an opportunity to align sustainability issues with strategy Rohana Fernando and was the start of a systemic process for managing Director / Chief Operating Officer economic, environmental and social impacts. Establishing 05 Organization Profile As at April 01, 2010 the stated capital of the Company comprised of 100,000,000 fully paid ordinary shares with a value of Rs. 1,000,000,000. On March 21, 2011, by way of a capitalization of AEL was incorporated on July 31, 2001 as a Public Limited Company. reserves, 200,000,000 fully paid ordinary shares were issued in the Prior to its incorporation as a separate legal entity it was the Engineering proportion of two new shares for every one existing share held. On Division of Access International Private Limited. As at the date of this March 31, 2011 there was a sub-division of one existing share into two report AEL is owned by the three founder shareholders. Over the years shares. Therefore, as at March 31, 2011 the capital structure of the AEL has been reckoned as a preferred and reliable entity delivering Company comprises of 600,000,000 fully paid ordinary shares worth multi disciplinary construction projects for both the public and private of Rs. 3,000,000,000. sector, partnering with world renowned construction companies. As at the end of the reporting period AEL had a Subsidiary namely, Scale of Operations Access Realities Private Limited (ARL) which engages in the business of owning and operating the real estate assets of the group and over Number of employees 1,628 which AEL had 64% control. Number of operations 36 projects carried out during the year AEL is headquartered at Level 8, Access Towers, No. 278, Union Place, Net Sales (Rs. Mn) Private sector 2,086 (59.3%) Colombo 02. Projects Office I and II of AEL are located at No.117, Dehiwala Road, Boralesgamuwa, while Projects office III, which was Public sector 1,432 (40.7%) formed very recently, is located within the premises of headquarters. In Total capitalization (Rs. Mn) Equity 4,244 (74.8%) addition AEL also operates temporary project offices at every location Debt 1,432 (25.2%) where it is engaged in civil engineering construction activities. Total assets (Rs. Mn) 5,767 Operational Structure 06 Primary Products and Services Awards As an integrated engineering company the core business of AEL is the LMD’s Most Respected Business Entities, 2010 No. 56 development of large and complex infrastructure development projects by utilizing innovative and state of the art technological solutions in LMD’s Most Respected Business Entities, 2011 No. 11 construction. The primary products and services offered by the company are as follows. National Business Excellence Awards, 2010 – Products Services Winner ‘Best Knowledge Integrator’ Roads and Highways Engineering Designs Runner-up ‘Construction Sector’ Bridges and Flyovers Piling ICTAD (Institute for Construction Training & Development) Water and Wastewater Schemes Quarry Operations Construction Performance Awards, 2010 Irrigation and Land Drainage Supply of Asphalt Concrete ‘Innovative Techniques in Construction’ Harbours and Marine Work Supply of Ready-mix Concrete ‘Construction Performance Telecommunication Sector’ Dredging and Reclamation Geotechnical Laboratory Services ‘Construction Performance Harbor Sector’ Environment and Waste Maintenance of Construction ‘Construction Performance Bridge Sector’ Management Schemes Infrastructure ‘Construction Performance Irrigation Sector’ Telecommunication Infrastructure Buildings The Platinum Technology Award for Quality & Best Trade Name 2010 – Geneva, Switzerland To date AEL has successfully completed over 100 civil engineering projects island-wide. All construction activities of AEL are propelled The Golden Award for Quality & Business Prestige 2011 – through unique value engineering services and modern technologies Berlin, Germany and construction methods, thus enabling the Company to augment its project infrastructure expertise. The above products are delivered through a construction management process that carries a project from its conceptual stage right up to its commissioning and maintenance phases. All design, construction and maintenance work related to the above products are carried out by our internal workforce, with the exception of certain specialized works executed by sub-contractors under our supervision engagement of unskilled labour. In an attempt to expand the business, we have recently moved into several fields of engineering services including both vertical integration (design, piling and maintenance) and horizontal integration (supply of construction materials and laboratory services). Markets AEL serves both public and private sector markets in construction engineering services. The beneficiaries of the civil engineering projects of AEL are spread across diverse sectors of the country and include the general public who utilize roads and highways, bridges and flyovers, water and wastewater schemes, harbours and marine structures and telecommunication infrastructure. Sector Location Roads and Highways Eastern, North Central, North Western, Northern, Sabaragamuwa, Southern and Western Provinces Bridges and Flyovers Eastern, Northern and Western Provinces Water and Wastewater Schemes Western and Southern Provinces Harbours and Marine Works Western Province Dredging and Reclamation Western Province Telecommunication Infrastructure Western Province Piling works Western Province 07 Corporate Governance Constructed on a philosophy of transparency, ethics, values, process. Moreover, the Company has already taken steps to adopt accountability and sincerity of action, AEL’s corporate governance ethos the main corporate governance committees; Audit Committee and works within a culture of performance that emphasizes a framework Remuneration Committee to strengthen its commitment on corporate of conformance and compliance. To us, corporate governance goes governance with the view of procuring a status as a listed company beyond the tenets of conformance and compliance into a milieu in near term. where our business is grown and nurtured into a sustainable and equitable one, presenting all our stakeholders with a future to grow Access Engineering’s Corporate Management team is committed to with us. Maximizing shareholder wealth on a sustainable basis while achieving sustained value creation for the benefit of all stakeholders safeguarding the rights of multiple stakeholders are fundamentals through adherence to a set of well-defined corporate governance which are permeated through all levels of our management and staff, principles, coupled with maintaining effective structures and who in turn work on the trusses of truth, trust, principles and honesty to processes within the company. The team, which comprises the ensure that the end justifies the means and remain strategically aligned Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Board Members to the core principles of our corporate governance practice. and Senior Management meet at regular intervals to discuss the management of business activities. Project implementation is carried Our governance and operating model facilitates efficient and timely out by the Projects Offices wherein the Project Director, General decision making coupled with pragmatic resource allocations, which Managers and Deputy General Managers work on plans and targets, in turn are integrated into a transparent, accountable and ethical matching those to realistic time frames and ensuring any shortfalls or framework that are compliant not only with the laws of the country but delays are speedily rectified. Authority is exercised within an ethical also with self-imposed codes of ethics, standards and regulations that framework of business practices established by the Board, which position us on a platform of critical governance features to ensure a demands compliance with existing laws and regulations as well as culture that goes beyond compliance. This is thus manifested in the best practices in dealing with employees, customers, suppliers and composition of the corporate management team, division of powers the community at large. and duties and the promotion of sound corporate ethics across the company. We have also infused a milieu of increased participation by middle management to permeate the need for a more responsible, transparent The company’s vision and mission remain firmly embedded in our and accountable administration, which in turn will strengthen the future journey with the Board of Directors and Executive Management financial discipline of the company. The culture of high authority tiedproviding the necessary stewardship to our team and other up with high accountability has given us the freedom to respond to stakeholders to achieve our objectives. Evaluating and setting the customer needs faster than most of the competitors which has been direction of the company’s strategic initiatives, performance objectives the cornerstone of our competitive advantage. The permeation of and targets also remain entrenched within the leadership, in addition authority and accountability right down to the shop-floor level and to strengthening the overarching company principle of protecting the the front-line has freed up the top management to dwell on the more interests of all stakeholders and consolidation of business activities to strategic and conceptual inputs. ensure continuity and sustainability. Driving a team branded on excellence, people remain centric to our The Board of Directors of AEL endeavours to provide entrepreneurial entire operational capabilities and engineering competencies. The leadership through effective formulation and execution of policies experience and professionalism within our team has been the catalyst and procedures to attain the objectives of the Company. The Board in integrating our core competencies into strategic partnerships. comprises of eight Directors out of which six are Executive Directors Maintaining a healthy work life balance with an environment of and two are Non-Executive Directors. AEL has identified and is in the superior human resource development via a comprehensive Quality process of obtaining the service of two to three independent directors to Management System inculcates the culture of meritocracy and its Board, who would have no interests or relationships in relation to the performance oriented individuals who make up for an excellent team, affairs of the Company. This would drive the Company to demonstrate driven to achieve ambitious goals more transparency and independent judgment in the decision making 08 Principles and Policies The operations of AEL are governed by a strong base of policies, beliefs and values. The policy framework that directly influence sustainability initiatives are enumerated below. Vision “To be the foremost Sri Lankan business enterprise in value engineering” Mission “To meet the challenges in the development of multi sector civil engineering projects, providing innovative solutions whilst developing long term progressive relationships with all our stakeholders” Sustainability Framework Sustainability Policy “Our sustainability efforts are organized into In order to reach our vision of being a sustainable business, we will: a sustainability framework which incorporates organizational values and beliefs, sustainability Be accountable for our impacts on the economy, the environment policy, sustainability objectives and sustainable and society and our decisions and actions that lead to such impacts business” Implement practices that promote economic security, environmental stewardship and social betterment and will strive for continuous improvement in these areas Behave ethically based on the values of honesty, equity and integrity Respect, consider and respond to the interests of our stakeholders Respect international norms of behavior, while abiding by the rule of legislative and regulatory requirements Respect human rights and recognize both their importance and universality Raise awareness of our employees on sustainability issues while soliciting their full corporation in all our sustainability initiatives Encourage our suppliers and subcontractors into the process of sustainable business by auditing and development Be a source of knowledge for our external stakeholders on sustainability issues Establish and constantly monitor quantifiable objectives for our sustainable performance Make available the tools and resources required to make it a reality, and will support each employee as they live this vision. 09 Key Sustainability Issues and Challenges When incorporating sustainability into the corporate agenda, it was AEL takes its sustainability inspiration from many external sources, important to be clear about how sustainable development fits with the including Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), United Nations Global organization’s core business, objectives and activities. Identifying the Compact, ISO 26000:2010, AA 1000 and others. From these it has drivers for embedding sustainability allowed us to build a business developed its own Sustainability Agenda to better focus strategies and case for our sustainability, as well as highlighting our relevant and actions that balance the never-ending trade-off between Economic, material sustainability issues which should form the focus of our Environmental and social considerations. Using the GRI framework, sustainable agenda. To effectively engage and connect to economic, AEL has defined its sustainability priorities using the Triple Bottom environmental and social issues, we needed a comprehensive analysis Line headings of Economic, Environmental and social responsibility. of the organization and its interface with sustainability and sustainable development issues. Since our inception we have tried to proactively identify and manage risks and hence we have been in a better position to seize opportunities. This involved identifying and understanding relevant issues by establishing This applies to managing sustainable development opportunities and facts and other information available in the public domain, and from an risks as well. We have considered these opportunities and risks as analysis of the competitive environment. Monitoring new development in part of an existing risk strategy and approach, rather than as a newly sustainability issues involved a range of activities including tracking the created layer of risk management focusing specifically on sustainability emergence of environmental facts, findings and research; public opinion; issues. Integrating sustainable development opportunities and risks employee views and attitudes; the activities of environmental and social into our existing framework and strategy has allowed us to have groups; the activities, profile and attitudes of suppliers and customers; a better understanding of their relationship to the organization’s and what is considered ‘best practice’ in one’s industry. business goals and other activities. Event/Situation Challenge Mitigation Economic issues and Boom in the construction challenges Expansion of the business in terms of financial Private placement of 180 million shares worth industry in the short to resources, human resource and machinery is Rs. 4.5 billion, since the organic growth is insufficient medium term needed to grab the new business to meet the requirements for financial resources,; investment in building capacity in the short to medium term, mainly through procuring of plant and machinery and development of human resources with Corporate Management level representation Unfavourable political and Since the prospects of the construction sector are Highly skilled staff who continuously monitor the economic changes closely linked to Government policy on infrastructure political and economic development of the country development and prospects of the property sector and the reactions in the industry in response to these closely follows the economic conditions, adverse developments and make informed decisions on future political and economic conditions can dampen the actions progress of the Company Exposure to increased We face fierce competition from both local and Strong reputation of the Company as an established competition in the future foreign competitors for construction business player in the industry with a proven track record and the highest level of certification / accreditation for quality of service; moving into niche markets such as design and build projects, Public-Private Partnerships, hydropower generation and leisure sector Uncertainties with the Issues of availability of funding to implement Strong partnership with the foreign partners who are procurement of business infrastructure projects; delayed payments leading capable of providing a total solution to the project; longand delayed payments to uncertainties on the procurement; payment for established relationship with state agencies; strong completed work of existing projects balance sheet and working capital Construction and Delays experienced during the implementation stage Skills to anticipate and successfully mitigate adverse development delays and of development projects and price fluctuations of key conditions which can cause delays in project cost overruns inputs are likely to have an adverse effect leading to implementation delays and cost overruns 10 Environmental issues and challenges Event/Situation Challenge Mitigation Environmental regulations New environmental regulations can impose Compliance with such regulations are considered at restrictions on the operations of the Company, design stage especially involving natural resources and waste management Availability and cost of raw With the depletion of natural resources such as sand Diversion into alternate materials and carrying out materials and metal, sourcing such items are becoming more research and development to come up with methods and more difficult and the price is also increasing for recycling some these materials and also to come up with new options Impacts of climate change With the changes experienced in climate patterns, Proper planning of activities to avoid having to face we can expect floods, land-slides, droughts, etc. such events; sufficient insurance cover to reduce risk; which may damage or delay construction activities long-term environmental initiatives to mitigate climate change Social issues and challenges Event/Situation Challenge Mitigation Lack of competent There is a dearth of suitable employees in all areas, Strengthening the training and development activities; employees in the labour from competent managers to skilled workers which building our own pool of prospective employees market compromise the quality of work through trainee and apprenticeship programmes; establishing a training school to supply the industry with suitable employees Loss of key employees Loss of key employees can lead to decline in quality Provision of highly competitive remuneration package, of service, incurring additional cost for replacements which will be set above the industry norms following and even loss of business a salary survey; provision of extensive training and development opportunities; improvement of all HR policies and practices; gift of company shares to employees Protection of employee With the rapid expansion of construction activities Strict enforcement of employee rights procedures in all rights into rural underprivileged areas, there is a possibility projects; education of the project staff on the possibility of child labour and forced labour of violation of rights and action to be taken Ensuring the protection of basic human rights Constant monitoring of the activities of the and provision of a respectable work environment subcontractors/suppliers through performance reviews for workers employed by the subcontractors and and audits; education of the subcontractors/suppliers suppliers on the requirements of upholding human rights IMAGE 11 Stakeholder Engagement We believe that the value of our Company is implicated by the quality The benefits of integrating stakeholder engagement at the strategic of our relationships with internal and external stakeholders, which level have included pooling of resources that can help all parties are maintained through a process of informing and making decisions to gain insights and knowledge, solve problems, and reach goals in conjunction with these different stakeholder groups. Our ability to and targets that none of them could reach alone. With regard to communicate effectively with the key stakeholders has been critical to sustainability, advantages of effective stakeholder engagement our success thus far and will also be critical to our long-term success. have been to align with and capitalize on stakeholder values, preDiscussions with stakeholders have helped us to highlight particular empty stakeholder action, sustain the value chain and capture interests and concerns and also to be better at anticipating issues and operational efficiencies dealing with them proactively. Since our economic, environmental, and social performance have been aligned with strategic aims and objectives, rather than simply react to external pressure, efficient stakeholder engagement has lead to broad business and sustainable development benefits that clearly outweigh the effort required. Stakeholder Concerns Mode of engagement Board and Corporate Developing commonly shared understanding of Upward communication of Company performance Management Team sustainability performance that may be important to through periodical reporting; sharing of feedback from the company, the needs and expectations of various other stakeholders; Monthly Corporate Management stakeholder groups and dimensions of performance meetings Investors Determining the risk inherent in, and return provided by, Maintaining cordial relationships with open their investment in the Company communication Lenders Determining the risk factors associated with the Company’s Maintaining cordial relationships with open business practices communication Employees Judging if the Company is a stable employer and a Periodical management-employee meetings; ‘openrespected corporate citizen; information about levels of door’ policy where employees have ready access to remuneration, retirement benefits and the nature and extent the management; performance evaluations of their employment opportunities Government and Regulating the activities of the Company and determining Maintaining cordial relationship with all relevant regulators policies regarding competition, taxation, the environment, statutory bodies; providing timely feedback through consumers and social affairs submission of reports, etc. Customers Judging the continuing prosperity of the Company; Project oriented progress review meetings; publication understanding the values and attitudes that underpin the of Annual Reports, including sustainability reports; web activities of the Company; knowing whether the products site they are buying are environmentally and socially friendly Suppliers Understanding the risks and opportunities that may affect Continuous subcontractor/supplier evaluation; regular their businesses progress review meetings; provision of training and sharing information for their improvement; publication of Annual Reports; web site NGOs Understanding Company’s values, principles, attitudes, Publication of Annual Reports; web site performance and goals The public Knowing the Company’s performance in providing Regular meetings with local communities; identification employment opportunities, sourcing inputs from local of community issues and providing solutions; working suppliers and supporting community projects; evaluating the in collaboration with the communities; publication of Company’s environmental performance Annual Reports; web site 12 Reporting Principles This sustainability report covers the financial year 2010/2011. This is the first dedicated sustainability report published by AEL and as such there are no previous reports. An annual reporting cycle has been adopted in presenting this report. The main purpose of this Sustainability Report is to provide means of communication and engagement between the Company and our stakeholders. From a stakeholder perspective, the publication of this report will provide an avenue to benchmark and assess our performance with respect to laws, norms, codes, performance standards and voluntary initiatives. This report also demonstrates how the company influences and is influenced by expectations about sustainable development. The objectives of this report include demonstrating transparency; creating financial value; enhancing reputation; achieving continuous improvement; improving regulatory compliance; strengthening risk awareness and management; encouraging innovation; enhancing management systems and decision making; motivating and aligning staff, and attracting talent, attracting long-term capital under favourable financial conditions; and establishing competitive positioning and market differentiation. In preparing this Report, utmost care has been exercised to adhere to the basic reporting principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. The Report is arranged into six major sections – economic contribution, the environment, employee relations, community relations, product responsibility and looking to the future. The report meets the requirments of a ‘C’ level report according to GRI (G3) guidelines. Currently this Report is neither checked nor assured by a third party, but action will be taken to obtain third part assurance for subsequent reports. This report covers only the sustainability issues addressed by AEL. Access Realties Ltd (ARL) became a fully owned subsidiary of AEL only in March 2011. Since the industries ARL and AEL operate considerably differ in nature reporting aspects are not compatible among the two companies. Due to the above mentioned reasons sustainability issues pertaining to ARL are not covered in this report. However measures will be taken to include the issues of ARL in the sustainability report of 2011/2012. During the financial year concerned there was one Joint Venture (JV) agreement for which AEL was a party. However this JV contributed only to 1.19% of the total revenue of AEL and as such it is not included in this sustainability report. For the sustainability issues relating to any Joint Venture (JV) to be included in the sustainability report of AEL, the contribution of such JV to the total turnover of AEL must be more than 5%. This threshold has been accepted by the management of AEL as a reasonable and a fair basis in determining the materiality of a JV. 13 11 Economic Contribution Wealth, like happiness, is never attained when sought after directly. It comes as a by-product of providing a useful service. ~ Henry Ford ~ An organization’s economic performance is fundamental to understanding the organization and its basis for sustainability. The Direct Economic Contribution economic dimension of sustainability concerns the organization’s The direct economic contribution of our operations manifest through the impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders and on economic immediate consequences of monetary flow between the organization systems at local, national, and global levels. This section illustrates the and its stakeholders. Data on the creation and distribution of economic flow of capital among different stakeholders and the main economic value, as indicated in the table below, provide a basic indication of impacts of the organization throughout society. However, most of this how the organization has created wealth for stakeholders. Several economic information is already well reported in our financial accounts components of the table also provide an economic profile of AEL, which and reports. Here we enumerate our contribution to the sustainability may be useful for normalizing other performance figures. of the economic systems in which we operate. Given the fact that an organization may be financially viable even by creating significant externalities that impact other stakeholders, we have identified some economic performance indicators that are intended to demonstrate the Data on the creation and distribution of economic outcomes of the organization’s activities and the effect of economic value provide a basic indication these outcomes on a broad range of stakeholders of how the organization has created wealth Rs. 2,836m for its stakeholders Total economic value distributed in 2010/11 Component Description 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 Economic value generated 3,518.0 3,032.5 3,384.7 Economic value distributed Operating cost Payments to suppliers, non-strategic 1,979.2 1,695.0 1,832.1 investments, royalties, and facilitation payments Employee wages and Total monetary outflows for employees 476.7 422.0 443.9 benefits (current payments, not future commitments) Payments to providers of All financial payments made to the providers 200.0 186.0 50.0 capital of the organization’s capital Payment to Government Gross taxes 173.6 144.3 131.3 Community investments Voluntary contributions and investment of 7.0 3.8 11.1 funds in the broader community (includes donations) Total Economic value distributed 2,836.6 2,451.2 2,468.5 Economic value retained 888.7 699.7 957.5 16 Employee wages and benefits Right from the beginning, the philosophy of AEL has been to pay the of factors, including but not limited to the Company’s earnings, cash employees above the market norms and statutory requirements. As flow position, future investments and funding of growth and the per the salary and benefits survey carried out through KPMG Executive maintenance of a sound and efficient capital structure and any other Search (Pvt) Ltd, the monetary benefits of all the 17 job designations factors where the Board of Directors may deemed relevant. During the surveyed were found to be above market average, in some cases by last three years, there has been a steady growth in the dividends paid over 35%. As far as the employees falling under the purview of Wages to the shareholders, substantiating the sustainability of the Company. Boards Ordinance are concerned, the company minimum wage is 17.6% to 26.5% above the minimum specified in the applicable Wages Board decisions. Payment to Government AEL has aligned employee rewards to organizational performance The company is liable to Income Tax at the concessionary rate of 15% and has provided superior rewards to superlative performers with the on construction income and 35% on other income. Further during the ‘reward for performance’ culture that has been created. This reward year the Company has paid Economic Service Charge (ESC) at the scheme has led to increased productivity and better performance, rate of 0.5% on its liable turnover on construction activities and at the greater employee recognition and consequently better rewards and rate of 1% on its liable turnover on other business. In addition, the the alignment of employee, management and stakeholder interests. Company has made a contribution of Rs. 8.6 million to the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund (CIGF). In addition to the current payments, employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contribution according to the terms of the Employees’ Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958 and its Community Investment subsequent amendments and for Employees Trust Fund according to the terms of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act No. 46 of 1980 and its During the year under review, two main themes governed our community subsequent amendments. Employees are also entitled to retirement investments, namely uplifting the differently-abled community and gratuity payable under the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983. facilitating the recovery of the war-affected communities. Apart from these two main themes, another Rs. 4.4 million was given away as donations for various causes. With the strengthening of the Corporate Payment to providers of capital Sustainability Team, it is expected to carry out more focused and beneficial community investments in the future. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 and the Articles of Association of AEL, the actual amount and timing of dividend payments on the Ordinary Voting Shares of the Company is recommended and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The dividend policy of the Company is based on a number 17 Indirect Economic Contribution Indirect economic contribution is an important part of AEL’s economic engaged in a continuous dialogue with our clients and developers influence in the context of sustainable development. Since most of to propose ways and means to maximize the positive economic our projects are in the sphere of infrastructure development, there is impacts and to minimize the negative ones. Also with the numerous invariably a huge economic contribution through our operations. The opportunities we have got to work in underprivileged communities we infrastructure development projects have been designed to maximize have been able to play an important role as a participant in sociothe economic impact to the local communities and on the country as economic change. a whole. With the valuable inputs from our Design Team, we have Sector Projects handled in Indirect economic impacts 2010/11 Roads and Trincomalee Integrated Assist the rehabilitation effort of the Trincomalee area which has been subject Highways Infrastructure Project to natural disasters for many years and also help the economic and social development of the region Jaffna-Kankasanthurai Road Form part of a larger transport network connecting key economic hubs in the northern part of Sri Lanka and will aid in the recovery and economic growth of the war torn region of the country Water and wastewater Batticaloa Water Supply Project Provide water to nearly 85% of the population of Batticaloa town and its suburbs management Walawe River Salinity Barrier Facilitate provision of good quality drinking water to the recipients Project Ports and marine Colombo Mega Port – Phase III Turning Colombo Port in to a Mega Port will result in huge economic advantages structures to Sri Lanka, especially from the US marker Flyovers and bridges Aruvi Aru Bridge Uninterrupted mobility for people living in Arippu in either side of Malwathu Oya Sangupiddy Bridge on MannarOpen a more convenient and quicker access path between the mainland and the Pooneryn-Karativu Road Jaffna Peninsula Pilling 500 Housing Units at Assist in providing houses for shanty dwellers and also help to liberalize prime Dematagoda land currently occupied by them Telecommunication Island‐wide Optical Fibre Enhance transmission of data capacity, bandwidth strength and deliver services Backbone Network Project beyond Colombo city area 18 Market presence During the last year, we have carried out construction work in the Northern and Eastern Provinces, where the economy is just recovering from the 30-year civil war. By securing these projects we have been able to contribute immensely to the economic development of the areas. Apart from the projects themselves having tremendous positive economic impacts as mentioned above, we have been able to uplift the economic condition of the residents of these areas by providing employment and opportunities to provide other services for construction activities. With the expansion of our operations to remote locations of the country, recruitment from local communities have become a priority, both for the benefit of the Company (due to savings on accommodation and transportation) and the local community (through generation of employment opportunities for local professionals and craftsmen who can contribute back to their communities). Another way in which we exercise our economic discretion, for the good of social and environmental considerations, is through our supply chain. With the increase in construction projects in rural areas, we have made a conscious effort to purchase material from local sources. By supporting local business in the supply chain, we have been able to indirectly enhance the investment in the local economy. We have identified local sourcing as a strategy to help ensure supply and to support stable local economy. As the value of purchases of materials and products increases from local, under-developed sources, basic social and environmental auditing of prospective suppliers has allowed us to influence their performance and aspirations. 19 The Environment We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children. ~ Native American Proverb ~ By its nature, construction has the potential to create negative impacts Environmental Policy on the natural environment when not actively managed. The construction industry is one of the major users of natural resources with around Access Engineering Ltd. recognizes that in carrying out its 50% of all global resources going into the industry and around 70% of activities it has a responsibility to customers, employees and all timber being used for buildings. On top of that the industry create the general public to minimize environmental impacts. the most CO2 emissions, create the most waste, use most non-energy related resources, and is responsible for the most pollution. With The environmental policy of Access Engineering Ltd. is to: this understanding, AEL recognizes the significance of making the Ensure compliance with all applicable legal and other environment issues a priority in carrying out its business activities while requirements, which relate to its environmental aspects discharging its responsibility to customers, employees and the general Promote environmental awareness and commitment to the public in order to minimize environmental impacts. policy amongst all employees and stakeholders through training and communications to encourage suppliers and subcontractors to apply sound environmental principles Environmental Management Avoid the wastage of materials, water and energy by paying careful attention to their efficient use System Prevent pollution and minimizing environmental disturbance from the activities carried out by the Company Apply continual improvement by reviewing the environmental AEL is the pioneer engineering company in Sri Lanka in adopting aspects related to activities by setting appropriate targets a formal Environmental Management System (EMS) and obtaining and objectives for improving performance ISO 14001:2004 certification back in September 2009. Gaining the certification involved carrying out a stringent but comprehensive analysis of all its systems and procedures. The EMS is being continued with the same vigour and enthusiasm and was subject to a surveillance audit by the certifying body Det Norske Veritas (DNV) in March 2011. The audit revealed only one minor non-conformance and no major nonconformances. The non-conformance has been corrected immediately and corrective and preventive actions have also been carried out. Our commitment to environment did not stop at modelling and gearing ourselves to address environment concerns through implementation of ISO 14001:2004. For example, the Company prepares Environmental Compliance Plans for all major projects and environment aspects are Our commitment to environment did not managed as per these plans during execution of construction works. Environmental Rehabilitation Plans are drawn up to ensure that the stop at modelling and gearing ourselves environment is restored in the best possible way following quarry to address environment concerns through operations. These plans carefully consider the concerns of the localities implementation of ISO 14001:2004 and specific activities carried out in these projects in addition to concerns addressed by ISO 14001:2004 22 18 Saving Electricity With the implantation of the EMS, operational controls were imposed on the use of electricity at the Head Office (HO), Projects Office 1 (PO I) 7.1% Electricity saving and Projects Office 2 (PO II). Initially, the operational controls included through operational generic actions such as educating the employees on the need for saving electricity and encouraging employees to switch off unnecessary lights, control Encouraged by this achievement, the management set an objective of reducing the electricity consumption by a further 2% by the end of 2010 through the implementation of several management programmes. The management programmes included isolating the board room AC from the central system, dividing the lighting system into several zones with separate switches, installing a power factor correction capacitor, using thermal insulation for roofs, introducing an energy saving/surge protection system, introducing LCD monitors for desktop computers and switching to laptop computers. With the implementation of these programmes, we were able to exceed the target and achieve a 4.0% reduction in electricity consumption. For the year ahead, we have planned another management programme, to introduce LED bulb systems with structural changes and the usage of AC will be further reduced by adjusting the operational hours. Going Green The Company has adopted a philosophy of Going Green, which requires every level of the Company to adopt and implement an eco-friendly concept in all standards, systems, processes, and practices used in its construction work. The green initiatives ranged from eco-friendly designs and construction procedures to paper re-use to tree planting. From a design perspective, we have had the opportunity to contribute our expertise in several bridge and building designs for making these projects more environmentally friendly. In the Trincomalee Integrated Infrastructure Project, we designed five major bridges where we used high strength Grade 50 concrete for the superstructure and high strength strands, selected the most economical beam sections and introduced couplers instead of reinforcement lapping in order to reduce the use material, introduced re-usable materials and used locally available resources as much as possible. To control slope erosion we used river bank protection with Reno mattresses and rubble pitching, river training works and Gabion retaining walls. When designing buildings, we have adopted techniques such as multifunctional spaces at intermediate floor levels, maximum utilization of natural ventilation and lighting, ‘Passive Solar Building Design’, increasing efficiency of lighting systems and AC systems, water conservation and rainwater harvesting. 23 During the year under review, we carried out two construction projects in the dry zone of the country, namely construction of Aravi Aru bridge in 530 the Mannar District and raising of Unnichchai tank in Batticaloa District. The project offices and other facilities had to be located in areas where the temperature reached above 35o C during day time. When designing the temporary facilities, we made a conscious decision to make it as eco-friendly as possible. The natural vegetation of the area was Number of trees preserved as much as possible by designing the buildings around the planted during existing trees. Many recycled material and waste material were used 2010/11 for the construction. We used natural lighting and ventilation wherever we could to minimize energy usage. Not a single air-conditioner was used in the facilities and even fans were used sparingly. With these actions, were we able to minimize the ecological impact we would have had if we followed conventional methods of building temporary facilities for construction projects. we recently completed the construction of Sangupiddy bridge as a prefabricated steel bridge. As most of the bridge/ flyover components Most traditional foolproof material used in the construction is concrete. were fabricated outside of the country there was minimum impact to However concrete is not regarded as a sustainable material due to its our environment. high energy consumption, polluting byproducts, etc. Realizing this fact and the comparatively high sustainability of steel over concrete due to Felling of trees is invariably assocaited with construction activities, its low energy consumption, low harmful by products and 100 percent especially road widening projects. When undetaking such projects, we reusability, we have taken steps to promote steel construction in the exercised our environemtal responsibility to negotiate with the client country. As a part of this sustainable initiative we, in partnership with and engineer to workout design changes to preserve trees. In the Mabey Bridge UK, pioneered in bringing prefabricated steel flyovers in project for widening and improvements to Padeniya-Anuradhapura to the country. These flyovers were constructed in record time in areas road, there were over 200 instances where trees were saved with with high density of traffic with minimum disturbance to the movement design changes such as shifting of the center line and diverting the of daily traffic. Examples are Kelaniya Flyover, Dehiwala Flyover drains. The trees which had to be felled will be compensated by and Nugegoda Flyover. Also, extending the same technology further planting new trees along the roadside. 24 The Head Office had used 2.4 metric tons of paper in 2009 and this The tree planting programme continued during the last year as well prompted us to take some initiative to minimize the environmental with 530 trees including mango, kumbuk, mahogany, naa, teak and damage we are causing by the use of such a huge amount of paper. halmilla trees being planted at various locations which brings the We initiated two actions in this regard, one was to install a computer total to over 6,000 trees. This year tree plantations were carried software to monitor the number of copies and printouts and the other out at Rattanapitiya Maha Vidyalaya, Ratmalana Technical College, was to have two copier/printers using exclusively used paper. By rePannipitiya Doowa Temple, Bokundara Dhamma Samadhi Temple, using paper for copying and printing, we have been able to save Attidiya Police Academy and Modara-Mattakuliya Road. 472 kg of new paper. 8 trees 15,000 litres of water 1,890 Kwh of electricity 828 litres of oil 1.5 m3 of landfill Savings by re-using paper for copying and printing 25 EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Treat people as if they were what they ought to be, and you will help them become what they are capable of becoming. ~ Goethe ~ Human Resource function of AEL is decentralized with a manager functioning at head office whilst a dedicated HR manager functioning at each of its project offices. The human resource policy of the Company is built with a view of recruiting the right person for the right job, equipping the individual with the appropriate tools and skills for optimum performance while rewarding and recognizing their excellence. We believe that this policy will allow the best people to produce their best work under the best conditions. Employment AEL is committed to develop and maintain personnel policies and procedures that are in compliance with applicable labour laws and regulations and administer them in a consistent and impartial manner. These policies and procedures are designed to enhance the relationship between the Company and its employees and subscribe to the mission of the Company. As at March 31, 2011 the total staff strength of AEL amounted to 1628 employees, of which almost 40% were in the technical and operational categories which epitomize our policy of transferring the responsibilities down to technical and operational levels We consider staffing to be the critical step in our HR process. The main aim for having a sound recruitment and selection policy is to attract Inherently, the turnover rate is high in the construction industry due employees who demonstrate potential through relevant skills and to several reasons – inherently transient nature of the workforce, experience who can make a positive and valued contribution towards the migratory nature of the workstations, employment opportunities work of AEL. Every individual appointed is selected on merit and we are abroad, influx of international contractors who pay high salaries for committed to being an equal opportunities employer who values its staff a short duration, etc.. Most of these reasons are beyond our control. and others who come into contact with it, irrespective of gender, marital Yet, we have been able to maintain employee turnover in single digit status, sexuality, race, ethnic or national origin, political or religious belief, at 6.8%, a sinificant improvement from 10.9% in 2008/09 and 14.6% disability or age. In all of our recruitment and selection procedures, we in 2009/10. Our turnover rates are well below the industry average ensure that there is no discrimination, either direct or indirect. of 20-30%, which is testimony to the effectiveness of our work ethic based on responsibility, authority and accountability. Net employment fluctuation, evidenced by data over the course of several years is an important indicator of the organization’s contribution to the overall economic development and sustainability of the workforce. Over the last three years, there has been a gradual increase in net Performance Management employment – 4.9% in the year 2009/10 and 16.6% in the year 2010/11. Performance evaluation of staff is carried out through periodic review and annual appraisals which gives a comprehensive feedback on Another indicator we closely monitor is employee turnover. A high their performance, matched against target and real output. AEL has employee turnover can indicate levels of uncertainty and dissatisfaction a well established rewards structure to recognize the achievements among employees, or may signal a fundamental change in the structure of its staff who portray excellence during their employment and of the organization’s core operations. An uneven pattern of turnover by execution of skills. age or gender can indicate incompatibility or potential inequity in the workplace. 28 Training and Development All personnel recruited by AEL are given a proper induction, which explicate the code of ethics and working standards of the Company. Rs.13.8 million A high level of integrity is considered to be of prime importance in conducting business activities and is strongly embedded into the corporate culture of AEL. Training expenditure AEL places a high importance in training its staff which requires development of skills and competences that have been the for 2010/11 springboard in enhancing performance. The training calendar is designed annually by the HR division, chartered using the training and development requirements of each division and matched against the projects in hand and future projects envisaged, with the skills and knowledge required for optimum performance. In addition, team members are given the opportunity to participate in relevant external seminars, workshops and training programmes both local and overseas to whet their respective skills. During the financial year 2010/11, we have spent Rs. 13.8 million on training, which is an increase of 26.7% from the previous year, again indicating our commitment to employee development. During the year in focus, we have focused mainly in uplifting the knowledge and skills of the operations staff, whom we believe is the core of our efforts to drive ahead in the industry. On average, the staff categories have received 5.9 hours of training per employee while the non-staff categories have received 1.1 hours. We have identified that there is scope for improvement in providing training and development opportunities for employees and several targetted actions will be taken in the future to address this issue. 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 29 0.04 Being a knowledge based entity, AEL continuously strives to contribute in creating a knowledge gaining culture by encouraging team members to pursue higher studies and professional qualifications, which the Company sponsors, as it adds value to the pool of knowledge Number of accidents available within the Company for it to draw upon. per 1,000 man days during 2010/11 Job rotation is one of the key methods adopted by AEL for the professional development of the employees. In order to create a workforce with multiple competences, the employees are provided an opportunity to change over to new areas of operation at regular intervals. During the last three years, there have been 52 instances of job rotation, which have given the employees opportunities to enhance their competences while identifying hidden talents and also to move into jobs which would give them a higher level of job satisfaction. Career development is another primary tool for engaging the workforce and at AEL we have continuously looked at providing the employees with opportunities for career development and growth within the organization. There has been a steady increase in the number of promotions granted to the employees and in 2010/10 the figure stood at 38, which is one promotion for every 20 employees during the year. Health, Safety and Welfare As a Company operating in the construction and infrastructure development arena, AEL provides and maintains a high standard of health and safety for all its employees and general public who may be affected by the operation, in accordance with the applicable health and safety regulations and safety manual of the Company. Health and safety training has been provided to create awareness, whilst sharing information, supervision and maintaining preparedness to meet health and safety emergencies are some of the policy initiatives taken to ensure a safe and healthy working environment at all project offices and sites. 30 Employee Rights Staff welfare in AEL is given high priority with an expenditure of Rs. 7.3 million during the year under review. The practices are periodically reviewed in order to uplift the quality of work life of its human resource. Life insurance covers, comprehensive medical Anti-discrimination policy is a key requirement of international covers and annual trips are some of the welfare facilities available to conventions and social guidelines and we have fully endorsed to our employees and their families. such conventions and guidelines. At AEL we define discrimination as the act and the result of treating a person unequally by imposing The Head Office staff made their annual trip to Sigiriya for three days unequal burdens or denying benefits rather than treating the in October. During these three days, the staff engaged themselves in person fairly on the basis of individual merit. An effective monitoring various activities, including playing cricket, swimming and taking part system has been established to ensure compliance throughout the in a wildlife safari. The Projects Office staff made their annual trip to organization’s operations. The guidelines are provided through the Nuwara Eliya for three days in November. During the stay, the staff Code of Ethical and Working Standards and the need to have a fair visited the Upper Kothmale project and hiked a nearby mountain. These and equal treatment for all employees is emphasized at appropriate events have provided the opportunity for the employees to unwind after forums. period of physical and mental exertion and also to develop a stronger relationship with fellow employees. The abolition of child labour is a key principle and objective of major human rights declarations and legislation and AEL fully support the The Annual Access Christmas Carnival was held in December at the concept. Since the presence and effective implementation of policies Havelock Grounds. This event was a fun filled moment for all the on child labour are a basic expectation of socially responsible families of AEL which brought tremendous joy to the kids as well as conduct, we have identified some operations that have a risk of child to the adults alike with its colourful carnival atmosphere and many labour and have taken precautionary measures to prevent such unlimited joy rides such as roller coaster, bouncer, flying saucer etc. occurrences. The quarries, crusher plants and road construction made every one thrilled to bits. projects have a risk of child labour, not due to our intentions, but due to the poor economic conditions and unemployment prevalent in the areas. We have provided explicit instructions to the managers Sharing the Ownership of such operations to check official identification to ascertain the age before deployment. AEL added a new chapter to Sri Lanka’s corporate history by gifting 120 million shares worth Rs. 3 billion among over 1000 employees of the Not to be subjected to forced labour or compulsory labour is Company. For the first time in history a private company came forward considered a fundamental human right which is also a provision to gift shares to its employee free of charge. There had been instances of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. AEL strictly where the Government had gifted shared to employees during condemns the use of forced/compulsory labour. Our employees privatization, but this is the first instance where a private company has may be required to perform reasonable overtime in order to fulfill done so. customer requirements. The Company adheres to the law of the land, concerning labour which automatically sets limits on the working This has been done in a very equitable and transparent manner hours of the employees. We have identified that the construction taking into consideration the basics of remuneration and profitprojects nearing completion, especially during the last three months, sharing practices adopted in the past. The shares were awarded to carry the risk of forcing the employees to perform longer hours the employees after categorizing 50 managers and assistant managers against their discretion. The heads of Project Offices are instructed into 11 categories, 235 executive staff into 14 categories, 94 clerical to monitor the total working hours of the employees to ensure that staff into four categories and 727 support staff into three categories. they are not worked beyond reasonable limits and they get adequate The gifting of shares will contribute to make over 250 of our employees rest between workshifts. millionaires and multimillionaires, not to forget over 750 of others who will also benefit in varying amounts, which will result in an enormous improvement in their economic status. Even though this is called a gifting of shares, in another sense this is actually more than just a gift. This is the way we say thank you to those who worked tirelessly to bring AEL to where it is today. This also is an incentive for staff who joined the Company during the last few years to commit themselves for a brighter future in the Company with a sense of ownership. 31 COMMUNITY RELATIONS Philanthropy is commendable, but it must not cause the philanthropist to overlook the circumstances of economic injustice which make philanthropy necessary. ~ Martin Luther King, Jr ~. Further to the construction projects undertaken by us, we have engaged in self-initiated projects that contribute to the economic development of communities at both local and national levels. These projects are often initiated by the project management teams and supported by the project offices and the head office. In order to maintain equity and transparency in community projects, they are reviewed by the Corporate Sustainability Team. During the year in review, two main themes governed our community development projects – uplifting the differently-abled community and facilitating the recovery of the waraffected communities. Differently-abled Community Daya Mina Centre for Differently-abled The Ceylon School for the Deaf and Blind Children We also contributed in many ways to the Ceylon School for the Deaf and Blind, Ratmalana. This is the foremost institute catering for the We designed and constructed a playground with a pavilion and education of the deaf and blind children in the country. The School donated it to differently-abled children at the Daya Mina Centre for looks after about six hundred impaired children, providing them Differently Abled Children at Embuldeniya, Nugegoda in February an education, vocational training, food and lodging, healthcare and 2011. Daya Mina is a day center for young girls and boys and currently recreational facilities. During the last year, we have made donations for has attendance of over 40 students from the Colombo district. It offers the provision of hearing aids for hearing impaired children and meals educational facilities for the mentally challenged children as well as for the sight impaired children. opportunities for them to participate in art, handicraft and life skills. The playground will bring about an enormous benefit to the children at Daya Mina since they did not have a place for their sporting activities 34 Two main themes governed our community development projects uplifting the differentlyabled community and facilitating the recovery of the war-affected communities. War-affected Communities Madukaraya in Mannar Divisional Secretariat The civil life is just picking up in the war-affected areas in the Northern and Eastern Provinces. One of the critical areas in the re-building process is education for the children. With a ravaged infrastructure and a depleted economy, the children are finding it extremely difficult to get back to any sort of normalcy. Understanding the sustainability impact of education in these areas, we undertook a project to facilitate school education of the war-affected Mannar Divisional Secretariat by distributing school items to selected students of the area. The programme was held at Madukaraya Village on 09th July 2010, with the patronage of Rear Admiral A.R. Amarasinghe, Commander North Central Naval Area. School items worth of Rs. 465,000.00 were distributed among 310 students from four schools Madukaraya Maha Viddiyalaya, Murunkan Viddiyalaya, Pariharakandal Viddiyalaya and Nanaddan Viddiyalaya. The short-term objective of the project was facilitating the efforts to bring the children back to school and the obvious long-term objective was raising the living standards of the community. Chenaiyoor and Mawadichchenai in Verugal Divisional Secretariat During the heavy rains experienced during January this year, many areas in the island were affected by floods. When planning our contributions towards flood victims, Northern and Eastern Provinces were our main focus. On 21st January 2011 we organized a programme to distribute dry foods and water among flood victims living in Chenaiyoor and Mawadichchenai villages in Verugal Divisional Secretariat. There was no access to those villages due to inundation of A15 and B10 roads. The project staff of A15 Road Rehabilitation Project took the initiatives to distribute the items with the help of the Army and assistance of the Divisional Secretary. We were the first relief team to reach the area due to the difficulties in transportation. We distributed a pack of dry food worth Rs. 1,000.00 and a bottle of water to 225 families. 35 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Quality in a service or product is not what you put into it. It is what the client or customer gets out of it. ~ Peter Drucker ~ At AEL, maintaining high standards for our product responsibilities standards including British Standards (BS), American Standards, (including both goods and services) is the governing principle across all Australian Standards and Indian Standards. Also we comply with Sri our operations. Since we involve in engineering operations across the Lankan Standards (SL). Thus, when it comes to product responsibility whole spectrum, from designing through design and built to construction, we operate diligently to ensure that the ultimate product has met our actions to realize product responsibilities have far reaching designer’s requirements as well as the fitness for purpose. consequences. Designing aspect of our operations is carried out by a designated As a contractor, most of the time we are required only to follow Design Division which was initially established to cater to the in-house designs given by the designer (Architects, Engineers) and to produce design requirements while carrying out construction projects. The an end product that will fit for its intended purpose. To ensure that our establishment and development of the Design Division has equipped operations and products do not harm users, either directly or indirectly, us with the competence to move into stand-alone design projects and we always have a strong communication/dialogue with the designers. to seize the opportunity of the recent shift in the construction industry As a responsible contractor we are always aware of our duty to alert from construction contracting to design and built projects. We have the designer if the specifications or designs are not in accordance with swiftly and effortlessly moved into these new markets which has current industry practices and standards. Furthermore, our construction opened the doors for a new business unit. activities are carried out with strict compliance with international This has created new challenges with regard to product responsibility. We have strengthened our Design Division and at present the The realization of our product responsibility engineering team of the Division encompasses Chartered Engineers, is rooted in having developed several core Chartered Architects and Engineers. The team is reinforced by an experienced advisory consultant in the field of structural designs. competencies, which not only has enabled us With the recent expansion and development of the Division, it has to execute our duty as a responsible corporate acquired the capability of handling many types of civil and structural citizen, but also to be a formidable player in designs, utilising the most advanced and modern design software for structural and foundation analysis, and advanced drafting software to the civil engineering space in Sri Lanka. produce engineering drawings. In an attempt to ensure product safety, we always seek second opinions from a third party which include University academics and other consultants. 38 Procuring of Business Product responsibility starts from the point of procuring of business. Participation of AEL in most of the mega road developments, bridge During its short span in existence, AEL has been able to procure and constructions, flyover construction, water supply and port development execute a significant amount of infrastructure related civil engineering projects undertaken in the recent past has been through JVs, mainly projects in Sri Lanka in diversified sectors either on behalf of Government collaborating with leading contractors from China, Malaysia, UK etc.. of Sri Lanka (GoSL) or together with third party developers. Procuring These JVs have given the opportunity for AEL to demonstrate its of business by AEL in relation to construction, improvements and capabilities and reliability as a JV partner in executing some complex completion of infrastructure projects directly sourced by the GoSL takes projects. It is believed that the expertise gained through the working place through a transparent tender process by the respective authorities. relationship with these JVs would enable AEL to procure construction Depending on the scope of construction, specialized nature of project, work of major infrastructure projects in the future, while internalizing stipulated timeframe and project funding, AEL would participate in product responsibility in a broader sense. the bidding process either individually or jointly with internationally reputed construction companies specialized in the respective fields of construction. In addition to the above method of procuring business, AEL works with third party developers who have already secured infrastructure development projects from the GoSL or authorities, in the capacity as JV partners. In most instances these third parties involved are leading foreign contractors/developers who have the expertise and experience in their respective fields. Over the years, AEL through JVs and strategic alliances has been able to develop a strong relationship with leading foreign contractors/developers who have carried out infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka. In some instances, AEL has been responsible for introducing these parties to Sri Lanka, and hence has a continued relationship and a sound understanding with regard to the working arrangements, which would enable the Company to secure business of these parties on a preferential basis. 39 Core Competencies The realization of our product responsibility is rooted in having developed Modern and Advanced Technology several core competencies, which not only has enabled us to execute our duty as a responsible corporate citizen, but also to be a formidable player A key success factor that has driven AEL to procure a successful in the civil engineering space in Sri Lanka. growth over the years is its technical competency and incessant innovativeness in the infrastructure development field. The Company Competent Workforce is known to be in the forefront in initiating and utilizing some of the advanced, modern and comprehensive systems and equipments The Company has an experienced corporate management team who in the civil construction sector that has strengthened the value has extensive expertise in their respective domains. The corporate engineering arm of the Company through shorter construction period, management team of AEL is committed to attain sustained value cost efficiency, increased productivity and enhanced operational creation for its stakeholders through effective structures and processes capability whilst delivering a better value for its clientele. within the Company. The experience and professionalism within the team has been the catalyst in integrating the core competencies into strategic partnerships which enables AEL to capitalize on future market Strong Research and Development opportunities. Focus In addition to the management team, AEL possesses a qualified and The integrated service divisions of AEL endeavour to continuously trained workforce who has mastered the operations in respective service adapt and respond to the new inventions and standards in civil divisions. This skilled resource of the Company possesses the requisite construction sector. The Company is constantly working with expertise and experience in the use and handling of modern construction international contractors and consultants to gain knowledge in value equipment and machinery. Skill sets of employees provide the Company engineering and use of more cost efficient techniques in carrying out the flexibility to adapt to the needs of its clients and the technical construction related activities. specifications of the various projects undertaken by AEL. Quality Assurance The Company is committed to ensure high quality in deliverables to DNV of India. The audits revealed only eight minor non-conformances its clientele. In attaining the requisite quality, it endeavours to maintain and no major non-conformances, which is testimony to our efforts in an experienced human resource base and the latest construction maintaining quality of our products and services. equipment portfolio in its operations. Our work quality is governed by a Quality Management System (QMS) which is in accordance with ISO The Geotechnical and Laboratory Services Division of AEL is 9001:2008 standards, where quality assurance procedures are strictly responsible to ensure the quality control during each phase of followed. The quality policy of AEL focuses on facilitating high quality civil construction projects. To further improve the quality of the operations, we construction services with effective, efficient and innovative solutions. are in the process of obtaining ISO 17025:2005 (General requirements The Company adheres to stringent measures to ensure effective quality for the competence of testing and calibrating laboratories) certification control including creation of quality standards, their implementation and from the Sri Lanka Accreditation Board. The process was initiated in employee training. January 2011 and the required documents have been subject to the preliminary audit. The auditors have identified several shortcomings in The utmost consideration of the Company to its customers, staff, the documentation and the improved version has been re-submitted principals, subcontractors, suppliers as well as the society is reflected for approval. It is expected to obtain certification within this year. through the continuous upgrade to its quality management system whilst adhering to the ISO 9001:2008 standards and other applicable regulatory requirements by each of the service divisions of AEL. During the period of reporting, the QMS was subject to two audits by the certifying body, 40 41 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today ~ African Proverb ~ Initial Public Offering Following the successful Rs. 4.5 billion private placement offering capacity within the Company in the short to medium term, mainly of 180 million shares to corporate and high net worth investors and through procuring of requisite plant and machinery and development gifting of 15% of shareholding representing a staggering 120 million of human resources with Corporate Management level representation. shares worth Rs. 3.0 billion among the employees, AEL intends to list itself in the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) through a Initial Public In the future more attention will be given to in-house training of Offer in early 2012, with the objective of further broad basing the employees. The training plans for the last five years will be reviewed ownership. In evaluating the company’s prospects, we believe that to identify the unmet training requirements that could be provided the size and magnitude of the company will enable us to be among through in-house training. In order to expand in-house training the top 25 companies in the CSE around the time of listing and moving activities it is proposed to form a pool of trainers from within the up over time. Company and provide them with training of trainers (TOT) programme. Another proposal is to establish a web-based ‘Knowledge Portal’ to Capacity Building collect, store and disseminate knowledge and experience. Finally, the groundwork will be done to establish a ‘Training Academy’ through We will consolidate our premier position in the industry and continue which all of the current and future training requirements will be carried to aggressively seek growth opportunities in the short to medium out. term in sectors in which we have a proven capability such as roads and bridge construction, ports and related work, water management and civil construction of buildings. In order to avail from impending opportunities in the sector, AEL expects to further invest in building 40 44 Consolidating in Current Markets The ‘Road Master Plan 2007-2017’ of RDA includes the plan for construction of 21 flyovers and rehabilitation and reconstruction of 256 bridges in the country. With the primary focus of the Government being towards the development of infrastructure in the country, there is a significant potential for With the successful track record of AEL in infrastructure development the players in the construction industry to contribute to economic projects, it is expected that the Company will have a potential to development. AEL, being one of the essential players in the construction secure some of these projects and contribute to these sectors in years industry, is expected to play a key role in this movement, due to its vast to come. expertise and capability in handling a multitude of complex projects as demonstrated in the past. Over the next ten years, development of road network is considered to Entering New Markets be the key investment consideration in the infrastructure development The Company intends to capitalize on the up turn of the property sector of the country. The ‘Project Pipeline’ of the Ministry of Finance development market of the country in medium to long term by and Planning for the period from 2010 2012 includes approximately setting up township and residential projects in Colombo and adjacent Rs. 269 billion investment for roads and transportation sector. metropolitan areas. The construction and development of such projects are expected to be lucrative and is buoyed by the significant Currently only 82% of the population in Sri Lanka has access to safe demand created by the rapid pace of urbanization and changes in the drinking water out of which only 40% has access to pipe borne water. lifestyle of the community. NWSDB has an ambitious investment plan for the next 5 years for water supply and sewerage projects. In line with the ‘Millennium Development Property development in the leisure and tourism sector is another Goals’ of the United Nations, the GoSL has a target of achieving 100% area AEL intends to aggressively pursue. This sector is expected to coverage for safe drinking water by 2025. The immediate goal is to reach experience enormous growth in the medium to long term, particularly 85% coverage by 2015. NWSDB has a target to provide pipe borne water due to the post-war optimism and the exponential growth in tourist for 45% of the population by 2015 and 60% by 2020. arrivals. The outlook of the sector has vastly improved subsequent to the cessation of the war in Sri Lanka in May 2009 and is expected to be a significant catalyst to the economic development of the country. AEL has a long term plan to develop/operate various leisure sector projects throughout the country mainly utilizing its expertise in the construction arena. AEL believes that this strategy of leveraging its core competence and proven track record in civil construction will pave the way for the Company to achieve significant growth in its profitability. Entering into Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) We would further boost our commitment towards the national economy in the future by engaging in community development projects in collaboration with the GoSL through Public Private Partnerships (PPP). We have already identified water management and electricity generation as potential areas to initiate infrastructure projects through PPP. These PPPs would enable us to generate long-term business opportunities with relative certainty and security, while continuing to be a significant contributor to the economic development of the country. 45 Improving Quality Management Systems Expanding the Corporate Sustainability Our QMS, which is in its eighth year, has reached a mature stage Team and with it some complacency has crept into the system. These With the planned expansions in business operations, the issue of shortcomings were observed at the recently concluded internal sustainability will come into the fore unlike any other time in the history audit and it was unanimously agreed to overhaul the QMS with the of the company. There will be additional economic risks, environmental introduction of practices and procedures appropriate for a Quoted impacts and social issues. To face the increasing demands for a robust Public Company, especially issues on accountability and transparency. sustainability management system, the Corporate Sustainability Team New procedure will be developed for all major operations through will be expanded with Board level and Corporate Management level workshops which will be facilitated by external subject specialists. The representation. The team members will be provided with specific internal audit team, which is the cornerstone of the whole system will training on sustainability, especially environmental management and be strengthened with the addition of new competent team members community involvement. The Team will be empowered to coordinate and further improving the competency of existing members. and streamline the sustainability related activities of all the projects and project offices. Through this team, the sustainability initiatives The process of obtaining ISO 17025:2005 for the Geotechnical and of the company will be focused to produce more tangible benefits at Laboratory Services Division (GLSD) will be completed during 2011. local, regional and national level. At present, we are awaiting the approval of the system documentation and once conformation is received, action will be taken to obtain certification within six months. Implementation of the system will enable the laboratory to operate a quality system that ensure the Sustainability Reporting generation of technically valid results taking account of the equipment, This is the first dedicated Sustainability Report of AEL. This report procedures and personnel. When the system is refined through the is based on the GRI G3 reporting guidelines and the information is external audits and is fully operational at the GLSD, the policy and arranged into chapters corresponding to the sections of the Guideline. procedures will be implemented at all other project-based laboratories To further improve the coverage of information provided through the located in different parts of the country. report, it will be expanded to meet Level A reporting criteria next year. Next report will also be subjected to third party checking and Forming a Compliance Committee verification to ensure accuracy and reliability of the information With the upcoming Initial Public Offering (IPO), there is a need for further strengthening corporate accountability. To meet this requirement, it is proposed to form a ‘Compliance Committee’ consisting of corporate management members representing all business units. The Committee will be entrusted with all compliancerelated functions including internal audits which will ensure optimum practices in corporate governance, accountability, transparency and sustainability reporting. The Committee will play a key role as a policy formulating body and a link between the Board of Directors and the employees, facilitating both top-down and bottom-up communication. 40 46 The contact point for any queries regarding the report or its content is Dr. Prabath Karunanayake (Head of HR), who can be reached on +9411 2302386 or prabathkaru@accessengsl.com. This report is available online at http://www.accessengsl.com/sustainability_report.php Access Towers, Level-8, 278 Union Place, Colombo 02, Sri Lanka. phone : (+94) 11 2 302 302 fax : (+94) 11 2 302 333 email : inquiries@accessengsl.com Designed by RNH InfoTec www.accessengsl.com www.rnhit.com
