Table of Contents Statement of Support 3 Human Rights Policies and Programs 4 Human Rights Accomplishments 5 Charitable and Social Responsibility Policies and Programs 5 Charitable and Social Responsibility Accomplishments 5 Workplace Safety Policies and Programs 6 Workplace Safety Accomplishments 6 Labor Policies and Programs 7 Labor Accomplishments 8 Environmental Product Compliance Policy and Programs 8 Environmental Product Compliance Accomplishments 8 Corporate Sustainability Policy and Programs 9 Corporate Sustainability Accomplishment Accomplishments 10 Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies 18 Anti-Corruption Policies and Programs 21 Anti-Corruption Corruption Accomplishments 22 About Anixter 22 Anixter International Page 2 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Statement of Support Period covered From: 1/2/13 To: 12/31/13 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Anixter International reaffirms its support of the ten principles rinciples of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human uman rights, labor, environment and antinti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Robert J. Eck President and Chief Executive Officer Anixter International Page 3 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Human Rights Policies and Programs Anixter’s commitment to human rights is made clear in our Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy. This policy is endorsed by Bob Eck, President and Chief Executive ecutive Officer, and Sam Zell, Chairman of the Board. This policy clearly states Anixter is committed to treating all employees fairly, courteously, respectfully and with dignity. This policy also states that Anixter complies with all employment laws and regulations egulations wherever it operates and will not tolerate unlawful discrimination of any kind. Anixter is committed to a workplace that is free from demeaning, intimidating, offensive, abusive or harassing behavior. Anixter supports industrywide wide efforts fforts to identify, reduce and hopefully eliminate the use of conflict minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, ies, which are believed to be financing groups that are responsible for human rights violations. Anixterxter is committed to fully complying with the new conflict minerals requirements included in the Dodd-Frank Frank Act, which requires publicly traded companies to perform due diligence as to the existence and source of conflict minerals in their supply chains. Anixter protects human rights and prevents human rights abuse through its: Human Rights Policy Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy Anti-Harassment Harassment Policy Anti-Retaliation Policy Workplace Violence and Response Policy Reaffirmation of Policy on Confidentiality Employee Personal Data Protection Policy and Notice Global Health and Safety Policy Nondiscrimination in employment mployment and personnel practices Business Integrity Help Line and other communication mechanisms. mechanisms All human rights policies and prprograms ograms are administered by Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee, Chief Compliance Officer, Regional Compliance Officers and the Human Resources and Internal Audit organizations. Anixter’s President and Chief Executive Officer Officer, Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Compliance Officers periodically communicate to global employees to reinforce training and polices that pertain to all aspects of human rights and corporate responsibility. Anixter is continually advancing human rightrights s policies and practices by regularly engaging with experts in the field and with peers. Anixter is committed to the participation of certified minority, women women-owned owned and disabled veteran business enterprises enterprises. Anixter will use reasonable efforts to provide Anixter International Page 4 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report opportunities whenever practical for subcontracting, purchasing urchasing or reselling, reselling teaming arrangements and m mentor-protégé programs. Human Rights Accomplishments Anixter initiated an internal review of its supply chain that included surveying its suppliers to determine the potential use of conflict minerals in the products they sell to Anixter. Anixter is currently engaged in the process of distributing, collecting and evaluating supplier responses to the EICC EICC-GeSI Conflict Minerals Reporting Template. Anixter is committed to continuing its efforts to implement necessary conflict minerals due diligence procedures consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) guidelines and to meet the new public disclosure requirements of the Dodd Dodd-Frank Frank Act that go into effect in May 2014. Anixter has been successfully partnering and providing various business opportunities to certified minority, women women-owned owned and disabled veteran business enterprisess since 1999. Over the last four quarters, Anixter has averaged 18.2 percent of its U.S. purchases through certified minority, women women-owned owned and disabled veteran business enterprises. Charitable and Social Responsibility Policies and Programs Anixter believes lieves it is important to support the global communities where our employees live and where we conduct business. To support employees’ ongoing efforts and to further encourage charitable endeavors, Anixter created the Anixter Cares program. The Anixter Cares Car program provides matching gifts to the Red Cross, time off to volun volunteer teer at nonprofit organizations and company matching gifts to higher education within the U.S. and Canada. In addition, the Anixter Cares program also matches employee fundraising in the areas of poverty, education, medical and disaster relief. Charitable and Social Responsibility Accomplishments In 2013, the Anixter Cares program donated a total of $190,170 to various charitable organizations, which consisted of: $138,007 to the Red Cross $50,008 to poverty, education, medical and disaster relief $2,155 to higher education. A total of 140 Anixter employees from five Chicagoland locations participated in the Teaming Up For a Greener Tomorrow, a collaboration between the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge Series and JPMorgan Chase’s Office of Environmental Anixter International Page 5 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Affairs. A portion of Anixter’s $6,300 participation fee went to the nonprofit organizations Chicago o Run and the American Red Cross of Greater Chicago. Anixter’s global employees support charitable causes around the world in countless ways beyond their generous financial support support. For example, staff at Anixter’s headquarters supported: Two LifeSource blood drives where 72 employees donated blood that will help save or treat more than 200 lives Share Your Soles with 44 pairs of used athletic shoes that will be redistributed to children and adults located in the most impoverished areas of the world The he Greater Chicago Food Depository with more than 900 pounds of nonperishable food items donated,, which will provide 11,259 quality meals for families in need The U.S. Marine Corps Toys for Tots program by donating seven large boxes of toys. Anixter’s Bracknell and Spitfire Park, U.K. U.K., locations raised $1,000 for Macmillan Cancer Support. Workplace Safety Policies and Programs Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and healthy work environment through its: Global Health and Safety Policy Global Safety & Environmental Management System Continuous location management education and training on Global Health and Safety Policy compliance and equipment safety Electronic notification and mandatory training for staff when Anixter’s Global Health and Safety Policy is modified Certification or compliance to ISO-9001-2000 Quality Management System, System ISO14001-2004 Environmental Management System and OHSAS-18001 18001 International Occupational ccupational Health and Safety Management System Business Integrity Help Line and other communication mechanisms Quality Management nt System. Workplace Safety Accomplishments Anixter’s global Health, Safety and Environmental (HS&E) teams s work to make sure our compliance elements are met and that the guidelines of the Global Safety & Environmental Management System are followed. The global HS&E team eams make resources available and define responsibilities to enable the company to operate in a manner that provides a safe and healthy workpl workplace for employees and protects the environment. Anixter International Page 6 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Anixter’s locations in the Middle East, Europe, Asia Asia-Pacific Pacific and Latin America were audited to a long-term term multinational customer’s Supplier Conduct Principles as part of its Supply Chain Social Responsibility Program and successfully passed all metrics. In 2014, this customer will audit an Anixter location in Brazil to the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC) Code of Conduct. Both internal and external compliance audits were succes successfully sfully completed at 10 Anixter global locations for the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System and four European locations for the OHSAS 18001 International Occupational Health and Safety Management System. Anixter’s HS&E Senior Director continuou continuously sly monitors Anixter’s global operations and reviews the global Safety Action Item List with executive management on a quarterly basis to address any current concerns and to prioritize future actions. actions Continuing progress from last year, Anixter’s global HS&E teams:  Continued exceptional ccoverage in five continents  Increased Health and Safety Policy translations to nine languages  Increased distribution o of compliance reinforcement newsletters to 57  Increased compliance si site audits by 77  Increased employee co ompliance trainings by 2,207  Increased written trainiing programs by 1,321. Labor Policies and Programs Anixter strives to create a positive and safe work environment free of discrimination, harassment and inappropriate conduct, and in which employees treat each other fairly and with dignity and respect. Anixter supports and upholds the elimination of dis discriminatory criminatory practices with respect to employment and occupation. Anixter promotes and embraces diversity in all aspects of its business operations. Anixter further supports the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor as well as the ffreedom reedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative if desired. Anixter also provides a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. Anixter condemns all forms of child exploitation and supports the elimination of exploitative child labor. Anixter protects its labor policies and practices through: Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices Anti-Harassment Harassment Policy Anti-Retaliation Policy Workplace Violence and Response Policy Annual compensation bench benchmarking analysis Anixter International Page 7 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Competitive employee benefit programs Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy Employee notices of right to join or form unions for purposes of collective bargaining, if desired Global Health and Safety Policy Business Integrity Help Line and other communication mechanisms. Human rights policies and programs are administered by Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee, Geographic Regional Compliance Officers and the Human Resources and Internal Audit organizations. Labor Accomplishments Anixter updated its Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy (Ethics Policy) to, to among other things, further emphasize and expand upon its commitment to these principles and policies (See ee www.anixter.com/ethics for additional information.). information The updated Ethics Policy further encourages employees to make a report whenever they experience or observe any form of discrimination, harassment or unsafe conditions in the workplace, and it describes the various channels available vailable to Anixter employees for reporting, including anonymously if desired. The updated Ethics Policy further highlights Anixter’s strict prohibition against any form of retaliation against anyone who makes a report in good faith. The updated Ethics Policy licy was made available in multiple languages for Anixter’s global employee population. All Anixter employees worldwide have been assigned mandatory online training on the new Ethics Policy. In addition, all new employees are required to complete training on the Ethics Policy. Each year, all regular Anixter employees are required to complete a certification acknowledging compliance with the Ethics Policy. Environmental Product Compliance Policy and Programs Anixter is committed to providing products that comply with all applicable environmental compliance laws and regulations in the countries where we conduct business. Environmental Product Compliance Accomplishments After many months of rigorous testing, Anixter went live with its new environmental product oduct compliance (EPC) software system in the fourth quarter. To date, Anixter’s Information Services team has successfully loaded over 450,000 active global parts and their respective attributes into the EPC system. An additional 20,000 parts will load by year-endend followed by predetermined load intervals taking place starting in 2014 to make sure ongoing part data remains current. Anixter International Page 8 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report With the EPC system now live, Anixter’s global EPC team began migrating suppliers’ Declarations of Conformity for EU RoHS ((Restriction triction of Hazardous Substances directive) and statements of compliance for EU REACH (Registration, egistration, Evaluation, Authorization uthorization and Restriction of Chemicals) to their respective part number(s) contained in the database. After supplier compliance documentation is associated with a part in the system, a visual indicator signals to the users its compliance or noncompliance status to each of the listed regulations. This system is designed to guide and better enable EPC users and others to ship compliant parts in and to the EU or in customer applications outside the EU when requested. In addition, Anixter utilized the ElCC-GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Sustainability Initiative) Conflict C Minerals Reporting Template for use in both surveying its suppliers and responding to customer inquiries. Anixter is in the process of loading global supplier EICC-GeSI EICC survey responses into its EPC system. Finally, in early 2014, Anixter will b begin egin surveying select suppliers seeking to obtain IPC 1752 full material disclosures on the substances contained in their parts. Anixter’s EPC system is designed to read the IPC 1752 and continuously monitor each part’s substances against the frequently ch changing anging EU REACH regulations and the periodically changing EU RoHS regulations to determine if there has been a change in a product’s compliance ompliance status. Additional EPC compliance modules that are capable of supporting other global regulations will be evaluated ated over the next year for possible implementation. Corporate Sustainability Policy and Programs Anixter’s Corporate Sustainability program seeks to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with its targeted environmental aspects of Energy, Waste, Materials and Natural Resources, and Transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using A Sustainable PathSM Approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances corporate social responsibility and return on investment. The Corporate Sustainability program’s goal is to control and reduce: Energy through the use of technology Waste by capitalizing on opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle Materials and Natural R Resources by increasing recycled content in consumables while simultaneously purs pursuing source reduction strategies Anixter International Page 9 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Transportation emissions by using outsourced third-party party carriers and internal interna fleet vehicles that operate in the most environmentally efficient manner possible in addition to enforcing our global No Idling Policy at all warehouse locations. Corporate Sustainability Accomplishments Energy Accomplishments Anixter’s 142,000 142,000-square-foot foot Willebroek, Belgium, facility successfully started using solar energy from rooftop solar panels in late 2011. 2011 By using solar energy to operate roughly 50 percent of the facility, the location has successfully attained a 19.6 p percent annual reduction of nonrenewable electricity consumption consumption,, which is 5.1 percent higher than the 2012 target of 14.5 percent. Anixter completed construction on its new 61,000-square-foot annex building at its corporate headquarter in the Chicago subu suburb of Glenview. The annex was built to the U.S. Green Building Council LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) specifications and we anticipate obtaining LEED Certified status by yearyear end. Anixter occupied 21,000 square feet of space in a newly constructed building in St. John’s, Newfoundland,, that was built to the U.S. Green Building Council LEED specifications and awaits formal certification. Anixter will continue to evaluate adding more U.S. Green Building Council LEED-certified buildings to o its existing portfolio of energy-efficient efficient buildings, which in addition to the two sites pending certification above, consists of the 195,000 95,000-square-foot foot Edmonton, Alberta, facility that was LEED Silver certified in 2011 and the 457,000-square-foot Alsip,, IL, building that was LEED Certified in 2007. Anixter successfully installed energy energy-monitoring systems that control and schedule the heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems (HVAC). By using statistical analysis to reduce operational and maintmaintenance enance costs, these systems improve energy efficiency by monitoring the health of the HVAC systems. Anixter now has a total of 20 energy-monitoring monitoring systems installed across North America. As a result, result Anixter has reduced preventative maintenance HVAC inspections by 50 percent since 2011. Depending epending upon the duration of lease terms and payback calculations, Anixter’sAnixter lighting ighting systems can range from advanced systems that can include automatic scheduling, intensity-controlled controlled ballasts and motion control sensors to traditional energy-efficient T8/T5 florescent fixtures. Even though nearly all of Anixter’s buildings are using energy energy-efficient T8/T5 fixtures, 48 global locations are using advanced lighting controlntrol systems that typically ypically reduce annual lighting electrical consumption between 40 to 60 percent. Anixter International Page 10 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report As a result of server consolidation and virtualization implemented over the last few years, Anixter has successfully reduced the number of physical servers in its data center by more than 70 percent. The corresponding decrease in data center cooling requirements ements enabled Anixter this past February to install an air conditioning auto changer that rotates the shutdown of one of three air conditioning units each month. The monthly shutdown of an air conditioning unit combined with the removal of obsolete equipment ent allowed Anixter to decrease average data center electricity consumption by 20.7 percent between March and November. The air conditioning system for the data center is managed on a separate circuit and over the same time period average electrical consumption decreased by 30 percent. As prices continue to decrease, Anixter is increasing the use of LED lighting within its buildings. Anixter’s new 61,000-square-foot corporate headquarters annex located in Glenview, IL, completely uses LED lighting. ighting. Anixter’s newly constructed 38,500-square-foot foot Salt Lake City, U UT, location has strategically placed LED lights across the building. While Anixter continues to evaluate an energy management software system that tracks costs, consumption, carbon e emissions missions and U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® STAR performance ratings in four Illinois buildings whose combined footprint exceeds 779,200 square feet of space space,, discussions are underway to possibly undertake an outsourced solution for all of Anixter’s North American buildings. Anixter’s Chesterfield, U.K.U.K., warehouse installed two high-speedspeed dock doors that are motion-sensor sensor activated to open in three seconds and close in five seconds. The Chesterfield location, combined with several other global Anixter locations, uses use high-speed speed dock doors to better control indoor temperatures. Anixter’s 260,440-square-foot foot Reno, NNV, facility installed 29 advanced highhigh frequency forklift battery chargers. These chargers reduce energy consumption and lower battery charging ing temperatures temperatures, which in turn reduces battery water consumption. A global email mail titled “Flip the Switch for a Cause” was sent to approximately 8,300 Anixter employees to create environmental awareness and ask for local participation in switching off residential lights for an hour during Earth Hour 2013. Anixter International Page 11 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Waste Accomplishments Anixter continues to reduce landfill waste, lower operating costs and increase recycling tonnage by outsourcing various disposal services to specialized waste brokers brokers. Anixter successfully outsourced an additional 12 sites in the U.K. bringing the total U.K. brokered sites to 18 and Anixter’s international total to 142. Anixter successfully implemented 1 15 new North American recycling programs that will divert more than 384,4 400 pounds of cardboard, plastic and other mixed recyclables from landfills annually. Four North American facilities successfully recycled more than 138,600 pounds of metal, plastic, wood and other mixed recyclables in one one-time time disposal events. Anixter’s 30,000-square-foot foot Singapore location started a wood recycling program that lowered overall disposal expenses and will divert over 48,000 pounds of scrap wood from landfills annually, which equates to 35 percent of the location’s waste stream. Thanks to the he efforts of a local employee, Anixter’s Dulles, VA, location successfully diverted its roughly 30,000 pounds of annual trash to a material recycling facility where roughly 85 percent of the location’s total waste, or about 25,500 pounds a year, is now being ing recycled at no additional cost. Anixter’s outsourced florescent lamp maintenance and recycling program expanded to 14 U.S. warehouse locations and successfully recycled more than 1,340 4-foot 4 lamps. Anixter’s international Supply Chain Solutions organization successfully diverted and recycled more than 25,000 pounds of packaging waste from customers’ job site sites. Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions organization provides customers with various value-added added services such as the kitting of multiple line items into a single finished good part number to ease ordering and improve job job-site site receiving and the preassembling of racks, cabinets and camer cameras as prior to shipping to improve job site productivity and lower overall project costs. By using Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions’ READY! SM Deployment Services, customers can obtain documentation that will help them toward earning two possible LEED points for job-site site waste diversion. Within North America, Anixter successfully recycled more than 150,000 pounds of o obsolete forklifts and other warehouse equipment. Anixter International Page 12 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Anixter continues to expand the use of its reusable PARAPULLSM wooden paralleling reels reels, which now encompasses 29 North American locations. The Anixter Anixterdesigned PARAPULL reels accommodate various cut cut-to-length length cables of the same gauge onto a single multichambered reel. Customers u using a single PARAPULL P reel can eliminate between two to four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. Because each PARAPULL ARAPULL reel is reused on average six times, their ongoing use helps preserve rve natural resources while eliminating empty reel disposal costs and wastes from job sites that frequently end up in landfills. Anixter successfully shipped more than 1,700 0 reusable PARAPULL reels to customers across North America. Anixter continues to expand xpand its cut cut-to-length cable services, which are offered from 135 global locations. By having Anixter cut cable to the exact length required, job-site site cable waste is basically eliminated. In addition addition, job-site site costs are reduced as the need to purchase, cut ut and control master cable reels and resulting short cable lengths or leftover cable no longer exists. Over the last 12 months, Anixter processed more than 1,401,000 custom cable cuts for its global customers. Anixter’s internal ISO audit team added an o office ffice and warehouse recycling review to each location visit to evaluate the recycling program’s effective utilization. Anixter’s eight largest square footage locations successfully passed their reviews without a single nonconformance event being recorded. In 2014, the internal ISO audit team will evaluate the location recycling programs of approximately 24 sites. Anixter’s U.S. Operations team successfully conducted an electronic 12 site singlesingle stream office recycling survey to validate that existing recyc recycling ling programs are operating effectively. Programs were enhanced where necessary. Even though Anixter seeks to operate as paperless as possible, paper is a necessity. As a result, Anixter’s corporate headquarters shredded over 61,700 pounds of paper that was recycled into various consumer paper products that prevented roughly 525 trees from being harvested harvested,, according to our shredding partner. Anixter’s U.K. Green Team implemented employee battery recycling programs in 14 locations. Anixter successfully recycle recycled more than 30,400 pounds of scrap electronic equipment globally. Anixter International Page 13 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Materials and Natural Resources Accomplishments Out of 17,000 organizations evaluated for exemplary environmental purchasing by Office Depot, Inc., Anixter in the United Statestates was one of 28 award recipients that received a special recognition award for its leadership in dark green p purchasing. urchasing. The dark green classification is Office Depot’s highest and most environmentally friendly Shades of Green category that denotes products with ith attributes that can include, but are not limited to, a high percentage of recycled, plant-based plant or remanufactured content. Per the Office Depot August 2, 2013 2013, press release: release “Our winners are an elite group at the forefront of purchasing practice in the 21st century,” said Yalmaz Siddiqui, Senior Director of Environmental Strategy for Office Depot. “We know that office products are an ‘indicator category’ since organizations with wi leading environmentally preferable purchasing programs often start by greening their paper, toner, technology and other workplace products. Our award winners have shown real effort to reduce their environmental footprints through sourcing—and sourcing often save money while doing so.” Much like Anixter’s U.S. locations, Anixter’s global locations also seek to increase the green attributes contained within the office supplies consumed. For example, over the last 12 months, Anixter’s Canadian business spen spent 52 percent cent of its total office supply expense on green items and three U.K. business units spent spen 66 percent. In the late fourth quarter, Anixter’s U.S. locations successfully transitioned from using 100 percent virgin copier paper to a 30 percent recycled content paper at no incremental expense. Based on U.S. 2012 paper consumption, tthis his reduction in virgin paper will prevent about 1,769 trees, 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40-feet40 tall, from being harvested annually. annually.* Last year, Anixter’s Canadian locati locations ons successfully transitioned from using 100 percent virgin copier paper to a 30 percent recycled content paper and at no incremental cost. This reduction in virgin paper prevented about 239 trees, trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40--feet tall, from being harvested this year.* Anixter’s eBusiness offerings allow global customers and suppliers the ability to seamlessly process a vast array of business transactions with Anixter in a secure and paperless environment. eBusiness highlights include: Electronic Data Interface (EDI) (EDI). Anixter successfully processed more than 1.9 million global EDI transactions of which 544,890, or roughly 28 percent, directly resulted in the elimination of a paper transaction such as an invoice, purchase order or forecast. lectronic invoicing. Anixter communicates extensively with Third-party electronic various online procurement platforms, marketplaces and private exchanges and Anixter International Page 14 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report successfully processed more than 94,000 paperless invoice transactions through these networks. eDelivery. Anixter’s email invoice and statement notification program expanded to Europe and Asia-Pacific Pacific this year and successfully eliminated more than 575,000 paper invoices fromom more than 17,200 international customer accounts. Collectively, the above eBusiness transactions eliminated more than 1.2 million sheets of paper from being consumed, which p prevented revented about 147 trees, trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40--feet tall, from being harvested.* Anixter’s North American paperless travel and expense management system eliminated more than 1 million pieces of paper and over 1.2 million paper envelops from employee transactions this year. This paper reduction prevented ed about 127 trees, 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 40-feet tall, from being harvested.* Anixter’s 18 Asia-Pacific Pacific locations have successfully reduced their year-over-year year annual paper consumption by 15.3 percent, which prevented the consumption of more than 274,500 sheets of paper. This reduction in paper prevented about 33 trees, 6 to 8 inches es in diameter and 4040-feet feet tall, from being harvested.* Anixter’s Marketing Communications organization strives to incorporate green practices into everything produced. For example in Europe, Anixter eliminated more than 275,000 sheets of paper by issuing more than 400 USB drives at trade shows. This reduction in paper prevented about 33 trees, 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 4040 feet tall, from being harvested.* In Asia-Pacific, Pacific, Anixter eliminated plastic bags at trade shows and instead used more than 3,500 eco-friendly friendly recyclable bags. Anixter’s’s Enterprise Content Management team continues to successfully cancel or convert various system-generated generated paper reports into an electronic format. The team successfully eliminated more than 140 reports and the consumption of over 225,500 sheets of paper this year. T This reduction in paper prevented about 27, trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40--feet tall, from being harvested.* Anixter successfully expanded the functionality of its existing software to now allow global buyers the option of emailing PDF purchase orders to suppliers directly, eliminating the need to print, scan and email PDF files or fax orders. This change has eliminated the consumption of roughly 91,200 sheets of paper in addition to allowing recipient suppliers to do the same. This reduction in paper prevented about 11 trees, 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 40-feet tall, from being harvested.* rvested.* Anixter’s Corporate Facilities team has successfully eliminated the consumption of over 88,200 sheets of paper by using electronic communications to reach the nearly 1,000 corporate employees located within two buildings. This prevented about 11 1 trees, 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 40-feet feet tall, from being harvested.* In the fourth quarter, Anixter’s U.S. locations successfully began receiving small to midsize office supply orders from Office Depot, Inc. in post post-consumer consumer recycled Anixter International Page 15 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report content bags ass opposed to cardboard boxes. Despite the high recycled content contained in both the boxes and bags, this conversation will prevent about nine trees, 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 40-feet feet tall, from being harvested annually.* Last year, Anixter success successfully began to offer electrical contractors the option of receiving cut cut-to-length cable on SM reusable metal PARASPIN reels that have five independent spinning chambers to pull from. Customers using a single PARASPIN reel can eliminate four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. Because the PARASPIN reel completely eliminates the use of wood and is reusable, natural resources are preserved and cable reel waste and disposal costs are eliminated at the job site. Due to increasing customer demand, Anixter added an additional five locations that are capable of offering PARASPIN services bringing the total to 17. Over the last 12 months, these 12 locations shipped and retrieved over 1,100 reusable PARASPIN reels from customer job sites. Anixter’s U.S. operations,, which have the largest global square footage footprint, used more than 1.6 million pounds of corrugated boxes that contain between 40 to 55 percent recycled content. Anixter began rolling out its new warehouse management system called WMX as part of its next generation global supply chain system. WMX uses new technologies that will significantly gnificantly reduce paper and printing waste generated throughout an entire warehouse’s order-processing processing cycle while further improving global operational efficiencies. Anixter successfully transitioned to the WMX system in five U.S. distribution centers thatt collectively ship more than 1.2 million lines of product from more than 1 million square feet of combined warehouse space. Additional site rollouts will take place in 2014. Anixter started a new service in the first quarter called READY! LayerSM, which reduces the total number of cable reels needed at a job site by adding multiple layers of cable to a reel chamber. With more layers that are added, fewer reels are needed, which helps to reduce transportation costs, transportation emissions and, wh whenen wood reels are used, tree consumption. READY! Layer is especially beneficial when combined with Anixter’s PARAPULL or PARASPIN services. Anixter’s U.S. locations will have shipped more than 100 READY! Layer shipments to customer customers’ job sites. Anixter requires all global locations to use remanufactured toner cartridges for nonproduction printers where available. By converting to remanufactured printer toner cartridges, Anixter reduces toner costs by 30 to 60 percent and eliminates eli the energy and emissions ns required for new OEM cartridge manufacturing. acturing. For example, with Anixter’s primary U.S. office supply partner, this year the organization saved Anixter International Page 16 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report over $50,000 in toner costs by using remanufactured cartridges instead of OEM cartridges. Anixter also recycle recycles the empty cartridges allowing them to be reused, which prevents thousands of pounds of plastic and metal from entering landfills annually. Anixter’s corporate headquarter headquarters and the adjacent annex building staffs more than 1,000 employees and has 12 interactive whiteboards installed in meeting rooms that when used with the interactive pens allow meeting notes to be taken and shared electronically without using paper. Even though Anixter’s global distribution operations are not water intensive, the company does seek to conserve water through the installation of water-efficient water fixtures in new buildings and in existing building retrofits. Examples include the following: Anixter’s nixter’s Mississauga, Ontario Ontario, location, which has around 280 employees, upgraded facets, toilets and sinks to ecoeco-friendly hands-free free devices. devices Anixter’s 249,400-squaresquare-foot Reno, NV, warehouse installed 29 advanced highhigh frequency forklift battery chargers that lower battery charging temperatures, which reduces duces battery water consumptio consumption. Anixter’s Bracknell, U.K.U.K., location, which has around 120 employees, employees installed Zip Taps that provide instant hot water without the use of hot water tanks. * Environmental impact estimates were made using the Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator Version 3.2. For more information, visit www.papercalculator.org. Transportation Accomplishments Anixter’s OEM Supply division successfully u used a third-party third transportation partner to collect, consolidate and ship more than 68.8 million pounds of fasteners from more than 500 U.S. suppliers to Anixter’s U.S. warehouses. This program processed more than 6.8 million pounds in 2013 than in 2012. By consolidating supplier shipments, Anixter reduce reduces operating expenses, increases material visibility and lowers carbon emissions. Anixter’s OEM Supply division successfully u used a third-party party transportation partner to collect, consolidate and ship more than 300 TEUS (twenty foot equivalent units), or roughly 9.4 million pounds, of fasteners from more than 50 Taiwanese suppliers to Anixter’s U.S. warehouses. This program eliminated more than 1,360 individual supplier shipments by using sing full containers, which reduced operating expenses, increased material visibility and lowered carbon emissions. More than 94 percent cent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and international transportation spend is with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s certified SmartWay carriers Anixter International Page 17 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report for product shipped into and out of the U.S. SmartWay carriers focus on reducing emissions and fuel consumpti consumption. Due to developing technologies for increasing fuel efficiency efficiency, Anixter chooses its annual North American fleet replacement vehicles vehicles,, which is Anixter’s largest in the world, on highway miles per gallon (MPG). Out of the 175 new vehicles ordered for the 2013 model year, 14 were rated at 34 MPG, 135 at 27 MPG or greater and 26 were rated at between 22 and 26 MPG. The installation of more than 80 GPS guidance systems in the U.K.’s fleet vehicles last year helped to increase fuel economy and improve driver productivity, which allowed Anixter to reduce its overall U.K. fleet by 7.5 percent due to more efficient route planning. Anixter continues to operate a global No Idling program at warehouse locations. Truck drivers ers are required to turn off their engines while awaiting materials to be loaded or unloaded from their vehicles. Anixter-designed designed No Idling signs are placed on driver entrance doors as well as in select yard and loading dock locations. Anixter’s No Idling program rogram seeks to improve air quality, reduce carbon emissions and increase safety. Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies Anixter leverages its global leadership position to advance environmentally friendly technologies to further support our customers, strategic partners and internal operations. Anixter ipAssuredSM: Data Center HealthCheckSM Developed and tested by Anixter's Infrastructure Solutions LabSM, Anixter ipAssured is a program that simplifies infrastructure choices for data center and security applications. Through product categorization, a customer can recognize up to 55 percent eneenergy savings by deploying state-of-the-art art infrastructure. A subcomponent of Anixter’s ipAssured program is the Data Center HealthCheckSM. Under this program program, Anixter’s global Technical Services Group will evaluate the current data center operations of exi existing sting and potential customers looking for energy savings using industry best practices as well as documented standards of compliance such as IEEE and TIA. Anixter’s Anixter International Page 18 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report evaluation will provide recommendations to improve operational efficiency, which often timess can bring a 4 to12 percent reduction in energy consumption. This year, Anixter complete completed more than 200 Data Center HealthChecks. Checks. Anixter Virtual Engagement Center Anixter offers seminars using a highly interactive online tool to connect customers with manufacturer partners across the globe. Traditionally, seminars were held in different cities around the world world, which required customers and manufacturers to be at the same physical location at the same time time. Moving to a virtual environment saves participants pants both time and expenses while eliminating the environmental impact associated with traveling. This year more than 2 2,000 ,000 registrants entered Anixter’s Virtual Engagement Center to keep pace with leading leading-edge edge industry trends and products all from the convenience of their homes or offices. Anixter UniversitySM Anixter creates courses in a university university-like setting for customers to evaluate data ata center energy consumption. Course examples include Power Distribution and Thermal Management. Topics covered include, but are not limited to, energy energy-efficient design, metering and monitoring of power u using the PUE metric established by The Green Grid and how best to separate hot exhaust air from chilled supply air. Anixter deliver delivered more than 300 Anixter University ty presentations worldwide. The Green Grid and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ENERGY STAR Data Center Program Anixter nixter is a contributor to industry industry-recognized leaders for data center er efficiency. Through Anixter-created created videos and seminars, Anixter helps these institutions further strengthen their commitment to increasing energy energy-efficient efficient data centers. Employee Education Anixter uses es an electronic delivery model for much of its learning and development programs. s. Web Web-based virtual workshops, classes, webinars, customer trade shows, surveys and e e-courses are delivered through a global learning management system (LMS). Anixter’s LMS helps reduce carbon emissions by eliminating employee travel and preserves natural resources as printed training materials are eliminated. Over the last year, more than 74,970 Web-based courses and more than 3,650 location training events were successfully completed by Anixter global employees. Anixter International Page 19 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report A Web-basedbased Corporate Sustainability Envi Environmental ronmental Aspect training module was created for Anixter’s OEM Supply division where 30 global Regional Operations Directors and staff successfully took and passed the training. Virtual Lab Tours Anixter’s Virtual Lab Tours provide an alternative to live customer visits where cost, time and distance may make it problematic to visit one of Anixter’s demonstration demo facilities in Glenview, IL, Bracknell, U.K. U.K., or Mexico City, Mexico. Even though a live lab visit provides for a better customer experience, the subject matter experts that are available for live visits also host the virtual visits. Presentations detailing industry trends can also be covered during a virtual tour of our lab facilities. The video conferencing bridge offers HD quality video and audio between the Anixter Lab and the customer site. Anixter has conducted more than 10 virtual lab visits primarily with international customers. Digital Marketing Anixter began its digital marketing strategies two years ago by focusing on the promotion of Anixter, its brand, products and services over various digital channels such as Web, mobile, social and email with great success. A part of Anixter’s digital marketingting strategy is the migration of traditional print materials into digital formats for use by internal sales representatives and external users. These materials include print catalogs, case studies, fact sheets, reference guides, product specification sheets ts and various literature. Over this period, Anixter has saved more than 24,000 pieces of printed materials annually and has more than 100,000 product specification sheets in digital format for easy and quick access by customers on Anixter.com. As more information ormation is digitized, and in particular video formats due to customer demand, Anixter is committed to continually find ways to be resourceful and support the green planet. Corporate Sustainability Database In the late fourth quarter, Anixter’s global Corporate Sustainability Database was completed and released. The database is designed to track Anixter’s four environmental aspects of Energy, Waste, Materials and Natural Resources and Transportation at the location level for over 250 facilities. Anixter’s Asia-Pacific Asia locations are the first to begin beta testing the database. Additional regional rollouts will take place in 2014. Anixter International Page 20 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Anti-Corruption Policy and Programs Anixter is proud of its reputation as a fair, honest and ethical company. All Anixter directors, officers and employees are required to conduct business with the highest degree of honesty and integrity in accordance with the principles set forth in Anixter’s Ethics Policy. This includes a responsibili responsibility ty to transact business in full compliance with all applicable laws and in accordance with the highest principles of business ethics and conduct. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption corruption are a top focus of the Ethics Policy and of Anixter’s compliance program generally.erally. The Ethics Policy, along with Anixter’s Global AntiAnti Bribery policy, clearly communicates Anixter’s zero-tolerance to bribery and other forms of corruption. No bribe of any kind may be authorized, offered, given, requested or accepted in the course of doing business for Anixter. Anixter also prohibits facilitation payments and the giving or receiving of gifts or hospitality to or from public officials anywhere where in the world, regardless of its value. Anixter’s prohibition on bribery is not limited to g government officials; it also extends to bribes involving commercial parties. Anixter’s anti-corruption corruption policies are designed to comply with all anti-bribery bribery and anti anti-corruption corruption laws in countries where it operates or conducts business, including, but not lilimited mited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. This strict prohibition against bribery and corruption also extends to Anixter’s business partners. All third parties or intermediaries who perform services for or act on Anixter’s ’s behalf (such as Anixter Anixter-appointed appointed distributors or resellers, consultants, professional advisers,, joint venture partners, project partners, customs brokers, freight forwarders, sales agent, and other agents or representatives) are required to comply with Anixter’s Global Business P Partner Anti-Corruption Corruption Policy. This policy, which was adopted in 2013, requires new or renewing business partners located in “high-risk countries” to complete a compliance questionnaire, agree to Anixter’s Business Partner Anti-Corruption Corruption Policy and undergo a due diligence screening. Anixter encourages the prompt reporting of misconduct and offers multiple channels for reporting violations (or potential violations) of the Ethics Policy or its anti-bribery anti policies. This includes a mechanism for anonymous reporting through the Anixter Business Integrity Line, which is operated by an outside party. Anixter takes all reports of possible misconduct seriously. Anixter investigates promptly, thoroughly and confidentially and taketakes appropriate corrective action. Anixter has a strict anti-retaliation retaliation policy in support of anyone who reports a violation in good faith or cooperates in an investigation investigation. Anixter International Page 21 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Anti-Corruption Accomplishments Anixter adopted a new Business Partner Anti Anti-Corruption Corruption Policy applicable to thirdparty business partners doing business on behalf of A Anixter, nixter, as described above. All employees whose job function may involve the hiring of business partners, partners which covers approximately 78 percent of all employees, were required to complete training on this new policy. In 2013, Anixter updated pdated the Ethics Po Policy to expand the anti-corruption tion and antianti bribery sections to, among other things, reflect the new Business Partner artner AntiAnti Corruption Policy. The updated Ethics Policy was made available in multiple languages for Anixter’s ’s global employee population, see www.anixter.com/ethics for additional information. All Anixter employees worldwide have been assigned mandatory online training ning on the new Ethics Policy. In addition, all new employees are required to complete tra training ining on the Ethics Policy. Each year, all regular Anixter employees are required to complete a certification acknowledging compliance with the Ethics Policy. About Anixter Anixter International is a leading global distributor of enterprise cabling and security se solutions, electrical and electronic wire and cable, and OEM supply fasteners and other small parts. The company adds value to the distribution process by providing its customers access to 1) innovative inventory management programs; 2) more than 450,000 0,000 products and over $1 billion in inventory; 3) approximately 220 warehouses with 7 million square feet of space; and 4) locations in over 250 cities in more than 50 countries. Founded in 1957 and headquartered near Chicago, Anixter trades on the New York ork Stock Exchange under the symbol AXE. For more information on Anixter, please visit anixter.com. Anixter International Page 22 of 22 Corporate Responsibility Report
