Responsibility in everything we do Sustainability Report 2011/2012 www.polymetalinternational.com Overview Contents Polymetal’s core objective is to Fewer injuries Overview 2 Chairman’s introduction generate superior sustainable returns Our redesigned health and safety system is 2 4 About this report Polymetal at a glance for shareholders whilst maintaining the paying dividends with 6 Where we operate dramatically reduced 8 An interview with the Chief Executive 10 Our approach to sustainability injury frequency rates. highest possible standard of corporate 12 15 How we manage sustainability Stakeholder engagement 36 16 How we identify priorities citizenship. We aim to ensure that Economic our core business of precious metals 18 Ensuring economic progress exploration, mining and production US$6 million 20 Contribution to economic development 22 Case study: Working with communities We invested US$6 million in Amursk operates efficiently and safely, thereby in community programmes in 2012. 23 Case study: Ozerny – a new industrial community arrives in Khabravsk Territory meeting our commercial goals. At the Environment same time we are committed to the 24 Ensuring environmental progress 21 26 Managing our environmental performance sustainable economic development 32  Case study: May the ‘ecological landing force’ be with you 33  Case study: Going beyond environmental of the regions in which we operate. ISO 14001 management compliance at Amursk We achieved independent Employees certification of our It is this match between our core Health and safety ISO 14001 environmental 34 Ensuring a safe working environment management system. 38  Case study: New approaches to hazard objective and the interests of our identification and risk assessment 39 Case study: Healthy working lives employees, suppliers, investors, local Careers, reward and development 26 40 Investing in our people 46 Case study: Competition for best ideas communities and other stakeholders 47 Case study: Employee development that is the key to long-term success. 23 Communities 50 Building strong relationships with our In 2012 we renovated communities 23 healthcare and 54 Case study: On air – news desk for education facilities. young people 55 Case study: Supporting IMN GRI results 52 56 Table of standard disclosures under GRI reporting 60 GRI statement Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 1 Overview Overview Responsibility: at the heart of everything we do Chairman’s introduction About this report This is the third summary of our sustainability performance, Polymetal has made significant progress covering the calendar years 2011 and 2012. The next full report will be published in 2015. In the interim, we will in its development as a leading precious summarise sustainability performance in the 2013 Annual Report, as well as providing updates on our corporate metals company. Our business is dispersed website www.polymetalinternational.com. across Russia and CIS, operates complex This report addresses all of our wholly-owned operating processes in remote areas, is subject mines and processing sites in Russia and Kazakhstan to extreme weather conditions and has (Dukat, Omolon, Amursk, Albazino, Mayskoye, Khakanja, Voro, Varvara), our headquarters in St. Petersburg and to create much of its own infrastructure. subsidiary companies responsible for exploration and other services. We own and operate all of these entities and have Our management systems, therefore, direct control over policies, procedures and performance. need to be robust and effective in order We have structured this report around our economic, to maintain the highest standards of environmental, health and safety, employee and community focused activity and performance. Within this we have sought employee safety, community partnership to address those issues that are deemed to be important by and environmental stewardship. the Board through its risk assessment function, those that are subject to legal obligation and those that are important This is the right thing to do and makes to our stakeholders. We believe that our approach to risk us a more effective business. That is assessment, legal compliance and stakeholder engagement is consistent with the precautionary principle. why sustainability is important and why Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index we are investing in these systems – This is our first report to have been prepared using the creating sustainable value for GRI G3.1 Guidelines, along with the Metals and Mining Supplement. While the measurement indicators used are our stakeholders. consistent with the guidelines, some we have reported on in our previous reports and some we have reported for the first time. In all cases we have presented the data in units consistent with GRI and, where possible, included data for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Our previous reports have focused on all of our operating companies, as does this. While we have new assets that have come on stream since our last report in 2010, we are using Bobby Godsell this opportunity to create a fresh baseline for future reports, Chairman of the Board of Directors which will also follow the GRI guidelines. As this is our first such report, we have opted not to seek external assurance, however, we will do so for our next full report in 2015. This will allow us to embed the data collection mechanisms that have been developed over the past two years as we improve our management systems, particularly around environment and health and safety. We are pleased that the management disclosures and performance data are consistent with a GRI Application Level B. 2 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 3 Overview Overview Polymetal at a glance Polymetal International is a London-listed Our business model Our portfolio 2012 highlights FTSE 100 company and a leading gold and 6 15.1 Moz Our business model is focused on centralised processing >> Polymetal demonstrated strong operational performance silver producer in Russia and Kazakhstan. facilities (hubs) to deliver significant capex and operating synergies, allowing us to reduce risk and extend project throughout the year. Total gold equivalent production of 1,063 Koz was up 31% compared to 2011, exceeding the Our goal is to provide sustainable value for life cycles. Ore reserves (GE oz) original projection of 1 Moz. This reflects stable operations Mining operations shareholders by delivering robust operating at all of our mature mines, with a notable improvement 18.7 Moz Dukat hub at Dukat and growth at Omolon and Albazino exemplary gove and financial performance from high-grade taining rna nc Albazino/Amursk/ >> Metal sales for the full year exceeded production Mayskoye POX hub assets whilst maintaining capital discipline ain ion rat e for both gold and silver M plo Fo Omolon hub Mineral resources (GE oz) >> The Amursk POX, the first operating POX plant in Russia’s c in organic and inorganic growth. ex 10,722 Voro standalone mine gold industry, has been slower than planned to come high-grade ass Inves online, but the ramp-up is progressing and we expect tin Varvara standalone mine on gi it to reach full capacity by the end of 2013 Our key competitive advantages n Delivering ets Khakanja hub >> There has been a dramatic increase of the resource base ing sustainable Total licence area (km2) at Albazino and potential new growth assets have been 9,237 1,854 >> A strong operational track record us identified through successful exploration at Kutyn >> High-quality reserve base >> Robust project pipeline gi n value and Svetloye >> We have implemented a new dividend policy, raising era Lev payout ratio to 30% and introducing special dividends. g Employees Sales revenue (US$ million) ou The first special dividend in the Company’s history Our corporate strategy ai rh ub-b ased syste m e of US$0.50 per share was paid in January 2013; a final Locations M nt nc dividend for 2012 of US$0.31 per share is proposed ain >> Deliver superior operating profitability at low risk ing r na by targeting high-grade assets exemplary g ove 1,063 Koz Russia Kazakhstan >> Invest in near-mine exploration to extend the life Magadan Region Kostanay Region Production of of existing operations Sverdlovsk Region gold equivalent >> Consistently advance standalone greenfield exploration >> Focusing on high-grade assets and open-pit mines Khabarovsk Territory 3 55 projects with the goal to discover world-class deposits We have a preference for open-pit mining unless higher Chukotka Autonomous Territory Production of gold equivalent >> Pursue synergistic acquisitions grades justify underground development. Grades and >> Maintain high corporate governance standards and mining conditions are the key cost factors that drive Awards (%) return on invested capital in the precious metals industry. ■ Gold a strategic approach to sustainability We have received numerous >> Our subsidiary company ■ Silver By setting appropriate thresholds on head grades and awards and citations from in the Ural’s was publicly ■ Copper focusing on open-pit mines we are achieving better returns from our project portfolio local community groups, praised for its progressive >> Leveraging our hub-based system NGOs, IMN groups and approach to environment Creation of centralised facilities for the treatment of local authorities. protection from the 42 materials from different sources allows us to minimise >> Our CEO Vitaly Nesis was Russian Government’s processing and logistics costs and achieve economies given a ‘For Merit’ award Federal Service for of scale by the Government of Nature Supervision Memberships >> Investing in exploration Khabarovsk Territory for >> In Kazakhstan, the We are members of and contribute to: This will allow us to ensure a cost-effective increase his and the Company’s Committee on Social >> UN Global Compact Network Russia in our reserve base which is, in turn, the key source role in socio-economic Protection and Control >> Union of Russian Gold Producers of long-term organic growth development in the area at the Ministry of Labour >> The Company received a and Social Protection >> Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs >> Maintaining exemplary governance letter of gratitude from the formally recognised the >> Association of Taxpayers of the Republic of Kazakhstan We strive to ensure proper steering of the Company, Company for its excellent accountability to shareholders and attention to other Magadan Region Governor for our socio-economic record on workplace stakeholders’ interests health and safety contribution 4 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 5 Overview Overview Mayskoye + Anadyr Where we operate (Amursk POX hub) High quality assets Omolon hub Map key Dukat hub Hub Potential hub Finland Magadan + Operating mines Khakanja hub Development projects Estonia St. Petersburg Latvia Seaport Lithuania Standalone mining operations Belarus Key exploration projects + Moscow Albazino Voro Russia (Amursk POX hub) Head office Amursk POX hub + City/town Ukraine + Ekaterinburg Khabarovsk + Varvara + Kostanay China Georgia Japan Kazakhstan Armenia Mongolia North Azerbaijan Uzbekistan China Korea South Our assets Korea Voro Varvara Dukat hub Omolon hub Khakanja hub Amursk POX hub Albazino (Amursk POX hub) Mayskoye (Amursk POX hub) Our first mine, at the peak Delivering stable operating Our flagship operation and Russia’s Delivering full potential of Transforming one of our core assets The first operating pressure Our newest asset with significant On track to launch in April 2013 of its performance performance in Kazakhstan largest primary silver mine a processing hub concept into a genuine processing hub oxidation plant in Russia and further growth potential the CIS gold sector 900 Heap leach (HL) 4.2 Float + Leach 1.5 Dukat concentrator 850 Kubaka CIP and 600 Merrill-Crowe plant 1.5 Albazino concentrator 850 Mayskoye concentrator Ktpa Mtpa Mtpa Ktpa Merrill-Crowe plant Ktpa 225 Amursk POX plant Mtpa Ktpa Ktpa processing concentrate from 900 Carbon in pulp (CIP) Varvara 300 Lunnoye CIL plant 1.3 Birkachan HL plant Khakanja, Avlayakan, Albazino and Mayskoye Albazino, South Ktpa Ktpa Mtpa Yurievskoye, Ozerny and East flanks Albazino, Mayskoye Dukat, Goltsovoye, Voro Varvara (flanks) Birkachan, Sopka, Tsokol (Chukotka) Lunnoye, Arylakh South Voro, Olcha Oroch, Dalneye, Prognoz Volchansky Krasin, Zvezdny, Pyatinakh, Burgali Kamenisty GE production GE production GE production GE production GE production GE production 157 Koz 134 Koz 357 Koz 173 Koz 164 Koz 77 Koz 6 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 7 Overview Overview An interview with the Chief Executive Inspiring sustainable progress Q. How do you ensure that Q. Where will you focus your sustainability is embedded sustainability efforts over throughout the business? the next few years? It is only possible to embed sustainability within a business, In line with our long-term sustainability priorities, we will large or small, with complete commitment from the leadership continue to focus on improving our health and safety system team. As the CEO, I therefore attach the same level of for employees, contractors and anyone visiting our sites. responsibility to sustainability as I do to our overall commercial Health and safety will always be a top priority, given the nature performance – the two being interlinked. That is why we are and scale of our operations and the further potential changes Q. Why is sustainability a signatory to the UN Global Compact and a member of its network in Russia. This is a public commitment and helps in technologies, materials and processes that can be applied to improve performance. In relation to the environment, we will important to Polymetal? us to frame our sustainability strategy and identify priorities. focus on waste management, water resource management and greenhouse gas emissions. Solid and liquid waste remain Our commercial success is, to a significant extent, underpinned Polymetal is a large organisation, with many people working an inevitable and significant outcome from our activities, while by our behaviour towards our stakeholders. Our employees in remote parts of Russia. Our employees are therefore key the ever present concerns and increased regulatory scrutiny expect us to provide a secure and safe working environment, agents of change and if they have not bought into the strategy mean that we must better understand the nature and sources our suppliers expect fair and clear business arrangements, at a macro and a micro-level, it will not work. It is the Company’s of our greenhouse gas emissions. our community partners expect us to respect their rights and ability to shape our employees’ experience, their ability to shape invest in areas that are important to them, our investors expect our strategy and to influence external parties that will mark out own barge fleet to ensure that shipments of ore and raw Our investment in community engagement will continue us to provide a sustainable economic return and government how well we have done in embedding sustainability. materials are reliable and safe. We are also working closely to grow in line with our expanding operations base and the agencies expect us to comply with the regulations that they with all suppliers to ensure greater compliance with our health recognition of the importance of all those people that live and create and monitor. Common to all though, is the knowledge and safety principles. work with and near to us. that we are acting honestly, transparently and fairly while Q. What have been the main Our strategic approach to sustainability has evolved as pursuing our core business interests. sustainability challenges Q. What have been the main we have grown and internationalised. Looking ahead, we over the past two years? sustainability successes will enhance our ability to control risks, reduce costs and increase innovation. We also recognise that sustainability performance will be of ever growing interest to our employees As we have internationalised, we have become accustomed to a growing level of interest in our record. Some of this has over the past two years? and external stakeholders. Over the next few years we will therefore enhance our processes for acquiring and analysing focused on our approach to environmental management and In part, our sustainability successes reflect the way in which sustainability data. This will be in line with the growing the resulting performance data. We have therefore revised our we have managed the challenges over the past two years. sophistication of our management systems and will make procedures in recognition of the need to disclose more of this For example, in 2010 we were disturbed at the loss of six lives the assessment of performance much easier and provide information to a wider set of stakeholders, beyond our Board across our mining and transportation activities. This prompted for more up to date, interactive reporting. and relevant government agencies. While our systems for root and branch revision of our health and safety systems analysing and disclosing this information have improved, during 2011/12. This work is now complete, and in 2012 we they will be developed further in 2013/14. have seen a second year in a row with zero fatalities and dramatically reduced injury frequency rates. Our ability to In 2012, we were deeply saddened at the loss of a ship that provide effective protection for employees can only get better we had chartered to transport ore from Avlayakan to Khakanja. as continuous improvement in this area remains a top priority The ship and its nine crew members went missing in a violent linked to management KPIs. storm. While the vessel was not owned by Polymetal, it highlights the sometimes difficult conditions in which we Over the past twelve months we have also improved our Vitaly Nesis and our suppliers work. Materially, the loss of the ore has environmental management system, which applies to all Chief Executive Officer had minimal impact on our processing activities, but, more locations and all functions of the business. I was pleased importantly, the lessons learned from the incident will ensure to see that in March 2013 we achieved a key environmental that ore shipping activity is safer now and in the future. goal when our environmental management system was In particular, we are investing in the construction of our independently certified to the ISO 14001 standard. 8 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 9 Overview Overview Our approach to sustainability Ensuring progress We regard sustainability as an essential Polymetal’s overall approach to sustainability is guided by the UN Global Compact, to Our focus element of our activities. It is an investment which the Company has been a signatory since 2009. In addition, our Code of Conduct in society as well as in our own future. guides the behaviour of all employees in That’s why we firmly believe that anchoring relation to their colleagues, local communities and the environment. At an operational level, sustainability as part of our business we have a suite of procedures and policies that are published in line with national strategy will lead to economic, regulatory and international standards. Economic environmental and social progress. All of these taken together influence our approach to the provision of high quality Materiality jobs, secure and safe employment, employee wellbeing and access to professional development. They also influence the way that we communicate and consult with our investors, communities, government What’s important bodies and NGOs in our areas of operation to our business and the systems we have in place to monitor Economic and improve environmental performance. Environment and Environment governance Ensuring Transparency Managing our and viability environmental impacts Responsible citizenship progress Promoting dialogue Employees > Health and safety Employees > Investing in Stakeholder and communities Ensuring engagement our people safe working environments Communities Health and safety 10 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 11 Overview Overview How we manage sustainability Our values Driving sustainability Dialogue Fairness Promoting stakeholder dialogue and transparency – Showing fairness, equality and respect towards being honest and open. and amongst employees and local communities. Compliance Stewardship from the top Meeting all legal obligations at local, national and Protecting the environment and maximising international levels. the health, safety and well-being of employees. Ethical conduct Effectiveness Expecting employees, contractors and business partners To be effective in everything that we do. to display the highest standards of ethical conduct, with zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and fraud. Governance framework The UN Global Compact The overall sustainability strategy is designed to meet the Board Polymetal operates in accordance with the UK Code of requirements of the UN Global Compact. This voluntary Corporate Governance which dictates that all Board Directors international standard commits affiliated companies to Board The Board defines the business are subject to annual re-election and shareholders have comply with ten principles in the areas of human rights, strategy, assesses risks and the authority to remove or appoint individuals. The Board monitors performance. labour, environment and anti-corruption. Polymetal comprises of the Chief Executive, a non-executive became a signatory in 2009 and is an active member Chairman and seven non-executive directors, four of which of the UN Global Compact Network Russia. are independent of the Company. The role of the Chairman and non-executive directors is to challenge and scrutinise The UN Global Compact and our corporate values management and the Company’s performance, review the define the focus for more detailed policies and associated CEO CEO integrity of financial information and review internal controls management systems, all of which are defined at Group level and risk management processes. The Board and its Audit and implemented through our head office and the subsidiary The CEO takes ultimate responsibility for delivering on strategy and and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees have the companies. Ongoing monitoring and regular audit ensures operating performance. appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and that performance is measured against the relevant regulatory knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their and Company internal requirements. duties and responsibilities. Every Board meeting that considers Technical Council quarterly production results also begins with an overview Managing and monitoring our behaviour of Health, Safety and Environmental performance. While all employees understand the standards of behaviour The Technical Council agrees strategy expected of them, through their induction, ongoing training and and tactical implementation across More information on the Board and Corporate Governance can the business. regular reviews, we are mindful of the need to systematically Technical Council be found in the Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012. monitor commercial actions and decisions. The key vehicle for this is our Internal Audit Department (IAD) that operates under Our Code of Conduct, formally adopted in December 2011, the auspices of an annual work plan approved by the Audit is approved by the Board of Directors and is brought to the and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. It conducts attention of all employees as a statement of the principles and random audits of stock and assets such as fuel and expectations that guide ethical behaviour across the Company. equipment, checks on performance of building and assembly Define and Agree priorities The Code covers conduct by employees with their colleagues contracts and reviews the decisions of the scientific and review strategy and actions and between employees and customers, business partners, technical committees in relation to major construction work. state authorities and wider society. It focuses on equality, health and safety, environmental protection, government In 2012 (up to the end of December), the IAD produced and community relations, competition, data protection 53 reports on targeted audits, with recommendations for and transparency and unacceptability of bullying, drug use, improvements. During 2012, all of our main operating sites Human resources Communications Health and safety Environment conflicts of interest and bribery. All employees are instructed were audited. in the Code and associated policies and all documents The Head of Human Resources The PR Director is responsible for The Chief Operating Officer, The Chief Operating Officer defines and monitors identifying and engaging with the supported by our Health, Safety sets targets and is responsible and guidance are available through the Company’s A training curriculum on the types and impact of corrupt employment contracts and majority of external stakeholders, and Environment department, sets for performance in this area. information system. practices was launched in 2011. During 2012, 26 seminars on employee performance. including government and regional targets for maintaining health and anti-corruption measures were attended by 1,000 employees. authorities, local communities safety performance. and NGOs. Technical Council These sessions were conducted by our internal security team Sustainability is the ultimate responsibility of our Group CEO, in the seminar facilities at each of our main operating sites. Vitaly Nesis. To support him, a Technical Council is convened Our operating mines and development monthly to monitor, among other issues, performance against In 2012, seven of our managers were dismissed and one was Operations properties have heads of Operations, our sustainability priorities and implementation of associated reprimanded due to corrupt practices, as measured against Human resources, Environment, Health and safety, who implement and monitor policies across all of the operating companies. Our heads our Code of Conduct. In one of these cases, evidence has corporate systems, supported by specialist of department report into the Council, covering employees, been forwarded to the local prosecutor’s office as a precursor public relations and engineering teams. community outreach, health and safety and to criminal proceedings. None of these cases had a material environmental management. effect on our financial position and operations. Risk management The Board and Audit and Risk Committee identify and document risks; assess, quantify and classify each risk; develop and implement risk management strategies and review performance. 12 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 13 Overview Overview How we manage sustainability continued Stakeholder engagement Managing our risks Understanding what’s important Managing risks Key sustainability risks include: Stakeholders Legal, Human Resources and Communications teams through contracts of engagement/employment, The CEO, Board of Directors and Technical Council, aided Our stakeholders help to define sustainability priorities and the payments system, on-site briefings and training. by the Internal Audit Department, identify risks to the business provide a vital check on how we are performing. We are and associated management operations. In doing so, they are 1 therefore open, honest and clear in the way we communicate See our case studies: Ozerny – a new industrial informed by interaction with government agencies, the financial Title to mineral rights may be through many channels, including corporate reporting, meetings, community arrives in Khabarovsk Territory; community, employees, local communities, NGOs, customers challenged and purchase of land briefings, hotlines and website. Healthy working lives and New approaches and suppliers. Our risk management process is defined and may be opposed locally, thereby to hazard identification and risk assessment. monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. preventing or curtailing their use Our stakeholders fall into five broad categories, as below. by the Company. Failure to secure Within each of these there will be specific companies, Government such additional reserves will lead departments, organisations and individuals, some of whom Our relationships with the national Governments of Russia to a long-term reduction in output. we will interact with in the long-term, others of whom will be and Kazakhstan are important and set the broad terms for shorter term. Our first task is to identify them when new and our operations in those countries. As a growing international ensure that they are engaged and their voices heard. 2 company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, we also follow the relevant international standards and recommendations Shareholders and investors Severe weather and climatic conditions and have particular commitments under the jurisdiction of UK Monitor, report may disrupt ongoing operations. Our Board of Directors, aided by the Company’s Investor regulatory authorities. Our Communications and Operations and review risk Relations team, are responsible for maintaining dialogue teams take a lead role in maintaining positive relationships 1 Identify and with our investors, chiefly through the AGM, our website, through social and economic agreements with local authorities, document 3 Annual and Sustainability Reports, meetings/briefings, compliance and co-operation with national regulators investment conferences, exhibitions/presentations and risks and participation in working groups convened by 4 The Company may fail to recruit and retain enough talented people to maintain direct correspondence. Government departments. operational integrity. See our case studies: Working with communities See our case studies: Going beyond environmental in Amursk and New approaches to hazard management compliance at Amursk; May the 4 identification and risk assessment. ‘ecological landing force’ be with you and Healthy working lives. The Company may fail to adequately Employees Develop 2 manage third party suppliers and The Human Resources, Operations and Communications Communities and NGOs and implement service providers. teams are key to ensuring that our employees understand We will only operate with the support of well established risk mitigation what is expected of them, what they can expect from their communities adjacent to our key sites. This means that we strategies 3 Assess, quantify 5 employment and how they can have their say on Group have identified the key local community, indigenous community operations. A variety of mechanisms are deployed to ensure and non-governmental organisations whom have a stake and classify each risk The Company’s health and safety this two-way flow of information, including regular opinion polls in these locations. Having done so, we enshrine the nature systems may not protect employees and questionnaires, Workers’ Councils, one-to-one reviews of our engagement within formal agreements then continue from harm. with managers, an internal hotline, internal media, the to monitor our effectiveness at meeting targets. This is Group website and suggestion boxes. done through opinion polls and questionnaires, liaison with 6 See our case studies: Employee development; community groups, direct contact with Company managers Ozerny – a new industrial community arrives for local residents, press conferences and public meetings The Company’s management and membership of working groups established by nonin Khabarovsk Territory; Healthy working lives systems may not negate or reduce governmental organisations (NGOs). and New approaches to hazard identification harmful spillages or releases into and risk assessment. the environment, which may also See our case studies: Supporting IMN; On air – news harm employees and others living desk for young people; May the ‘ecological landing and working in the vicinity. Partners and suppliers force’ be with you and Ozerny – a new industrial Our partners and suppliers interact with us through all community arrives in Khabarovsk Territory. operational departments, depending on the nature of their These risks are therefore taken into products and services. They also communicate with the More detail on our risks and our management approach is provided account when defining our strategic in the Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012. sustainability focus (see page 17). 14 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 15 Overview Overview How we identify priorities Understanding what’s important continued Our approach Assessing material issues Through our risk management and stakeholder engagement Our focus for the next two years is informed by these Identification > Investors and > One-on-one meetings Communication programmes we have identified six key sustainability priorities, which are material for the business. These are issues that priorities. Our approach is flexible enough to reflect changes in the policy and financial environment, developments We start from the position shareholders > Conferences A wide range of communication can impact upon business performance and/or have been in best practice regarding employee relations and safety of already having interaction > Employees > Public meetings mechanisms are deployed identified as important by our key stakeholders. and new or heightened concerns for communities. with the key stakeholder groups across all stakeholder groups identified. This list develops > Communities > Press conferences as summarised above. The as we expand our work in > Partners and suppliers > Working groups use of these mechanisms is existing territories; plan determined partly through to operate in new territories > Government regulatory requirement, for Cost and energy efficiency Attracting talent or implement new processes > NGOs example, the UK Corporate Rising fuel/transport costs Access to mineral rights Employee relations that may be subject to Governance Code or Russian Important to the business Health and safety systems Government mandated national legislation and partly Regulatory compliance consultation or regulation. through our experience of We have a corporate standard working closely with, for Environmental incidents/accidents that sets out a requirement example, the Indigenous Weather/climate extremes Environmental pollution risk to maintain and update a list of Minorities of the North (IMN) community based stakeholders in our operational areas. Community investment and consultees as well as Supplier/subcontractor relations Relations with communities defining how dialogue with Use of new technologies these groups is managed. Relations with indigenous peoples Preventing corruption Improved communication 1 Stakeholder 2 Important to the stakeholders Reporting engagement Action Our sustainability focus for 2013-14 The means by which we report Promoting dialogue Some questions we ask when back to stakeholders varies from formalised annual reporting and dealing with stakeholders are mandated through Economic annual meetings to weekly or regulations. Others questions >> Maintaining positive working relationships with local government, monthly meetings/briefings and are determined by the ongoing face-to-face or telephone experience of our specialists, NGOs and communities by enhancing our partnership agreements and e-mail contact. for example, in relation to and increasing the effectiveness of our investments (see Economic and Communities sections). community health initiatives, and the rest are determined by >> Attracting and retaining more high quality people and improving the Environment the stakeholders themselves. quality and terms of their employment (see Employees section). >> Improving our health and safety system through more sophisticated visualisation, risk management systems and more rigorous monitoring within the Company and with our supplier network (see Employees section). >> Further development of our certified environmental management Employees system and embedding the system into production operations > Annual report (see Environment section). > Sustainability report > Issues raised >> Enhancing the rigour and transparency in our communications > Website with suppliers, customers and partners (see Overview). > Identifying materiality >> Cost and energy efficiency programmes. Communities > Regular meetings >D  etermine actions 4 > E mail/telephone updates to be taken 3 16 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 17 Economic Ensuring Economic economic progress The economic benefits generated by the Group are a fundamental aspect of what we do as a business and how we operate. Who is Group CEO, Technical Council, subsidiary responsible? managing directors working with heads of Finance, Communications, Operations and HR What guidelines UN Global Compact, UK Corporate Governance Code, do we follow? Group Code of Conduct Stakeholders Employees, national government, local government, specialist government agencies, local communities, indigenous peoples groups and other NGOs, suppliers and contractors Priorities Increase community investments Maintain all relevant tax payments Shareholder value creation 18 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 19 Economic Contribution to economic development Generating sustainable value Economic As a dynamic and progressive business, Tax payments Community investment Social payments in 2010-12 (US$ million) 1 we have a simple objective – to deliver One of our most direct benefits to local communities comes in the form of taxes that our Group companies pay to Russian In 2012, we invested US$6 million (US$4 million in both 2010 and 2011) in communities across health, education, sustainable value to all our stakeholders. and Kazakh state and local authorities. In 2012 our tax infrastructure and sports-related projects, made concrete 11 payments across the Group amounted to US$411 million. through 13 formal agreements with the local authorities We achieve this through our commitment This includes mandatory contributions to the state social and community representatives. In 2011-12 we invested 9 to our strategy, business model and funds, including the Pension Funds of the Russian Federation US$0.5 million in the work of IMN – improving the quality and Kazakhstan. of life of local people. a culture of excellence. A key part of this 6 is the significant contribution that we Tax payments to the Russian Federation More information on our community investment programmes and priorities can be found on page 50. and Kazakhstan in 2010-12 make to economic development in our (US$ million) 1 operational locations, where we invest 411 2010 2011 2012 in the long-term to improve living standards and community facilities. 1 Social payments including those made to employees. 288 197 Approach Our business model is built around delivering long-term value for our shareholders, our employees, our partners 2012 2011 2010 Summary of Polymetal’s economic contribution US$m US$m US$m and those with whom we interact. To achieve this we make significant direct investments to improve our 2010 2011 2012 Revenue 1,854 1,326 925 operations and provide infrastructure such as roads and 1 Taxpayments include payment to federal, regional, local budgets, power lines that have a wider economic benefit for the regional social funds, personal income tax, fines and penalties. Cash operating costs (excluding depreciation, labour costs and mining tax) 519 368 290 local community. We also invest directly in local community development and provide high quality employment as well Wages and salaries; other payments and benefits for employees 283 240 127 as indirectly through payment of national and local taxes; all of which significantly contributes to economic development within our key locations. Payments to capital providers 33 33 27 Taxes (excluding payroll taxes included in labour costs) Income tax and excess profit tax 219 128 77 Kazakhstan 56 14 – Russia 163 114 77 Taxes, other than income tax 14 11 14 Kazakhstan 2 1 1 Russia 13 11 14 Mining tax 145 97 57 Social investments Social payments1 11 9 6 Undistributed economic value retained 630 440 327 1 Social payments including those made to employees. 20 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 21 Economic Investment and development Economic Working with communities Ozerny – a new industrial in Amursk community arrives in We believe that decisions on social and infrastructure investments should be collaborative Khabarovsk Territory and reflect the wishes of local communities. For Ozerny is located 200 kilometres from Okhotsk example, in December 2012, we convened our and is populated with our employees extracting third annual public meeting in Amursk. The aim gold and silver ore which will be transported to was to review the effectiveness of investments the Khakanja processing plant. This community in 2012 and identify key areas of work for 2013. has been created to develop the newest mine in the region. Since 2008, we have invested US$1.6 million in Amursk District across the main areas – cultural Ozerny, along with the Avlayakan site, is currently activity, sport and education development and making a significant contribution to expanding improvements to the urban fabric. the range of ore sources to Khakanja hub. This review, convened by Polymetal, attracted Dmitriy Maksimov, head of the environmental 160 local people. The heads of the town and department at Khakanja, says: the district reported on the 11 projects that had “The ore extraction process has been planned been prioritised for 2012. to reduce environmental impacts such as waste, water use and emissions. It will also be subject In parallel with this community planning, we to a comprehensive rehabilitation plan once also work closely with voluntary organisations extraction is complete. All processing takes representing Indigenous Minorities of the place at the Khakanja plant, which is subject to North in Amursk District. They too put forward a separate set of environmental controls for such proposals for investments during 2013, plants. The ability to extend Khakanja’s life of mine a collaboration that has been welcomed. means new jobs, additional local tax revenues and improvements to infrastructure, transportation The Managing Director of the Amursk plant, and communications.” Vladimir Shamin summed up our approach: “As we all come from the Amursk Region, we care Aleksandr Akamov, managing director about the state of our town.” of the Okhotsk Mining and Exploration Company, says: “The Khabarovsk Exploration Company is undertaking additional exploration work on the flanks of the Ozerny site, with a view to expanding resources here. Beyond this current phase Khakanja holds ten licences to carry out exploration work and identify further satellite mines similar to Ozerny.” With new developments and continued extraction operations at Ozerny, we will continue to employ more people – all of whom are making a contribution to the region’s development. 22 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 23 Environment Ensuring environmental progress Environment The Group operates complex processes on a large scale in remote locations. These processes produce a range of waste material and use toxic substances such as cyanide. They are all subject to controls through our environmental management system and increasingly sophisticated national and international government regulations. Who is Group CEO, Chief Operating Officer, Head of HSE, responsible? managing directors, chief engineers, heads of environmental departments What guidelines Group Code of Conduct, Group Environmental do we follow? Management Policy, UN Global Compact Stakeholders Employees, national government, local government, specialist government agencies, local communities, indigenous peoples groups and other NGOs Priorities Certify the environmental management system Control and manage cyanide and tailings Reduce the intensity of energy use Improve GHG emission measurement process Efficient use of water and reductions in waste water 24 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 25 Environment Managing our environmental performance Our complex, geographically dispersed The core of the system is an environmental policy, which is available at www.polymetalinternational.com. It focuses Investment in Action plan for 2013-15 business uses resources and energy, on the use of best practice, continuous improvement, environmental protection Our action plan for 2013-15 emphasises continuous improvement to our environmental management system. risk reduction, compliance and issues management. produces significant quantities of emissions There is a strong focus on incident and emergency control, Our overall investment in environmental management Environment and monitoring increased from US$5.6 million in 2011 to and waste and operates processes use of the most environmentally friendly materials and resource efficiency. US$7.8 million in 2012, reflecting growth in the scope and Certification of our environmental management 2013 intensity of external monitoring and expenditure on equipment, system (EMS) to the ISO 14001 standard. that can potentially have negative people and training. In 2012, 48% of this investment went The audit covers all of our operations and all Each of our subsidiary companies has its own environmental environmental consequences. To manage team which runs and monitors the system and provides into protection of water resources, 33% into land reclamation sites and was undertaken by Bureau Veritas, and 19% into reductions in atmospheric emissions. an independent assurance agency. Certification these environmental risks, we established quarterly performance reports to the Group. Air quality, surface water and ground water samples collected through was achieved in March 2013. a management system that complies with the system are analysed at laboratories certified to international Regulatory authorities specify that we make quarterly payments resulting from our monitoring and auditing activities. In 2012, Commission a comprehensive GHG emissions 2013 international best practice and national standards. Our in-house engineering operation, Polymetal Engineering, employs more than 100 specialists in the these payments amounted to US$2.7 million compared to survey and harmonise GHG reporting with UK and international standards. US$2.3 million in 2011 and US$1.7 million in 2010, reflecting legislation. The system is monitored by design and construction of mines and processing facilities. continued expansion of our production capacity. Introduction of a system of monitoring and 2013-14 All ecological aspects are taken into account at the stage teams in all operating subsidiaries and when new facilities are being designed. measurement at each production site that meets ongoing compliance and specifically addresses focuses on risk reduction, resource and Investment in environmental protection (US$ million) five priority issues, depending on the nature and energy efficiency, emissions reduction, Auditing and compliance ■ Investments ■ Payments location of the operation. Regular audit and monitoring activities are built into the 2.7 Integration of EMS decision making into standard 2014-15 and employee engagement. corporate environmental management system and comply operating procedures at each production unit. with the requirements of relevant Russian and Kazakh This will give employees much greater input 2.3 7.8 Approach legislation and ISO 14001. External audits are undertaken by state supervisory authorities such as the Russian Federal to defining significant environmental effects at each site and deciding on the means of We operate a Group-wide environmental management Service for Supervision of Natural Resource Usage. 5.6 monitoring and impact reduction. system that is planned and coordinated by our Chief Operating 1.7 Officer from our headquarters in St. Petersburg. The system is Within the context of the action plan, we are already based on international best practice, applies across all Group Employee environmental training 3.0 investing in core environmental management projects businesses and complies with relevant Russian and Kazakh Our Human Resources department annually reviews at all our operating sites. legislation. One of our priorities for 2012 was to prepare for environmental training opportunities at national and independent certification to ISO 14001. This certification was granted in March 2013, after an external audit by Bureau international level. An in-house training programme also supplements ongoing professional development with site 2010 2011 2012 Five key environmental Veritas, an independent environmental assurance agency.1 The environmental management system is also subject visits and attendance at conferences. Each year, our management projects for 2013-15 environmental managers attend the All-Russian Industrial to regular internal review. Ecologists’ Seminar for an update on environmental legislation. Construction of advanced storm-water and Specific courses attended by environmental specialists include those covering environmental management 1 waste-water purification units at Amursk systems, hazardous waste, land reclamation, water Completion of mine site rehabilitation quality assessment and environmental security. 2 at Yurievskoye Purchase of waste pressing equipment 3 at Albazino Achieving full capacity performance 4 for the water purification plant at Lunnoye Improving water treatment efficiency and 5 reducing water consumption at Voro 1 Certificate for Mayskoye will be obtained after the start-up of the Mayskoye concentration plant. 26 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 27 Environment Managing our environmental performance continued Our performance Waste Waste (thousands of tonnes) 2012 2011 2010 GHG emissions The use of diesel generators to power our plants, natural The most significant waste streams are overburden and Overburden waste 72,914 58,124 44,420 (CO2 equivalent gas and coal for heating and diesel fuel for vehicles 1.9 2.0 tailings, which account for more than 99% of total arisings, Processing waste (tailings, cakes) 9,114 7,711 5,552 1.8 by volume. The former is material extracted to uncover the Environment tonnes per 10Kt accounts for our main GHG emissions. During 2012, of ore mined) we increased our diesel generation capacity, however, ore deposits and the latter is a by-product of ore processing. Cyanide is a significant and harmful constituent of the our ability to use this energy more efficiently has seen In 2012, 800 tonnes of spent oil and 20 tonnes of plastic waste material from ore-processing. Consequently, we pay an incremental reduction in GHG emission intensity. waste were disposed of at specialised facilities. particular attention to the way this material is managed. 2010 2011 2012 Our approach involves: In managing these wastes, we operate through our systems All air emissions Stripping, mined waste storage, ore processing and and a set of procedures that are designed to minimise the >> identification of the associated hazard class for the waste; 6.2 (tonnes per 10Kt energy use generate air emissions including carbon volume of waste, maximise the amounts recycled and minimise >> strict control of cyanide levels in tailings; of ore mined) dioxide and oxides of nitrogen and sulphur. 4.7 4.6 the potential impacts on people and the environment. >> operation of Company-owned waste disposal and storage facilities at each site; Our internal audit teams conduct regular checks and measure >> ongoing environmental monitoring of air, soil, surface our compliance with relevant national and regional standards and ground waters; 2010 2011 2012 relating to the treatment of overburden, tailings and other waste. This is augmented with spot checks by specialist Government >> provision of environmental monitoring results Waste We operate against a set of procedures that are to public authorities; 6,754 6,581 agencies, focusing on environmental performance. (tonnes per tonne designed to minimise the amount of waste, maximise 5,985 >> ongoing environmental protection – design, construction of ore mined) the volumes recycled and minimise the potential impacts Recycled materials and monitoring of tailings dams, monitoring water sources on people and the environment. The increase has been 2012 2011 2010 and quality, riverbed changes and associated drainage. driven by an increase in operational intensity at some Total mass of reused/recycled of our new sites, combined with significant growth materials (thousands of tonnes) 20,897 15,012 10,702 Our tailings storage facilities are built in accordance with in underground development. 2010 2011 2012 Proportion of recycled materials Russian and Kazakh environmental requirements on the Discharges to The reduction in discharge intensity reflects the work used by the Company’s prevention of soil and water contamination, taking into account 6.1 surface water done to enhance the efficiency of water use and businesses as a percentage of the detailed engineering and geological studies. The underlying 4.8 (thousand cubic increased recycling. total mass of waste materials (%) 25.2 22.8 21.2 geology must be characterised by minimal filtration rates metres per 10Kt 3.3 into surface or ground waters. This is augmented by the of ore mined) use of impervious polyethylene waterproof screens, allied to sophisticated drainage systems that maintain the material 2010 2011 2012 in situ and prevent contamination of the surrounding area. Energy use Group companies operate in remote areas, subject 66.2 (gigajoule per 10Kt to extremes of weather and far from centralised 58.0 53.0 of ore mined) power sources. They must generate their own sources of electricity and heat, which currently necessitates significant use of diesel generators. Costs, environmental impacts and alternatives are constantly reviewed. 2010 2011 2012 28 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 29 Environment Managing our environmental performance continued Water Energy Air emissions Biodiversity management We withdraw significant volumes of water from surface and Given the dispersed nature of our business, operating Greenhouse gas emissions We do not operate in or adjacent to specially protected natural underground sources for use in all parts of our business, from in many remote locations without grid power, we use a Direct greenhouse gas emissions derive from the generation territories. We also do not operate on or adjacent to land that offices in St. Petersburg to processing hubs in Far Eastern significant volume of diesel fuel to power generators and of heat and electricity from diesel generators and burning is designated as having natural, historical or cultural value Environment Russia. All water is re-used, treated and discharged as effluent vehicles. The diesel, plus gas purchased from third-party of natural gas and coal. by Indigenous Minorities of the North (IMN). to surface water, or is treated and stored in tailings dams. suppliers, accounts for the majority of our total aggregate 2012 2011 2010 direct energy consumption, mainly for heating, powering CO2 eq. (tonnes) 1 212,982 218,460 140,942 We do, however, operate in the forest and tundra areas of Regardless of location or type of use, our overarching aims are equipment and vehicles. The remaining energy is derived 1 Russia’s Far East, which are sparsely populated and home to CO2 equivalent is calculated in accordance with the methodology of Scientific to reduce the amount of water that we use per unit of output. from coal that we mine at our sites and which is used Production Corporation ‘Atmosphera’ from ‘International methods of greenhouse rare and endangered flora and fauna. Of the 11 mineral fields In addition, we aim to reduce to the absolute minimum the to power boilers for heating. gas emission inventory’ by A. Zinchenko (published in St. Petersburg in 2003). that we are currently developing, seven are situated in such volume of and impact from liquids discharged into water areas. At all seven of these sites, and indeed at all of our fields, courses and to reduce the volume and maximise the safety Direct energy consumption 2010-12 (thousand gigajoule) There are also other pollutants (gases which are precursors we operate a system designed to protect flora and fauna. of tailings dams. 2012 2011 2010 or concomitants of GHG) which are released during This involves baseline monitoring of the pre-development state Coal 358 303 297 production processes. and the creation of protection and buffer zones, away from We have consents from local and state authorities to withdraw key extraction, transport and construction activity. All those Diesel 1,813 1,218 1,078 water from a wide range of sources adjacent to our operating Emissions (tonnes) working on a site, including contractors, undergo a programme sites. We ensure that this usage does not place undue Natural gas 262 162 166 2012 2011 2010 of environmental, health and safety awareness training. demands on any one surface or underground source Electricity generated 697 435 359 Carbon monoxide 1,387 1,321 847 and always remain within the limits of our consents. Heat 566 511 477 Nitrogen oxide 185 176 113 This requires an individual to take personal responsibility for Diesel for transport 2,358 2,232 1,762 complying with procedures intended to minimise damage Nitrogen dioxide 740 705 452 Total volume of water broken down by source Petrol for transport 33 33 29 to flora and fauna. (thousand cubic metres per annum) Total 6,088 4,892 4,169 2012 2011 2010 Other emissions Once an extraction area has been worked out, we implement The other main air emissions are sulphur dioxide and inorganic a comprehensive programme of land rehabilitation. Total amount of water withdrawn, Indirect energy consumption 2010-12 (thousand gigajoule) particulates. These emissions are generated through the of which: 7,756 8,400 7,500 2012 2011 2010 processing of ores. Disturbed and rehabilitated land (hectares) surface sources 776 840 750 Purchased electricity 1,211 827 776 2012 2011 2010 underground sources 6,980 7,560 6,750 Other emissions (tonnes per annum) Amount of leased land, total 10,083 9,231 8,424 2012 2011 2010 Land disturbed as of 1 Jan 5,386 4,024 2,986 Over the past three years, the volume of water re-used Sulphur dioxide 174 157 138 Land disturbed for the year 694 1,365 1,038 by all Group companies has averaged 81% of the total. Inorganic dust 3,148 2,682 2,925 Land rehabilitated for the year 207 3 – The remaining proportion is treated and discharged to surface water, in accordance with scheduled consents Remaining disturbed land 5,873 5,386 4,024 from state and local authorities. 30 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 31 Environment Restoring our environment May the ‘ecological landing Going beyond environmental force’ be with you management compliance at Amursk Environment Our aim was to support and work with residents to improve the local environment. Our aim was to further develop and improve the We teamed up with the All-Russian social environmental management system at Amursk movement ‘Let us do it together!’ to create POX plant in line with our sustainability priorities. an ‘Ecological landing force’ and clean up the environment of Evensk. Two key improvements are in the areas of waste-water and air emissions. An innovative We invited all residents, including children, production water purification and re-use system to clear up discarded rubbish and junk – means that there is no discharge of effluent a first such event for the town. to surface waters. Changes to processes and procedures have also generated a reduction Our best operations and management discipline of 95% in air emissions. This is backed up by was brought to bear on this logistical challenge. regular monitoring and analysis by the Centre With the town divided into five sectors, five for Laboratory and Technical Research in landing force teams were issued with maps Khabarovsk, working with our own on-site ecology showing the worst affected areas, thanks to prior and environmental protection team. Further water reconnaissance by young volunteers, who took quality monitoring is undertaken by representatives photos of the offending litter and junk. At the end of the regional fishing supervision board. of the day all teams reported how the whole exercise had gone. Prizes were awarded for the Other areas where improvements are being most amount of litter collected and the most made include noise-related health and safety. unique find of the day. A programme of engagement and education has been implemented that helps employees The project showed that our financial support to recognise the dangers of noise exposure and management expertise could help a local and what they can do to reduce the impact organisation to effect positive change and on themselves and their colleagues. harness the enthusiasm and pride of local people. 32 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 33 Employees Health and safety Ensuring a safe working environment A safe and healthy working environment is a fundamental right for all employees and a measure of management effectiveness. Who is Group CEO, subsidiary managing directors working responsible? with heads of HSE, Operations and HR What guidelines UN Global Compact, Group Code of Conduct, do we follow? Health and Safety Policy Stakeholders Employees, specialist government agencies, independent auditors Employees Priorities Prevent workplace accidents Prevent work related illnesses Implement risk-based assessments 34 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 35 Employees Health and safety Ensuring a safe working environment Approach Injury rate In 2012, we initiated daily risk assessments (DRAs), introduced a 5S programme at all of our processing plants and transport Focus for 2013-15 Polymetal’s approach to Health and safety is set by its ■ Minor ■ Serious ■ Fatal Our health and safety focus for 2013-15 is on enhancing depots, started to integrate contractors into the health and employee protection and workplace safety management safety system and established procedures for ongoing our capabilities in three key areas: training, visualisation and system. This is designed to detect, assess and manage 6 monitoring of risk. monitoring as well as rolling out the system to our supplier production risks; ensure employee health and workplace and contractor network. safety and define the safe use of buildings, other structures Health and safety performance 4 and all equipment. The system is based on ILO-OSH 2001, 2012 2011 2010 Action plan for 2013-15 OHSAS 18001 and GOST R 12.0.007-2009. 14 Accidents 11 11 24 Training 2013 2 1 1. Full-time training on risk management In 2011-12, health and safety activity focused on: 9 10 Incidents 0 2 – 2. Compulsory education in distance learning mode >> ongoing implementation, operation and refinement Occurrences 19 14 14  uilding a knowledge base with universal unlimited 3. B of the system; Injury frequency coefficient 1.2 1.3 3.5 access for all employees >> reducing workplace injuries; Visualisation 2014 Injury gravity coefficient 36 61 75 Scenarios for posters and videos are being developed. >> enhancing the culture of safety within every operation; 2010 2011 2012 Lost time injury frequency rate In 2014 all visualisation sources will be reviewed, classified >> ensuring that the latest safety techniques and equipment (LTIFR) 0.6 0.6 1.9 and standardised. are applied; Performance Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) 0 0 0.5 Automation 2015 Employees Automation of production control, reporting and >> enhancing safety training. Contractor organisations Workplace accidents Accidents 2 5 0 analysis. Use of software to report on safety and record accidents – replacing paper registers. We operate 120 production sites and processes, each with its In 2012, there were 11 workplace accidents across the Group, Occurrences 13 9 10 own inherent risks, including open and underground mines, none of which were fatal, one of which was serious and ten of geological exploration sites, ore processing, explosive depots, which were minor. Of this total, 62% of the accidents involved as well as transportation of people, equipment, waste and ore. Every employee receives illustrated guides, backed up by being struck by an object, 18% involved falling from height, 9% falling while walking and 11% were burns related. While Work-related illness Zero cases of production-related illness were recorded in regular briefings and formal training sessions, as well as the the total number of non-fatal accidents in 2012 was the same 2012; the same as in 2010 and 2011. Each employee receives, provision of necessary equipment and work wear. This is as in 2011, there was only one serious accident, compared as a minimum, an annual health check from a hospital. backed up by ongoing internal audits that identify areas of poor with two the previous year (the remainder being classified Our medical professionals also conduct continuous monitoring and positive practice that maintain the integrity of the system. as minor). Our target is to get the accident rate as close of employees health. In some cases, these checks identify the to zero as possible, therefore we will continue to improve need for specific treatment, perhaps involving time away from our health and safety systems to prevent incidents. the workplace in one of our health centres. A key corporate KPI is the ongoing reduction of the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and achieving a zero fatality rate. This has reduced from 0.63 in 2011 to 0.59 in 2012, following a major improvement from 1.9 in 2010. We have also experienced our second consecutive year with zero fatalities, which is a tangible and meaningful outcome from the measures taken to improve safety systems and risk management. 36 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 37 Employees Health and safety in action New approaches to Healthy working lives hazard identification In line with Russian state legislation we provide a full package of social benefits to our employees, and risk assessment each of whom is provided with medical and As part of our corporate health and safety pension insurance. Our Social Insurance Fund (SIF) programme, we introduced a hazard identification also supports stays at health resorts for many and risk assessment system in 2012. The system employees. For example, Magadan Silver’s is driven by a commission of employees with employees are given the opportunity to spend specialist skills which identifies hazard factors in time at the unique Talaya health centre in Kolyma each area of a production unit and records all of Territory. In 2012, 59 employees enjoyed the them on a risk assessment form. This becomes relaxing healthy regime. the hazard template for all employees on that site. Mechanic of the electromechanic service of the The assessment has been completed at Omsukchan concentrator, Vladimir Churanov, Varvarinskoye, and, according to unit foremen, has who stayed at the ‘Biriuza’ health centre, liked been enthusiastically adopted by all employees. the attitude of the medical staff and selection Employees of offered therapeutic procedures. Vladimir Yefremenko, mine foreman, said: “We carried out checks in conjunction with the Irina Konnova, engineer-technician at commission and identified factors which might lead Magadan Silver, greatly enjoyed her time to incidents, occupational illnesses, emergencies at Talaya: or accidents. Everything is set out in the form, “I had a wonderful week of recreation, therapies including types of hazard, how they can be avoided such as hydro-massage and excursions. The food and what safety measures need to be applied. was healthy and delicious and I would recommend The previous system, while compliant, was time the whole experience to anyone.” consuming, repetitive and items could be missed. This has helped to instil rigour into the process Fifty children of Magadan Silver employees also and raise awareness when unit foremen share got the chance to spend summer and autumn the information with colleagues when they issue vacations at Talaya, returning to school enthused them with safety equipment.” and energised. Thanks to the SIF, all travel and residential costs were covered by the Group. Murat Bekeshev, foreman of the auto transport workshop, said: “Our work can be dangerous, so all of our team are fully aware of the hazards that they may encounter. The formalisation of this process helps greatly as they are an instant reference for real risks. We also build up a record of incidents and emergencies. As the mine grows, new equipment is being acquired, which means that new hazards can emerge, which are immediately logged on the forms. The new system also includes posters, signage and other indicators of hazards. Certainly since introducing the system we have seen much greater levels of vigilance and care when going about our daily business.” 38 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 39 Employees Careers, reward and development Investing in our people Our employees are contributors to and beneficiaries of our commercial success. They expect a high quality working environment, direction and a career pathway. In return we expect a clear commitment to our corporate goals. Who is Group CEO, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial responsible? Officer, Head of Human Resources, Deputy CEO for Development and Construction, Deputy CEO for Procurement, Deputy CEO for Information and Social Policy, subsidiary managing directors and HR teams What guidelines UN Global Compact, Group Code of Conduct, do we follow? Russian Labour Code, Standard Regulation on Social Conditions and Service Quality Control, Human Resources policies Employees Stakeholders Employees, specialist government agencies, suppliers Priorities Recruit and retain motivated employees Develop career pathways Improve communications with employees 40 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 41 Employees Careers, reward and development Investing in our people Approach Appraisal policy As at 31 December 2012, we employed 9,237 people across the Group, with 7,862 in production, 554 in More than 60% of all employees work in Magadan and Khabarovsk Regions in the hubs at Omolon, Dukat and As a key stakeholder group our employees expect a >> Appraise skills in line with performance targets. exploration and 821 in research, development, design, Amursk, as well as Mayskoye, Khakanja and Albazino. certain standard of behaviour from the Company and in Use the RIS model (result/input/skills) logistics and management. Most of those working in extraction turn we provide a Code of Conduct to which they commit >> Use feedback between employees and managers and exploration work on a shift basis, due to the demanding to adhere to. Headcount distribution by regions of operations (%) >> Objectivity through 360 degree appraisals nature of the work and the remote locations of many sites. >> Consistency in methods used to monitor progress On average, shift workers account for 60% of the headcount. 5 35 The Code of Conduct is supported by specific policies The growth in employee numbers between 2011 and 2012 ■ Magadan Region 8 on recruitment and equality, professional development, Resources policy is largely accounted for by the development of the Amursk ■ Khabarovsk Region appraisal, training, resources and skills, organisational design, and Omolon hubs. ■ Chukotka Autonomous Territory >> Organise work using up-to-date processes and tools motivation and reward and productivity. The Code also ■ Sverdlovsk Region 11 summarises our position on harassment and bullying, drugs, >> Ensure safety at work ■ Kazakhstan conflicts of interest, bribery, entertainment/gifts, government Headcount growth by area of employment ■ St. Petersburg and Karelia >> Develop employees’ potential relations, anti-trust and anti-competition laws, community ■ Production ■ Exploration ■ R&D design, logistics & management >> Encourage and support skills training ■ ■ ■ 9 relations, insider dealing, data protection, transparency/ 32 disclosure and environmental protection. 7,862 Motivation policy 7,413 >> Average out sectoral/regional pay levels. 6,272 Employment policies and profile >> Work to KPIs Employees In line with the UN Global Compact Principles, our main >> Output-related payment system In 2012, women occupied 23% of our management roles, employment objectives are: >> Effective social benefits system compared to 19% in 2011. We have also made significant >> to build a team that is motivated to achieve business >> Dialogue with and through workers’ councils efforts to work with local universities to provide internships and performance targets; a pathway for ‘young specialists’ into the business. In 2012, we >> Use feedback to implement remedial action >> to create working conditions and a system of incentives employed 260 people under this scheme, up from 190 in 2011. 568 651 599 735 554 821 that improves safety; Induction policy >> to supply Company operation projects with appropriately >> Ensure continuity of employment 2010 2011 2012 Management gender composition (%) skilled personnel; >> Encourage adaptation from workplace to residence ■ Men ■ Women >> to operate a continuous employee skills improvement >> Ensure managers take responsibility for employee 13 19 23 programme. professional development 87 >> Ensure managers take responsibility for integration 81 Human resources policies are coordinated by our Group 77 of new recruits Head of Human Resources from our headquarters in St. Petersburg. These are implemented by the Managing Training policy Directors of our operating companies, working through >> Align training with required tasks and goals their human resources teams. >> Operate a distance learning system >> Prioritise training that develops employee skills Organisational design policy >> Account for regional variations in working conditions 2010 2011 2012 and type of operation >> Centralise management functions >> Streamline functions across operating companies >> Introducing a rotating schedule where appropriate Headcount policy >> Benchmark productivity figures against peers >> Appropriate and effective technology and automation >> Outsource non-core functions 42 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 43 Employees Careers, reward and development Investing in our people continued Polymetal’s average salary level in comparison to industry and region levels (%) Performance >> provision of accommodation when working at remote sites; ■ Polymetal ■ Average salary level across the region ■ Average salary level across the mining industry Employee turnover >> travel costs paid for rotation shift workers – to and from Polymetal’s average salary level is: The average employee turnover rate (including fly-in/fly-out remote assembly points; 50% 90% 34% 90% higher than across the region higher than across the region higher than across the region higher than across the region operations) has remained relatively constant over the past >> provision of transport by air or road for all those travelling 30% 25% 23% 5% two years. It was 17.8% in 2012, compared to 19.6% in 2011 higher than across the mining industry higher than across the mining industry higher than across the mining industry higher than across the mining industry to and from their place of work; and and 21.8% in 2010. >> a compensation package for injuries incurred at work. Employee turnover (%) ■ 2011 ■ 2012 Employee relations We support our employees’ right to freedom of association, 38.5 open and honest dialogue and their desire to enter into collective agreements. 29.3 29.1 In 2012, 7,526 employees (82% of the total workforce) 23.7 23.2 were participating in collective agreements at our eight Magadan Region Khabarovsk Region Sverdlovsk Region Kazakhstan 17.5 19.0 main operating sites in Russia and Kazakhstan. Some of the Employees 14.2 13.7 13.8 agreements expire and will be renegotiated in 2013, while most 10.2 will run to mid/late 2015. At each of these sites, at least one Competitive salaries and benefits Centre in St. Petersburg and the teaching facilities present on most of our sites. In 2012, a new facility was opened 5.4 employee (with a maximum of nine) sits on a Labour Relations Commission (LRC), a vehicle for discussing work-related Our salary levels comply with all legal requirements at our Omolon office. queries and concerns. In tandem with the LRC, six of the in Russia and Kazakhstan and are highly competitive, St. Petersburg Kazakhstan Chukotka Sverdlovsk Region Magadan Region Khabarovsk Region sites hosted Workers’ Councils, which act as a further voice exceeding the average across each of our operating During 2012 we invested US$1.1 million (2011: US$0.9 million; for employees in that operation. On the two sites that do not, regions and the Russian and Kazakh mining sectors. 2010: US$0.5 million) in professional training across all those contributing to the LRC act as the conduit for views Across our operating regions, employee turnover rates can disciplines. In 2012, this meant that 2,096 employees had from the workforce. vary, reflecting the types and status of operations within these Skills development and training some form of additional professional development training. In 2012, the average number of hours of training for managers areas. For example, where we are developing new resources As well as meetings of the LRCs and Workers’ Councils, All Polymetal employees have access to a comprehensive and building new infrastructure, we will employ a higher and specialists was the same as for 2011: 41 hours per person we have initiated a system of formal feedback sessions training programme, covering general aspects of our proportion of temporary employees during the construction for managers and 42 hours per person for specialists. Between (taking place at least twice a year), during which employees operations and specific technical curricula. This is delivered phase. Consequently, the average turnover figure will be higher 2011 and 2012 the average hours of training for all other can provide feedback to senior management on any issues as part of an appraisal system that measures employee because of the nature of the work. For example, Khabarovsk employees increased from 47 to 90, reflecting the work done of concern. Employees can direct questions and comments development and maps out career pathways. When Region includes one of our subsidiaries Albazino Resources, to enhance our occupational health and safety system. to their line managers, through meetings or directly via email an employee joins the Company, they undergo an initial a developing enterprise, where the employee turnover figure or telephone. They have access to lists of key contacts that appraisal, as part of a detailed training plan which reflects many shorter term jobs supporting the construction Employees undergoing additional training in 2011-12 are posted on information boards at all of our operational is then drawn up and agreed. and launch of the ore concentrator. ■ 2011 ■ 2012 sites. Senior management commits to providing an adequate response and, in 2012, more than 400 such enquiries General management and specialist technical training is In order to attract and retain employees we provide an 715 were received and answered to the satisfaction of the delivered through Corporate Training Centres, via our own excellent salary and package of benefits including: individuals concerned. specialists or/and external providers. Employees also have >> financial assistance for those in difficult circumstances; the chance to attend training sessions at/and with other >> supplementary benefits for those retiring at pensionable age; Our open and progressive approach to employee relations international mining companies in order to widen their >> allowances for pre-school education and after-school care has contributed to the fact that in the Company’s history range of influences. 375 385 while in primary education; there have been no recorded instances of strikes or lock-outs. 305 317 303 317 A distance learning system is used for pre-certification training >> access to rehabilitation centres and health resorts 239 Minimum notice periods for significant operational changes in industrial and occupational safety. We have been working 186 207 198 for employees’ children; including changes to job requirements, shift schedules, with this system for three years and it is an efficient means 141 117 117 >> travel costs paid for those travelling from remote 85 29 employment standards or dismissals are compliant with of reaching employees in remote locations – enhancing regions to their place of work, during and at the end relevant national laws. In Russia, two months’ notice is productivity and effectiveness, while reducing associated of their employment; Dukat Omolon Khakanja Amursk Albazino Voro Varvara Mayskoye required while one month’s notice is required in Kazakhstan. costs. This complements the work of our Corporate Training >> holiday travel costs paid for each employee and their families, every two years; 44 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 45 Employees Investing in our people continued Competition for best ideas In 2012, we organised a cross-company Employees competition to identify new science-based methods and innovations that would improve efficiency. The competition was open to employees in all Group companies across all territories and took place at our Magadan operation. Fourteen young members of our production team, competed to present the best ideas to improve efficiency. The competitors included geologists, surveyors, system technicians and accountants who worked hard for six months on developing their ideas. Each of their presentations were rated by the conference participants, with the prize of enhanced career prospects and financial bonuses. Employee development All of our employees benefit from regular One competitor, Natalia Moskalenko, an 360 degree assessments, which allow us to accountant at the Omolon Gold Mining Company, evaluate their performance and career aspirations, looked at the benefits of state investment in assisted by comments and analysis from infrastructure projects that support Polymetal colleagues, subordinates and managers. developments and enhance broader economic Employees at Gold of Northern Urals started prospects for local communities. According to these assessments in December 2012. Natalia’s calculations, 20% of state investments in the construction of road, thermal power plant The 360 degree approach allows us to identify and power transmission lines are economically strengths and weaknesses and to match an beneficial to local authorities and communities individual’s skills to particular roles within the as well as Polymetal. Her view was that the state business or identify where additional training may could realise a return on its investment within be required. It also allows for an open discussion six years of such investments. on career aspirations and commentary on the quality of management and working conditions. After the conference, two of the presenters were identified as management candidates who would During 2012, 209 employees will be rated at Gold fill suitable senior positions as and when they of Northern Urals. In the main, these individuals are arose. Other participants qualified for additional managers and specialists who have worked for management training. more than a year in a particular role. 46 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 47 Communities Building strong relationships with our communities Our aim is to operate with the support of local communities. Our relationship with these communities has many facets: as an employer, a user of services, a user of resources, producer of waste materials and emissions and as an investor in local infrastructure and the social fabric. We therefore offer multiple contact points, such that needs are addressed and the benefits of the relationships are maximised. Who is Group CEO, PR Director, Technical Council, subsidiary responsible? managing directors working with heads of Finance, Communications, Operations and HR What guidelines UN Global Compact, Group Code of Conduct, do we follow? Policy on Social Investments Stakeholders Employees, national government, local government, Communities specialist government agencies, local communities, indigenous peoples groups and other NGOs Priorities Expand the range of community partnership agreements Improve the quality of life for communities Improve communication and co-operation with communities Promote sports and cultural activities 48 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 49 Communities Building strong relationships with our communities Approach Investing in communities Community engagement Respecting the rights of indigenous people We recognise that our business cannot operate without a Our community investment priorities have been determined We are conscious of our long-term commitments to We operate in three areas that are home to IMN, these are licence from local authorities and their associated communities. through feedback from local populations and our experience the economic, social and environmental wellbeing of Chukotka, Magadan Region and Khabarovsk Territory. In these In our areas of operation we are a significant employer of working with communities and indigenous people over the people and places associated with our operations. areas, our conduct is guided by and complies with the UN and creator of infrastructure that impacts upon adjacent many years. At least once a year, we evaluate local community Global Compact and the UN Declaration on the Rights of communities and indigenous people. Consequently, we have requirements through public meetings, questionnaires, In 2011-12, we organised 30 meetings with local communities Indigenous Peoples. In line with our own Codes and policies, formalised our approach to and attitude towards local and surveys and one to one dialogue. This allows us to identify and IMN groups, eight round table discussions and we have six agreements in place with IMN communities in our indigenous people in our Code of Corporate Governance key investment targets and assess the impact of existing consultations with the representatives of local ecological Russian Far East operations. These agreements are drawn and Policy on Social Investments that are informed by the investments. In the main, these investments focus on the and social welfare groups and organised six site visits for up in consultation with IMN and local authority representatives UN Global Compact and the UN Declaration on the Rights of following activities and groups: nature conservation organisations. Feedback obtained from and focus on support for traditional reindeer breeding activity, Indigenous Peoples. Compliance with the Code is monitored >> Education and healthcare these meetings, informal contact and ongoing evaluation of educational and cultural programmes designed to celebrate by the Technical Committee and implemented through our >> Infrastructure community investment work was overwhelmingly positive. and preserve language and traditions, provision of fuel, food, Group companies by their respective management teams. vehicles and building materials, maintaining and restoring >> Sports facilities and healthy lifestyle initiatives As a company, we are an active participant in discussions festival and holiday traditions, learning about local ecosystems, Our operations’ and hence the regional and local populations >> Cultural and creative development with indigenous people about the future prospects of the Russian and international exchanging knowledge on environmental protection and with which we interact, are numerous and widespread, >> Indigenous Minorities of the North mining sector. At the same time, we retain excellent working facilitating exchanges between others in the local area including Russia’s Far East (Omsukchan, Srednekansk and relationships with state and regional authorities in Russia and and IMN representatives. Severo-Evensk districts in Magadan Region, Okhotsk, Amursk, These investments totalled US$6 million in 2012, more than Kazakhstan. However, we do not undertake any formal Ayano-Maysk and Polina Osipenko, as well as the town of 80% of which was directed towards sports, education and lobbying of government agencies, nor do we make any IMN have access to and use the same feedback and Amursk in Khabarovsk territory); Northern Urals (the towns healthcare projects. financial or in-kind donations to any political parties. communication channels as offered to employees and local of Krasnoturinsk, Karpinsk, Degtyarsk and Sukhoi Log and communities. Information points with Company updates Vorontsovka village); Chaun district in Chukotka Autonomous Territory and Taranovka district in Kazakhstan. Community investments in 2012 (%) Performance and contact details are provided in all villages adjacent to our operations. Local media channels are used to publish 5 42 Community benefit information on meetings and events at which feedback The principles that we adhere to when engaging with local ■ Sports 6 can be provided to local company managers and information Over and above our tax commitments and employment communities and indigenous people in these locations are: ■ Education gained on corporate or community investment activity. 6 commitments, we maintain and enhance local infrastructure >> to be open to ideas and comments from those living and ■ Health ■ Infrastructure and services, maintain and grow the working population, working close to our operations; Given the strong and clear lines of communication with ■ Cultural and creative potential increase employment opportunities, provided training and >> to be transparent in our dealings with those living local people and IMN, there were no recorded instances of ■ IMN education for local people and operate a long-term programme complaints or ongoing issues over land tenure and land use and working close to our operations – providing timely, of community investment. The proportion of employees drawn Communities 15 during 2010-12. There were no recorded violations of the rights relevant and accurate information on the progress of from the local population varies depending on location. In all of indigenous minorities, nor has there been any relocation corporate and community investment projects; cases however, preference is given to local people to fill of groups or individuals over this period – and indeed since >> to take a long-term view of interaction and investment 26 appropriate positions within each company. In addition, Polymetal began operating in Russia’s Far East. and put in place systems for identifying investment priorities at the end of 2012, we also employed around 80 people and monitoring progress; from indigenous minorities living and working adjacent >> to identify and act on the most significant issues for local to our production sites. communities and indigenous people – entailing open and regular dialogue; and >> to provide real and tangible benefits to local communities and indigenous people. 50 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 51 Communities Building strong relationships with our communities continued Aim Main outcomes in 2011-12 Objectives in 2013-14 Aim Main outcomes in 2011-12 Objectives in 2013-14 >> US$6 million of community investment in 2012 To strengthen partnerships >> US$411 million paid in national and local taxes To increase the scale and To encourage sporting >> Equipped sports halls and children’s clubs in seven communities To support children’s with local in 2012 scope of social investments and participation >> Constructed and equipped major sports facilities, sports programmes communities, and support including IMN >> 13 socio-economic agreements with continue to assess local needs sports including a school stadium and community local authorities and six with IMN in 2012 associations ski complex To complete the construction >> Organised eleven sports tournaments for To improve the >> Built nine playgrounds and sports facilities To open healthcare and and teams in employees and local people of sports facilities quality of life for >> R epaired and renovated 23 healthcare and remote areas >> Supported five ice hockey teams communities education facilities education facilities under >> Finalising the construction of a major sports adjacent to our operations >> Improved town and village infrastructure such as gas supply and street lighting long-term programmes complex in Okhotsk District (Khabarovsk Territory) >> Funded an ethnographic museum in Djuen >> Provided vehicles and ambulances for remote settlements To build six playgrounds To encourage and support >> Funded a book, ‘Negidals’, about the TungusTo agree more long-term >> Regular medical drop-ins to remote towns and sports facilities cultural and Manchurian people in Khabarovsk Territory projects with IMN and local creative and villages, with 1,500 people receiving medical assistance pursuits >> Rebuilt a cinema in Amursk (Khabarovsk Territory) authorities on environmental >> Repaired and re-equipped clubs, museums, >> Apartment block built for doctors in Krasnoturinsk for local communities local history centres, libraries and child awareness aimed at >> Supported IMN’s programme for deer breeding and IMN development centres schoolchildren and >> Organised two major ethnic festivals in Khabarovsk To improve >> Held 30 public meetings across all operating regions To continue dialogue with local Territory and Magadan Region young people the quality of >> Contributed to eight consultative committees feedback and and working groups with local communities communities, IMN and those co-operation with local and authorities >> Organised six visits for representatives of local on the list of stakeholders communities communities and IMN groups to production units and IMN groups and businesses Communities 52 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 53 Communities Building strong relationships with our communities continued Supporting IMN We have entered into an agreement to support reindeer-breeding teams, education and health care for IMN groups in Srednekansk. Pavel Khabarovsky is an official representative of the Even community which benefits from our support. A meeting was arranged with Pavel, local authority representatives and Gennady Kuzmenko, a Director at our Magadan operation, who travelled seven hours to see how our investments of US$0.2 million have benefited the area. He was able to see for himself how the money had been used to replace furniture in the local hospital while lighting and windows had been replaced in the community school. The community provides feedback on the quality and relevance of our investment programme through a simple questionnaire. This is available to anyone and allows them to evaluate what has been done and make proposals for new investment targets. In the latest questionnaire, the community requested new tents, an electric motor, sledge and spare parts for the community’s snowmobile. On air – news desk for young people Communities The Amursk Television and Radio Broadcasting Company has launched a news desk specifically for young people. Polymetal provided financial support for the project, but the idea was initiated by members of the ‘Dialogue’ youth association who are interested in television journalism and who conceived, produced and delivered the project with great enthusiasm. Thanks to Polymetal’s funding, the news desk has a fully equipped studio which produces a weekly programme on topics of interest to young people. The first programme covered the summer holiday activities of Amursk’s young citizens, and was shown during the launch event. The programme’s ‘special correspondents’ also displayed their skills during the event by interviewing both the guests and the producer of the programme. 54 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 55 GRI results Table of standard disclosures under GRI reporting Profile Profile disclosure Description Comply Where disclosure Description Comply Where 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, n SR page 2 1. Strategy and analysis or measurement methods applied in the report. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation. n SR pages 2, 8-9 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. n SR page 56-59 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. n SR pages 10-11, 14-17, 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. n SR page 2 AR pages 80-83 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 2. Organisational profile 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest n SR pages 12-13, 2.1 Name of the organisation. n Polymetal International plc governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or AR Governance section organisational oversight. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. n SR pages 4-5 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. n SR pages 12-13 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, n SR pages 6-7 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of n AR Governance section members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. n SR pages 6-7 members. 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with n SR pages 6-7 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction n AR Governance section either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered to the highest governance body. in the report. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior n AR Governance section 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. n SR pages 4, 13 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of n AR Business review performance (including social and environmental performance). customers/beneficiaries). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are n AR Governance section 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. n SR pages 5-7, 21, 43, avoided. AR Financial Statements. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members n AR Governance section Capitalisation as at of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration 31 December 2012: US$2,987; of gender and other indicators of diversity. debt (borrowings) = US$864m; equity = US$2,123m. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles n SR pages 12-13, 14-17 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. n SR page 2 implementation. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. n SR page 5 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s n SR pages 12-13 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 3. Report parameters including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. n SR page 2 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). n SR page 2 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly n AR Governance section with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) n SR page 2 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed n SR page 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. n ir@polymetalinternational.com by the organisation. 3.5 Process for defining report content. n SR pages 10-11, 14-17 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, n SR pages 10, 13 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint n SR page 2 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international n SR page 5 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness n SR page 2 advocacy organisations in which the organisation: principle for explanation of scope). – has positions in governance bodies; – participates in projects or committees; 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, n SR page 2 – provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or – views membership as strategic. between organisations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. n SR page 15 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and n SR page 2 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. n SR page 16 information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type n SR pages 15-17 GRI results from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. and by stakeholder group. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, n SR page 2 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and n SR pages 15-17, 18, 24, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through 34, 40, 49 periods, nature of business, measurement methods). its reporting. 56 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 57 GRI results Table of standard disclosures under GRI reporting continued Profile Profile disclosure Description Comply Where disclosure Description Comply Where Disclosure on management approach Labour practices and decent work performance indicators DMA EC n SR pages 18, 20 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down o SR page 43 DMA EN n SR pages 24, 26-27 by gender. DMA LA n SR pages 34-35, 40, 42-44 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, o SR page 45 gender, and region. DMA HR n SR pages 45, 48, 51 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. n SR page 45 DMA SO n SR pages 48, 50-51 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether n SR page 45 DMA PR Product Responsibility Management Approach* it is specified in collective agreements. Economic performance indicators MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration, by country. n SR page 45 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number o SR page 36 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, n SR pages 20-21, 50 COMM of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. COMM employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. o SR page 44 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum o SR page 44 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, o SR page 44 wage at significant locations of operation. by gender. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily n SR pages 50, 52-53 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category o SR page 43, for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators AR Governance section of diversity. Environmental performance indicators Human rights performance indicators EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. n SR page 29 COMM MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, n SR page 51 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. n SR page 30 and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. n SR page 30 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and n SR page 51 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. n SR page 30 actions taken. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. n SR page 30 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through n SR page 51 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity n SR page 31 formal grievance mechanisms. COMM in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Society MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) n SR page 31 disturbed or rehabilitated. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights n SR page 51 MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management n SR page 31 of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, n SR page 51 in place. and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. n SR page 31 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. n SR page 13 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. n SR page 31 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. n SR page 13 COMM EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. n SR page 29 Product responsibility performance indicators COMM PR2 n None MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. n SR page 29 PR9 n None EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. n No significant spills COMM AR Annual Report 2012 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions n None SR Sustainability Report 2012 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. n SR page 27 COMM Commentary GRI results MM Mining and metals sector-specific performance indicator * Our core products are refined metals (Doré bars) or gold, silver and copper concentrates. These products are further processed by third parties and the material ultimately ends up in a wide range of end use products manufactured by many different companies. When purchased by third parties, our bars/concentrates are clearly n Full compliance with indicator marked, following local and international rules and commercial practices. Further labelling and associated marketing is the responsibility of the downstream processors o Partial compliance with indicator and manufacturers. 58 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Polymetal International plc 59 GRI statement 60 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2011/2012 Designed and produced by The College www.the-college.com Polymetal International plc Ogier House The Esplanade St Helier Jersey JE4 9WG Channel Islands Registered No. 106196
