S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 S-OIL C111531 This report is printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council) S-OIL is committed to serving as a reCertified paper with soy ink. sponsible corporate citizen through meeting the expectations of various stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2012 Established in 1976, S-OIL is Korea’s first joint venture corporation formed between entities in an oil-producing country (Saudi Arabia) and an oil-consuming one (South Korea). Today, the company is one of the most competitive refiners in the Asia-Pacific region. Number of Executives and 2,713 Employees Total Assets KRW 12.5 trillion Head Office : Marketing, finance, administration, etc. Onsan Refinery : Production and shipments Business Sites 12 Product Terminals/Depots : Product storage and shipments 4 District Sales HQs/25 Domestic and 4 Overseas Sales offices : Product sales S-OIL Total Lubricants Co., Ltd. (STLC) : Shared 50:50 with Total Affiliated Lubricants of France Companies S-International Ltd. : 100%-owned overseas subsidiary Production Capacity Crude Distillation 669,000 BPD Bunker-C Cracking Fuel Business 148,000 BPD Bunker-C Desulfurization 28.2 KRW trillion 149,000 BPD Diesel and Kerosene Desulfurization 120,000 BPD Sales Revenues Petrochemical in 2012 Benzene 34.7 560,000 tons/year Business Paraxylene 4.3 KRW trillion KRW trillion 1,800,000 tons/year Propylene 200,000 tons/year Ultra-S Base Oil 26,000 BPD Lube Business Super Base Oil 5,100 BPD 2.3 KRW trillion Premium Base Oil 8,600 BPD Head Office | S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoull 121-805, Rep. of KOREA Onsan Refinery | 68, Onsan-ro, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, 689-892, Rep. of KOREA www.s-oil.com About This Report Key Issues and Reporting Contents Contents Report Scope | S-OIL has annually published a sustainability reThis sustainability report encompasses the most important con01 Key Issues and Reporting Contents port since 2008. This one is our sixth sustainability report covering cerns of the C.E.O.–Customers, Employees, and Owners & Other 02 Sustainability Management Activities our business activities at our Seoul Head Office, Onsan Refinery, stakeholders–from economic, environmental, and social viewand Stakeholders product terminals and 25 domestic sales offices during the period points, while following global guidelines for such publications and 04 CEO’s Message from January 1 to December 31, 2012. The performance indicathe company’s 7 Strategic Imperatives. In addition, through the 06 Major Sustainability Performance International Norms Benchmarking against Media Analysis Newly-added Material Issues tors are based on data of three years, from 2010 to 2012, in order following materiality test, S-OIL identified major subjects and inand Standards Global Leading Companies to show trends more clearly. In addition, important management dicators that might influence the C.E.O.’s decision-making and 08 SPECIAL REPORT 1. Strategic Social Contribution Activities ● ● ● initiatives include data that extend into 2013 (the year of publiincluded them in detail in this sustainability report. S-OIL's Approach to Creating Social Value Supporting Outstanding Talents ● and Their Education cation). Data subject to frequent changes such as information on 10 SPECIAL REPORT 2. human resources were reported as of December 31, the last day 1.Find common issues among C.E.O.’s expectations identified through enS-OIL's Approach to Communicating Brand Marketing Activities ● ● of the fiscal year, and notes were added for special cases. Finangagements and global standards and guidelines, such as UN Global Comwith Customers cial performance data is compiled under separate criteria complipact, GRI, and ISO 26000 12 SPECIAL REPORT 3. Systematic HR Development ● ● ant with K-IFRS. 2. Add the most recent issues to the list of common issues by analyzing news S-OIL's Approach to Supporting Programs to Facilitate the Early Adaptation ● articles published in 2012 of New Recruits Its Employees' Growth 3. Add major issues covered by sustainability reports of leading domestic and Guidelines | The S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 is based on our SI 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management A Pricing Policy Aimed at Creating Win-win overseas companies 14 ● 7 Strategic Imperatives and is in accordance with the AA1000APS Relationships with Customers 4. Select reporting content for each strategic imperative by considering its Quality that Ensures Customer Satisfaction ● (2008)1). Moreover, the GRI G3.1 Guidelaines2) and the IPIECA/ significance to society and to S-OIL’s strategic directions A Network that Ensures Customer Convenience ● API Guidance3) have been used to highlight the important indi5. Review the materiality of the reporting content in three stages: team leadServices that Ensure Customer Satisfaction ● ● ● cators. Notes have been used to indicate cases where the comers, division heads, and top management 22 SI 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Harmonious Work-Life Balance ● pany’s management standards have been applied instead. 6. Have outside experts verify the materiality of the reporting content A Work Environment Filled with Motivations ● ● From Employment to Retirement ● ● ● Assurance | The reliability of the report was verified by an inde30 SI 3. Achieve Operational Excellence Work Sites that Prioritize Safety ● ● ● Higher pendent and objective assurance group based on the AA1000AS4) Green Management in Harmony Sustainability report ● ● ● (2008) and the ISAE30005) international assurance standards. with Environment The assurance report can be found in the appendix to the report. 38 SI 4. Contribute to Society Social Contribution Activities ● ● ● Covered by website Community Arts, Culture ● ● and Education Support Programs Further Information/Suggestions | The report and additional inor other channels Significance to Stakeholders S-OIL’s Pursuit of Sustainable Growth of Society ● ● ● formation on S-OIL’s sustainability management can be viewed 46 SI 5. P ursue Global Best Practices Transparent Corporate Governance Living up ● on S-OIL’s homepage, at www.s-oil.com. If you have questions to Stakeholders’ Trust of Corporate Governance Transparent Management or need further information, please contact the Sustainability that Creates Corporate Value ● ● Management Team of S-OIL at +82-2-3772-5237 or email us at Ethics Management for Win-Win Growth ● sustainability@s-oil.com. Being monitored Covered by website SI 6. Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency Sound Capital that Has Grown with Society ● ● 54 or other channels Efficient Capital Management ● ● 1) A  A1000APS (2008) provides a framework for an organization to identify, prioritize and respond to its sustainability challenges. World’s Best Risk Management ● 2) The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines provide sustainability report Transparent Dividend Distribution ● guidelines that were written and revised by the GRI in 2011. The GRI was established 60 SI 7. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth Strengthening Competitiveness in Core Business ● ● by CERES and UNEP. Response to Climate Change ● ● ● Lower 3) IPIECA/API (International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association/ American Petroleum Institute) Guidance refers to sustainability report guidelines Preemptive Response to Future Energy Mix ● governing the performances reported by companies in the petroleum industry. Lower Significance to S-OIL's Strategic Operations Higher Appendix 4) AA1000AS provides international verification standards that are used to evaluate the 66 Independent Assurance Report inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of sustainability reports. 5) ISAE3000 provides international verification standards governing the reliability of in68 GRI/IPIECA Content Index, UNGC Index formation other than financial data. 72 Awards, Recognitions and Affiliations 73 Readers’ Opinions 2 Sustainability Management Activities and Stakeholders S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 3 Sustainability Management Expectations of Stakeholders and Company Mission | S-OIL’s sustainability management begins with the expectaties where S-OIL can fully leverage the company’s core competencies with strengthened R&D capabilities. 7 Strategic Imperatives Scheme tions of its C.E.O.–Customers, Employees, and Owners and 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management other stakeholders. The company strives to achieve its misStrategic Framework | S-OIL has established a strategic Mission Sustainable, Profitable Growth sion of sustainable, profitable growth by understanding those 2 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment framework to accomplish its mission. The framework comVision The Most Profitable and Integrated expectations and by ensuring they are reflected in manageprises three axes. The first is the company’s strategic direcEnergy Company ment policies that prioritize its C.E.O.’s values–economically, 3 Achieve Operational Excellence tion, which indicates what the long-term growth directions •F  urther Investment in environmentally and socially. for the future of S-OIL should be. The second involves strathe Refining Business Strategic tegic imperatives. These refer to the management principles 4 Contribute to Society • Integration with the Direction Petrochemical Business S-OIL Grand Vision 2020 | S-OIL will be the most profitable that S-OIL needs to adopt to realize optimum outcomes Strategic • New Energy Businesses and integrated energy company encompassing refining, whichever strategic directions it chooses to pursue. The final 5 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Framework Performance Strategic lube, and petrochemical businesses with excellence in operaaxis is performance measurement, which is to assure that the Measurement Imperatives tion, quality, and customer partnership. two are implemented effectively. 6 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency To that end, S-OIL will focus on With that strategic framework in place, the C.E.O.’s expecta• further enhancing facility competitiveness to maximize tion of S-OIL and the company’s responsibilities in meeting Action Plan 7 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth production value, them and achieving sustainable growth are embodied in its • proactively expanding business territory globally, and 7 Strategic Imperatives. • prudently pursuing new competitive business opportuniSustainability Management ina tion Team m · Procureme · Contractin nt Tea g Tea m· Proc ure s Tea Activities and Stakeholders rd · Safety & m· me · Customer Rela oo tion Heal Ma nt ing Team tions tC pera th D nag em Man arket hip D en yO epa shipM eve em sur rtm en tC ag em ber · Customer Service Team lop ag rea en t oo em me nt an ·T ·E rd en ·M Te ·M M nv ina atio ns an m am u lt iro Tea ons ufa nm t ail c Stakeholder Participation Channels en ctu nt · IR e-m Products/Services Communication · ne/ · Oc Tech r m me m ea Tea o in and Communications Organizations · Fin m ge eleph gs gstati ons · Safe c ty a upat ical n m tT ea ge eetin stomer (VOC n anc f the Cu tio eP · T stin tor m nd ion ex ) Sys · General M u n T ana ice o ica ns tal od t lan he a · Vo stomer Satisfaction Index Su em eetin o s · W alth l Ri p ngs rksho un io e on s e p /Inv alyst ns S-OIL operates a variety of C.E.O. engagePr nin tio t M · Cu er monitoring group (Sup rvey m at go M eti cti · Customer Relationship m niz f St es n tutio · E-pro as e gT a an t o me n W m c ust o p ction Suggestion P orters Co rga Cap ea · Investor r ock i ith l inst eting a s urem e g T en e Team ment channels, considering each group’s ·C r Satisfa Communication ho en re tio s i m ge rog ) O elati nus cardwebsite(in ram cia me ors Busin ing lua l tS Deve e ons d t an · ain om st nter · B o clud Channels /co We ers g v e s ess ch Eva ns/tr ining ervic characteristics, in order to identify what u arket ing C ompetitio ing n b In C · all c e n ·M fe si s/ ys t lopm AP ers n ·C ·M P) tio · Vis eeti ren t sk tio Tra visit s rtn old er S ica its n c ca nt · Site m · HR Develop onnel Tea es Offices · LPG Team their expectations are. We establish acid Indiv ual un · Pers ment · Cr to fi gs w er du tme Pa Team l m ls ent ed na a m ne ement Coordination · Manag S rt service stat m to suppo em it r n · Co an Tea m Team · La a tion plans to fulfill these expectations by Ch cy bo Shareh at Owners&Other o ions oli Team inars rC in t m Tea P · Qu · Pe o s a R · IR son oper Products/Services ·H urces Develop r tion visits o e a s correlating them with our own strategic m t · Cu e S R · tions/Dealers e Stakeholders T a n m a at in ality ·S e Hum Govern l m nt & i vit ars g W ·S in m mu on & Terminalling e directions and imperatives; the results re Tea Sta i sh t tion Management Ma g ies t · Con s ta Customers d r Cultu ring tion o nities p Ass e Sta sits by top manag a s site vi hea ( h feren gr Tran rate n Team s/ CSR rough are applied to our management activities ga ion eme · Public a me ces rvic ter os uct ics management help de nt t/ · Company rpo rm u Ne zine NG · d o · Inf st om p as act e · Co ro · Eth iviti assocaitions sk ran P O/M S · t lC nse · through analyses and reviews. · In Em nt & se · wsle IL Champions C wslet U ram em edia Loca ssm ent es) spo te nme g m k se i e ro r in · Mee Survey am · Re ar or ce ing ars/c gs/ ct ent rtm · Gover N O l ter tion ·E· Sub Te rin · A in t pa s ur me onferen · Employe ings w hea ry sfac ve r · Public efine Sha ion on De C etin ces ati ys Te etw gs r Corporations e Su i Te e e t Tea e S sion h re n lua gge th CE to t hi irs m ·Vis its s · Sun al eva tio m ye ses lfa am ffa Stra ng om · n tegi eeti un ern ca tA po sti on O plo al IR ni · Cu c Cooperation M ays m ica · Ext ·N rt en ea u ilit Te stom D sT tio er Appreciatio · Dinne n r for customer s P Employees n · Go ver nm Aff air n Co mm y M an ag am lic am up em · Vis · Brochures Communication Communication Pub ·E nS ent iting shop PR nv tio b customers · Work Channels Organizations Te iro nm p era ina am ·O sta sio ent u · Su Affa eam ·S · Co Prod ses itt sta irs Te t Affa irs T am rpo ucts/Services m l IR omm W ina am · Governmen rs Te Tea en ebzi bilit ai rna ·L rate yM Aff gy · Inte nce C ub Sale rate t c ne anag blic eB · Refi s Tea S t on ement T t & Pu as ne m · Re fined Product Marketi ng Tea m va fer eam · Governmen · Pe d Produc · Grie n enc eO ation am es R es il E xpo Pet chemic tro t Expo rt Team · Refined Product Oper ales Te ffic ee ·C ·H m rt T roche al Ma i c alS asO om p ge em e ·M an t na eam mica rketing S trategy Team · Petroch am Overs ont y Newslett ne · Intra or-ma · Lub l Operation y te · ateg hly er e Ba Team · Lube Marketing Str g Team Empl oyee Meeting · L ab se Oil e r in Domestic art Sales Team · Ch 4 CEO’s Message 5 Dear Valued Stakeholders of S-OIL : All officers and employees of S-OIL work as a It is a great pleasure to present you with our sixth sustainability report. team, not a single member. We all care about your expectations and will continue to listen to Last year, 2012, was a tough, but historic time for S-OIL. Despite a stagnant global economic recovery and stiff fluctuations your voice. I have a vision and strategies that are in crude prices, our financial performance was solid with our highest sales ever – 30.8 billion USD – on a decent operating income of 694 million USD. Our presence both in local and overseas markets increased with a record-high local market share aligned to satisfy your ultimate expectations, of more than 18% and the export of our products to more than 30 countries around the world. Sustainable Profitable Growth of S-OIL. Safety remains our first priority, which we will never compromise. Through our persistence, we have had seven million accident-free man-hours for as long as 709 days since May 10, 2010. S-OIL is the first and only local refiner who acquired the Safety-zone Certificate from the government. We also devoted more attention to protecting and preserving the Mother Nature. We reduced carbon emissions by 149 thousand tons of CO2 in a year, which is 2% less than the previous year. As a trusted corporate citizen of the global village, S-OIL supports the efforts of international and local communities to address climate change and willingly participates in activities that tackle such issues. Valued Stakeholders and staunch supporters of S-OIL, All officers and employees of S-OIL work as a team, not a single member. We all care about your expectations and will continue to listen to your voice. I have a vision and strategies that are aligned to satisfy your ultimate expectations, Sustainable Profitable Growth of S-OIL. We have made good progress making this vision more concrete on three strategic directions, i.e. further investment in oil refining, integration with petrochemicals, and new energy business. Along this journey, as we successfully fulfill our vision, S-OIL will live up to expectations of C.E.O., customers, employees, and owners and other stakeholders, particularly the international norms and standards including the UN Global Compact and its ten principles, which embrace issues such as human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Our sustainability report will serve as a constant messenger to convey our ceaseless effort and results. I hope you enjoy exploring our sustainability report. Thank you. Nasser Al-Mahasher Representative Director and CEO 6 Major Sustainability Performences 7 Major Sustainability Performances Economy Environment 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Sales (KRW million) 20,511,068 31,913,863 34,723,291 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope I (thousand tons CO2) 6,504 7,308 7,088 Operating Income (KRW million) 823,239 1,697,503 781,764 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope II (thousand tons CO2) 683 874 945 Net Income (KRW million) 710,066 1,192,426 580,015 Direct Energy Use (TJ) 60,691 79,044 85,164 Total Liabilities (KRW million) 5,498,903 7,977,747 7,120,050 Indirect Energy Use (TJ) 14,337 18,424 20,732 Total Stockholders’ Equity (KRW million) 4,504,595 5,226,354 5,371,991 Reduction in Air Pollutant Emissions SOx 3,093 4,620 3,656 (Onsan Refinery) (tons) Dividend Per Share Common (KRW) 2,500 4,800 2,650 NOx 3,091 3,753 3,820 Preferred (KRW) 2,525 4,825 2,675 Dust 89 116 105 Return on Equity (%) 16.82 24.51 10.95 Air Pollutant Emissions2) (Onsan Refinery) SOx (ppm) 180.0/91.0 180.0/77.5 180.0/60.2 Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio (%) 122.07 152.64 132.54 (Legal Limit / S-OIL) NOx (ppm) 150.0/95.2 150.0/79.5 150.0/76.9 Total Amount of Purchases (KRW million) 373,090 554,153 424,800 Dust (mg/Sm3) 30.0/3.9 30.0/3.8 30.0/2.9 3) Total Amount of Local Purchases (KRW million) 90,095 89,084 78,042 Discharge Density of Water Pollutants BOD 10.0/3.0 10.0/2.7 10.0/2.5 Volume of Crude Oil Processed (thousand barrels) 186,866 218,714 232,812 (Onsan Refinery) (ppm) COD 40.0/7.3 40.0/7.1 40.0/7.4 (Legal Limit / S-OIL) Production Fuel Products 164,855 188,128 197,720 SS 10.0/2.9 10.0/2.8 10.0/2.5 (thousand barrels) Lube Products 12,866 14,234 13,125 Marine Oil Spills (Onsan Refinery) 0 0 0 Petrochemical Products 12,730 21,252 25,467 Water Use (Onsan Refinery) (thousand tons) 20,667 21,451 20,775 Sales Fuel Products 169,330 195,491 205,274 Water Reused (Onsan Refinery) (thousand tons) 1,663 1,683 4) 1,928 (thousand barrels) Lube Products 12,411 13,662 12,597 Waste Water Discharges (Onsan Refinery) (thousand tons) 9,570 10,003 9,552 Petrochemical Products 10,265 16,908 20,324 Designated Waste (Onsan Refinery) (tons) 9,787 16,096 14,908 General Waste (Onsan Refinery) (tons) 16,233 15,380 14,161 Waste Recycled (Onsan Refinery) (tons) 17,420 23,069 17,880 Environmental Investments (KRW million) 9,820 14,589 24,445 Society Safety 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Number of Employees Total 2,589 2,661 2,713 Percentage of Occupational Injury of Employees 0.11 0 0.12 Executives 38 39 42 Percentage of Occupational Injury 0.09 0.04 0.19 of Employees of Partner Companies Regular Employees 2,479 2,491 2,523 Number of Injured 2 0 2 Non-regular Employees 72 131 148 Fire 0 2 0 Number of Newly Hired Employees 181 181 137 Accidents due to Regulation Violations 0 0 0 Number of Retirees 103 109 85 Number of Lost Work Days (Based on Man-Days) 52 0 87 Percentage of Outside Directors in BOD 54.5 54.5 54.5 Safety Management Training Number of Trainees 5,505 11,376 12,071 Percentage of Female Employees 7.2 7.1 7.3 for Employees Number of Trainings 91 130 158 Percentage of Disabled Employees 1.8 1.7 1.7 Average Annual Training Hours Safety Management Training Number of Trainees 15,030 14,424 7,910 56 52 68 for Partner Companies per Administrative Employee Number of Trainings 319 336 313 Percentage of Education and Training Cost in Labor Cost 0.8 1.4 1.7 Percentage of Fringe Benefits in Labor Cost 59.5 62.5 51.4 Labor Disputes 0 0 0 1) Figures for 2011 are different from the previous report, as donations to the S-0IL Table Tennis Team and the S-OIL Science Prodigy Sunshine Sharing Donations (KRW million)1) 5,234 7,149 11,713 and Culture Foundation began to be tallied from the 2012 Report. Employees’ Volunteer Hours 22,596 28,823 30,828 2) TMS Heater/ Boiler,average annual rate 3) Data are based on the company's own water analysis. But TMS data have been used to measure COD and SS since 2011. Amount of Green Purchases (KRW million) 23,934 4,531 25,326 4) Data changed due to different measurement criteria adopted for 2011-2012. 8 SPECIAL REPORT 1. S-OIL’s Approach to Creating Social Value 고 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 9 SPECIAL REPORT 1. S-OIL’s Approach to Creating Social Value Case Study. S  upporting Outstanding Talents and Their Education S-OIL Science Prodigy and Culture Foundation S-OIL identified the expectations of its stakeholders by enleged individuals and communities, the company conducts On January 6, 2011, S-OIL established the S-OIL Science ference where Nobel Prize winners and young scientists from gaging with them in diverse communications, and devised “Endangered Natural Monuments Protection” activities and Prodigy and Culture Foundation in order to pave the way for across the globe interact), and many other events. 7 Strategic Imperatives for sustainable management that Biodiversity Preservation activities as part of its efforts to Korea’s prominent scientists to excel on the global stage by needed to be undertaken to meet those expectations. preserve the beautiful natural environment and for future fostering talents in basic sciences, supporting the academic Support for Science Projects Through the Strategic Imperative “Contribute to Society,” Sgenerations to enjoy. As contributions to society, it conducts research activities of scientists, and expanding the basis of Sponsor of the Encore Korea Project ┃ S-OIL Science Prodigy OIL is pursuing social contribution activities for the country the “Hero Firefighters Support Program” and “Hero Citizens science culture, with the ultimate goal of producing Korea’s and Culture Foundation is a sponsor of the “EncoreKorea Projand society in connection with its own corporate strategies. Support Program” campaigns to create a joyful and resilient first Nobel laureate in the field of science. With a board of diect” led by the Korea Technology Management Research InstiIn addition, it has established the vision for its social contricommunity, by lauding the true heroes who dedicate themrectors consisting of prominent figures from Korea’s academtute. The “EncoreKorea Project” is an international knowledge bution activities as “Sunshine Sharing,” and strives to realize selves to working for society. ic, media, and financial worlds, the foundation is conducting donation program aimed at passing on to less-developed, desustainable growth through S-OIL’s unique programs that its target business in a transparent and efficient manner, and veloping, and newly emerging countries the rich experience are rooted in three principles–genuineness, impact, and S-OIL has also helped social contribution take root as a beauhas since spent approximately KRW2 billion to support variand expertise of the now-retired scientists who had worked ous initiatives. for the advancement of Korea’s science and technology at timing. tiful corporate culture by encouraging voluntary donations national institutes, universities, and companies. Through and volunteer work on behalf of its employees through its Scholarships for Talents in Pure Science this program S-OIL is engaged in diverse activities to transIn the beginning, S-OIL’s social contribution activities were Sunshine Sharing campaign. Furthermore, aiming to proS-OIL Leading Scientist Fellowship ┃ S-OIL has implementfer scientific knowledge and provide technical consulting in focused on providing financial support to the less privileged duce Nobel laureates in science by actively providing suped its “S-OIL Leading Scientist Fellowship” program, which countries like Ethiopia, Mongolia, and Indonesia. In addition, in society. However, the changing awareness of social contriport to the basic science field in which Korea lagging behind selects and provides support to scientists who have achieved it provides financial support for building the program website bution activities and the gradual expansion of the domain of other countries, the company established the “S-OIL Science world-class research results in the field of basic science, there(www.encorekorea.com) and integrated databases for each CSR linked with sustainability have made it impossible for the Prodigy and Culture Foundation” and gives “Leading Scienby boosting their motivation and allowing them concentrate specialized field, developing tailored projects for participating company to rely solely on its financial aids or charity works. tist of the Year Fellowship” and “Excellent Thesis of the Year on their research. Each year, one scientist from the fields of countries, and dispatching retired scientists overseas for volHence, S-OIL is expanding the scope of its social contribution Prize,”the most prestigious academic awards in Korea’s basic physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology, or earth science is unteer work. activities in line with the expectations of its stakeholders. science sector. S-OIL will continue its efforts to create new soselected to receive a total of KRW 300 million over a period of cial values and forge more positive influences from society. six years. The first fellowship went to Dr. Ji-Soon Lim, the chair Support for the Global Students Mentoring Forum ┃ S-OIL On top of its continued interest in and support for less priviprofessor of physics at Seoul National University, in 2012. has set up a mentoring system that connects students from developing nations currently studying at Korean universities and S-OIL’s Strategic Social Contribution System Exemplary Doctoral Thesis Award ┃ An analysis of past Nograduate schools with senior scientists and young, elite entrebel Prize winners revealed a strong link between the award preneurs, arranging regular meetings and individual mentoring and their doctoral thesis. Accordingly, S-OIL began selecting sessions. Through its mentoring activities, this program aims to Enhance Customer-Centric Management Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Vision Sunshine Sharing and awarding outstanding doctoral theses written by PhD contribute to sustaining friendly and cooperative relationships S-OIL Achieve Operational Excellence candidates in basic sciences, in order to contribute to fosterbetween Korea and the students’ countries by not only utilizing Contribute to Society Mission Achieve sustainable growth through S-OIL’s unique Sunshine Sharing Program 7 SI ing top-tier PhD graduates and next generation leaders in the the advanced knowledge of Korean scientists but also offering Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Attain Highest level of Capital Efficiency Three Genuineness (voluntariness), Impact (social impact), Timing (timeliness) field of basic science. practical help to promising scientists of these nations. Principles Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth Main Programs Sunshine Sharing Campaign  Public Benefit Support for Academic/Society Activities in Basic Sciences┃ Activities Foundations Str ategy Community To promote the active exchange of ideas by Korea’s science S-OIL en Volunteer Ulsan Welfare talents on the global stage, S-OIL provides support to the t Wage Tail-cut Activities Foundation various academic activities hosted by Korea’s representative Im p r o v e m Hero Environment Contribution A c ti Contribute science institutions, such as the Korean Academy of Science v it y S-OIL to Society Science Prodigy and Technology and KAIST. To date, it has sponsored the In1 Person 1 Donation and Culture S-OIL Public Service Corp Account Foundation ternational Presidential Forum, KAST-RSAS* Spring Bilateral Co m m u nic ati o n Symposium, Inter-academy Seoul Science Forum, the “Korea Participants S-OIL and public/private partner organizations Day” event at the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings (a conExemplary Doctoral Thesis Award * KAST : Korea Academy of Science and Technology RSAS : Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences 10 SPECIAL REPORT 2. S-OIL’s Approach to Communicating with Customers 고 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 11 SPECIAL REPORT 2. S-OIL’s Approach to Communicating with Customers Case Study. “GOODOIL” : S-OIL’s Symbol That Wrote a New Chapter in Brand Marketing S-OIL strives to enhance its customers’ satisfaction and conpapers, right next to the newspaper title on the front page. Background behind Its Introduction ┃ In 2012, S-OIL inTOM Among Ads of Refiners (TOM : Top-of-Mind) (Unit : %) venience through diverse marketing initiatives. In particular, It has been covered extensively on TV, in newspapers, and troduced “GOODOIL,” a character that symbolizes “good oil,” ·Ad Tracking Survey Results by Nielsen Korea the year 2012 marked a turning point where it surpassed its through other media outlets thanks to the public’s keen as its new advertising model. Through this character, the competitors in terms of customer communication through its character marketing and corporate image advertising. participation and interest, and won a number of prestigious advertisement awards (given by Chosun Ilbo, Hankyoreh company was able to deliver its story to the consumers in 65.3 57.2 58.8 a natural and friendly manner while maintaining the nov2010 2012 Meanwhile, the company is fully complying with related laws Newspaper, etc.). elty of its brand. In addition, it brought about a change in 2011 in all of its marketing activities, including the Broadcasting Advertisement Act and the Giveaway Announcement Act. Advertisement of S-OIL as a Company Working for Pubperception by breaking away from the common notion that “it’s difficult to know the true nature and quality of oil by 9.4 11.5 10.9 lic Interests ┃ A series of corporate image advertisements touching or looking at it” and spreading the idea that “oil 2011 2012 2010 Advertising Campaign that Boosts Brand Value ┃ In 2012, showing S-OIL as a leader in environmental protection and contains a tangible nature that allows the consumers to feel S-OIL launched a new commercial that featured the character altruistic sharing through various social contribution activities the difference.” S-OIL Average of Other Domestic Refiners “GOODOIL” as a model, in addition to the company’s endursuch as the Natural Monuments Protection campaign and the ing message on “good oil,” the Yellow Frame, and the enjoyHero Firefighter Protection campaign were published in newsAwareness/Likeability/Responsiveness to Character Expansion able commercial song. The TV commercial, showing a realpapers and magazines. In addition, to promote S-OIL’s image for “GOODOIL” (Unit : %) Future Direction of S-OIL’s Character Marketing ┃ S-OIL life backdrop and the 3D character, focused on delivering the as an exporter contributing to Korea’s economic growth, the ·Consumer Survey by Nielsen Korea (Dec. 2012) has been pursuing change and innovation in its marketing brand’s genuineness and friendliness through “GOODOIL.” company featured a newspaper advertisement of the USD Awareness activities, and created a social sensation with its commercial To further boost the customers’ recognition of this character 20 billion Export Tower Award it had won, which was also well song in 2006. The use of its new character also represents an innovative move never attempted before in the refining indus87% as well as its likability, the company also engaged in moment recognized. Through more creative corporate image advertisof truth (MOT) activities through guerilla marketing, trick art, ing, S-OIL will continue to strengthen its image as a warm and Likeability try, and served to shed new light on the concept of character emoticons, etc. As a result of this integrated advertising camsincere company that communicates with the public. marketing. Refusing to be complacent, however, S-OIL plans to paign, S-OIL’s top-of-mind awareness jumped from 48%, further develop the “GOODOIL” character into a mascot that measured prior to the airing of the commercial, to 58.8%. In 2013, S-OIL plans to further use the “GOODOIL” character Marketing Contest that Communicates with Potential Customers ┃ To reinforce its communication with university Responsiveness to Character 72% symbolizes the company. It will strive to achieve its ultimate goal of moving away from one-way marketing that requires Expansion in a new commercial to add a fun and original aspect to its students who represent its future customer base, in November selling to marketing that simply sells in other words, becomcurrent merry and lively image. 2012 S-OIL launched its third marketing contest, the “2013 ing a brand that consumers seek on their own. In the future, S-OIL Brand Awards,” for approximately three months. The 74% S-OIL will engage in creative brand marketing that boosts its Corporate Image Advertising that Speaks to the Public contest featured three categories that were aimed at collectbrand value, led by a systematic strategy aimed at developing ┃ Breaking free from the conventional method of engaging ideas on “GOODOIL.” They were: 1) Character Storytelling, its character, including advertisement campaigns that utilize ing in one-way communication about the company, S-OIL 2) Character Merchandising, and 3) Character Artwork. Some Outcome of S-OIL’s Character Marketing ┃ Amidst ag“GOODOIL,” integration with the company’s CI and SI, comhas launched its “30-letters of Nice Messages for YOU Cam500 individuals participated through a total of 233 teams, all gressive advertisement campaigns launched by other domercialization, and diverse forms of collaboration. paign” advertisement that empathizes and communicates displaying great enthusiasm. The ideas submitted at the conmestic refiners, S-OIL’s “GOODOIL” campaign that began in with the public. The campaign selects heartwarming mestest are being widely used in the company’s marketing activimid-May of 2012 was well received by consumers as well as sages submitted by individuals and publishes one message ties. S-OIL plans to continue strengthening its communication service station managers, and achieved notable results. First, per day four times a week in Korea’s ten major daily newswith potential consumers through its marketing contests. it led to a significant increase in S-OIL’s TOM awareness, which is expected to have a positive impact on the company’s future sales. In addition, the new character became another brand asset that sets S-OIL apart from the others; it will further boost the company’s brand value and create a synergy effect that integrates all of S-OIL’s marketing activities. Based on its highly enhanced brand awareness, S-OIL plans to focus on upgrading its premium brand image, and the “GOODOIL” character will serve as an effective medium in its brand strategy. GOODOIL TV-CF 30-letters of Nice Messages for YOU Campaign Corporate Image Advertisement 12 SPECIAL REPORT 3. S-OIL’s Approach to Supporting Its Employees’ Growth 고 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 13 SPECIAL REPORT 3. S-OIL’s Approach to Supporting Its Employees’ Growth Case Study. Programs to Facilitate the Early Adaptation of New Recruits From the stages of recruitment to employee placement, can develop their careers regardless of time or place. Recruiting talented individuals and growing with them is the member of S-OIL by enhancing his or her integration into the transfer, and training, S-OIL has in place diverse systems source of any company’s sustainability. As an enthusiastic company and boosting social skills. By participating in this aimed at enhancing its employees’ individual competencies Career Development Program that Offers Diverse Job Expesupporter of its employees’ growth, S-OIL has in place a nummentoring program, which was launched in 2009, the mentees and developing their careers. They are all aimed at fostering rience ┃ By optimally placing and transferring its employees ber of programs to help new recruits become adapted for the quickly become adapted for the company while the mentors S-OIL’s uniquely ideal type of employees—adventurous talbased on their competencies and job suitability, S-OIL meets organization. have an opportunity to develop their leadership skills as mid-levents who are willing to take part in realizing the company’s their needs for career development while also promoting the el managers. One special aspect of S-OIL’s mentoring program vision, talents equipped with global acumen and caliber, talvitalization of its organization. After performing a job for a Group Training and On the Job Training (OJT) ┃ The new is that during the one-year program, the mentors are changed ents who value autonomy and teamwork, and talents who certain period, an employee can be transferred to another recruits first undergo a group training program that is conevery half year. That is, the first six months of the program is have a sound set of values and morals. S-OIL’s HR developjob function upon self-request or via his supervisor through ducted for a total of eight weeks, with four weeks spent at the focused on helping the mentees quickly adapt for their new ment system, aimed at fostering key talents, represents a the company’s Job Rotation system. This not only enables head office and the remaining four weeks at the company’s departments by pairing them with a mentor from the same virtuous cycle consisting of career development programs the employees to enjoy the opportunity for career developplants. The program is conducted to help the new employdepartment. Then for the latter half of the program, the menthat enhance basic, leadership, and job competencies, and ment by performing diverse jobs, but also boosts their comees, who have just made the transition from being students tors are chosen from outside the mentees’ departments, which a fair and reasonable evaluation system that assesses each mitment to the organization. Meanwhile, the Job Posting to fully participating as a member of society, change their allows the new employees to form their own in-house networks employee’s competencies and performance. Furthermore, to system allows employees to select their job function through awareness as S-OIL’s employees, establish their basic mindand vitalizes work-related communication within the company. ensure that the HR development system caters to the needs an in-house application procedure. By applying the market set, experience the organization through teamwork, and unIn addition, a themed mentoring session is offered in which the of individual employees, the latter are required to set their principle to HR management, the system gives individuals a derstand the company itself. Through this program, the new mentor and the mentee choose a topic of common interest tomidto long-term goals by drafting their own Individual Dechance to voluntarily choose the jobs they want. Hence, they recruits can gain a full understanding of S-OIL and the roles gether and the latter maps out his or her life in ten years’ time velopment Plan (IDP) each year, while the company provides get to develop the essential capabilities required at the complayed by each of its departments. After the group training based on that theme. This gives the new employees a chance its full support to help them achieve those goals effectively. pany by experiencing various job functions that are in line they participate in the OJT program, where they can expeto plan their future at the company from the moment of their with their own Career Development Plan (CDP). rience the company’s functional departments prior to their recruitment and helps them lead successful lives at S-OIL. Diverse Training Programs for Core Competency Develplacement. The OJT program allows the new employees to opment ┃ S-OIL supports its employees’ development of Systematic Programs to Foster Next Generation Leaders ┃ gain experience in diverse departments through their underRetention Program (“Dynamic Rookies”) ┃ Once the yearcore competencies through the basic competencies training With a clear understanding of the importance of the next genstanding of each department and their interactions with selong mentoring is completed, a retention program called “Dycourse in which S-OIL’s basic values are shared, the leadereration’s key talents, S-OIL has established a systematic HR denior colleagues, in order to help them learn about the companamic Rookies” is conducted for the employees who are into ship training course, and a number of specialized job trainvelopment system. To nurture next generation leaders, for exny and its work processes and quickly acclimate. The program their second year at the company. Launched in 2010, the ing courses aimed at enhancing the employees’ expertise. In ample, it selects talented employees with great potential and is conducted for six weeks for office employees and 12 weeks program boosts their challenging spirit and unity and helps for those in technical posts. It has proven effective in helping them understand the company’s future direction through particular, its development and operation of the S-OIL Acadprovides support for their MBA studies in Korea or overseas, or the new recruits adapt after their placement. communication with top management. It also strengthens emy has enabled the company to offer tailored training for for their Master’s program in science and engineering offered improving job competencies, which in turn has helped the at IFP School in France. In addition, it analyzes the competenthe employees’ solidarity, thereby enhancing their satisfaction Differentiated Mentoring Program ┃ Once the new employat the company. Along with the introduction of this program, employees become more active learners. Besides its group cies of the key employees, and then establishes tailored develees are placed in the departments of their choice after the OJT the turnover rate among employees whose service year is less training, S-OIL also provides online courses on diverse topics opment plans and provides diverse training programs based program is completed, a mentoring program is conducted to than two years dropped by almost half; such results show that such as business administration, the humanities, and foreign on the results. Through this process, S-OIL’s employees will help them adapt for the company and develop their potential. the introduction of S-OIL’s mentoring program and Dynamic languages, creating an infrastructure in which its employees become the core of the company’s growth engine. For one year, each employee is paired with a mentor, who is Rookies has made significant contribution to the successful adtypically an assistant manager or someone in a more advanced aptation of the new employees and the enhancement of their Systematic HR Development Plan position. Through this, the employee grows to become a key satisfaction with the company. Employment General Cultivation Specialized Cultivation Career Education·Training Generalist Track Core Vision manpower Placement·Transfer Promotion Specialist Track S-OIL’s · Evaluation of Competencies & Performance · Evaluation of Competencies & Performance Ideal · Training & Feedback Individual · Training & Feedback · Development Plan(IDP) Employee Individual Evaluation Competence Model in Accordance with R&R Performance Individual KPI · Basic Competencies · Leadership Competencies · Job Competencies Management System Organizational KPI Organizational R&R Duration of Employment Mentor-Mentee Activities Dynamic Rookies 1 SI ship a rd M ember C Bonus Enhance 6 million s Customer-Centric M in d Top of cking Studie A warene s ss sti ai c M Dome l Light Oil Pr hare arket S oducts for Ret Management . 6 T ra in Ad 58.8% 1 8 % VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS In this era of customer capitalism, all employees must predict and prepare Performance for the values that their customers will truly cherish. Only those that can enviSummary sion their customers’ future value can rise to the top on the global economic stage. _ Pil-Young Jung, Director of Innovation Management Institute Plans for 2012 ● E nhance customer satisfaction by improv●L aunch multiple initiatives to facilitate the ●Strengthen brand PR using various channels ing the Happy Call System, which gauges public’s understanding on the feasibility to enhance S-OIL’s image as a warm and customer satisfaction regarding the way of product prices and on fair competition friendly brand while preserving its fundatheir complaints are handled. amongst refinery companies. mental stance on quality oil. ●Improve the efficiency of customer com●A nalyze the market and technological plaint management by integrating the trends for eco-friendly products and offer various channels and processes related to high quality, eco-friendly products that the voice of customers (VOC) into an IT meet the customers’ expectations. system. ●R  einforce quality inspection at affiliate ser●E xpand the Bonus Card Membership and vice stations to prevent the distribution of improve loyalty through stable operation fake oil and other abnormal products. of the Bonus Card System. ● P romote the qualitative improvement of customer service through stable operation of a customer service center. Achievements in 2012 Yul Ryu ●Implemented an IT-based, integrated ●P rovided the market with information on ●R  aised S-OIL’s brand awareness and TOM VOC system that enabled company-wide rational product prices, such as the prices through a marketing strategy that used Executive Vice President sharing and management of various VOCs for different service stations, via the comthe company’s new mascot, “GOODOIL” Head of Marketing&Sales pany’s smartphone application, “S-OIL from different channels. ● Delivered sincere and touching stories subBonus Card.” Our customers lie at the heart of all of S-OIL’s business activities. ●S elected as an outstanding call center by mitted by individuals and spread positive the Korea Management Association by ●W as the only domestic oil refinery commessages across the community through Striving to deliver the best value to its customers through the supply offering a one-step customer service based pany to win the highest environmental a public contest titled “30-letters of Nice of eco-friendly products, reasonable pricing, expansion of sales chanon Customer Relationship Management quality grade every year since 2009 for Messages for YOU Campaign.” This earned (CRM). gasoline and 2006 for diesel. the company the 2012 Advertising Awards nels, compliance with fair trade regulations, and diverse communicagiven by Chosun Ilbo and Hankyoreh ●L aunched and operated a “Quality Inspection activities, S-OIL meets its customers via some 2,000 service station Group,” which consists of outside Newspaper. experts beyond the the existing quality tions in Korea, as well as in about 30 countries around the world. Our managers, for reinforcement of quality efforts to repay the affection and trust our customers have shown us inspection. will never cease, proven in our aim to achieve harmonious growth toFuture Plan ●E nhance communication with customers ●E xpand the company’s sales network and ●T hrough creative corporate advertisement, gether through enhanced quality control, rational prices, and diverse by selecting and fostering key advisors stabilize its product prices by actively idenstrengthen S-OIL’s image as a friendly and within the “S-OIL Supporters,” the comtifying new business opportunities in the sincere company that communicates with services. pany’s prosumer group. its stakeholders. domestic market. ●Improve customer trust and satisfaction by ●Continue reinforcing quality inspection and fostering customer relations experts. offer eco-friendly products. 16 SI 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management SI 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 17 A Pricing Policy Aimed at Creating Quality that Ensures Customer A Network that Ensures Customer Services that Ensure Customer Win-win Relationships with Customers Satisfaction Convenience Satisfaction A Pricing Policy Aimed at Creating Win-win Relationsecond half of 2013 for all smartphone users). along with the prohibitively high entry barrier of the indusCommitted to achieving harmonious growth ships with Customers try, has made S-OIL a target for allegations of price fixing Surveys show that customers are most sensitive to a prodCompliance with Rules on Fair Competition Order ┃ As a and unfair trade. To date, however, none have been proven with its customers, S-OIL always strives to set uct’s quality and price. Committed to achieving harmonious latecomer in the refinery industry, S-OIL has been playing to be true. For example, the Korea Fair Trade Commission isreasonable prices, comply with fair trade guidegrowth with its customers, S-OIL always strives to set reasonthe role of a “maverick” that sparks fierce competition in the sued corrective orders and imposed fines on S-OIL for allegable prices, comply with fair trade guidelines, and provide market. It knows only too well that price-rigging, unfair trade edly participating in an LPG price-fixing scheme in December lines, and provide quality products, hoping to quality products, hoping to share the burden placed on cusand other deeds that threaten the fair trade order can de2009 and for colluding to not trade with service stations afshare the burden placed on customers by high tomers by high oil prices amidst a global economic recession. stroy within seconds the trust a company has gained from filiated with other refiners in September 2011. Having comoil prices amidst a global economic recession. its customers and shareholders over several years. Hence, Smitted no such wrongdoings, however, the company immeEfforts for Reasonable Pricing┃The company’s pricing system OIL has been making ceaseless efforts to earn the trust of diately lodged appeals, and legal proceedings are currently for domestic oil products guarantees rational and competitive its customers through its compliance with the guidelines on underway. In the case of its appeal to revoke the disposition prices that are based on international petroleum product prices, fair trade order. For example, it has been conducting a fair on the latter allegation, S-OIL filed the appeal in October such as the Mean of Platts Singapore (MOPS), fluctuations in trade training program since 2010, enhancing its employees’ 2011 and was found not guilty of collusion by the Seoul High the exchange rate, in-house supply and demand, domestic marunderstanding of voluntary compliance with fair trade guideCourt in August 2012; the case is currently pending in the ket trends, and other objective data. Having led the competilines and preventing non-compliance with relevant regulaSupreme Court. tion for quality oil products by launching its high octane, high tions in their performance of duties. In 2011, it provided fair For more information on S-OIL’s legal cases, visit the Business Report section of Investor Relations on the company website. output gasoline in the 1990s, S-OIL has also positioned itself trade training to 200 employees at its regional sales headas a pioneer in fair and reasonable pricing in Korea’s petroleum quarters and sales offices in Korea. S-OIL has been offering market with its independent price adjustment system. In order additional specialized fair trade courses since 2012, by signImplementation of Dos & Don’ts ┃ S-OIL strives to maintain to ensure pricing fairness, a pricing committee composed of exing a training service contract with the Fair Competition Feda fair competition order. Boosted by its CEO’s strong commitment ecutives and employees from relevant departments determines eration, an organization specializing in fair trade training. In to reinforce compliance management, especially in relation to the the standard prices for domestic light oil products (i.e. gasoline, addition to this training program, the company also requires Fair Trade Act, in 2012 it established and shared organizational diesel, and kerosene) each day. These prices reflect the changes the members of its Domestic Marketing Headquarters, who principles and guidelines (including an explanation on unfair colin cost adjustment factors, such as the international price of are more closely related to fair trade than any other employlusive acts and document preparation guidelines) that employpetroleum products and exchange rates. In addition, S-OIL has ees, to conduct voluntary inspections on a regular basis, thus ees must follow at informal gatherings, big business meetings, improved the transparency of its pricing by disclosing the prices encouraging them to internalize compliance with fair trade and small meetings with employees of competing companies. of its petroleum products sold at over 95% of its service stations regulations. In June 2012, S-OIL introduced the “Voluntary These will aid employees based on the emerging need for clear across the nation since May 2009 on Opinet (www.opinet.co.kr), Inspection Program for Fair Trade/Ethics Regulation Compliprinciples and guidelines on compliance with the Fair Trade Act a website managed by the Korea National Oil Corporation. The ance,” in order to prevent any actions during its marketing as they go about performing their work in an oligopolistic market. company’s smartphone application, “S-OIL Bonus Card,” also alactivities that may be misconstrued as a violation. Employees’ strict compliance with these principles and guidelines lows users to check the prices at each service station (only availDespite these initiatives, the fact that domestic petroleum will also minimize S-OIL’s risk of violating the Fair Trade Act. able for iPhones; a new mobile platform will be launched in the product prices always reflect international market prices, S-OIL Bonus Card App. Fair Trade Training Online Self-assessment for Compliance with Rules on Fair Trade 18 SI 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management SI 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 19 A Pricing Policy Aimed at Creating Quality that Ensures Customer A Network that Ensures Customer Services that Ensure Customer Win-win Relationships with Customers Satisfaction Convenience Satisfaction Quality that Ensures Customer Satisfaction quality inspections of service stations to the highest in the inresulting from the global recession, the increasing number of the S-OIL’s “Quality Manager System” ensures The Trustworthy Service Station Program ┃ Based on its dustry with the establishment of its “Quality Inspection Group.” government’s “thrifty” service stations, an increase in imported customers’ trust in the S-OIL brand, S-OIL operates the It also introduced a marker to diesel (diesel marker), in addition oil, and other obstacles in the business environment. S-OIL will that service station facilities have been thor“Trustworthy Service Station” program to meet their needs to gasoline, in order to make it easier to detect adulterated oil strive to further boost its market share by actively seeking new oughly inspected. In addition, from 2012 Sfor safe and reliable products. From the second half of 2011, products. This improved the speed and reliability of quality business opportunities in the domestic market while effectively the company began entering into Trustworthy Service Stainspections by making it possible to check the analysis results implementing its existing sales measures. OIL has increased the number of quality tion Agreements only with service stations verified through on the spot, and also lowered the number of affiliated service inspections of service stations to the highest its quality inspection. Then in 2012, it reinforced its follow-up stations selling adulterated oil products. The company further Service Station Satisfaction ┃ Service stations are S-OIL’s key in the industry with the establishment of its management by conducting ad hoc quality re-inspections at boosted the reliability of its product quality by introducing a customers and partners. Faced with a saturated market where service stations that had already signed the agreement, and quality control system for LPG stations in 2012. competition is growing fiercer by the day, S-OIL is implementing “Quality Inspection Group.” terminated the agreement with those that failed to meet various brand marketing activities to enhance its competitivethe company’s standards, thereby truly becoming a brand Quality Marketing ┃ To help consumers directly experience ness in service station operation while also engaging in diverse that customers can trust. As a result of these initiatives, as of and recognize its message that “S-OIL is good oil,” an image support activities to solidify its long-term partnership with ser2012 the company had signed the Trustworthy Service Stathat has become its brand asset, S-OIL was fully involved in vice station managers. tion Agreement with 1,372 affiliated service stations, showthe Ministry of Environment’s petroleum/diesel environmental ing a slight decrease compared to 2011. Through systematic quality assessment and received the highest grade. It also held Diverse Support Activities for Service Station Managers management and support, S-OIL will make ceaseless efforts its second fuel efficiency marathon with Peugeot while promotHighlights to expand its network of Trustworthy Service Stations that ing the high quality of its products through a contest in which Published every other month to offer expertise on service stacustomers can count on. drivers share their S-OIL related experience. S-Family Magazine tion management and enhance understanding of S-OIL’s sales policy and service station support programs Online and offline training (www.s-oiledu.co.kr) provided Tougher Quality Control ┃ S-OIL’s “Quality Manager System” A Network that Ensures Customer Convenience Service Station throughout the year for improving service station operating Training ensures that service station facilities have been thoroughly inEffort to Further Expand Sales Network ┃ S-OIL has been capabilities spected in order to guarantee quality control. Through this sustaining its efforts in a number of areas to increase its share in Service Station Tailored operation strategies provided regularly by S-OIL’s insystem, service station managers receive the results of holding the domestic market. While securing a fixed demand pool by inManagement house consultants on issues including start-up, sales manageConsulting ment, promotion, and supplementary businesses tank moisture inspections, gas pump meter inspections, and recreasing the number of its sales channels (service stations, direct Service training for service station employees and support for cent sample analyses, which are needed to provide accurately buyers, etc.), it strengthened its relationship with existing trade YES Team sales promotion provided through on-site visits by YES Team, dispensed genuine products. Quality managers also respond partners and efficiently implemented competitiveness reina specialized service group, for service improvement promptly to customer complaints regarding product quality. forcement programs and various promotions to boost sales. As Their rich experience and expertise allows them to provide dea result, in 2012 it achieved a market share of 18.6% (based on tailed explanations about the problem-solving process, thereby in-house calculations) for retail light oil products (gasoline, diewinning the trust of customers. In addition to the Quality Mansel, and kerosene), a record high since the company’s founding. ager System, from 2012 S-OIL has increased the number of This feat was achieved in spite of Korea’s economic slowdown No. of Trustworthy Service Stations (Unit : stations) Domestic Market Share (Retail Light Oil Products) (Unit : %) Champions Club Award Ceremony 1,372 18.6 2012 2012 1,545 17.3 2011 2011 1,524 16.9 2010 2010 20 SI 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management SI 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 21 A Pricing Policy Aimed at Creating Quality that Ensures Customer A Network that Ensures Customer Services that Ensure Customer Win-win Relationships with Customers Satisfaction Convenience Satisfaction Services that Ensure Customer Satisfaction cation of what customers want. S-OIL introduced its CRM processed in order to check their level of satisfaction regardS-OIL is fully aware that the first step to achieving customer system in 2011 to ensure smooth communication with its ing the complaint processing procedure and ask for feedback satisfaction is listening to their voices. It identifies the needs customers and provide differentiated services. This enabled for improvement. Through this system, customers rate their of its customers through diverse channels, including the Cusa systematic and scientific management of the Bonus Card satisfaction with the procedure on a scale of 1 to 10; the retomer Relationship Management (CRM) System and supmembers’ information, which in turn allowed the company sults of their evaluation are compiled and analyzed by the porter activities, in order to provide optimized services by to offer tailored benefits and conduct targeted promotional lead department and then passed onto the relevant departreflecting their valuable opinions in its policies. In addition, activities starting in 2012. In particular, under the concept ments. These improvement activities are aimed at maximizit responds to and resolves customers’ complaints and difof 3S (Speed, Smart, and Sweet), S-OIL’s customer center ing the satisfaction of customers. Also, from the first half of ficulties through its customer center, the Integrated Voice of provides a one-step VOC process that utilizes the CRM sys2011, S-OIL began applying its Happy Call System to service Customer (VOC) Management System, and the Happy Call tem, which contributed to KSQI selecting the company for stations, evaluating their satisfaction with the company’s System. three consecutive years for their outstanding call center since complaint processing procedure. 2010. S-OIL Supporters: A Communication Channel with CusClean & Smile Campaign ┃ To ensure that its service statomers ┃ In order to provide top-notch service to its customIntegrated Operation of VOC Management System ┃ In tions consistently offer a pleasant customer experience, Sers, S-OIL reflects into its business activities the customer 2012, S-OIL launched an integrated VOC management sysOIL actively runs the “Clean & Smile Campaign,” a customer needs that are identified through the eyes of the customers tem that categorizes, registers, processes, analyzes, compiles, service program for service stations. Since 2012, employees themselves by managing the S-OIL Supporters, a prosumer and shares the VOCs within the company. This is an improveat S-OIL’s service stations have been required to wear a group. Consisting of some 1,500 S-OIL VIPs spread nationment over its numerous VOC management systems that were photo ID badge, a measure aimed at boosting their sense wide, the S-OIL Supporters conduct monitoring activities on formerly operated separately for different channels, such as of responsibility. In addition, the company has created a the company’s products and marketing policies and actively the customer center and the company website. The system page on its Bonus Card website where customers can submit offer proposals and suggestions for improvement, playing a has made it possible to manage the VOCs without omissions, positive feedback to service station employees who provided pivotal role in the growth of the S-OIL brand. They are also compile integrated statistical data, process the VOCs swiftly, outstanding service. S-OIL also provides an online music becoming S-OIL’s meaningful partners through their active and make improvements to the work process. From the first broadcast at its service stations to create a lively and pleasant participation in the Sunshine Sharing activities, the compahalf of 2013, professional consultants with related expertise atmosphere, and in 2013 it launched the “Clean Campaign.” ny’s social contribution campaign. In 2013, S-OIL plans to will be communicating with the customers throughout the It will communicate and grow with its customers based on select a handful of S-OIL Supporters to create its Key Advientire process, starting from the moment a complaint is rethese efforts. sor Group, encouraging their active input as the company’s ceived; this is expected to greatly boost their trust in S-OIL as partner marketer by giving them an opportunity to serve as well as their satisfaction. specialists on the various marketing issues. Happy Call System ┃ S-OIL is the first Korean company to Upgraded Activities for Identifying Customer Needs ┃ operate the Happy Call System, in which professional conMin-Ho Lee Customer-centered management begins with the identifisultants call the customers after their complaints have been Senior Vice President Head of Overseas HQ Since its founding, S-OIL has put forth tireless efforts to dePerformance of Integrated VOC* Management System (Unit : cases) Integrated VOC Management System Process liver products and services that maximize customer value 337 Quality by identifying the needs of overseas customers. Thanks to Dissatisfied Customer Center (Professional Consultant) VOC Manager Processing Manager 346 Customer these efforts, S-OIL was able to continue its growth with 242 2011 2012 customers even in the midst of fierce global market comTime Control 2010 petition. Intent on remaining a trustworthy company for Notification during Processing Integrated VOC Management System its customers, S-OIL vows to consistently improve customit VOC Knowledge Base VOC History Service / Transport, etc evis er value. 766 ugh R Consulting Expertise 693 hr o on t urve y 687 ecti on S VOC Best Practices 2011 Insp sfac ti VOC Processing Guidelines Sati 2010 2012 Satisfied Issues/Improvement Notification of Closure Management Customer Customer Center (Professional Consultant) Bonus Card Website Membership Information · Data changed due to different measurement criteria adopted for 2011-2012. Partner Information * VOC : Voice of Customer 2 SI ires ew H 7 2 N 3 ate 201 Provide ver R 1 rno eT u ns Annu a l A verag perso 8 rs g Hou Best-In-Class 1.3 ainin Tr yee ly Average ive Emplo Year ministrat % Work Environment d per A 68 hours VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS Younger generations focus as much on their hobbies and leisure activities as Performance they do on achievement at work. We hope Family Day takes root and grows Summary into a system that fosters individuals’ creativity and enhances the company’s competitiveness. _ A S-OIL employee Plans for 2012 ●A pply customized development pro●Improve corporate culture and systemic ●C ontinuously improve evaluation sys●Realize an optimized working environgrams and HR management differentisupport to ensure employees’ work-life tems to enhance employees’ trust in ment that promotes work efficiency and ated for each specialist. balance. and acceptance of the systems. convenience. ●D  evelop and operate educational ●Adopt BI/EDW for swift information programs tailored to the development sharing and collaboration between difneeds of executives and team leaders. ferent organizations and transform the ●D  evelop and manage “S-OIL Academy existing groupware into a Communicafor Operations” for engineers and protion Portal (CP) for vibrant communicaduction employees. tion within the organization. ●Establish a grievance management system to improve employees’ job satisfaction and sense of belonging. Achievements in 2012 ●R  efined the specialist system designed ●Introduced new HR systems, including ●Improved the assessment method of ●T ransformed the existing Group Ware to nurture employees with job-related Weekly Family Day and Core Working new hires and changed the share of ininto the Communication Portal (CP) capabilities. Hours, for employee work-life balance. dividual performance evaluation in KPI with greater system stability and conveByung-Ho Lee ●C  onducted learner-centered education ●P rovided an integrated health managecalculation in order to make sure fairer nience, thus encouraging communicaSenior Vice President and more rational evaluation. tion across the organization. for executives based on the competency ment system, providing 1:1 counseling Head of Human Resources & evaluation results. with external physicians and operated a ●B uilt an integrated document manageEmployee Relations HQ health management website. ment system to register key documenta●D  eveloped the “S-OIL Academy for Operations” program and strengthened tion at the refineries in the system as S-OIL’s employees are the most valued energy that drives the comintellectual property. on-site technical education at plants pany to success. It is the dedication and passion, creativity and cothrough having a dedicated team man●S aved more than KRW 16.8 billion a age the education. year by implementing a campaign to operation of all employees that shape who and what we are today. promote the use of the in-house proWell aware of their precious and valuable energy, S-OIL provides emposal system. ployees support so that they can grow into professionals in their own Future Plan ●U  pgrade the education programs and ●D evelop and implement various systems ●E ncourage work initiatives and improve ●P romote a Smart Workplace through field equipped with outstanding capabilities and realize their full pocareer development system on an ongoto create a family-friendly corporate job satisfaction of employees through realigning mobile groupware. ing basis following the changing trends culture. continuously upgrading evaluation tential. S-OIL is committed to making a Great Work Place where the ●H old various events to encourage all of the time. systems. officers and employees to make sugcompany and employees can grow together by rewarding our best ●E stablish “S-OIL Academy for Finance” gestions for improvement and move employees, providing systemic and various talent nurturing programs and “S-OIL Academy for HR” courses as ahead with a system upgrade for user part of the effort to expand job educaconvenience. and creating a warm, human-oriented corporate culture. tion to other areas. ●C  ontinue to improve the talent recruitment system to hire capable engineers. 24 SI 2 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment SI 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Harmonious Work-Life Balance A Work Environment Filled with From Employment to Retirement S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 25 Environment Motivations Harmonious Work-Life Balance when executives or team leaders are on their intensive holialso offers annual checkups conducted by specialized exTo create a workplace where employees can Top-notch Compensation and Employee Benefit System┃ days, executives or team leaders from other business units ternal medical institutions in accordance with the age and To create a workplace where employees can delve into their act as proxies according to a preset plan. This has proven to occupation of its employees. Employees who are diagnosed delve into their work based on financial stabiliwork based on financial stability, S-OIL strives to offer the be very effective in promoting their understanding of other with health issues, or who need consultation regarding their ty, S-OIL strives to offer the best compensation best compensation rates and employee benefits in the indepartments’ functions as well as vitalizing interdepartmenhealthcare or that of their families, are provided with one-ondustry. Newly hired university graduates are paid 340% of tal communication. one consultation with an outside medical specialist. In addirates and employee benefits in the industry. the country’s minimum wage, the highest compensation tion, there are stretch breaks two times a day, in the morning offered by any Korean company in this sector. In addition, Diverse Family-friendly Policies ┃ Through a number of and the afternoon when the employees’ fatigue reaches its the company’s pay and benefits package are gender-neuprograms aimed at improving its corporate culture, S-OIL peak. Then, the employees get up from the desks and stretch, tral. Employees (manager or above) in managerial positions strives to boost work efficiency and create a more familythus preventing musculoskeletal disorders in their everyday and executives receive their base pay and merit-based pay friendly culture. To this end, it launched the “Weekly Family lives. according to their unit’s performance as well as individual Day (Wednesday)” and “Core Working Hours” program in achievements. In the future, S-OIL plans to expand this sys2012, encouraging its employees to concentrate on work A Work Environment Filled with Motivations tem to include all employees in order to enhance a meritoduring the working hours and to leave work on time in order It is said that individuals experience the greatest happiness cratic corporate culture. S-OIL’s employee benefits package to spend time with their families or to get involved in self-imwhen they achieve something as a result of focused efforts. is rationally designed according to the employee’s lifecycle provement activities. The employees’ level of participation in Striving to ensure the happiness of its employees, S-OIL is that is, their age and length of service. In addition to mandaand satisfaction with these initiatives are quite high. leading the way in upgrading its in-house work systems and tory welfare benefits such as health insurance, employment improving its corporate culture in order to create a work enviinsurance, occupational health and safety insurance, and the Employee Health Management ┃ S-OIL operates Health ronment filled with motivations. national pension plan, the company provides support for its Clinics at both the head office and the refinery, in order to employees’ stable livelihood, healthcare, tuition fees, conrespond to emergencies that may arise during the working Upgraded Mobile Groupware ┃ S-OIL employees have been gratulations and condolences, as well as individual pensions hours as well as to promote the employees’ health. Specialusing electronic approvals, checking their e-mails, and manand leisure activities through its leading benefits package. ized nursing staff is always on standby, providing first aid aging their schedules through a mobile application since For more information on the welfare benefits provided according to years of sertreatment, basic health checks, health counseling, and other 2008, when the company preemptively implemented a movice, visit the Employee Benefits Package section of Recruitment on the company specialized and integrated health management services. In bile office system. The application underwent an overhaul in website. 2013, the company also launched the “S-OIL Family Doctor,” the beginning of 2013, which added a number of convenient Intensive Holiday System ┃ In 2010, S-OIL introduced the a website for health care that offers the latest information on functions and also made it possible for all employees to use Intensive Holiday System that allows the employees to take health, in order to provide practical help with the systematic the mobile groupware regardless of their smartphones’ opertwo-weeks off any time of the year at their convenience. By health care of its employees and their families. Through this ating system. S-OIL also developed the “e-Learning” applicaensuring work-life balance and helping employees to get website, employees can easily access to useful information tion that enables its employees to take the company’s multitime for refreshment, the system contributes to enhancing related to common illnesses, healthcare, hospitals categocontent Cyber Education courses using not just their PCs but productivity at work and employee satisfaction. Additionally, rized by region and specialty, and many other topics. S-OIL also their phones. As a result of these efforts, they can use the Weekly Family Day Health Management Website “S-OIL Family Doctor” Mobile Groupware 26 SI 2 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment SI 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Harmonious Work-Life Balance A Work Environment Filled with From Employment to Retirement S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 27 Environment Motivations mobile groupware without any constraint of time or space. to lay the groundwork for knowledge-based management Expansion of In-house Communication Channels ┃ S-OIL enced no serious labor disputes since the establishment of by promoting integrated knowledge management enabled develops and manages numerous communication channels its union in 1980. This is attributable not only to the comPromotion of Collaboration and Communication ┃ In through the systematic accumulation and sharing of inin order to facilitate in-house communication and informapany’s compliance with the relevant regulations, but also to 2012, S-OIL built the Enterprise Contents Management house information. Jisik Plus is composed of the “Knowledge tion sharing. Since 2011 it has published the quarterly “HR the cooperation between the labor and the management (ECM) System, which improved the sharing and use of key Q&A” section, where knowledge is accumulated and shared Webzine” to gather employee feedback about the compawhereby the company fully respects and embraces the activitechnical and work documents inside the company’s refinery through work-related questions and answers, and the “Knowlny’s HR system and management practices, ensuring muties and opinions of the labor union. As recognition for these by turning them into information assets. This initiative creedge Sharing” section, where employees share and amass tual communication. In the latter half of 2012, it introduced achievements, S-OIL was awarded the Labor-Management ated a collaborative work environment in which employees their knowledge through postings. In addition, a Knowledge the “Well Done” bulletin board on the in-house intranet and Harmony Grand Prize in 2012. As of 2012, the number of can share their documents in real-time, since it saves the Master is designated to answer the uploaded questions, evalshared the names and detailed achievements of the employunion members stood at 1,435, including two full-time union electronic documents that were once dispersed among peruate and approve the requested information, ensuring the ees who won awards within and outside the company. By officers. (Union density recorded 53.78% as of the end of sonal computers and file servers onto an integrated system, smooth operation of Jisik Plus. spreading stories of success among employees, the bulletin 2012) allowing users to create, access, and use the documents anyboard is promoting a culture complimentary praise as well time, anywhere. Also in 2012, the company created a smartEmployee Suggestion Program ┃ While incorporating its as a cheerful and positive corporate culture. S-OIL also proHuman Rights & Labor (S-OIL’s Policies on Human Rights er work environment by restructuring its existing groupware employees’ ideas for improvement into its work processes, Svides its full support to diverse in-house clubs that are open to such as Compliance with Labor Laws)┃ S-OIL respects the into a communication portal (CP), which promotes commuOIL also established and introduced the Employee Suggestion all employees regardless of their position and age; currently human rights of all stakeholders and complies with relevant nication and information sharing among employees, boasts Program (Suggestion Box) in 2009 to share those ideas within some 2,300 employees are actively involved in 36 clubs. In laws. It determines the working conditions of employees, a user-friendly interface that utilizes widgets, and boosts the company. Since then, the program has become a win-win 2013, the company is further promoting these clubs by desits internal stakeholders, by signing a collective bargaining work efficiency. system in which the employees who submit their suggestions ignating the third Wednesday of every month as “Club Day” agreement in accordance with an agreement between the are rewarded by the company, while the latter enjoys diverse and providing additional funding for inter-club activities. labor and the management. At the same time, the company Say Yes to PRICE Campaign ┃ S-OIL is engaged not only benefits that result from these ideas such as cost reduction, guarantees its employees’ working conditions in compliance in company-wide activities aimed at improving its work productivity improvement, and accident prevention. In 2012, Improvement of Corporate Culture through Surveys ┃ Swith the labor laws and regulations as well as the Internaprocesses through the system overhaul, but also in initiathe company launched a number of activities to enhance OIL has a variety of corporate culture improvement programs tional Labor Organization standards. Furthermore, it does tives launched at the headquarters level. In particular, the employee awareness regarding suggestions and encourin place in order to create a mutually cooperative corporate not tolerate gender discrimination. It does not discriminate company’s domestic and overseas marketing headquarters age their participation; for example, it selected outstanding culture rooted in optimism and trust among employees. Havbetween male and female employees in performance evalulaunched the “Say Yes to PRICE Campaign” in 2012 in order participants and the most active participants on a quarterly ing established a dedicated department in 2011, it has been ations or promotions, and allows its employees paternity to guarantee efficiency and boost their members’ expertise basis, held the “1-1-1 Suggestion Campaign,” and at the end conducting an annual survey of all employees on S-OIL’s corand maternity leaves in accordance with the government’s through the improvement of their work processes. “PRICE” of the year granted the CEO’s award and promotion bonus porate culture and communication. Survey results show that policies to promote childbirth. S-OIL also strives to promote stands for Process improvement, compliance with Regulapoints to outstanding participants, and KPI bonus points to the corporate culture has improved, becoming more commua sound sense of camaraderie among employees through its tions, Information sharing, promotion of Communication, departments that submitted outstanding suggestions. As a nity-oriented and autonomous. annual anti-sexual harassment training. S-OIL strictly abides and reinforced Education – the five initiatives required to result, the numbers of suggestions and participants doubled by the Labor Standard Act, which prohibits child labor and ensure their work expertise and reliability. A number of proyear on year, and thanks to the diverse ideas, the company Harmonious Labor-Management Relations ┃ S-OIL boasts forced labor, and avoids engaging with other business secgrams are in place for each initiative. Faced with the need for was able to save more than KRW 16.8 billion in cost. an exemplary labor-management record, having experitors at high risk for engaging in these acts. closer communication that arises from the decentralization and specialization of work, a result of the company’s expansion, S-OIL was able to successfully promote communication Say Yes to PRICE Campaign Suggestion Activities In-house Club Activities through its regular interdepartmental meetings, CP-based sessions for sharing mistakes, and specialized training proNo. of Suggestions 4,041 grams. In the future, it will continue its efforts to offer the 2,250 2012 1,528 best work environment through activities for work process 2011 improvement and IT-based program improvement. 2010 Introduction of Knowledge Management System (Jisik No. of Participants 1,206 Plus) ┃ While strengthening its problem-solving capabilities 709 2012 550 as well as the foundation for long-term growth by reinforc2011 ing expertise and knowledge sharing among employees, S2010 OIL also introduced Jisik Plus, a company-wide knowledge management system, in October 2012. The system aims 28 SI 2 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment SI 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Harmonious Work-Life Balance A Work Environment Filled with From Employment to Retirement S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 29 Environment Motivations From Employment to Retirement employees’ job security while giving the company a chance HR-related Indicators (Employment Retirement) Open Recruitment in Connection with Society ┃ S-OIL to secure a talented labor force, and will lay the foundation strives to provide quality jobs with the belief that job crefor S-OIL’s steady growth. ation is the leading way to contribute to society faced with high youth unemployment triggered by the global economic Retirement Management Program in Preparation for AgStatus of Employment (Unit : persons) Employment of Disabled People (Unit : persons) recession. As a result of its efforts, it was named one of the ing Society ┃ In an aging society, a comfortable life after 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 “Top 100 Job Creation Companies” by the Ministry of Emretirement is an important motivation for workers. In 2011, College Graduates 28 98 64 Disabled Employees 47 45 47 ployment and Labor in 2012. S-OIL established a system to support retirees by introducing Others* 153 83 73 All Employees 2,589 2,661 2,713 Pursuing open recruitment together with the community, a retirement pension plan. Prior to the plan’s implementaTotal Percentage of 181 181 137 1.8 1.7 1.7 S-OIL hires individuals who embody its envisioned ideal valtion, the company held briefing sessions for all employees to Disabled Employees * “Others” refers to total employment including junior college graduates, experiues of employee, regardless of their gender and academic communicate the need for and stability of the plan. It curenced workers, and non-regular workers except for university graduates. background. Out of the company’s total recruits for 2012, rently has 18 retirement pension plan providers. In addition, female employees accounted for approximately 17.6% (23 S-OIL runs an office for its retirees, where they can easily seek Employment Status: Regular / Non-regular (Unit : persons) Number of Retirees (Unit : persons) employees), and individuals with educational attainments the company’s help. It also holds numerous events for the 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 equal to or lower than those of graduates of regional uniretirees, and provides opportunities for its employees and reExecutives 38 39 42 Retirees by Age Limit 47 39 48 versities and junior colleges accounted for about 48.9% (64 tirees to communicate through means such as the company Regular Employees 2,479 2,491 2,523 Others 56 70 37 employees). magazine. Contract Employees 72 131 148 Total 103 109 85* S-OIL will continue its efforts to help diverse types of talents For more information, visit the Work Environment section of Sustainability on the Total 2,589 2,661 2,713 * Excluding irregular workers who became regular workers after the end of their concompany website. realize their potential in society through its meritocratic open tracts (5) and employees who retired because they were appointed as executives (9) recruitment practices. Employment Structure (Unit : persons) Cyber Education (Except for foreign language and book reading) Job Security for Win-win Labor-Management Growth ┃ 2010 2011 2012 Executives Administrative Production Total S-OIL strives to guarantee job security while simultaneously Employees Employees Classes 96 110 171 pursuing efficient HR management. In 2007, it launched a 42 1,246 1,425 2,713 Persons 510 370 532 program to evaluate and re-employ retirees for up to two additional years under the same working conditions they enjoyed before their retirement. To date, the program has conEmployment by Business Site (Unit : persons) Yearly Average Training Hour per Administrative Employee (Unit : hours) tinued to be successfully implemented. Then in 2011, the Head Office Refinery District Terminals Total 2010 2011 2012 company introduced a program to evaluate and promote Sales HQs 56 52 68 non-regular employees to regular status, if they possess the Executives 27 15 0 0 42 skill sets needed by the company. This system guarantees Employees 635 1,684 268 84 2,671 Education and Training Cost to Labor Cost (Unit : %) 2010 2011 2012 Employment by Age/Gender (Unit : persons, %) 0.8 1.4 1.7 New Employee Orientation Office for Retirees Age Gender 2010 2011 2012 Executives 30-50 Male 8 9 14 Female 1 1 Fringe Benefits to Labor Cost (Unit : %) 50 or Male 29 29 28 2010 2011 2012 Above Female 59.5 62.5 51.4 Employees Under 30 Male 309 361 406 Female 74 73 68 30-50 Male 1,768 1,794 1,806 Female 110 113 126 50 or Male 289 278 261 Above Female 1 3 4 3 Zero a SI ccident 7 million Man-ho urs Achieve Invest ment tion Educa mpanies . 4 nment t Operational 4 e n Enviro gem Co KRW 2 billion Sa fe ty Mana of Partner ploye es 3 for Em Excellence VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS Industrial accidents should be highlighted more, given the serious damage 2 1 cases such an accident can cause at the national or industrial level, let alone to the affected individuals. In order to maximize the effectiveness of the “zero worksite accidents” campaign, a company must devise a practical strategy that fits the current on-site reality, and implement it in a systematic way. Employees and companies, both beneficiaries of zero accidents, should also actively practice the campaign as one. _ Seung-Ho Kim, Professor at the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA) Performance Summary Plans for 2012 ● Continue to maintain zero-accident records and enhance the Safety ●A ccelerate efforts for eco-friendly management, such as introducing Management System by placing top priority on safety. optimized prevention facilities to minimize the environmental impact of production activities and produce eco-friendly products. ●A  im for a 16% voluntary reduction of air pollutant emissions between 2012 and 2016 under a voluntary environmental agreement signed with the goal to reduce air pollutants in Ulsan. Achievements in 2012 ● Achieved 7 million zero-accident man-hours (on April 17, 2012). ●E nhanced the real-time monitoring and management of data on air/ ●B ecame the first refinery in Korea to have obtained the Safety Zone Cerwater/odor pollutants by implementing an integrated monitoring systification for fire prevention systems. tem. ●Introduced a behavior-based safety (BBS) program, establishing a ●E xceeded the goal for voluntary reduction of air pollutant emissions Bong-Soo Park Yong-Hee Lee safety culture in which all employees engage in identifying and addressand renewed the voluntary environmental agreement on air pollutant Executive Vice President Senior Vice President control ing potential on-site hazards. Head of Operations Head of Production HQ ●E ngaged in a parent company/partner win-win program for safety and health throughout 2012 to help prevent industrial accidents at partner S-OIL aims for a zero-accident workplace where employees work companies, and received the highest “A” grade from the Ministry of Employment and Labor in recognition of this effort. safely. This is because employees of S-OIL and our partners are valuFuture Plan able assets to our business, but at the same time they are precious ●U  ndertake various support activities, including workshops, to meet the ●R enew a voluntary environmental agreement for soil environment goal of achieving BBS implementation rate of over 95% preservation and step up eco-friendly management activities through parents, sons, and daughters in their family. Based on the Safety participation in external initiatives led by the government or society. ●E xpand investment in safety management systems including interlocks Zone Certification it received from the Korean government for the and reinforce various investigation and monitoring activities, to enfirst time in the domestic oil refining industry, S-OIL is doing its uthance safety management. ● Identify potential hazards through periodic risk assessment for promost for safety at the production sites. In addition, it practices encesses and tasks. vironmental management trusted by the local community through ● Implement mandatory task risk assessment before the safety managetransparent communication with internal and external stakeholders, ment plan is submitted for each ● Improve safety management levels by continuing the win-win program continuously striving to reduce industrial waste and taking preventawith partners. tive steps to curb waste production at the outset. ●U  pdate/distribute educational video on key dangerous tasks, and provide safety handbook 32 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence SI 3. Achieve Operational Excellence Work Sites that Prioritize Safety Green Management in Harmony with Environment S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 33 Work Sites that Prioritize Safety cates their potential risks in advance. The introduction of the nment) system, as well as safety and health courses ofBy continuously improving and developing the S-OIL administers the Safety and Health Management SysBBS program is expected to contribute greatly to S-OIL’s profered by specialized training institutions. In the case of Turn tem, in which all employees participate in to prevent indusmotion of safety culture. Around(T/A), the company develops curricula that are tailored Safety and Health Management System, Strial disasters and create a pleasant work environment. This to the job functions of the targeted employees and offers speOIL is taking the lead in promoting a culture of is achieved by setting clear goals aimed at enhancing their Zero-accident Man-Hours Achievements ┃ S-OIL’s safety cial safety training courses for each type of high-risk job. safety and health and by defining the dedicated organizaactivities are ultimately aimed at creating accident-free work safety, creating accident-free and disease-free Safety Education for Employees (Unit : persons) tions, responsibilities, and procedures to efficiently distribute sites. The company set a short-term target of 10 million zerosites that guarantee the health of its workers, and manage the company’s physical and human resources. accident man-hours and continued to launch diverse cam2010 2011 2012 and is building a responsible corporate image. By continuously improving and developing this system, the paigns, backed by the full participation of its employees. As a First Aid – 1) 144 80 company is taking the lead in promoting a culture of safety, result, it reached an astounding 7 million zero-accident manMSDS 2) 973 3,601 1,092 creating accident-free and disease-free sites that guarantee hours on April 17, 2012. Through the expansion of safety Total 973 3,745 1,172 the health of its workers, and is building a responsible corpocampaigns to all units, S-OIL’s employees are making contin1) First aid training was not provided in 2010 rate image. ued efforts for its zero-accident achievements. 2) MSDS : Material Safety Data Sheet Top Management’s Commitment to Safety ┃ In accorWin-win Partnership Program on Safety & Health ┃ Safe Driving of Transportation Vehicles ┃ By using a GPS dance with the company’s business philosophy that “safety Throughout 2012, S-OIL implemented its “Win-win Partnersystem, S-OIL keeps its tank truck drivers away from water is the number one priority in all business activities,” S-OIL’s ship Program on Safety & Health” to prevent industrial disassupply source protection areas and dangerous areas such top management is at the forefront of promoting a culters involving its partner companies. The program is aimed as those with frequent traffic accidents, in order to minimize ture of safety; for example, it conducts regular safety walkat preventing industrial disasters by improving the partner potential pollution during transportation. It also prevents oil throughs at the sites. Such involvement of top management companies’ on-site safety and health through risk assessleakage from its vehicles through regular checkups, and conconveys a clear message to all S-OIL employees that safety ment and technical support activities. Thanks to its successful ducts thorough preventive maintenance to prevent vehicle is the number one priority. As part of these endeavors, the implementation, S-OIL received a grade “A” in an evaluation accidents. company reflects the safety KPI in the performance records conducted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor among Since 2010, S-OIL has been encouraging safe driving through of all executives and managers, including those in charge of the companies which participated in the evaluation. its reward program for exemplary drivers. It also began puboperation. It is also strengthening its commitment to safety lishing and distributing a booklet titled “Safe Driving Regulaby inserting the phrase “Safety First” in all of its documents. Safety & Health Education ┃ S-OIL is engaged in continutions” from 2007. All tanker drivers are required to acquaint ous training activities, fully aware that helping its workers acthemselves with their contents and carry the booklet with Acquisition of Safety Zero Certification ┃ In 2012, S-OIL quire safety awareness through safety training is an integral them, so that they can prevent accidents and take swift became the first domestic refiner to acquire the Safety part of maintaining a safe work site. emergency measures in the event of an accident. Zero Certification. Supervised by the National Emergency As part of the company’s measure to enhance the effectiveAs a result of these initiatives, in 2012 S-OIL recorded zero oil Management Agency and provided by the Korea Safety ness of training, all employees take part in the online trainleaks from transportation vehicles. Certification Institution, this certification is Korea’s only fire ing course provided through the SHE(Safety·Health·Enviroprotection evaluation system that assesses and certifies the maintenance, management, and operation of fire protection systems. The Safety Zero Certification is an objective proof of Acquisition of Safety Zone Certification 7 Million Zero-accident Man-Hours S-OIL’s outstanding fire safety management capabilities. In addition, through its continued maintenance efforts regarding its fire fighting facilities and disaster prevention activities, the company implemented a system that ensures a systematic response to emergencies. Introduction of Behavior-based Safety (BBS) Program ┃ S-OIL’s Onsan Refinery implemented the BBS program in September 2012. Proven by Dupont, ExxonMobil, and other safety leaders for its disaster reduction benefits, the BBS program identifies the unsafe behaviors of workers, which are the most common causes of industrial accidents, and eradi34 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence SI 3. Achieve Operational Excellence Work Sites that Prioritize Safety Green Management in Harmony with Environment S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 35 Oil Spill Prevention (Initiatives to Preserve the Marine EnviGreen Management in Harmony with Environment deliberates on various environmental issues that can arise at impact of its business activities. In particular, a voluntary ronment) ┃ S-OIL is producing great efforts to prevent maEnvironmental Management System each stage of the value chain from production, distribution/ environmental management system is taking root within rine pollution accidents caused by oil spills and to preserve Among its environment-related goals, S-OIL has placed top logistics, and sales to marketing and purchase, and also sets the organization, which involves conducting daily inspecthe marine environment. Internally, it reinforced its safety priority on preemptively establishing green management. It policy directions. Their efforts ensure that the company’s tions aimed at prevention and implementing swift measures management regulations to enhance its employees’ safety is making continued efforts to produce eco-friendly products environmental/safety management is intentionally implefor improvement or review of inadequacies. The company awareness. It is also leading the way in tanker safety manby improving its processes and environment-related facilities mented at its business sites. also ran an optimized odor prevention facility, Regenerative agement, becoming the only refiner to use tugs for smalland introducing new work methods; for example, it has seThermal Oxidizer(RTO), based on this strong commitment to sized tankers, which is typically not required. The company’s cured desulfurization and denitrification facilities, state-of-art Establishment of Integrated Monitoring System ┃ On top environmental preservation; despite its endeavors, however, other initiatives include the introduction of a vetting system, wastewater treatment facilities, and precipitation facilities. of establishing the water quality/atmospheric outlet moniit receive a correction order in 2012. It is currently installing which fundamentally bans the access of tankers that do not S-OIL acquired the certification for environmental managetoring system, the SHE system (overall management of envienhanced equipment at the back end of its existing odor meet the safety requirements, as well as the replacement of ment systems (ISO 14001) for fuel oil, lube base oil, and petronment-related work), and the consecutive odor monitoring prevention facilities for additional odor reduction. S-OIL will its large-sized tankers with double-hulled tankers prior to the rochemical products in 1996; since then, the certificate has system based on the existing Tele-Metering System (TMS), continue to actively meet the community’s demand for ingovernment’s enactment of the related law. been renewed five times. The company practices high-level S-OIL established a new integrated monitoring system in formation while also boosting its investment in the operaS-OIL also holds yearly workshops for its ship owners and environmental management through regular reviews in ac2012 for its environmental preservation activities in the Ultion of legitimate discharge facilities and environmental imshippers to hear their grievances and provide training and cordance with the company’s unique business environment. san region. The integrated monitoring system combines the provement. discussion sessions on the company’s safety management Moreover, having passed through the settlement stages such existing atmosphere/water quality TMS with odor data and policies as well as the trend in the government’s maritime as the publication of its safety, health, environment, and susenables real-time monitoring without access to a separate Internal and External Communication ┃ While moving forsafety policies. This has allowed the company to establish a tainability reports and the introduction of an environmental computing system. It consists of two monitors that can be ward with its environmental management based on rigorwin-win system that is based on mutual understanding on performance evaluation system (ISO 14031), it is further used to view and monitor the data on the atmosphere, water ous internal standards, S-OIL monitors and analyzes global the importance of safety management as well as on mutual developing its Environmental Management System and has quality, and odor, as well as announcements on work-related environmental trends and the latest developments related trust. Another example of S-OIL’s diverse efforts is the oil spill recently implemented an independent environmental acand environmental issues, S-OIL’s PR video, and work-related to the domestic laws and regulations through regular comdrills that are aimed at enhancing its emergency response counting (EA) system. image information. The fact that the system enables swift munication with its various external stakeholders such as the capabilities; they are based on the company-wide anti-maresponse upon the detection of abnormal signs in addition government, media, and academia, and reflects the results rine pollution response procedure established upon advice Working-level Environmental/Safety Council ┃ S-OIL efto real-time monitoring of the environment makes it a perin its Environmental Management System. At the same time, from specialists. ficiently carries out all of its environmental/safety activities fect example of S-OIL’s strong commitment to environmenthe company improves its environmental management acThese initiatives have led to a number of positive changes, based on a clear set of roles and responsibilities. It responds tal preservation. tivities by sharing information on environmental managesuch as the elimination of various marine pollution accidents to company-wide issues related to the environment and ment with the local residents and related organizations and and the maximization of safety and efficiency in its operasafety through its Working-level Environmental/Safety CounCompliance with Environmental Regulations ┃ S-OIL by collecting their opinions. S-OIL also participates in the tion of facilities. As a result, in 2012 S-OIL became the only cil, which consists of members from departments at the comstrictly abides by the regulations on environmental impact environmental preservation activities conducted by the lorefiner to receive a presidential commendation on Marine pany’s head office and a refinery that are in charge of enviassessment and preliminary environmental review, as well as cal community in order to practice environmental protection Day in recognition of its contributions of preventing tanker ronmental/safety policies and their implementation. other environment-related laws. It has also established strict and build close ties with the community. accidents and preserving the marine environment. The Working-level Environmental/Safety Council reviews and in-house standards in order to minimize the environmental 2012 Environmental Performance Evaluation (ISO 14031) Results Environmental Accounting (Unit : KRW 100 million) Integrated Monitoring System (Unit : points) Environmental Cost Environmental Investment Integrated Monitoring System 128.8 244 Investment in Atmosphere·Water Odor 116.3 1,780 Environmental Benefit environmental & energy-related facilities Quality TMS Management Monitoring System 2012 Post-processing facilities, 100 2011 operating cost, etc. SHE Odor Data Management 2010 1,765 SYSTEM Energy savings, sales of by-products Meteorological Data Management ·To ensure systematic environmental performance management, the base year ·Criteria : Environmental Accounting Guideline by the Ministry of Environment has been adjusted from 2008 to 2010, with the results for 2010 set as 100 points. ·Increased environmental cost due to an increase in the operation period of new processes 36 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence SI 3. Achieve Operational Excellence Work Sites that Prioritize Safety Green Management in Harmony with Environment S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 37 Voluntary Environmental Management Agreement ┃ S-OIL and the company’s own regulations, conducts regular on-site it replaced worn-out dehydrators with centrifugal dehydrators friendly resource recycling through active technology reviews. is an enthusiastic proponent of the government’s environmeninspections in accordance with internal control guidelines that in order to enhance the efficiency of wastewater treatment tal policies. To convey its strong commitment to environmental reflect domestic and international laws and agreements, and facilities as well as to preserve the environment and improve Lawful Storage and Separate Disposal of Waste preservation, it has signed a number of voluntary agreements launches campaigns on toxic chemicals control. In particular, employee health through odor reduction. ●E stablish a waste control system within the SHE system to moni(VA) in relation to soil contamination prevention, air pollutant S-OIL set up its Chemical Inventory within the SHE system to Control tor and control each department’s waste generation. reduction, green purchasing, and other initiatives. By signing ensure the systematic management of all hazardous chemiSoil Contamination Control ┃ Since the signing of the vol●T horoughly manage the waste disposal process from its preliminary a second voluntary agreement on air pollutant reduction in cals, including those used in its refinery. This enables the comuntary agreement for soil contamination surveys and cleanup Disposal stage to post-management stage by reviewing the disposal agencies’ 2012, after the expiration of the first agreement, the company pany to review and/or manage all information on the chemiwith the Ministry of Environment in 2002, S-OIL has conducted permit eligibility and conducting inspections on their disposal processes to ensure compliance with the law. displayed strong commitment to the environmental policies of cal substances it uses, such as the related laws, departments regular soil contamination surveys for prevention and restora●C onduct regular checks on waste storage and control along with special Ulsan, a region designated by the government as a special air using the substances, their main ingredients, and the MSDS. tion. It also adheres strictly to the Soil Environment Preservation Check on-site checks for activities such as large-scale expansion work. pollutant control zone. In addition, the company renewed its S-OIL plans to prepare a manual on handling toxic substances Act. In addition, the company carries out soil contamination existing voluntary agreement on soil environment preserva● Conduct environmental training with employees and partner companies. according to their characteristics and to purchase/install additests and leakage tests in accordance with the legally desigTraining ● D  istribute guidelines on construction waste disposal among partner tion in 2013, agreeing to conduct voluntary soil contamination nated periods to ensure thorough control, while also conducttional preventive devices, aiming to minimize damage through companies and provide related training. tests and clean-up activities until 2023. ing independent monitoring to detect soil contamination for swift measures in the event of a leakage. For more information, visit the Operational Excellence section of Sustainability on systematic management. In order to control soil contaminaEnvironmental Education to Enhance Awareness ┃ Evthe company website. Main Control Items for Hazardous Chemical Substances tion at its service station sites, S-OIL prevents contamination in ery year S-OIL conducts environmental training with all of its advance by modernizing related facilities and conducts restoemployees as well as those of its partner companies. It offers S-OIL’s Voluntary Agreements Conduct a preliminary legal review prior to introducing a new toxic chemical Minimize impact by reviewing the related laws prior to purchasing the chemical. ration activities for service stations where soil contamination legally mandatory training programs for its environmental ex2003-2023 Voluntary agreement to conduct soil contamination tests is in progress. Furthermore, to prevent soil contamination at perts, and also encourages them to attend diverse technology Conduct an independent inspection of the handling facilities and restoration activities Conduct daily and regular inspections on workers operating the handling facilities the fundamental level, it is replacing old pipelines and tanks to seminars as well as the company’s own seminars on environ-Conduct voluntary soil contamination tests and soil clean-up activities every three years or less. as well as those in the manufacturing department. meet the standards for “Clean Service Station” certified by the mental technology to enhance their capabilities and better re2005-2012 Provide training on toxic substances Ministry of Environment. spond to the external and internal issues on the environment. Voluntary green purchasing agreement Conduct regular training on topics such as the characteristics of toxic substances, In addition, it systematically renews and manages the training 2012-2016 handling and disposal procedures, protective gears, emergency contact system, Service Station Soil Contamination Control in 2012 Second voluntary agreement on air pollutant control first aid measures, and MSDS. results and materials through its SHE training management Reduce the total emission of air pollutants such as dust, SO2, NOx, Soil Restoration Projects Clean Service Station Tank/Pipeline Leakage system, and successfully improved its environmental training and VOC by 16% compared to the base year (2008). Establish and manage Chemical Inventory at 12 Service Stations Projects at 14 Service Tests at 58 Service system by publishing and distributing a textbook for environ2011-2015 Control the substances systematically through the Chemical Inventory. Stations Stations Review and manage information on the main ingredients, MSDS, and application mental training (S-OIL Environmental Management HandAgreement on participating in a joint Korean Auto-Oil Program KRW KRW KRW Participate in joint research projects by the government, automakers, and fuel of related laws. 7.1 billion 2.2 billion 220 million book) among employees and partner companies, in which it suppliers to reduce air pollution and GHG emission Prepare manuals on and devices for toxic chemicals according explains the company’s environmental management status to their characteristics. Waste Control ┃ S-OIL has been lowering its waste volume in and pending issues related to environmental policies. S-OIL Prepare tailored manuals on hazardous chemicals according to their characteristics. Minimum Environmental Impact order to minimize waste and ensure the eco-friendly recycling of also provides general knowledge and information on the enviMake plans for the purchase and installation of additional preventive devices. VOC Odor Control ┃ S-OIL has established a strict set of inresources through an improved recycling rate. It also maintains ronment through its monthly refinery newsletters, while ensurhouse emission standards to minimize the environmental Air Pollutants Control ┃ S-OIL minimizes its emission of sula high recycling rate through rigorous recycling activities. The ing practical and efficient training by holding group environimpact of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and odorous furic compounds (SOx) by using clean process by-product company will continue its initiatives aimed at improving ecomental training sessions for its supervisors. substances. It has also set up the Leak Detection and Repair gas and low-sulfur fuel oil. It also maintains a high pollutants (LDAR) system to control fugitive emission sources (sources removal rate through the appropriate level of treatment, by Emission of Hazardous Chemical Substances (Unit : tons) Environmental Investment (Unit : KRW million) of pollution that emit pollutants such as chemical substances making continued environmental investments such as the efstraight into the air without sending them through the point ficient operation of its electrical precipitator and the installa341 24,445 emission sources, which are designated by the law). tion of ultra low NOx burner (ULNB) and selective catalytic 318 14,589 2012 S-OIL plans to increase its investment in facilities as well as reduction (SCR) unit. 269 2011 9,820 2009 2011 the number of LDAR control points in order to reinforce the 2010 2010 HAPs control system. In the future it will continue to take the Water Quality Control ┃ S-OIL strives to minimize its impact on the water quality of nearby waters through the stable op188 213 lead in pollutant reduction and control. 179 Air Quality/Offensive 2011 5,452 2,556 9,491 eration of wastewater treatment facilities and thorough moni2009 Odors/VOC 2010 Hazardous Chemical Substance Control ┃ S-OIL is engaged toring/control of wastewater discharge. It also sends real-time Water Quality 1,483 1,464 6,288 Energy Savings / in diverse activities to minimize the impact of hazardous chemdata to administrative agencies via a TMS. The company has Technical Assistance 707 10,254 8,654 S-OIL Average of Other Domestic Refiners icals in the event of an accident. For example, it strictly conachieved high-level efficiency in pollutant removal by treating Soil / Landscaping / * Source: Data disclosed by Ministry of Environment (2013) 2,177 315 12 trols the manufacturing, storage, and handling of hazardous wastewater from production facilities using physical, chemiOthers * Data for 2012 was disclosed in 2014. chemicals in accordance with the Toxic Chemicals Control Act cal, and biological treatment methods. In particular, in 2012 4 SI 1 . 7 io n Gre ns i ll 1 atio en P Don b urch 25.3 ase KRW K R W Contribute billi on to Society ities ps’ Activ 8 Cor 2 vice blic Ser , 8 S-OIL Pu VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS 30 hours Performance It is in the nature of any business to strive to create more profit and revenue. That said, at a time of a widening gap between the haves and have-nots and Summary hyper competition, more attention is placed on a “good company,” which tries to strike a happy medium by putting its philanthropic love, capital and Plans for 2012 ●C  ontinue to develop practical social ●A  ssess the social impact of the company’s ●Take part in community-based environmeneffort into the neighbors and society, rather than blindly pursuing material contribution programs and encourage emCSR programs by introducing a social tal preservation activities. Promote biological gains. _ Ui-Dal Song, Editor of Weekly Biz, Chosun Daily ployees’ voluntary participation in social contribution index developed by a specialdiversity activities through continuous procontribution activities. ized external organization and reflect the tection of endangered species. results in its CSR plans. ●Develop a variety of CSR programs to help local communities and lower-income brackets with practical benefits. ●Fully fund the project to restore Taewharu, a historic pavilion in Ulsan originally constructed during the Three-Kingdom Period but burned down during the Japanese invasion into Korea in 1592 (KRW 10 billion over three years). Achievements in 2012 ●R  etained a high level of employee par●H  eld a joint workshop with staff from ●Received an official commendation from ticipation in social services (over 85% of external welfare facilities to evaluate and the Korea Cultural Heritage Administration all employees) and recorded an increase receive feedback on the company’s social in 2012 for its continuous effort to protect in the average volunteer hours per capita contribution activities. threatened species. (from 12.5 hours in 2011 to 13.3 hours in ●Held a “Culture & Arts Sharing” campaign 2012). Chang-Jae Lee at the Head Office premises twice a month; provided support for community cultural Senior Vice President activities, including the Mapo Salted Shrimp Head of Administration HQ Festival. S-OIL desires to become warm sunshine that lights up every corner ●Funded the entire project to restore Taewharu under an MOU signed with Ulsan City of our society. We believe that healthy growth of a company is pos(a total of KRW 10 billion over three years sible only when society in which the company operates is sustainable. from 2012). Future Plan Having carried out differentiated, responsible social contribution pro●M  otivate employees to take part in social ●B  enchmark best practices of others to fur●Develop new programs to pursue in parallel contribution initiatives through various ther develop social contribution programs. with the existing protection activities (marigrams, such as activities for heroic citizens, the environment and local internal and external channels, such as an time police program, etc.). communities, S-OIL contributes to bringing out positive changes and in-house journal, Communication Portal ●Undertake social contribution activities in creating new values in our society. and Sustainability Report. harmony with local communities by actively engaging in the establishment and implementation of public policies in various areas, both in the public and private sectors. 40 SI 4 Contribute to Society SI 4. Contribute to Society Social Contribution Activities Community Arts, Culture and S-OIL’s Pursuit of Sustainable S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 41 Education Support Programs Growth of Society Social Contribution Activities Korea Cultural Heritage Administration in September 2012. ter-school programs at seven local elementary and middle Guided by its belief in sharing management, S-OIL undertakes “Sunshine Sharing” activities, which portray schools, and undertakes a wide range of social contribution the company’s corporate identity – the sun’s rays. Anchored For Communities ┃ S-OIL Ulsan Welfare Foundation was initiatives such as scholarship foundations to serve the Onsan S-OIL delivers much needed warmth to every by the three principles–Genuineness (voluntary participaarea, study facilities for youth, and the Winter Snail School for founded in 2007 and has since operated with the objective corner of our society through “Sunshine Shartion), Impact (becoming a respected corporate citizen while to effectively carry out a variety of CSR activities targeting Children with Disabilities. S-OIL received recognition for these having a positive effect on society), and Timing (conducting community citizens, the underprivileged, and social welfare efforts and was selected as an Education Donation Organizaing” activities under the themes “Heroes,” activities when and where needed)–the activities deliver facilities in Ulsan. S-OIL is the first business operating in Ulsan tion by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology in “Communities,” and and “the Environment.” much needed warmth to every corner of our society under January 2013. to launch a welfare foundation, and the beginning of its sothe themes “Heroes,” “Communities,” and “the Environment.” cial welfare activities can be traced back to 2001, even before S-OIL’s social contribution activities are run and supported the establishment of the Foundation, when it purchased rice Taewharu Restoration Project ┃ Ulsan, the home of S-OIL, by its employees who actively participate in donations for from nearby farming families for donation to marginalized underwent rapid growth and is now a large industrial center, those in need as well as the S-OIL Public Service Corp, the inpopulations. A decade later, it still strives to locate those in but lacks adequate public space to enjoy rest and recreation, house volunteering organization. need and find appropriate measures to assist them through as some have suggested. With that in mind, in March 2012, regular communication with local residents. In addition, the the company signed an MOU with the Ulsan Metropolitan company supports welfare facilities for the disabled, war vetGovernment to donate KRW 10 billion towards the restoraFor Heros ┃ “Hero Support Programs” applaud and encourerans and patriots, and social welfare facilities with the aim tion of the city’s Taewharu pavilion. Built during the Shilla age heroes in our society such as the heroic citizens and fireof providing help to those in need, and donates heating oil to Dynasty, Taewharu was one of the three most beautiful pafighters who commit themselves to saving lives and property 500 low-income families during winters. S-OIL also makes a vilions of the region along with Yeongnamru in Milyang and by risking their own in adverse working conditions. In 2012, contribution to the Mapo District, where the company’s Head Chokseokru in Jinju, but was destroyed during the Japanese S-OIL newly organized the “Healing Camp for Firefighters” Office is located, and organizes volunteer programs with welinvasion of Korea in 1592. Upon its completion scheduled to provide a get-away time and rejuvenate themselves with fare facilities for low-income families within the district. for 2014, the restored pavilion, which carries historical signifitheir families. In 2013, it will launch programs for respected cance, will stand as one of the city’s landmarks and the pride maritime police officers who work to protect the maritime For more information, visit the Contribute to Society section of Sustainability on our website. of Ulsan citizens in addition to offering a comfortable, easyenvironment or come to rescue in accidents. to-access public rest area. Community Arts, Culture and Education Support ProFor the Environment ┃ S-OIL’s endangered natural monugrams ment protection campaigns are aimed at preserving natural Education for Local Youngsters ┃ In cooperation with the heritage for future generations. To this end, the company Ministry of Education, it runs the “Children’s Science Magic signed an agreement with the Cultural Heritage AdministraSchool,” which in an innovative departure from traditional tion in May 2008 to protect otters (Natural Monument No. teaching methods employees magic to teach children about 330), cranes (Natural Monument No. 202) and hemibarbus scientific principles to foster their creativity. In addition, the mylodon (Natural Monument No. 259). S-OIL’s environment company supports athletics clubs, book purchases and afprotection programs also cover other activities including: supporting protection and research activities of the relevant organizations; running children’s natural monument classes Activities for Communities Activities for the Environment and ecology camps; launching a university students’ natural monument protection corps; and sponsoring natural habitat protection activities by employees. S-OIL also undertakes community-based environment protection activities focused on preserving the marine environment and resources. In order to protect the evergreen forest of Mokdo (Natural Monument No. 65) near Onsan Refinery, volunteers from the refinery have engaged in seacoast cleanup activities, such as collecting waste wood and nourishing trees, while those active in the in-house diving club have removed waste from the seabed. In acknowledgement of such sincere activities, S-OIL received a commendation from the 42 SI 4 Contribute to Society SI 4. Contribute to Society Social Contribution Activities Community Arts, Culture and S-OIL’s Pursuit of Sustainable S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 43 Education Support Programs Growth of Society Cultural Events Sponsorship for Artists and Local Commuevant policies and institutions. Notably, an initiative to create Supplier relationship management (SRM) System Support for Social Enterprises ┃ Guided by its commitment nities ┃ S-OIL organizes and supports various local cultural a KRW 100 billion Joint CSR Fund was agreed upon among to mutual prosperity with society, S-OIL supports social enEvaluation Criteria events in order to enhance the quality of cultural life for lorefiners in 2008 to share the weight of the national burden terprises. Joining the “1 Company 1 Social Enterprise” camFacility Credibility cal citizens and to encourage artists to participate in cultural imposed by the onset of high-oil prices. Under its scheme, Supplier paign of Ulsan Metropolitan City, Onsan Refinery signed an Quality events. The company has hosted free performances for resiS-OIL has supported energy heating oil for the marginalized agreement in December 2011 with Nanuri Corporation, a soStaffing/ Price dents near the Head Office twice a month (lunchtime and class, and runs energy efficiency improvement programs. Material Outsourcing cial enterprise, and launched promotion activities within the Supplier Delivery evening) as part of our Cultural Art & Sharing campaign. It The company also has signed an agreement with the CulturVendor Vendor company. Under the agreement, S-OIL installs used clothing Environment/ also supports the “Mapo Salted Shrimp Festival,” a long-held al Heritage Administration in relation to its Environment ProSafety donation boxes at the company housing, and the social encultural event of the area, thus helping preserve the traditection programs, and has contributed its opinions through terprise collects, repairs and gives away used items to those Utility Work Material Cooperation tional culture of the local community. In Ulsan, the company diverse channels such as regular sessions and workshops. Vendor Dealer in need. S-OIL is also a steering committee member of the established the Oh Yeong-su Literary Prize in 1993 to comIn the private sector, S-OIL is a member of the Korea Busi“Ulsan Network for Social Enterprise Promotion,” organized memorate Oh Yeong-su, a famous short story writer born in ness Council for Sustainable Development (KBCSD), which Vendor Evaluation Grades by Ulsan Metropolitan City in April 2012, sharing ideas and the region. Today, the prize has become one of the nation’s is joined by CEOs of domestic companies under a broad Poor Good Excellent supporting policies. most prestigious literary awards. S-OIL has held the Beautiful consensus for sustainable growth of humanity by striking a Eye Art Festival since 1996 in support of creative activities balance between environmental preservation and economic Supplier Visit Program ┃ S-OIL commenced a supplier visit Community-based Social Contribution Activity – Nanum of amateur artists. The company has been leading the efgrowth. Through KBCSD’s various programs geared towards program in order to build mutual trust and understanding Stations ┃ Capitalizing on its countrywide network of staforts to promote local culture, illustrated in its sponsorship of facilitating cooperation between the government and indusfor sustained cooperation. Under the program, S-OIL shares tions, S-OIL launched the “S/Ss’ ‘N(Nanum=sharing)’ Camvarious regional, cultural and art events such as the Spring try on sustainable growth, S-OIL vigorously supports research the company’s ethics management as well as a transparpaign” which is a more systematic and comprehensive CSR Literary Contest organized by the Gyeongsang Ilbo, a local and policy development activities in the areas of sustainabilient and objective procurement system, and in turn partner activity that is also deeply connected to the company’s core newspaper, the Cheoyong Cultural Festival, the Ulsan Whale ty management, climate change and energy policy, while excompanies present their products, technologies and recent capabilities. Approximately 300 S-OIL service stations volunFestival, the traditional musical performance “Byeongyeng ploring effective ways to meet the GHG emission targets for performance, thereby boosting mutual understanding. In adtarily took part in the program in 2012 to share the profit Seonang Chigi,” and the Onggi Expo Ulsan Korea. In 2011, the industry and nation. In addition, it takes the lead in raising dition, S-OIL listens to suppliers’ difficulties and suggestions, with local communities, and donated a total of KRW 530 milit screened a video about the petrochemical industry at the awareness about the industry’s response to climate change and makes every effort to provide appropriate solutions and lion to 300 social welfare facilities across the country. Going Two-Dimensional Circle Screening Room it installed at the Ulthrough its wintertime energy conservation campaign as well feedback, so as to ensure the company’s sustainability manforward, S-OIL will continue to engage in community-based san Museum, which is the city’s first general museum. as a nationwide campaign and education for GHG reduction agement philosophy is widely shared with suppliers for winvolunteer programs, including “Good Buy Campaign” and diand energy saving, in cooperation with KBCSD. win growth. verse public service activities for the purpose of encouraging S-OIL’s Pursuit of Sustainable Growth of Society In 2012, it sponsored the Sustainability Management Ability a giving culture in our society. Participation in Policy Formulation ┃ S-OIL, the leader of Test (SMAT) Development Project, which is being undertaken Number of Partner Companies Visited in 2012 sustainability management in the energy industry, is acfor the first time in the world by KBCSD with the objective of Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 tively taking part in public policy making/implementation highlighting the importance of sustainability management in 3 7 6 2 programs in a variety of fields, both in the public and private our society and nurturing talented people with sustainability sectors, to ensure a sustainable, balanced growth with somanagement capabilities. The company also participated in ciety. Fully complying with the Korean government’s “Low the Carbon Footprint Gallery event hosted by the Korea ProCarbon, Green Growth” policy, the company has developed ductivity Center in August 2012 to help citizens better underspecific plans for phased implementation based on midto stand low carbon, energy efficient processes and products, Carbon Footprint Gallery S/Ss’ “N(Nanum=sharing)” Campaign long-term GHG reduction targets under a strategic carbon and thus fostering their development and consumption. management system. At the same time, it is also joining the “Emission Trading Scheme Pilot Program,” which is driven by Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) System ┃ S-OIL the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy in the run-up to pursues win-win growth with partner companies by creating the “GHG Emission Trading Scheme (ETS)” to go into effect a transparent bidding culture based on fair evaluation. To in 2015. achieve this, it implemented the SRM system in 2010 and S-OIL, as a member of the Korea Petroleum Association, plans to enhance both the evaluation criteria and relevant regularly communicates with the government and delivers systems in order to raise the credibility and availability of the its position and opinions on government policies, thus conSRM evaluation to next level in 2013. tributing to the creation and effective implementation of rel44 SI 4 Contribute to Society SI 4. Contribute to Society Social Contribution Activities Community Arts, Culture and S-OIL’s Pursuit of Sustainable S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 45 Education Support Programs Growth of Society Close Connection with Local Communities ┃ S-OIL enSocial Contribution-Related Indicators gages with communities as it grows. Whenever there is a complaint reported that is related to the company in Mapo or Ulsan where its premises are located, the case is immediately directed to the relevant team for swift resolution. In Social Contribution Programs and Investments in 2012 Achievements of Sunshine Sharing Campaign 2012, the company installed a free vending machine called Program Donation Year Wage Tail-Cut 1 Person 1 Donation “GOODOIL Café,” named after the company’s character at (Unit : KRW million) Contribution Account its Head Office location, and is expanding them across the For Heroes • Hero Firefighter Program 970 No. of Participants 2010 1,377 1,517 country. In the future, S-OIL will remain committed to estab• Hero Citizens Program 2011 1,446 1,564 lishing and maintaining close connections with local comFor the • S upport for research and protection 280 2012 1,538 1,513 Environment activities by specialized groups munities. • Natural monument education for children Average Monthly 2010 7 15 • Children’s ecology camp Donations 2011 7 15 • College Student Natural Monument (Unit : KRW million) Ever-evolving CSR Activities of S-OIL ┃ S-OIL operates an Protection Group 2012 7 15 internal process to assess its social contribution performance • Voluntary service by employees and customers and receive feedback from external experts, further evolvFor •Support for low-income families affected 4,663 Green Purchasing (Unit : cases, KRW million) ing its CSR activities. For this, a year-end workshop is held Communities by house fires 56 • Cultural Art & Sharing campaign Items each year at the Onsan Refinery for coordinators from each • Sharing campaign by service stations volunteer corp, welfare facility staffs and staffs in charge of • Support for the disabled to participate in overseas marathons 2012 the company’s social contribution activities to collect griev•Donation to underprivileged neighborances or suggestions from all parties concerned including hoods volunteers, beneficiaries and staffs in charge. The company • Ulsan Social Welfare Foundation 17 subsequently reflects the feedback in its social contribution · Others: KRW 1 billion for the Table Tennis Team, KRW 1.5 billion for the S-OIL 11 Science Prodigy and Culture Foundation, and KRW 3.3 billion for the Taewharu 2010 plan for the following year. In addition, a satisfaction survey Restoration Project 2011 is conducted for each recipient welfare center on their satisfaction levels of S-OIL’s programs to identify opportunities Amount 25,326 for improvement. Activities of S-OIL Public Service Corps The company holds a social contribution workshop at the 23,934 Total Volunteer Hours 30,828 beginning of each year to recognize and award outstand2012 2010 ing volunteer programs, while inviting external experts for 28,823 Kyeong-Pyo Ryu special lectures and best practice presentations, in a bid to 2012 2011 Senior Vice President nurture in-house social contribution experts. 22,596 4,531 Head of Refinery Management & Coordination HQ 2010 2011 S-OIL, as a corporate citizen of Ulsan where its Onsan ReNo. of Participants Local Purchasing Local Purchasing (Unit : cases, KRW million) GOODOIL Café finery operates, is committed to fulfilling its social respon2,312 2,315 2010 2011 2012 sibility through a variety of social contribution initiatives, 2,183 Total No. 7,823 7,647 6,881 2011 2012 of Purchases such as establishing S-OIL Ulsan Welfare Foundation, 2010 No. of Local 4,474 4,369 3,745 leading the mecenat movement of the region, sponsorPurchases ing the Taewharu Restoration Project and operating the Total Amount 373,090 554,153 424,800 13.3 Volunteer Hours per Person S-OIL Public Service Corps at the Refinery. Going forward, of Purchases S-OIL will spare no efforts to grow together with the local 12.5 Amount of Local 90,095 89,084 78,042 2012 Purchases communities while developing and implementing social 10.4 2011 contribution programs that cater to the needs of the com2010 munities. 5 SI Percentage of Outside IR Meetings Directors in BOD Pursue Global Best 937 Times Ethics Training Completion Rates of Employees 54.54 % Practices of Corporate Governance 100 % VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS Underpinned by integrity and transparency, ethics management is the one and only solution to the dilemma a company faces between the economic mandate for various stakeholders and the social mandate. That is, a sincere corporate culture is the very source of sustainable global competitiveness. _ Myung-Hoon Yoo, CEO of Korea CSR Consulting Group Performance Summary Plans for 2012 ●E nsure improvements identified through ● Build  Legal Compliance System by reflect●Develop an interactive information sharing review of international standards and ing standards and procedures on legal mechanism, which is in line with the everguidelines on ethics management and compliance for employees. evolving communications environment Dong-Yeol Shin sustainability management are made in and gives easy access sustainability man●C ontinue to improve the company’s acSenior Vice President alignment with the company’s overall counting policies and processes to the agement activities and performances. Head of Domestic Marketing HQ management strategy. global standard level by incorporating the latest accounting trends and revised laws Ethics management lies at the core of S-OIL’s sustainability manand regulations. agement. Guided by the belief that “ethics management is the First Achievements in 2012 ●D iversified the ethics education to nine ●E stablished a project plan to implement a ●Developed a mobile application for the Hurdle Rate to be satisfied in all decision making,” all employees from programs for different positions and roles “Legal Compliance System” and carried out annual Sustainability Report for both the the CEO to rank-and-file employees are devoted to creating a corpoto provide tailored education; further imthe project in four main areas (fair trade, Android and iOS platforms to facilitate proved the efficiency of the education by domestic sales, planning/IR and intellecinteractive communication of the comparate culture that adheres to the basics and principles based on ethics inviting external experts. tual property rights). ny’s sustainability management activities management. In addition, the Board of Directors operated on a sysand relevant information. ●D eveloped a checklist for the 34 major internal policies to monitor the compliance tem of checks & balances and a well-established compliance manstatus every quarter and reflect the results agement system are creating new corporate values. In the pursuit of in the KPI, encouraging employees’ voluntary compliance in their day-to-day work. harmonious growth with various stakeholders based on transparency ●Introduced and implemented e-Accountand cooperation, S-OIL also makes significant efforts to monitor and ing to ensure transparency in accounting manage its supply chain in a systematic manner as part of its broader data and strengthen internal control. efforts to instill ethics management in its partner companies. Going Future Plan ●R einforce the ethics standard for employ●C  omplete the implementation of a “Legal ●Upgrade the Sustainability Report by takforward, S-OIL will further intensify its efforts for ethics management, ees and perform revisions to put in place Compliance System” after monitoring and ing advantage of the mobile application, effective monitoring. evaluation testing. and facilitate two-way communication which is an essential element of “sustainability management for all,” with stakeholders by improving the utiliza●C ontinue to improve ethics management including both the Company and its partners. by holding an ethics management pretion of the application. sentation session for various stakeholders including partner companies. 48 SI 5 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance SI 5. Pursue Global Best Practices Transparent Corporate Governance Transparent Management Ethics Management for Win-Win S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 49 of Corporate Governance Living up to Stakeholders’ Trust that Creates Corporate Value Growth Transparent Corporate Governance Living up to mittee, and Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Transparent Management that Creates Corporate Transparent corporate governance is a prereqStakeholders’ Trust (ODCR) Committee. The Board Audit Committee evaluates Value Transparent corporate governance is a prerequisite for winoverall business management and the current status of the InWork Process Audit for Higher Corporate Value ┃ S-OIL fouisite for win-win growth for a company and win growth for a company and its stakeholders including ternal Accounting Control System and also receives reports on cuses all capabilities of its auditors on increasing corporate its stakeholders. S-OIL has established solid and shareholders and employees, as well as the community at internal audits. The Compensation Committee establishes the value through enhancing the business process in terms of large. S-OIL, a joint venture between Saudi Arabia’s state-run company’s compensation policy and system, including emmateriality, commerciality, and practicality from the perspectransparent corporate governance through its oil company and Korea’s Hanjin Group, has established solid ployee salaries, severance pay, and incentives. The ODCR Comtive of audit clients for use beyond sole compliance. Auditors, BOD, which plays an important role based on and transparent corporate governance through its commitmittee examines candidates’ qualifications according to all capitalizing on their extensive work experience, improve their a sound system of checks and balances. tees and the Board of Directors (BOD), which plays an imporrelevant rules and regulations, selects those most suitable, and capabilities as expert auditors by attaining a variety of certifitant role based on a sound system of checks and balances. recommends them as outside directors at the general meetcations or acquiring audit software competence for in-depth The BOD is able to supervise the company’s management ing of shareholders. In particular, the Board Audit Committee, data analysis. 2012 marked a leap forward in the company’s activities and performance objectively and independently, in comprised of three outside directors and one non-standing audit activities with cooperation from external professionals. that its majority is comprised of outside directors (54.54%) director, actively engages in ethics management, receiving anIn-house auditors who boast profound understanding of the and most directors are non-standing directors. The BOD nual reports on ethics management activities from the Ethics business process and external consultants who share experconvenes on a quarterly basis to make strategic and critical Committee, and offering recommendations to top managetise and vast consulting experiences worked together to dedecisions regarding the company and to be briefed on busiment to improve the company’s ethics management. rive audit recommendations that help save cost and improve ness progress from company officers. Ad-hoc BOD meetings work process efficiency. Furthermore, S-OIL received the 13th can be convened when and where needed; in 2012, five BOD Composition of BOD (as of March 22, 2013) Korea’s Best Auditor Award from the Financial Supervisory meetings were convened. Name Position Service in 2012. Selected among other award-winners as Inside Director (1) Nasser Al-Mahasher Representative Director and CEO an outstanding business leading transparent management Separation of BOD Chairman and CEO ┃ One of the most Y. H. Cho BOD Chairman based on an exemplary audit system, S-OIL was recognized noticeable features of S-OIL’s BOD is that the roles of the Non-Standing A.F. Al-Wuhaib Non-Standing Director for its objective, independent operation of the Board Audit CEO and the Chairman of the BOD are separated, allowing Directors (4) M.O. Al-Subaie Non-Standing Director Committee and Audit Organization, separation of the CEO the CEO to concentrate on strengthening his expertise and T. S. Suk Board Audit Committee Member and BOD Chairman, implementation of a world-class audit the BOD to oversee the CEO’s management activities from Board Audit Committee Chairman system and planning of advanced risk-based audits, and S. A. Al-Ashgar ODCR Committee Member a more objective perspective. Having such a procedure in audits conducted for effective compliance and process imS. B. Al-Kaki Compensation Committee Member place, S-OIL strives to increase shareholder value and maxiBoard Audit Committee Chairman provement. mize stakeholder interest. H. T. Al-Saadoun Compensation Committee Member Outside Directors (6) ODCR Committee Member LCS Implementation Project ┃ Following recent amendODCR Committee Chairman Establishment and Operation of Committees ┃ To ensure M. S. Chung Board Audit Committee Member ments to the Commercial Code of Korea, listed companies efficient, professional, and transparent operation of the BOD, all S.E. Park Compensation Committee Member with assets of KRW 500 billion or more are required to appoint six outside directors and one non-standing director participate Compensation Committee Member a compliance officer and establish compliance standards. Y.S. Ahn in the BOD’s Board Audit Committee, Compensation ComODCR Committee Member The project was driven by the CEO, who believes the Legal Committees to Assist CEO Legal Compliance System (LCS) Management Committee Prevention Detection Personnel ERM Committee • Manage Process to Conduct Compliance Control Activities Administration • Register/Manage Major Laws/Regulations Organic Support Committee • Assess Compliance Issue Response Results Cash • Manage Prior Review Process for LCS Process •M aintain System to Establish Recurrence Prevention Plan and Management Commodity Trading Risk • Conduct Self Assessment Share Information Committee Management Committee • Operate Help Desk CEO • Run Training Sessions • Manage Controls against Violations Masterplan Optimization Steering Committee Response Committee • Support Compliance Control Monitoring Activities IR Committee Donation Committee • Operate Whistleblower Program • Investigate Legal/Regulatory Violation Cases and Manage Correction Process Ethics Committee Seamless Cycle of Prevention and Detection and Response Activities 50 SI 5 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance SI 5. Pursue Global Best Practices Transparent Corporate Governance Transparent Management Ethics Management for Win-Win S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 51 of Corporate Governance Living up to Stakeholders’ Trust that Creates Corporate Value Growth Compliance System (LCS) will be the basis of the company’s Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for Compliance with For its efforts in the transparent disclosure of financial data, sustainability and transparent business operations, which beRules ┃ As an institutional framework to allow all employees S-OIL was selected in 2012 to be among the companies with trays his strong commitment to compliance management. to familiarize themselves with the company’s rules and comoutstanding corporate disclosure records (five publicly-tradThe LCS implementation project was launched in 2012. For ply with them in their routine work, the “Compliance Monied companies) from Korea Exchange. this project, a company-wide Task Force was formed under toring System” was implemented in 2011 to minimize confuthe Legal Team. S-OIL aims to fully implement the system in sion and risks associated with non-compliance. Monitoring IR Activities ┃ S-OIL is vigorously conducting IR activities to 2014 after producing deliverables in stages such as compliis conducted every three months against a checklist of 114 help shareholders and investors better understand and build ance standards, the Legal Requirement Library, a compliance items related to 35 rules in total, and the results are reflected trust in the company, and have the present and future of manual and checklist, and compliance training plans. S-OIL in the “Compliance KPIs” of each team and department so the company fairly evaluated by offering them accurate inexpects the LCS implementation will create incentives for that employees can voluntarily adhere to the company’s formation on the business policies and performances of the criminal/administrative/civil actions, increase the internationrules and policies at work. company. The company actively publicizes its strengths such al credit standing, protect interests and rights of stakeholders, as its financial stability, world-class risk management system, enhance competitiveness, and ultimately, firmly establish the Transparent Disclosure of Business Information ┃ S-OIL and balanced pursuit of growth potential and high payout compliance management system of the company. is committed to increasing both public access to company ratio. information and the value of disclosed information. Its acIn 2012, the company conducted IR activities for instituInternal Accounting Management System ┃ S-OIL has counting procedures and system are in compliance with Ktional investors (including foreigners) and analysts 937 expanded the Internal Accounting Management System for IFRS standards, and the company carries out constant monitimes, similar to the previous year. In addition, the company internal control to secure the reliability of financial reporttoring and regular improvements in order to provide more engaged in IR activities for individual investors by website ing into a self-assessment system on overall corporate risk transparent and accurate financial information. To this end, and phone, etc. The company will continue to step up efforts management activities. All employees review whether or it has directed significant resources into maintaining and to share the fruits of future growth and performances with not proper internal control activities on their work processes upgrading the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. shareholders. were carried out. This is followed by a thorough assessment At the General Meeting of Shareholders convened after the of results by the company-wide Task Force. In particular, the end of each fiscal year, the business status of the company IR Events (Unit : times) CFO double-hats as Internal Accounting Manager who is in is briefed to shareholders, while providing them with accu2010 2011 2012 charge of the Internal Accounting Management System and rate information needed for specific decision-making. InforInvestors’ Meeting 618 943 937 regularly reports status of the system’s operations to the mation is provided in an objective manner to shareholders Hosting of NDR 10 11 7 BOD and the Board Audit Committee. and stakeholders under the information disclosure principle Participation 11 15 17 of the Public Information Management rule. In addition, the in Conference e-Accounting for Stronger Internal Control ┃ Adapting to company’s website provides a wealth of investment inforConference Call 4 4 4 the rapid advances in the IT environment, S-OIL developed mation as well as a Q&A section, which enables shareholders an e-Accounting system by computerizing the existing payand stakeholders to easily and fully understand S-OIL’s busiDuck-Soon Lim ment statement-related process, which was rolled out on ness management systems. Senior Vice President Head of Maintenance&Technical HQ December 1, 2012. To implement the system, all payment transactions that occur in the company were analyzed for S-OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen, focuses on supstandardization. A variety of procedures were incorporated Key Changes Following e-Accounting System General Meeting of Shareholders porting sustainability management in its partner compainto the system so that relevant rules on payment approval Electronic Process for Payment Statenies in various ways such as reinforcing ethics manageand documentary evidence can be applied automatically ment and Documentary Evidence ment and transparent bidding culture in their organizawhen a payment statement is prepared. The company also tions. It will continue its effort to grow with its partners expanded operation of the corporate card/e-tax statement system, while making available online and on mobile devices Expansion of Corporate based on a transparent corporate culture created. Card Issuance and the entire process flow of payment statement from generaIntegrated Management Rules on Payment Apof e-Tax Statement tion and transfer to storage and payment. Though the sucproval and Documentary cessful implementation of the e-Accounting system, S-OIL Evidence Incorporated into System strengthens internal control. Payment Using CP and/or Mobile Devices 52 SI 5 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance SI 5. Pursue Global Best Practices Transparent Corporate Governance Transparent Management Ethics Management for Win-Win S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 53 of Corporate Governance Living up to Stakeholders’ Trust that Creates Corporate Value Growth Employee Training on Disclosure Regulations ┃ S-OIL proWhistleblower Program ┃ S-OIL operates a Help Desk (+82new employees. In 2012, it was expanded to include a total CEO’s Communique vides training and shares information on disclosure regula2-3772-5231) and the Ethics Management website to file of nine programs to better cater to employees in different Our Attitude towards Customers and Contractors tions, in a bid to familiarize employees with disclosure rereports on unethical acts. The website offers FAQs and Q&As positions and jobs. The quality of training programs was also quirements they might face at work, and prevent them from to help employees understand what constitutes unethical significantly enhanced with external experts invited to give engaging in unfair transactions of the company’s stocks by behavior. Moreover, the company installed a reporting chanlectures. In the future, S-OIL will introduce diverse training taking advantage of insider information. It provided notifinel on the home page of the website, which is connected to techniques and develop more effective programs, while procations of major disclosure announcements and regulation the corporate website and intranet to facilitate easy reportmoting ethics management through presentations for varichanges via the company’s electronic board twice in 2012. ing by stakeholders. The reporting channel is described in the ous stakeholders including partner companies. Ethics Management Handbook that is distributed to employEthics Management for Win-Win Growth ees and other stakeholders, and is introduced to employees Support for and Strengthening of Ethics Management for Ethics Committee ┃ S-OIL strives to prevent any small conthrough the corporate ethics management training conductPartner Companies ┃ S-OIL supports its partner companies flict of interest between the company and its employees from ed annually. Furthermore, S-OIL receives reports through the to promote ethics management within their organizations developing into a significant ethical issue. To achieve this, the Customer Center and the website. by helping them understand and comply with the guiding The Company has maintained close relationships with company strictly prohibits employees and their spouses from principles and contents of the company’s Code of Business customers and contractors as a large refining and petroengaging in any kind of transaction with the company. Even Anti-Corruption Policies ┃ According to the S-OIL’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. As part of this effort, every business partchemical corporation, and has continuously committed the smallest likelihood of a conflict of interest arising as a reBusiness Ethics and Conduct, employees should honor doner that participates in the company’s bidding is asked to ourselves to CSR activities to share with others in need sult of an employee’s lineal descendant or a retired employmestic and foreign laws and regulations as well as the comsubmit “a pledge to comply with the Code of Ethics and Conand serve the local community as a responsible corporate ee engaging in transactions with the company is thoroughly pany’s policies and regulations with a strong sense of ethical duct for suppliers/bidders.” Partners found to have commitcitizen. reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee. The Comvalues. In particular, the code prohibits unjust or wrongful ted illegal or unethical activities are excluded from the list of Unfortunately, there have been some incidents where mittee is comprised of four executives–HR Officer, Head of orders, good offices, favors, and duty-related bribery. EmS-OIL partner companies. S-OIL also plans to support ethics large corporations and their members committed disCorporate Planning, General Counsel, and Controller. Their ployees are prohibited from receiving money or goods, management of its affiliates, including subsidiaries and joint graceful acts against their customers, contractors, and qualifications are evaluated by the Board Audit Committee treats, entertainment or benefits related to their jobs from ventures as well. service providers, which were revealed by those on the reunder the Board of Directors prior to being appointed by the stakeholders. An investigation launched in 2012 regarding ceiving end. We need to look back on ourselves and see if CEO. The Committee reports its activities to the CEO every six an external report on bribery discovered one case involving there has been any negligence in the way we treated our months and to the Board Audit Committee once a year. Its a breach of ethics rules, resulting in disciplinary action of the customers, contractors, and service providers. Especially, activities are disclosed to all employees via the company’s affected employee. we should bear in mind, reviewing a lesson learned from Ethics Management website. In 2012, the Ethics Committee the case of an officer dismissed for insulting a flight atconvened 22 times and deliberated on 55 cases. Upgrading of Employee Ethics Training ┃ S-OIL conducts tendant in duty. ethics management training continuously to imbed the It is the duty for the Company and each and every memimportance of ethics into the day-to-day business activiber of the Company to treat customers, contractors, and ties. Ethics management training was originally designed service providers with kindness as have always been, and around two tracks one for all employees and the other for care for them with utmost consideration to assure of winwin for all. Please bear in mind that every little bit of your Ethics Management Training Deliberation of Ethics Committee in 2012 (Unit : cases) Ethics Management Training words and actions towards customers, contractors, and service providers has a heavy impact on how the Company Purchase of Products and Services Program Participants Training Hour per Person is recognized in the society at large. With that, I will look forward to your concerted and sincere efforts in helping Operation of Sales Networks the Company earn recognition as a faithful member of society that lives together with others. 27 2012 9 2,951 1.7 25 Others 2011 3 2 2,544 1.4 6 SI Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS Borrowings to Total Assets In order to achieve the ultimate goal of growth, a company needs to devise a comprehensive and diversified strategy, with which it responds flexibly to the environmental changes and improves its capital management efficien28.02% cy, while also enhancing its risk management and securing the capabilities necessary to handle crises. _ Hyo-Chan Jeon, Research Fellow at Samsung ds 1 Economic Research Institute den 2 ivi . hD Cas % 5 3 DJSI Assessment in Risk Management Area Perfect Score (on a 100-point Scale) Performance Young-Il Cho Summary Senior Vice President CFO & Head of Finance HQ Plans for 2012 ●O ptimize the distribution of resources and ●M  aintain top credit ratings and continue to ● Sustain world-class risk management capaWith increasing uncertainties and complexities in the business enreinforce the budget preparation/control secure a stable credit line. bilities by promoting a risk management process by developing evaluation techculture within the organization and boostvironment, a stable financial structure and efficient capital manniques for zero-base budgeting. ing the capabilities needed to respond to agement is gaining even more in importance. Having grown into a ●C  ontinue to review and execute measures risks. for optimizing capital efficiency and finan●Reinforce the management system for “sound corporate” together with the local community by focusing its cial structure to maximize the enterprise latent risks by stabilizing early warning syscore capabilities in the refining, petrochemical, and lube base oil busivalue. tem and updating monitoring scenarios. ness, S-OIL is engaged in the efficient management of capital as well Achievements in 2012 ●I mproved feedback on the results of bud●M aintained a stable credit line through the ●Recognized for its world-class risk manageas world-class risk management. This has equipped the company get execution, which were analyzed based efficient issuance of company stocks (nonment capabilities by receiving top score on zero-base budgeting. guaranteed public offering bonds worth (100 points) in DJSI’s risk management with a financial structure that ensures stable and competitive capiKRW 500 billion) and repayment. evaluation for three consecutive years tal management, regardless of the business environment. Through since 2010. a rational dividend policy, it also strives to enhance the value of its Future Plan ● Improve budget management efficiency ●S ustain cooperative ties with outside cred● Reestablish key risks in line with the changshareholders as well as its own. Going forward, S-OIL will continue its by reinforcing the economic analysis it-rating agencies to maintain and upgrade ing environment to maintain the world’s on costs and capital expenditures and top credit ratings. best risk management capabilities. efforts to grow hand in hand with the local community as a healthy enhancing regular feedback on budget ●E ngage in active IR activities to ensure a ● Reinforce the monitoring function of early capital entity. execution performance. fair enterprise value assessment by the warning system via connection with BI/ market. EDW/e-Accounting. 56 SI 6 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency SI 6. Attain Highest Level Sound Capital that Has Efficient Capital World’s Best Risk Transparent Dividend S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 57 of Capital Efficiency Grown with Society Management Management Distribution Sound Capital that Has Grown with Society was made together with all stakeholders – shareholders and value is highly appreciated in the market for its manageSince its foundation in 1976 under the phiWith the gap between the haves and have-nots widening in investors, employees, local communities and the government know-how and transparent corporate governance. In our society, there is a voice calling for a fundamental review ment –, S-OIL shares these created economic values with all addition, it proactively manages the core indicators used by losophy to become a stable supplier of energy on the direction the Korean economy should be headed. This stakeholders. credit rating agencies for assessment, enabling the company to the national economy, S-OIL has focused voice, often dubbed “economic democratization,” means to secure stable and competitive financing conditions for that the industries that contributed to the national economy Efficient Capital Management working capital and investment resources. its core capabilities on fuel, petrochemical and through pursuing quantitative growth now needs to build a S-OIL draws up its annual budget for the efficient distribulube businesses. It will continue its growth as new economic model for harmonious growth with society. tion of resources after receiving approval from the BOD. It World’s Best Risk Management sound capital based on cooperation with its Indeed, there are many companies that have failed to grow also reports budget expenditures to the BOD on a regular Enterprise Risk Management ┃ S-OIL has implemented hand in hand with society and ensure long-term growth by basis. To achieve its management goals, S-OIL promotes its the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) System to navigate surrounding communities. channeling their core capabilities on achieving short-term financial soundness by reducing excessive budget spending through the ever evolving, unpredictable business environgains only. Founded in 1976 under the philosophy to become and eliminating inefficiencies through careful inspection and ment, and carried out multi-faceted risk management activia stable supplier of energy to the national economy, S-OIL regular analysis of expenditures. Furthermore, the company ties based on risk levels and types. Under the ERM System, risk has focused its core capabilities on its current growth engines implemented the “Zero-Base Budgeting” system in 2012 to is classified into five types–strategy, market, finance, compli– fuel, petrochemical and lube businesses – avoiding broader ensure the company’s business is conducted as planned, and ance, and operation–and carefully monitored against the business expansion such as to SME businesses, as it knows is making plans to analyze budget execution results to maxiKey Risk Indicators (KRI). Risk assessment helps the company large enterprises and SMEs should operate in different areas. mize benefits. In the future, S-OIL will continue to distribute prevent risks in advance and minimizes the impact and loss S-OIL’s focus only on its key grown engine has propelled it resources efficiently by means of ensuring systematic and through a systematic response in case of an incident. Risk to grow into a major refiner with the fifth largest crude refinobjective budgeting and strengthening economic analysis of management activities are performed promptly and systeming capacity, the largest paraxylene production capacity, and its costs and capital expenditures, while enhancing its budget ically as described in the pre-defined risk response manual, the second highest lube base oil production capacity in the management efficiency by reinforcing regular feedback on and the outcomes are regularly briefed to the ERM Commitworld. In addition, the total capital, which stood at KRW 4 bilexpenditures. tee comprised of the CEO and other senior management, to lion at the time of foundation, increased to KRW 5,372 billion ensure risk management is in line with the overall manageas of the end of 2012, which can be translated into a 22.2% Low-cost Financing Based on Transparency ┃ For 37 years ment strategy. growth on an annual average basis. Going forward, S-OIL will since its founding in 1976, S-OIL has continued its growth continue its growth as sound capital based on cooperation by incorporating profit-oriented management strategies and Around-the-clock Monitoring Systemy ┃ Most of the busiwith its surrounding communities. internalizing an enterprising spirit for the global era. It is also ness transactions are processed in the form of system data the only independent refining company not owned by a conand important management information is offered through Creation and Distribution of Economic Value ┃ In 2012, Sglomerate in Korea. It has established a solid and transparent the corporate information system. S-OIL operates AroundOIL created economic value of about KRW 1.1 trillion through corporate governance through its committees and the Board the-clock Monitoring system to conduct scenario-based revenue generation, job creation, fair trade and investment in of Directors (BOD), which plays an important role based on analysis of vast amount of data generated from business aclocal communities. Well aware of the fact this achievement a sound system of checks and balances. S-OIL’s corporate tivities, and to communicate data of anomalous transactions Creation of Economic Value (Unit : KRW 100 Million) Distribution of Economic Value (Unit : KRW 100 Million) Enterprise Risk Management System 2010 2011 2012 Stakeholders Account 2010 2011 2012 Strategy Risk Category Enterprise Risk Management System Sales Revenue 205,111 319,139 347,233 Employees Labor Cost 3,020 3,346 3,238 Advanced Responses to and Control of Core Risk Market Purchasing Costs (190,981) (294,911) (332,200) Government Tax and Dues 1,776 4,081 1,460 Other Income 7,593 10,292 8,559 Local CommuniSocial Contribution 60 105 143 ties Internal Accounting Finance Other Expenses (6,716) (10,722) (8,257) Management System Creditors Interest 290 584 856 Risky Activity Self-Assessment Depreciation & (2,761) (3,758) (3,838) Compliance Amortization Shareholders/ Dividends, Re7,100 11,924 5,800 Economic Value Company tained Earnings Early Warning System 12,246 20,040 11,497 Economic Value Distributed Intensive Monitoring of Core Risk Factors Created 12,246 20,040 11,497 Operation Scope of Risk Management 58 SI 6 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency SI 6. Attain Highest Level Sound Capital that Has Efficient Capital World’s Best Risk Transparent Dividend S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 59 of Capital Efficiency Grown with Society Management Management Distribution to relevant staff. This system immediately responds to signs Transparent Dividend Distribution Financial Achievement of risky transactions that had been monitored in advance, S-OIL has maintained a stable financial structure based on These financial data were reported in accordance with the newly adopted K-IFRS and helps minimize losses that could have been incurred if a excellent performance, and has focused on maximizing corrisk were realized by constantly managing work processes in porate value through a reasonable dividend policy that balrisky areas, thereby enhancing the company’s business perances the need to set aside resources for sustained growth Statements of Financial Position (Summary) (Unit : KRW million) Financial Indicators (Unit : %, multiple) formance. investment and the need to return profits to shareholders. 2010 2011 2012 Stability Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Despite a reduction in its 2012 performance compared to the Current Assets 5,992,212 8,823,100 8,580,342 Current Ratio 131.02 121.93 136.74 World’s Best Risk Management ┃ The Dow Jones Sustainprevious year due to the severe economic crisis, the company Non-Current Assets 4,011,286 4,381,001 3,911,699 Total Liabilities 122.07 152.64 132.54 ability Indexes (DJSI) considers an enterprise’s risk manageset its dividend payout ratio at 53%, which is higher than the to Equity Ratio ment capacity to be an essential part of its measurement 2011 level, to protect shareholders’ interest. Total Assets 10,003,498 13,204,101 12,492,041 Borrowings to Total Assets 26.18 28.35 28.02 of “Corporate Economic Sustainability.” S-OIL has been listed As part of its shareholder-oriented management, S-OIL has Current Liabilities 4,573,416 7,235,988 6,275,121 Times Interest Earned 28.38 29.06 9.14 in the oil and gas producers sector in the DJSI World since paid interim dividends since 2000. This incorporates S-OIL’s Non-Current Liabilities 925,487 741,759 844,929 2010, and its risk management, in particular, has been evalumanagement philosophy of fostering a shareholder-driven Total Liabilities Profitability Indicators 2010 2011 2012 5,498,903 7,977,747 7,120,050 ated as “world best” for three consecutive years since 2010 management culture in which both the company and its Operating Income to Sales Capital Stock 291,512 291,512 291,512 4.01 5.32 2.25 and is often cited as an exemplary case. It intends to hone its shareholders thrive, by satisfying the needs of long-term Capital Surplus 379,190 379,190 379,190 Net Income to Sales 3.46 3.74 1.67 world-class risk management capabilities by strengthening shareholders who value dividends, rather than investors who Reserves 1,008,124 993,911 1,003,200 Return on Equity 16.82 24.51 10.95 its preemptive risk response and improving relevant systems pursue short-term capital gain. Operating Cash Flow 8.65 3.79 5.72 in preparation for future changes in the business landscape. Treasury Stock (1,876) (1,876) (1,876) to Total Assets Retained Earnings 2,827,645 3,563,617 3,699,965 Dividend Payments Total Equity 4,504,595 5,226,354 5,371,991 Growth/Activity Indicators 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Total Dividends Paid 291,147 558,915 308,611 Total Liabilities 10,003,498 13,204,101 12,492,041 Sales Growth Ratio 17.72 55.59 8.80 (KRW million) and Total Equity Operating Income 136.06 106.18 (53.95) Cash Dividends(%) 41.29 46.87 53.21 Growth Ratio Rate of Cash Common 2.77 4.54 2.49 Net Income Growth Ratio 159.86 67.93 (51.36) Dividends(%) Preferred 4.37 8.22 4.33 Total Assets Growth Ratio 9.96 31.99 (5.39) Amount of Cash Common 2,500 4,800 2,650 Dividends Preferred 2,525 4,825 2,675 per Share(KRW) Statements of Comprehensive Income (Summary) (Unit : KRW million) Domestic Credit Ratings 2010 2011 2012 Evaluation Date Credit Rating Credit Rating Agencies Revenue 20,511,068 31,913,863 34,723,291 2007.6 AA+ KIS 1)/NICE Rating Cost of Sales (19,252,374) (29,695,742) (33,410,816) 2009.9 AA+ KIS /NICE Rating Gross Profit 1,258,694 2,218,121 1,312,475 2010.5 AA+ KIS /NICE Rating Selling Expenses (365,832) (437,007) (445,912) 2011.6 AA+ KIS /NICE Rating Administrative Expenses (69,623) (83,611) (84,799) 2012.62) AA+ KIS /NICE Rating Listed in the DJSI World 2012 DJSI Assessment in Risk Management Area (Unit: points) Operating Income 823,239 1,697,503 781,764 1) Korea Investors Service 100 2) Regular ratings by credit rating agencies in June 2012 reflected. Financial Income 241,760 326,402 369,489 100 100 Financial Expenses (230,423) (379,443) (194,536) 2010 2011 2012 Other Income 517,522 702,752 486,450 69 Other Expenses (476,126) (761,617) (731,004) 64 59 Profit Before Income Tax 875,972 1,585,597 712,163 2011 2012 2010 Income Tax Expense (165,906) (393,171) (132,148) Net Income 710,066 1,192,426 580,015 Other Comprehensive (21,289) (28,173) (9,346) S-OIL Global Industry Average Income Total Comprehensive 688,777 1,164,253 570,669 Income 7 GHG Emissions Reduction Achieved SI over the Previous Year ▼2% , 149thousand tons Production Capacity of Paraxylene Upgrading Ratio 1,800 thousand tons Develop Platform 40.7% for Sustainable Growth VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS To navigate the rapidly changing business environment and continue sustainability management, a company should make efforts to foresee the future and build a new growth momentum. Continuous transformation and innovation are the building blocks of a centennial company. _ Hyung-Won Shin, Research Fellow at Samsung Economic Research Institute Performance Summary Jong-Bum Ahn Plans for 2012 ●C  ontinue reviewing the investment in up●C ontinue reviewing measures to expand ● Strategically upgrade the low carbon manSenior Vice President grading facilities aimed at reinforcing the the company’s entry into the high agement system. Head of Corporate Strategy & company’s competitiveness in the refining value-added downstream sector in the oil sector and improving profitability. industry. Planning HQ ● E xpand R&D through collaborations with Creative thinking shapes our future. Fully aware that a company outside specialized institutions. without innovation cannot achieve sustainable growth, S-OIL is seAchievements ●C ontinued the consideration of investment ●C  ontinued reviewing measures to enter ●Benchmarked global best practices in low curing new growth engines based on three strategic directions furin 2012 in upgrading facilities in order to boost the downstream sector of olefin-related carbon management (CDP, conference, competitiveness in the refining sector and petrochemicals. etc.). ther investment in the refining business, integration with the petroimprove profitability. ● Found measures to expand and reinforce ●Shared monthly carbon data companychemical business, and new energy business -to achieve its mission, the R&D function. wide through the improvement of the “Sustainable, Profitable Growth.” As a result of these endeavors, the in-house information system. ●Became the first Korean company to company has risen to the top in key business areas, coming in fifth obtain the “Carbon Trust Standard (CTS),” place on the global stage in terms of refining capacity, first place in a global certification for low carbon management. paraxylene production, and second place in lube base oil production Future Plan capacity. In the future we will continue to strengthen our position as ●C  onsider investment in facilities that ●R eview measures to enter the downstream ● Continue the execution of GHG reduction upgrade the residual distillates, which are sector for olefin-related petrochemicals in project. a sustainable global company by ceaselessly identifying new growth relation to the additional investment in used in the production of low value-added ● Benchmark global best practices for low engines, based on pioneering investments and the passion to pursue heavy oil products, into high value-added residue upgrading facilities. carbon management and receive CTS light oil and petrochemical products. new changes and put them into action. ●R eview measures for phased expansion reaccreditation. and reinforcement of the R&D function in ● Systemize an internal procedure for comrelation to entering the olefin downstream pany-wide low carbon management. sector. 62 SI 7 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth SI 7. Develop Platform Strengthening Competitiveness Response to Climate Change Preemptive Response S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 63 for Sustainable Growth in Core Business to Future Energy Mix Strengthening Competitiveness in Core Business a heavy oil desulfurization pilot plant to produce Korea’s in what it has achieved, the S-OIL R&D Center is advancIn order to further solidify its presence as a Thanks to its long-term outlook and continuous facility infirst-ever clean lube base oil, S-OIL has more experience at ing various research and development activities for the imvestment S-OIL has attained outstanding competitiveness in oil refining and more advanced research facilities than any provement of production facilities and product qualities, in sustainable global company, S-OIL will continthe oil refining sector, its core business. Notably, it has made other refiners operating in Korea. Harnessing these facilities cooperation with noted academic institutions and research ue to maintain its leading position in the main significant contributions to the nation’s energy security and and experience, it successfully installed and operated the B-C organizations. The company is also carrying out various economic growth by developing and efficiently operating cracking center as well as cutting-edge kerosene and diesel R&D activities, such as the development of technologies to business while exploring and exploiting high advanced facilities for transforming atmospheric residual hydro-desulfurization units including production processes produce high-value-added products using the by-products value-added new business opportunities. oil into 100% high value-added products, ahead of domesand catalyst evaluation. As a result, all products boast an exof petrochemical products, the development of benzene tic competitors. In order to further solidify its presence as a tremely low-sulfur and light content, serving as a contributor elimination technology, BTX conversion technology, diesel sustainable global company in the unpredictable business to the company’s profitability. stream and LPG desulfurization technology, and CO2 utilizalandscape, S-OIL will continue to maintain its leading posiS-OIL produces and delivers high-quality, eco-friendly prodtion technology, as well as initial research on power storage tion in the main business while focusing its core capabilities ucts that exceed all regulatory requirements and environtechnology. Through efforts such as these the Center aims to on exploring and exploiting high value-added new business mental regulations. With such continued effort, S-OIL was accelerate technological developments for the sustainable opportunities. awarded the highest grade (five stars) for its gasoline and growth of the company. To achieve this goal, it will expand residue oil upgrading fadiesel products in the environmental friendliness evaluation cilities and increase production capacity of lube base oil and of oil products conducted by the Ministry of Environment in Response to Climate Change petrochemical products. At the same time, it will reinforce both the first half and the second half of 2012, becoming the As the international community continued its effort to R&D and engineering capabilities by securing the best and only refiner in Korea to receive the highest grade on its gasotackle climate change despite challenging economic times, the brightest on a sustainable basis, and vigorously seek opline and diesel eight and 14 consecutive times, respectively. the 2011 UN Climate Change Conference held in Durban, portunities to enter the olefin group of petrochemicals and In recognition of its contribution to environmental preservaSouth Africa, agreed to establish a legally binding framework other energy business sectors with promising growth prostion through product quality enhancement, the company regarding emissions mitigation obligations for all countries pects. Any new business plan, once it becomes concrete, will also received an official commendation from the Minister of from 2020 onward. The Korean government is implementing be communicated with the stakeholders accordingly. Environment in April 2012. the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management SysIn collaboration with the Hyundai-Kia Automotive Research tem from 2011, and revising relevant institutional systems in Effort to Develop High-quality, Eco-friendly Products ┃ Center, S-OIL has also developed an improved fuel economy, the run-up to the Emissions Trading System, which will take Guided by its vision of “creating future competitiveness by long-life diesel engine oil that follows suit after its long-life effect in 2015. Joining such efforts at home and abroad, optimizing its production process and developing high-qualgasoline engine oil. The products prevent a decrease in S-OIL actively participates in the government’s policy makity, eco-friendly energy technologies,” the S-OIL R&D Center fuel efficiency and general quality degradation caused by ing and creates a social consensus on climate change, while undertakes various R&D activities, including the development increased oxidation and viscosity of engine oil caused by undertaking various GHG emissions initiatives as part of the of clean, eco-friendly petroleum products, in-house technolonger-term use. S-OIL holds a domestic patent in this sector effort to mitigate climate change. In addition, it strives to logical assistance, and customer analysis. and is engaging in similar research and development in the adapt to climate change, which is an ongoing challenge that Thanks to its operation of a high-pressure pilot plant and transmission oil sector. Rather than acting with complacency is currently unfolding. World’s Best Facilities Crude Distillation Capacity PX Production Capacity Lube Base Oil Production Capacity Reliance S-OIL Motiva PDVSA Reliance S-OIL 1,240 SK Energy 1,800 Formosa 40 SK Lub. Excel KTA MB/D MB/D 940 GS Caltex 1,700 Iran NPC 39 Paralubes XOM ( Texas) S-OIL GS Caltex 840 1,515 37 775 1,360 22 22 669 1,350 1st 2nd 5th 64 SI 7 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth SI 7. Develop Platform Strengthening Competitiveness Response to Climate Change Preemptive Response S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 65 for Sustainable Growth in Core Business to Future Energy Mix Participation in Public Policy Processes and Other Initiaenergy costs and reducing CO2 emissions. In 2012, it saved Preemptive Response to Future Energy Mix S-OIL will contribute to a more reliable energy tives ┃ S-OIL believes the foremost importance in climate KRW 16.3 billion by purchasing 430,000 tons of steam. Countries across the world are putting forth significant efchange response lies in creating social consensus and develS-OIL is also leading the efforts to create a low-carbon, ecoforts to efficiently use existing fossil fuels and utilize new ensecu­rity of Korea, which imports most of the oping policies that are in line with these standards. It has friendly society with its internal initiative started in 2009 that ergy sources, considering the social and economic benefits. energy it consumes, by keeping a close eye on been organizing the Fuel Efficiency Marathon since 2011, favors environmentally-friendly purchases. Korea is no exception to this trend as it has revisited its nucleraising awareness among drivers to join the international efThese efforts have paid off and S-OIL reduced its 2012 GHG ar power generation plan following the Fukushima nuclear domestic and overseas political trends and govfort to reduce greenhouse gases with good driving habits. emissions by 149,000 tons, or 2% of the total, compared to disaster, and is attempting to uncover ways to expand the ernment policies that can change the current The company also contributes to the Korean government’s 2011. It will continue GHG reduction activities throughout use of natual gas, which is expected to emit less greenenergy mix, and actively responding to them. policy formulation by actively engaging in the government2013. house gases than coal or oil for each unit of energy that is led forum on climate change and presenting its opinions produced, with the increased shale gas production in North both directly and indirectly. Climate Change Adaptation Activities ┃ Given that climate America. S-OIL will contribute to a more reliable energy secuIn addition, S-OIL sets a good example for other compachange is an ongoing global phenomenon, efforts to adapt rity of Korea, which imports most of the energy it consumes, nies by making preemptive efforts to tackle climate change to it are just as important as effort to mitigate it. We need to by keeping a close eye on domestic and overseas political through various initiatives: taking part in the Carbon Disclomake necessary preparations for climate change, due to its trends and government policies that can change the current sure Project initiated to urge investors, governments and numerous effects on the earth, such as torrential rains and energy mix, and actively responding to them. companies across the world to ramp up climate action; earntyphoons. S-OIL operates Intelligent Diagnostic Alert System ing carbon management accreditation from Carbon Trust, (IDAS), and tries to maintain a stable operation of its refinery Finding New Business Opportunities ┃ The Saudi Arabian the first for a domestic company; and engaging in the govin case of an emergency such as a power outage due to a Oil Company, or Saudi Aramco, has made investments in ernment-sponsored pilot Emissions Trading System. heavy rain or typhoon by diagnosing the situation accurately S-OIL from a long-term perspective, with the expectation and taking prompt measures. It also carries out periodic drills that S-OIL would grow to be model relationship between oil Climate Change Mitigation Activities ┃ With the Greenbased on pre-defined emergency response plans for various producing and oil consuming countries. Living up to these house Gas and Energy Target Management System estabscenarios. expectations, S-OIL has grown into one of the leading oil relished in 2011, S-OIL manages its GHG emissions in a systemS-OIL is contemplating facility investment to ensure flexible finers representing Korea, while serving as a bridge between atic way by: monitoring monthly GHG emissions; forecasting response to potential changes in product demand caused by Saudi Arabia and Korea. Underpinned by the win-win stratefuture emissions and the amount of abatement needed; climate change, while proactively managing both challenges gic partnership with Saudi Aramco, S-OIL will exert unremitconducting GHG mitigation activities; and sharing GHG inand opportunities posed by climate change by constantly exting efforts to achieve profitable, sustainable growth. formation across the company through the company’s inploring investment opportunities in the new energy sector. formation system. It contributes to the society’s efforts to reduce GHG emissions by delivering products with fuel efficiency 1% greater than its domestic competitors. Additionally, its Onsan Refinery has been using the waste heat from LS-Nikko Copper since 2008, helping save the company’s GHG Emissions per Revenue and UEDC* Carbon Trust Standard(CTS) Certification GHG Emissions per KRW revenue (Unit : ton CO2 /KRW 1 billion) GHG Emissions per UEDC (Unit : ton CO2 /kUEDC) 350 3.53 2010 2010 3.24 2011 2.90 256 231 2012 2011 2012 * Utilized Equivalent Distillation Capacity (UEDC) : Index developed by Solomon, a company specialized in benchmarking refining companies around the world, to objectively measure the refinery’s throughput capability against Crude Distillation Unit (CDU), considering process complexity and operation performance. 66 Independent Assurance Statement S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 67 Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of S-OIL : 1) Verified if the Report satisfies requirements for the GRI Apshould focus on issues relevant and material to both the effectively conveys the direction for sustained growth S-OIL commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the “Asplication level A by reviewing the coverage rate of and preorganization and its major stakeholders. The Assurer discovalong with the achievement of S-OIL. surer”) to provide an independent assurance of S-OIL’s 2012 sentation method for indicators specified in the GRI G3.1 ered key issues that are significant to the organization and 3) For sustainable management, the Assurer recommends Sustainability Report (the “Report”). Guidelines including sector supplement. its major stakeholders and are identified by the materiality S-OIL to expand the scope of management. To this end, 2) Verified consistency with the principles dictating the contest. In 2012, S-OIL reported activities and performances reit advises encompassing the entire supply chain including Responsibility and Integrity tent and quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI lated to 27 key issues, selected in further detail with 7 stratesuppliers to identify and manage sustainability and to enS-OIL is entirely responsible for the reliability and accuracy G3.1 Guidelines. gic imperatives within the Report. This report to stakeholders sure the sustainability of the supply chain and long-term of all information and opinions presented in this Report. The 3)Verified selection of the key issues and acceptable techniutilizes the selection of key issues by S-OIL to understand the revenue generation while administering short-term risk Assurer holds the responsibility that lies solely in providing cal content within this report through media research and importance and background of each material aspect. management. a third party verification of the content in the Report. As an benchmarking analysis. independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither in4) Verified the appropriateness of the report content with 3. Principle of Responsiveness: Organizational Response to volved in the process of preparing this Report with S-OIL, nor other sources for erroneous information through comparIssues 000-81 in relationship with any conflicts of interest that may underative analysis. The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizamine our independence. 5) On-site verification at the head office and plant has been tions should be responsive to issues that may have impacts June 2013 conducted to confirm evidences for key data and informaon stakeholders’ performance. The Assurer found that S-OIL Hong Jin Chairman, Korea Productivity Center Assurance Standard tion as well as internal processes. successfully identified key expectations that influence stakeThis independent verification audit adhered to the ISAE 3000 holders’ performance, and performed responsive activities. issued by the International Certification Standards CommitFindings and Conclusions The key issues report in conjunction with the 7 strategic imtee (IAASB) and AA1000AS (2008) Type 1 Moderate assurIt is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report fairly and accuperatives on the activities and performance could be evaluance, but was performed according to the level of waste and rately presents the sustainability efforts and performance of ated. S-OIL’s responsiveness is identified through focusing water management and industrial safety during the data S-OIL. The assurance also verified that the self-declared rethe reporting on promotional activities in 2012. Dong-Soo Kim, Director, collection process as indicators for Type 2 have been applied. quirements claimed by S-OIL for the GRI Application Level A Sustainability Management Center AA1000APS Accountability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, have been met. The following are the results of the assurance Recommendations Yang-Ho Lee, Materiality and Responsiveness were determined, and the according to AA1000APS Accountability Principles (2008) of The Assurer commends S-OIL for making a variety of efforts Team Leader, assurance was additionally performed to ascertain the orgaInclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. to improve sustainability resulting in positive performance, Sustainability Management Center nization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and presents the following recommendations to enhance fuTae-Min Kim, Researcher, G3.1 Guidelines in preparing and presenting sustainability 1. Principle of Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement ture sustainability reports and sustainability management. Sustainability Management Center performance information. The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in developing and achieving an 1)For the materiality test, the Assurer recommends that the Assurance Limitations accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Through influences of each issue need to be subdivided into ecoBased on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Asthe validation, S-OIL is in compliance with the principles nomic, environmental, and social aspects. Furthermore, surer performed verification of the organization’s sustainof inclusivity through various improvement efforts toward the results of the assessment lead S-OIL to grasp accurate ability performance during 2012. However the boundary of progress in 2012. Key stakeholders, identified by the C.E.O risks and opportunity factors and be further able to efassurance did not include the reliability of additional data as Customers, Employees, Owners and Other Stakeholders, fectively correspond with the significant issues that relate used during assurance, which is publicly disclosed within the and communication channels and expectations have been to S-OIL. In addition, as S-OIL reports on these issues as annual report, public domains and information linked with Sclearly established and their opinions have been reflected in important factors from each aspect, it will improve comOIL’s website. On-site assurance was performed for the head the management policy. S-OIL established communication munication and continued growth in S-OIL's sustainability office in Seoul and the Onsan Refinery. channels for each major stakeholder group in order to idenmanagement activities. tify key issues and detailed opinions as well as insight. 2)The Assurer recommends reviewing the integrated report The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility, which established AA1000, Assurance Methodology publication, which integrated financial performance and the international standards for stakeholder participation and verification, and holds The assurance was undertaken following the methodology 2. Principle of Materiality: Selection of and Reporting on non-financial performance. Based on corporate strategy, qualifications to perform independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience specified below: Material Issues the integrated report on financial and non-financial valin sustainability management consulting and assurance and have completed the The principle of materiality articulates that organizations ues, which resonates from the complete business model, relevant professional training. 68 GRI/IPIECA Content Index, UNGC Index S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 69 GRI/IPIECA Content Index Korea Productivity Center has confirmed that our Sustainability Report 2012 applies GRI G3.1 Application Level A+. ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A Not Applicable Index Content IPIECA / Page Application Note Index Content IPIECA / Page Application Note API Level API Level 1. Strategy and Analysis Environmental Performance 1.1 CEO’s Statement 4, 5 ● Disclosure on Management Approach to Environmental Performance 30-31 ● 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities cover, 2-5, 57-58, 62-65 ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 7 ● 2. Organizational Profile EN2 Percentage of materials used N/A No recycled materials used, due to characteristics of business 2.1-2.9 Organizational Profile cover, 2-3, 48-49, 65 ● EN3-4 Energy consumption E2 7 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 72 ● OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy E3 ◐ http://www.s-oil.com/siteEng/ 3. Report Parameters sustainability/growth/growth.asp 3.1-3.3, 3.6-3.11 Reporting parameters cover ● 3.9-11: There are notes throughout OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source E3 ◐ http://www.s-oil.com/siteEng/ this report. sustainability/growth/growth.asp 3.4 Contact point cover ● EN5-7 Initiatives to reduce energy consumption E2-3 42, 62-65 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content cover-1 ● EN8-10 Water withdrawal and recycled and reused E6 7 ● EN8: 77.7% : Nakdong River Won3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclo68-71 ● dong Intake Facility, sures in the report. Identify the page numbers or web 22.3% : Daegok Dam, Sayeon Dam links where the following can be found. EN9: Not applicable 3.13 External assurance policy and practice 66-67 ● EN11-13, 15 Biodiversity E5 N/A EN11: Our head office and Onsan Refinery are not located in areas of 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement high biodiversity. 4.1-4.7, 4.9-4.10 Governance 46-53 ● EN13, EN15: Not applicable 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, 2-3, 14-15, 22-23, 30● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managE5 34, 40-41 ● codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 31,38-39, 46-47, 54-55, ing impacts on biodiversity environmental, and social performance and the status 60-61 OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating E5 34 ◐ of their implementation sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and 4.11 Precautionary principle 32-37, 57-58 ● monitored 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and 72 ● EN16-20 Significant air emissions and initiatives to reduce them E1, E4, E7 7, 35-36, 62-65 ● EN17: S-OIL is reviewing the way to social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which report Scope III data. the organization subscribes or endorses EN19: No use of ozone-depleting substances. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/interna72 ● tional advocacy EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination E9 6, 34 ● organizations in which the organization OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water E6 N/A Not applicable 4.14-4.17 Stakeholder engagement SE1 cover-3, 20-21, 27, 34● EN22-24 Waste and Hazardous Waste, including significant spills E10 7, 36-37 ● EN23: Not applicable 45, 51-53 EN24: No such waste transported Economic Performance EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected N/A Not applicable Disclosure on Management Approach to Economic Performance 54-55, 60-61 ● by discharges of water and runoff EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SE4, SE13 6-7, 56-57, 59 ● OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon E4 N/A Not applicable EC2 Implications of climate change 5, 7, 63-65 ● OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and E9-10 N/A Not applicable strategies for treatment and disposal EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 28 ● EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of prod62-65 ● EC4 Financial assistance received from government N/A Not applicable ucts and services EC5 Standard entry level wage compared to local minimum 24 ● EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are N/A Little or no packaging materials are wage reclaimed by category used, due to the characteristics of the EC6 Locally based suppliers SE5, SE7 45 ● products sold. EC7 Local hiring SE5, SE6 N/A No significant overseas operating OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels 63 ◐ locations EN28 Environmental fines and sanctions 35 ● EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public SE4 8-9, 40-45 ● EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products and 33-34 ● benefit other goods and materials used and transporting EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts SE6 8-9, 40-45, 62-65 ● members of the workforce OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and N/A Not applicable EN30 Environmental protection expenditure and investments 6-7, 37, 45 ● production 70 GRI/IPIECA Content Index, UNGC Index S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 71 Index Content IPIECA / Page Application Note Index Content IPIECA / Page Application Note API Level API Level Labor Practices and Decent work OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, SE3 N/A Not applicable the number of households resettled in each and how Disclosure on Management Approach to Labor Practices and Decent Work 22-23 ● their livelihoods were affected in the process LA1-3 Employment 29 ● LA3: Not applicable OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity HS5 7 ● LA4 Percentage of employees covered 27-28 ● SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative N/A Not applicable by collective bargaining agreements impacts on local communities. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant ◐ Sustainability Report 2008 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in 30-37, 63-64 ● operational changes,including whether it is specified in operations with significant potential or actual negative collective agreements. impacts on local communities LA6-9 Occupational health and safety HS1-3, 24-25, 32-33 ● OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with SE1-2 36, 44 ◐ SE16 local communities and indigenous peoples LA10-12 Training and education SE17 12-13, 29 ● OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and N/A Not applicable LA13-14 Diversity and equal opportunity SE15 28-29, 48-49 ● sites that are in the process of being decommissioned LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, 27 ◐ Product Responsibility by gender. Disclosure on Management Approach to Product Responsibility 14-15 ● Human Rights PR1-2 Customer health and safety HS4 62-63 ◐ PR2: No violations Disclosure on Management Approach to Human Rights 22-23 ● PR3-5 Product and service labelling HS4 18-21 ● PR4: No violations HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment SE8-9 N/A Not applicable PR6-7 Marketing and communications HS4 10 ● PR7: No violations agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone PR8 Customer privacy and losses of customer data N/A Not applicable human rights screening PR9 Non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning 16-17 ● HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and SE8-9 42-43, 52-53 ● products and services other business partners that have undergone human GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement rights screening, and actions taken OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting E3 19, 63 ◐ S-OIL purchased biodiesel correspondHR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and SE8-9 42-43, 52-53 ◐ sustainability criteria ing to 2% of the company’s domesprocedures concerning aspects of human rights that tic sales volume of diesel in 2012 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4-7 Managing human rights risk in operations SE18 27, 42-43, 52 ● HR4: No discrimination case HR8 Security practices SE10 N/A Outside companies are in charge of security at locations of operation; UNGC Index S-OIL does not provide direct training programs. UNGC 10 Principles Contents Page HR9 Indigenous rights N/A Not applicable Human Rights Principle 1. B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internaSI2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 22-29 OG9 Operations where indigenous communities are present SE1 N/A Not applicable tionally proclaimed human rights; and · Harmonious Work-Life Balance or affected by activities and where specific engagement Principle 2. B usinesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human · A Work Environment Filled with Motivations strategies are in place rights abuses. · From Employment to Retirement HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have N/A Not applicable Labour Principle 3. B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Standards the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; assessments. Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights fi led, N/A Not applicable Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and addressed and resolved through formal grievance Principle 6. T he elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and mechanisms. occupation. Society Environment Principle 7. B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environSI3. Achieve Operational Excellence 30-37 mental challenges; · Work Sites that Prioritize Safety Disclosure on Management Approach to Society 38-39, 46-47 ● Principle 8. U ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental respon· Green Management in Harmony with Environment SO1 Impacts of operations on communities SE1-5 35-36, 42 ● sibility; and SI7. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 60-65 Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally · Strengthening Competitiveness in Core Business SO2-4 Managing risks related to corruption SE11-12 50-53 ● friendly technologies. · Response to Climate Change SO5 Participation in public policy development SE14 42 ● · Preemptive Response to Future Energy Mix SO6 Political contributions SE14 N/A Not applicable AntiPrinciple 10. B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, SI5. Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 46-53 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 16-17 ● Corruption including extortion and bribery ·T  ransparent Corporate Governance Living up to Stakeholdand monopoly practices and their outcomes ers’ Trust · Transparent Management that Creates Corporate Value SO8 Significant fines and non-compliance with laws and 16-17 ● · Ethics Management for Win-Win Growth regulations 72 Awards, Recognitions and Affiliations S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012 73 S-OIL Recognitions For More Information S-OIL wants to hear from you about the S-OIL Sustainability Report 2012. Please contact us with your opinions and suggestions. and Memberships in Associations Contact Information Tel | +82-2-3772-5237 Fax | +82-2-3772-0964 E-Mail | sustainability@s-oil.com S-OIL Recognitions in 2012 Address | Sustainability Management Team, S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul 121-805, Korea Date Award Awarding Organization Awarded February Labor-Management Harmony Award – Grand Prize for large enterprises The Korean Employers Federation April Eco-friendly Management –Minister of Environment Award Korean Ministry of Environment Readers’ Opinions May Maritime Day (Company with a contribution to marine ecosystems) – Presidential Citation Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport June Excellent Company in ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) Korea Corporate Governance Service 1. Which of the following applies to you? June Korea's Top Award – World-class of the Year Award Korea CEO Association ☐ Customer ☐ S-OIL employee ☐ Shareholder/Investor ☐ Local resident ☐ Business partner Financial Supervisory Service and Korea Listed Companies ☐ NGO ☐ Media ☐ Government ☐ Research/Academia ☐ Other ( ) June The 13th Best Auditor Award Association July Excellent Company Responding to Climate Change Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 2. How did you find out about S-OIL’s sustainability report? July 2012 Fortune Global 500 (383rd Place) Fortune, USA ☐ S-OIL website ☐ Smartphone/Tablet App. ☐ Seminar/Lecture/Exhibition August The 2012 Korea BSC Strategy Execution Award, 2012 BSC Hall of Fame Award Palladium Group, USA HBSP (Harvard Business School Press) ☐ S-OIL employee ☐ Other website ☐ Newspaper/Magazine ☐ Other ( ) September Included in DJSI World Indexes (Oil & Gas Producer) Dow Jones, SAM and Korea Productivity Center 3. Referring to the box below, which section of the report did you find most interesting? ( ) Top 250 Global Energy Company (63rd), Global Petroleum and Gas Refining and Marketing October Platts, USA Company (7th) 4. Referring to the box below, which section, if any, of the report should be added to? ( ) October Best in the Materials sector of the 2012 IR Award Money Today <Section> October Joined “Carbon Management Global Leaders Club” 1st in Energy/Utility Sector Carbon Disclosure Project Korea (CDP Korea) Committee 1. Key Issues and Reporting Contents 2. Sustainability Management Activities and Stakeholders 3. CEO’s Message October Green Ranking of Joong-Ang Ilbo Joong-Ang Ilbo 4. Major Sustainability Performences 5. SPECIAL REPORT 1. S-OIL’s Approach to Creating Social Value 6. SPECIAL REPORT 2. S-OIL’s Approach to Communicating with Customers Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Korea December Awarded USD 20 billion Export Tower on Trade Day 7. SPECIAL REPORT 3. S-OIL’s Approach to Supporting Its Employees’ Growth 8. SI 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management International Trade Association 9. SI 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 10. SI 3. Achieve Operational Excellence 11. SI 4. Contribute to Society Good Company Award (former Best Economic Justice Award) in metal, Korea Economic Justice Institute under the Citizen’s Coalition December 12. SI 5. Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 13. SI 6. Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency non-metal and chemical sector for Economic Justice 14. SI 7. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 15. Other ( ) Memberships in Associations 5. Does this report include all the key issues that you think should be addressed? ☐ Yes ☐ No Association Year of Joining Korea Petroleum Association 1980 6. If not, which issue should be added to? Onsan Industrial Complex Environment Management Association 1983 Korea Oil Stations Association 1985 Onsan Industrial Complex Safety Management Association 1986 Korea Industrial Safety Association 1988 Korea Fire Safe Association 1993 7. This report frame is based on S-OIL’s 7 Strategic Imperatives. If you have any further comments on Korea Chemical Management Association 1997 the report (for example, its frame and contents or S-OIL’s sustainability initiative), please feel free to specify Korea Fair Competition Federation 2001 Environment Protection Council 2002 them. Forest for Life 2003 Korea Forum for Progress 2005 Korea-Middle East Association 2007 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development 2008 Onsan Industrial Complex Hazardous Material Safety Management Council 2008 UN Global Compact 2010 From Sustainability Management Team, S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul 1 2 1 8 0 5 Sustainability Report 2012 S-OIL Paste
