GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 REPORT PARAMETERS 03 DELTA WORLD 04 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 05 MANAGEMENT WITH A HUMAN FACE 1.1 DELTA CAFÉS IN FIGURES 07 1.2 THE MISSION, VALUES AND PRINCIPLES 08 1.3 GROUP ORGANOGRAM 10 1.4 GOVERNANCE MODEL 12 1.5 SUSTAINABLE WEALTH CREATION 13 1.6 DIALOGUE WITH THE STAKEHOLDERS 15 1.7 GOOD PRACTICES ON THE VALUE CHAIN 16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2.1 How we promote the 10 Global Compact Principles 19 2.1.1 Human Rights 19 2.1.2 Work Practices 24 2.1.3 Environmental Protection 25 2.1.4 Fight against Corruption 28 commitments: new challenges ENVIRONMENT 29 Report Parameters Organisation Profile This report communicates the way in which the 10 Global Compact principles are implemented at Grupo Nabeiro/ Delta Cafes companies. Period This reports the main activities and projects carried out from January 1st 2012 to December 31st 2012. Contact for any matter: comunicacao@delta-cafes.pt WE ARE IN 17 european COUNTRIES delta world + ANDORRA + Belgium + Ireland + Luxembourg + Portugal + spain + Denmark + Moldova + Switzerland + Estonia + Monaco + UK + FranCE + Netherlands + UKRAINE + germany + Poland Portugal WE ARE IN 3 NORTH AMERICAN COUNTRIES + CANADA + UNITED STATES OF AMERICA + BVI WE ARE IN 2 souTH AMERICAN COUNTRIES WE ARE IN + BRASIL + MEXICO 6 AFRICAN COUNTRIES + ANGOLA 2.715.492 + QATAR + MOzAMBIQUE + SENEGAL WE ARE IN + S. TOMe and PRiNCIPE + south africa 2 Asian COUNTRIES + MACAU + east tiMOR global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés Chairman’s LETTER Our company’s history drives us on to pursue our policy of excellence and innovation. We firmly support the Ten Principles of the Global Compact pertaining to Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environmental Protection and the Fight Against Corruption in all its forms because only in this way is it possible to ensure economic growth, promote social justice and maintain respect for the environment. We currently have a great responsibility. Over the years we have been able to overcome the situations facing us. We have witnessed and accompanied the evolution and growth in markets as well as the volatile trends of consumers. We argue that we cannot approach work passively, but rather thoroughly and ambitiously. From this perspective, we declare that our goal is to support and promote the Ten Global Compact Principles vis-à-vis our Stakeholders. Similarly to previous years, we are responsible for incorporating the Global Compact and its principles into the strategy, culture and daily activities of our organisation. We believe in sustainable progress and in future generations. That’s why we undertake to promote the Ten Principles in committed, dedicated fashion, thereby confirming their transparency and veracity. It is the duty of us all to lend greater emphasis to these matters and transform new generations into citizens who promote progress and happiness. We are also responsible for submitting a Progress Report within one year in line with the Global Compact COP policy. global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 5 1. MANAGEMENT WITH A HUMAN FACE 1.1 DELTA CAFÉS IN FIGURES more than 3068 60 22.600 Employees Origins of coffee Tonnes of coffee sold 55.000 450.000 27.000 Direct Customers Bags of imported Tonnes of coffee coffee bought 4KG 6.267.000 Mean consumption Delta coffees drunk per person/ year per day in Portugal in Portugal more than 285 million Euros in sales globalcompact global compactreport 2012 Delta report2012 DeltaCafés Cafés 7 1.2 THE MISSION, VALUES AND PRINCIPLES MISSION Delta Cafés’ mission over the years has been to meet the real requirements of customers/ markets with a view to the total satisfaction and loyalty of consumers through a responsible business model based on the creation and sharing of value with the stakeholders. THE VALUES Since its foundation Delta Cafés has rested on solid values and human principles which were reflected in the creation of a brand with a Human Face based on the authenticity of our relations with all the stakeholders. Along our value chain we seek to implement the values we defend through our practices, policies and principles. Respect for our principles is a pre-requisite for the development of a sound, long-lasting relationship. Belonging to the large Delta family requires our employees to totally accept our values which are set out in the Welcome Manual. The selection, qualification and evaluation of our partners depends on the observation of quality standards and the Guiding Principles of the Business to ensure that our products and services fully meet the integral same ethical standard. 8 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF THE BUSINESS Sustainable Development Communication Delta Cafés does not believe in immediate benefits which It promotes an informative communication policy, respecting compromise the sustainable development of the company the principles of transparency, the quality of information about and of the community. However, it recognises the need to products, services, labelling and promotional contacts, proensure a sustainable, long-term return to ensure compliance moting the emergence of “Responsible Consumption”. with the objectives of the expectations of the parties concerned by means of a responsible investment and innovation Responsible Innovation, Excellence and Leadership process. The management model with a human face enhances the It ensures a pro-active contribution to the creation and susenterprising capacity and the “on-going improvement spirit” tainability of “competitive communities” by boosting partnerof the stakeholders. In this regard, it works with suppliers, buships and development networks. siness partners, universities and NGOs with a view to achieving the on-going perfecting of products and services, developing Normative Integrity and Transparency technologies and procedures so as to increase the competitiIt shares the principle set out in the United Nations’ Global veness of the chain and guide the organisation to responsible Pact which characterises the development of its activity by innovation. means of practices which are transparent, full and supportive to all the stakeholders and it expects the same attitude from Quality, Health and Safety its partners. It fully supports the principles contained in the Its employees are the company’s most valuable asset and Global Pact as regards Human Rights. In this way, Delta Cafés we are thus committed to working conditions, to wit, Hygiene promotes a respect for Human Rights as a formal criterion in and Safety in the professional development of employees, the wealth creation process and decision-making in terms of implementing integrated on-going training programmes, investments and/or acquisitions, ensuring that its business promoting training and the promotion of talents; boosting a partners are no accessories to Human Rights’ breaches. better reconciling between professional activity and family life; and incentivising the involvement of all employees in the The publication of Delta Cafés’ Annual Report and Accounts sustainable development of the group and the community. ensures the dissemination of financial information, performance and investments. Sustainability at the Origins Every year external audits are carried out by independent Aware that sustainable trade is a fundamental means for inteauditors so as to offer external, objective guarantees to all grating economies and combatting the asymmetries between stakeholders that the financial statements provide a true different regions of the world and allowing a fairer distribution picture of the financial position and performance of the of wealth, Delta Cafés is in favour of signing protocols with company. NGOs to set up Sustainable Trade partnerships and networks Delta Cafés hopes that its employees and business partners which ensure the payment of a fair price to the producer, surespect the organisation’s interests in terms of bribery, corpporting producer qualification projects and fostering enviruption and favouritism towards public entities. ronmental sustainability, promoting environmental-friendly practices and territorial protection. “A Customer, a Friend” It is a company focused on its customers/consumers, seEnvironmental Responsibility eking to make an active contribution to wealth creation in its Its commitment to the environment is borne out by the stimucustomers’ businesses. With this in mind, it is committed to lation of Sustainable Economic Growth, committing to Ecoresearch and development of greater value-added products innovation to minimise environmental impacts in such a way and services, seeking an economic, social and environmental as not to compromise the interests of future generations. balance. global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 9 1.3 GROUP ORGANOGRAM Delta Cafés came about in 1961, 50 years INDICATORS ago. Rui Nabeiro, an aficionado of the coffee UNIT: EUROS market and enterprising by nature, decided ECONOMIC INDICATORS AMOUNT 2011 amount 2012 to create his own coffee brand. Half a century EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed later, the brand asserted itself as an example Direct economic value generated of the pioneering spirit, innovation and buRevenue 287.213.312,46 289.460.222,00 siness will. Operating costs 218.861.384 215.453.931 Employee salaries and benefits 56.834.416 67.870.899 As from the second half of the 1970’s the Payment to funders 5.044.385 4.389.449 commercial structure was consolidated in a decisive way, viewing the new market requiPayments to the State 6.793.576 4.064.520 rements serenely. It was against this baInvestments in the Community 1.466.436 2.02.641 ckdrop that in 1984 there was a separation Accumulated economic value -1.786.885 -4.342.218 of the commercial activity ensured by the company Manuel Rui Azinhais Nabeiro Lda, from the industrial activity undertaken by Novadelta SA, the first certified company in this sector in 1994 according to the NP 29002 standards’ system. This trajectory resulted in 1998 in the reengineering Nabeiro/Delta Cafés Group, giving rise to the creation of 22 companies, organised by strategic areas to reinforce the main activity of the group. Nabeirogest SGPS SA is currently made up of 27 companies and two Associations. Delta Cafés SGPS is the sub-holding of the group comprising a dozen companies involved in coffee imports, roasting and commercialisation. Since the publication of the last Report the company Novadelta Luxembourg was incorporated, ensuring the commercialisation of Delta coffee in Luxembourg. 10 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés Delta Cafés SGPS is the Group sub-holding, formed by 11 companies involved in coffee importing, roasting and commercialisation. DELTA SERVIÇOS, LDA MANUEL RUI DELTA CAFÉS NOVADELTA Center of shared AZINHAIS NABEIRO, MADEIRA, SA ESPANHA, SA services LDA COFFEE FOOD COMMERCE COFFEE FOOD COMMERCE Incorporated on COFFEE FOOD COMMERCE incorporated on ESPANHA 08/07/03 Incorporated on 19/06/95 incorporated on 12/01/79 13/05/98 NABEIROGEST SGPS, SA Holding company incorporated on DELTA CAFÉS SGPS, SA 03/12/96 incorporated on 03/12/96 torrefação novadelta camelo, LDA france COFFEE FOOD COMMERCE NOVADELTA, SA COFFEE FOOD COMMERCE AND ROASTING Coffee roasting France incorporated on incorporated on Incorporated on 07/02/55 15/06/84 30/01/08 joão dos santos ANGONABEIRO, LDA novadelta nabeiro, lda Coffee roasting luxemburgo Coffee food commerce ANGOLA Coffee commerce and roasting incorporated on incorporated on Incorporated on 13/05/98 26/09/11 09/10/70 siec comércio alimentar de café espanha Incorporated on 23/01/01 globalcompact global compactreport 2012 Delta report2012 DeltaCafés Cafés 11 1.4 GOVERNANCE MODEL GOVERNANCE MODEL The Board of Directors comprises the Nabeiro body COMPOSITION family who represent the shareholders of BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Delta Cafés. One of the mechanisms proThe Board is responsible for the strategic and Manuel Rui Azinhais Nabeiro operational management of the company. moting wealth creation in sustainable fashion DIRECTORS is the family culture rooted therein since João Manuel Gonçalves Nabeiro its foundation. The advantage of the Delta Helena Maria Gonçalves Nabeiro culture is the proximity between adminisGENERAL MEETING GENERAL MEETING BOARD tration, employees, customers, suppliers and The General Meeting constitutes the proper CHAIRMAN other stakeholders. means for obtaining corporate decisions during Alice do Carmo B. Gonçalves Nabeiro the course of company activities. SECRETARY The Delta Cafés management system is António Miguel Peralta Ribeirinho based on the plurality of interests and an Statutory Audit Board Statutory Auditor open knowledge network which allows conFiscal and financial supervision of company Reinaldo Soares, Rogério Coelho & José Jacob, accounts. SROC (chartered accountant) 162 verging motivation, ensuring wealth creation for all stakeholders. This proximity is visible in Alternate the integrated management system, at the Luís Marques Granja periodic meetings and in the informality of Verification and External Audit Ernest & Young the daily contacts and relations. Verification and independent Audit of company accounts. 12 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 1.5 SUSTAINABLE WEALTH CREATION This model is based on a culture of collaboration and initiative, of work in dialectic, self-organised and multidisciplinary teams focused on wealth creation, the optimisation of internal performance and quality. For Delta Cafés the factor lies in the enhanices cement of its intellectual capital as a means of supporting benserv I n t e rn a l t s/ k e t s chmark and innovation processes. uc Po l od ma r it es “truly l pr ew rocess ink ies Delivering a defect-free product to the customer is today a sine n p ed SUSTAINABLE w qua non condition for being on the market and the customer ” ne is not willing to pay for inefficiencies in the production process. WEALTH The consumer expects to be surprised by unexpected functionalities which appeal to its five senses and incessantly seeks CREATION new sensations, flavours, experiences and models. Delta Cafés assumes the quality and flexibility of internal proemployees cesses and it sets out to achieve an organisational culture Qualif based on values, principles and attitudes which are contiication nuously practised and communicated, ensuring the brand reMOTIVation entr putation and awareness. e p re n e u r s h i p Sustainable wealth creation at Delta Cafés is thus based on a holistic vision of a socially and environmentally responsible organisation which generates new products and services by means of multidisciplinary teams. This structure includes production processes certified in line with international management references which are continuously evaluated, monitored and controlled by a series of performance indicators which generate knowledge capable of stipulating on-going improvement, minimising waste and defects. global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 13 Sustainability governance is ensured by means of the Sustainability Team which comprise six SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT areas: Environment, Human Resources, Innovation, Financial, Social and Marketing. The team can meet in a plenary session or convene a single area in the event of a specific BOARD OF DIRECTORS matter. The Sustainability Committee comprises 12 members and meets every quarter with a view SUSTAINABILITY to approving the sustainability strategy, setting the objectives and monitoring performance. COMMITTEE The Chairman of the Committee, the General Manager, is responsible for communication and interaction with the Board. SUSTAINABILITY COMPOSITION OF THE SUSTAINABILITY MODEL MANAGER BODY MEMBERS DUTIES MEETINGS THE ENVIRONMENT Chairman of the General Manager Approval of the strategic Annual Approval Sustainability lines with the Board. Committee INNOVATION & Sustainability Financial Management, Analysis of GRI indicators, Quarterly FINANCIAL DESIGN Committee Integrated Systems’ Management, Benchmarks and other Marketing Management, Human Resources’ Management, Relevant analyses. Devising of guiding principles MARKETING Coração Delta Management, and strategic objectives. Innovation Management, Drawing up of the Action SOCIAL Workers’ representative plan. Sustainability Manager Sustainability Manager Monitors Action Plan Daily monitoring HUMAN RESOURCES implementation. Convenes meetings. Coordinates day-to-day Sustainability management. Sustainability Team Financial Management, Each Area Manager Fortnightly Integrated Systems’ Management, Responsible will have to Marketing Management, implement the action plan, Human Resources’ Management, monitoring and reporting to Coração Delta Management, the Sustainability Manager. Innovation Management,, Sustainability Management 14 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 1.6 DIALOGUE WITH THE STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER´ Communication GROUP SUBGROUPS INstruments/channels investors > NABEIRO FAMILY > Regular Meetings > Sustainability Report Customers/ > HORECA > Contact with the vendor consumers > RETAIL > Customer service line > WHOLESALERS > Site > END CONSUMER > Facebook page > Delta Magazine > Shops > Fairs > Market Surveys > Sustainability Report The integration of the employees > BOARD OF DIRECTORS > Reuniões Regulares > MANAGERS/HEADS > VENDORS > Comissão dos trabalhadores > Newsletter recommendations/ > TECHNICIANS > ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF > Portal Interno > Site suggestions of the > WORKERS > Revista DeltaMagazine > Relatório de Sustentabilidade various stakeholders community > COMMUNITY (CAMPO MAIOR ) > COMMUNITIES WHERE THE GROUP HAS A DIRECT PRES> Customer service line Visits to Museum and Novadelta is carried out by > Visits to Alice Nabeiro Educational ENCE > COMMUNITIES WHERE THE Centre > Commander Rui Nabeiro Internameans of a series GROUP HAS AN INDIRECT tional post-graduation centre PRESENCE > Sustainability Report of channels which state > LOCAL GOVERNMENT > REGIONAL GOVERNMENT > Letter enables us to > Meetings > PUBLIC INSTITUTES/ MINISTRIES incorporate these ngos and inputs into the > HEALTH > Meetings institutions > COMMUNITY > Projects > ENVIRONMENT > Protocols suppliers > RAW MATERIALS > Business Guiding Principles production process. > SUBSIDIARY MATERIALS > Market Consultations > EQUIPMENT > Audits > FOOD PRODUCTS > Sustainability Report > SERVICES > CONSUMABLE SUPPLIES global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 15 GOOD PRACTICES ORIGINS OF COFFEE ON THE VALUE CHAIN The business guiding principles contribute to coffee production in responsible fashion in the economic, social and environmental fields. In order to promote biodiversity, we have acquired more than 60 different origins. COFFEE In Angola we have undertaken several actions to promote producer qualificaTRANSPORT tion. To transport coffee between the port In partnership with the Oeiras Agronomic of Lisbon and Campo Maior, the train is 1.7 Station we develop coffee plants in Angola which are more resistant to climatic conditions. used, reducing the economic costs and CO2 emission.. POSITIVE IMPACTS POSITIVE IMPACTS Contributes to the competitiveness of developing Contribution to the development of business countries. partners in the region. Job creation. Economic Growth. NEGATIVE IMPACTS Improvement in social conditions. Atmospheric and sound pollution. NEGATIVE IMPACTS STAKEHOLDER IMPACTED Side effects of economic growth. Suppliers; Loss in biodiversity. Community; Consumption of resources (water and power). Local Suppliers. STAKEHOLDER IMPACTED Suppliers; Producers; Community. 16 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés “TRULY LINKED” COFFEE Support to activities and projects which promote the development of competitiPROCESSING ve communities. Innovation promotes wealth creation in The coffee processing procedure is Portugal. carried out with the concern to optimise resource consumption. Commitment to knowledge network creation in Portugal. The working conditions seek to ensure the health and safety and well-being of The development of Delta Q machines is employees. a commitment to energy consumption rationalisation. Delta Cafés provides all its employees with free health insurance, collectiGuarantee of total traceability on the ve transport to the factory unit and a food chain. refectory. COFFEE Design and implementation of a CRM Delta Cafés has an integrated manasystem. gement system incorporating Quality, COMMERCIALISATION Promotion of business volunteers under Food Safety, the Environment, Corporate Wide range of products adapted to the the “Tempo para Dar” initiative. Social Responsibility and the Health and Safety of Employees. local market. Commitment to training children and Several channels to hear stakeholders. young people through CEAN. Replacement of lighting with power saving bulbs. Optimisation and rationalisation of distriSupport to children and young people bution routes. with special educational needs. Delta Cafés carries out the appropriate treatment of the waste generated by its Training for restaurant professionals at Dissemination of the Entrepreneurialism activity. the Escola Barista Delta. Manual through teacher training. POSITIVE IMPACTS POSITIVE IMPACTS POSITIVE IMPACTS Local direct and indirect job creation. Contributes to the competitiveness of developing Promotion of the development of the Improvement the social and economic conditions countries. community. of local communities. Job creation. Fostering the entrepreneurial spirit amongst Wealth creation on the national and local chain. Economic growth of communities. young people and children. Development of the local business fabric. Promotes producer associationism. Community training. Improvement in social conditions. Increase in the competitiveness of the local community. STAKEHOLDER IMPACTED NEGATIVE IMPACTS Customers; Negative side effects of economic growth Employees; NEGATIVE IMPACTS Community; Abandoning of land. Consumption of resources (water and power). State. Loss in biodiversity. Atmospheric and sound pollution. Coffee price. Waste production. Resource consumption. Consumption of materials. STAKEHOLDER IMPACTED STAKEHOLDER IMPACTED Customers; Suppliers; Employees; Employees; Local community; Local community; Suppliers; State; State. Investors. global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 17 2. UN Global Compact Progress Report 2.1. How we promote the 10 Global Compact Principles 2.1.1. Human Rights Delta fully supports the principles set out in the Global Compact in terms of Human Rights, Employment Law, Environment Protection and the Fight against Corruption. It promotes respect for Human Rights as a formal criterion in the value creation process and for making investment and/or acquisition decisions, ensuring that its trading partners are not complicit in Human Rights’ abuses. The protection of Human Rights is a principle inherent in the organisational culture of Delta Cafés and it takes the form of specific operational management actions. global globalcompact report2012 compactreport 2012 Delta Cafés DeltaCafés 19 19 HUMAN RESOURCES’ MANAGEMENT MODEL Human resources’ management seeks to meet the needs of Delta Cafés, selecting, boost-ing and training the best talents. It is sought to actively increase their skills and create the conditions for their personal and professional development, seeking to stimulate their creativity and personal initiative in their pursuit of the organisation’s objectives. People management is guided by a series of policies based on the following principles: • Professional development; • Equality of opportunities; • Creation of new skills by means of an ongoing training model; • Health and safety; • Freedom of expression; • Involvement of employees in research activities; • Respect for Human Rights enshrined by the main International conventions; • A good working environment focused on the development of interpersonal relation-ships; • Professional and social fulfilment; • Spirit of initiative and creativity; • Professional enhancement by means of career plans; • Non-discrimination. • We seek to hire our employees locally, promoting the creation of infrastructures which boost the economic and social development of the various regions where we are present, thereby contributing to the construction of competitive communities. 20 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés Nº. of employers by age, gender and countries, 2012 nº. of employers, by gender women men women men 18-34 377 732 35-44 371 783 45-54 210 385 55-64 64 133 >65 5 8 1027 2041 portugal 947 1645 spain 48 280 Delta promotes the equality of opportunifrance 8 18 ties and diversity as essential values and luxembourg 0 9 no forms of discrimination are tolerated, be angola 18 75 it owing to origin, ethnicity, gender, social Brazil 6 14 class, physical disability, HIV carriers, political beliefs, religious choices and trade union associations, using solely objective criteria, Nº. OF EMPLOYEES, 2009-2012 including the qualifications presented by the 2009 2010 2011 2012 employee bearing in mind the post he/she is to fill. In the employee 3068 welcome process values 2973 2824 and principles of the 2657 company are communicated as well as what 1.596 Delta Cafés expects from 1.505 its employees. global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 21 Training policy Total hours of training Delta promotes the personal and professional development of employees, comper employees mitting to ongoing training programmes which contribute to the achievement of the women men strategic objectives of Delta and to increased competitiveness based on the quality of human re-sources. The Comendador Rui Nabeiro International Post-Graduation Centre, through the development of all its training projects and an extensive number of training hours 6337 already provided, has been assuming a role as a true strategic training “pivot” for 5873 employees, customers, consumers and the community, anticipating future directions and preparing its human capital to competently overcome the challenges of the 21st century. With a view to expanding the training options and the knowledge network, we have been developing a series of partnerships with other training entities, namely: • Universidade Católica Portuguesa (Portuguese Catholic University) • Beira Interior University • Évora University • Minho University • Portalegre Polytechnic Institute TOTAL • Leiria Polytechnic Institute • Technological Experimental Biology Institute 12.210 hours • Mechanical and Industrial Engineering R&D University Within this context a Protocol was set up with the National Qualification Agency Total Training per stakeholder (A.N.Q.) in the context of the New Opportunities’ Initiative so as to ensure the joint boosting of the academic and vocational training and education facilities with a view total nº of trainees to developing employee qualification levels. to employees 2.670 258 to customers 3.527 99 A protocol was signed between the Vocational Training and Employment Institute (I.E.F.P.) and Grupo Nabeiro in the context of the New Opportunities’ Initiative so as to the community 27.428 57 to jointly boost learning courses with a view to strengthening and diversifying dual TOTAL 33.625 414 certification training offers at secondary level and which has gradually become a pre-requisite for supporting the development requirements of knowledge-based economies. 22 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés HEALTH, SAFETY AND HYGIENE POLICY Delta Cafés considers employees as its most valuable asset. This is why it promotes a safe working environment, providing the equipment required to avoid accidents, injuries and occupational diseases related with professional activity, complying with the risk regulations and preventive management. It is committed to preventing accidents, injuries and vocational diseases and to protecting our employees and partners. The occupational Health and Safety policy sets safety as a priority. It recognises and requires everyone to play an active role in the promotion of a safe, healthy environment and it promotes raising awareness of and training on health and safety to business partners. To ensure the application of these principles, there is an integrated management system which includes the Hygiene, Health and Safety Policy which is applied to all employees. This aims to contribute to the prevention of occupational risks, increasing competitiveness and reducing the rate of accidents. In the context of our health and safety prevention policy, several screenings were carried out on employees, namely for depression, hearing, osteoporosis, speech therapy, glycaemia, blood pressure, oral hygiene and healthy diets under protocols with various entities. Some screenings were also carried out on the community, to wit, hearing, allergology and oral hygiene on children from the borough of Campo Maior. global compact principles In Group companies On the supply chain In the Communities Principle 1: Human Resources’ ManageBusiness Guiding Principles; Protocol with IEFP; Companies must ment Policy; Supplier Assessment; Support to education and support and respect Training Policy; entrepreneurialism projects Supplier Audits; the protection of Health, Safety and Hygiene through the Alice Nabeiro international human Policy; Education Centre; rights within their Carrying out of several Carrying out of various sphere of influence. screenings. screenings; Fight against loneliness amongst the elderly through Principle 2: the Time to Give project; Make sure it is not complicit in human rights’ Support to production communities in Angola through abuses. the Nhãrea and Kicolo project. global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 23 2.1.2 work pratices The key to success is people and their comglobal compact principles mitment to the brand which results from the relationship of proximity that Delta practices. In Group companies On the supply chain In the Communities There is people management through proxiPrinciple 3: Human Resources’ Business Guiding Nhãrea and Kicolo Companies must Management Policy. Principles. Projects in the mity which is expressed by direct contact with production support the freedom Employee Welcome the administration, the knowledge of each of association and the Manual. communities in Angola. Supplier Assessment. employee and their needs and motivations. effective recognition of Training Policy. the right to collective Audits. Supplier Audits bargaining; Delta Cafés fully respects the contracts and Principle 4: working hours of all employees, not getting The elimination of all involved in the use of forced labour. It meets forms of forced and its legal obligations in terms of working hours compulsory labour; and public holidays in accordance with the Principle 5: The effective abolition of legislation of each country and under the child labour; principles of the International Labour OrganiPrinciple 6: sation. It assumes a fair remuneration policy The elimination of which meets the basic needs of employees discrimination in respect and affords a substantial quality of life to of employment. families. Delta Cafés recognises the right of free asDelta Cafés is certified in Corporate Social Responsibility pursuant to standard SA sociation of its employees, respecting and 8000 and it is forbidden to use child labour at any stage of production at all Group enhancing its participation in trade unions, companies. not practicing any kind of discrimination with regard to employees who are trade union In view of the complexity of this situation in coffee producing countries, Delta Cafés members. The Group complies with and acts believes that the partnership relations with the suppliers and audits carried out in accord-ance with the rules set out in the thereat contribute to a diminishing of the problem and the raising of awareness of collective employment agreements applithe parties responsible, managing to implement ongoing improvements in all those cable in the different activity sectors and who participate in the supply chain. regions. Respect for the right to association, enshrined in the Constitution, is disseminated In the supplier/partner selection process, the acceptance of the Business Guiding amongst the employees of Delta Cafés when Principles is a pre-requisite in order to establish sound, long-lasting relationships. they are employed. Verification of compliance with the Principles is achieved through auditors and the supplier assessment process subject to criteria which look at performance, quality standards, economic and financial performance, corporate social and environmental responsibility. 24 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS WAT TION ER MP CO SU N ENER M SU GY PT CO ION 2.1.3 environmental N SUPPLIERS protection ST DU E WA CTIO PRO N M I E AT SSI MO ONS SP HE RE R FO LIQUID EFFLUENTS The new product development cycle is based on the principles of eco-efficiency and eco-design, seeking to foster the sustainability of the origins, reduce inefficiencies in the production process and reduce and recover the waste produced. RAW MATERIALS AND SERVICES At all stages of the product life cycle we strive to use natural resources efficiently and to promote the use of renewable sources, managed in sustainable fashion. WAT ON PT I ER UM CO Delta Cafés has created a specific Environmental Management System, part of the NS N ENER M integrated management system. The Environmental Management System is the SU GY ON CO PTI series of processes, practices, methods and means which enable the organisation to set up an environmental policy and objectives, identifying and managing the impacts of their activities, products and services on the environment. novadelta TE As an expression of its environmental concerns, Novadelta has met the standards WAS ION NO UT ISE PROD required for Environmental Certification in accordance with the standards NP EN ISO 14001 and EMAS. L EF IQUID S ION E FLU ENTS EMISS SPHER The identification of the environmental aspects deriving from activities, products FOR ATM O and services and the assessment of their importance is carried out bearing in mind: The main direct environmental aspects of the organisation that the company can control directly; FINISHED PRODUCT The indirect environmental aspects that the company can influence. They are mainly associated with the activities undertaken by subcontracted parties and innovation and design activity. Examples include the transport service, equipment assembly activities and new product development, respectively; Those aspects associated with emergency situations such as, for example, those related with the occurrence of a fire or spillage; clients Those aspects regarded as significant bearing in mind the impact importance assessment methodology. WA ST E PRODUCTION INSIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS INSIGNIFICANT DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS SIGNIFICANT DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 25 Energy Efficiency IDENTIFICATION OF EFFLUENT TREATMENT STAGES Every year the energy reducing targets are set. To attain them, a series of actions has been implemented which are aimed at attaining energy efficiency, namely, a network of sustainability ambassadors was created which has allowed an increase in the participa-tion and involvement of employees in energy and water consumption reduction matters. At Novadelta solar thermal panels were installed to support hot water production; a heat recovery system was implemented; the factory lighting was replaced with energy-saving bulbs (Leeds) and partial meters began to be assembled throughout the manufacturing area so as to a facilitate the monitoring of electrical consumption. WWTP Effluents At Novadelta effluents are treated at its own WWTP (Waste Water Treatment Plant) wing to the fact that this area does not have any local council sewerage and sanitation infrastructures. Since 2005 a project has been implemented which is aimed at recovering effluents in view of the fact that water consumption is a major environmental aspect. In this way the waste water from the WWTP began to be used for FILTRATION AND irrigation and green spaces. In 2012 around FINAL DISINFECTION 30% of effluents were reused for irrigation. STORAGE OF TREATED WATER Waste: promoting recycling Waste reduction and recovery is a concern when developing new products and services. USE OF IRRIGATION WATER LINE DISCHARGE The acquisition of the new Delta Q packing machines for the Novadelta industrial unit took into account the capabilities of this technology to reduce the waste generated, thereby reducing the environmental impacts of the product. 26 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés Biodiversity Novadelta is part of the classified site of Caia The data obtained reveals that there is high and it is close to the Special Protection Zone biodiversity both in terms of the steppe birds, of Campo Maior (ZPE) and its surroundings game species (rabbits, hares, partridges) and have high biodiversity. Part of the surrounding a high number of species associated with the properties are also classified as RAN (National ecosystem of the cork oak forest and agriculAgricultural Reserve) and REN (National Ecotural production. logical Reserve) and classified site of Serra de São Mamede, being regarded as important Delta Cafés is committed to preventing conservation areas endowed with greater climate change and the attendant loss in biodiversity. biodiversity. The production process is based on obtaining a diversity of high-quality raw The coffee roasting activity carried out by materials, it being essential to minimise the Novadelta is associated with environmental inherent consequences of its carbon footaspects such as atmospheric emissions, the -print. The scarcity of certain nutrients in the emission of noises to the exterior and the soil, combined with the increase in temperaproduction of liquid and effluents and waste. ture, will result in losses in arable land, restricHowever, the constant monitoring of these ting the diversity of coffee species vital for the aspects means that the impacts associated formation of some lots which are charactewith biodiversity are not significant. The fact ristic of Portugal and the Delta Cafés brand. that said manufacturing unit is located in the vicinity of a National Highway results in the Novadelta company policy conforms to all minimum disruption for local biodiversity. To the environmental requirements and the monitor the local biodiversity levels, a survey conservation objectives of the areas where it was carried out of the fauna and flora to be is inserted. found at Herdade dos Adães, a property acquired by the Group in 2010. global compact principles In Group companies On the supply chain In the Communities Principle 7: 14001 and EMAS EnvironBusiness Guiding Eco-school certificaCompanies must support a mental certification. Principles. tion of the Alice Nabeiro precautionary approach to Annual targets for enSupplier Assessment. educational centre. environmental challenges; ergy, water and waste. Supplier Audits. Sponsorship of the Chair Renewable energy for Biodiversity Rui Nainitiatives beiro at Évora University Principle 8: (solar thermal panels). Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; Reuse of effluents. New product innovation and Principle 9: development policy. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 27 2.1.4 FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION The entities must fight global compact principles against all forms of corIn Group companies On the supply chain In the Communities Principle 10: Publication of Business Guiding ruption, including exBusinesses should work against corruption in all its Sustainability Report and Annual Report & Principles. Supplier Audits. forms, including extortion Accounts. tortion and bribery. and bribery. Audits. Delta Cafés ensures practices to minimise the occurrence of active and passive cases of corruption/bribery on the supply chain. Transparency is at the very heart of our company and this is reflected in our management with a Human Face in which, by means of publications like Corporate Social Re-sponsibility Reports, annual reports and accounts and Training and Procurement Poli-cies for the Procurement sector, inter alia, we let society as a whole know about our positions and actions. By means of external audits carried out by independent auditors, the financial procedures of Delta Cafés are verified and validated, ensuring the transparency and integrity of the actions carried out by the company. 28 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 3. COMMITMENTS: NEW CHALLENGES For 50 years now we have been watching market signals, anticipating opportunities and business threats. Over time, challenges change in line with the economic climate, but the final objective remains unshakeable: to ensure business profitability through sustainable wealth creation. We are increasingly more global, seeking to achieve a balance between the financial performance and investment which can ensure that our performance levels are sustained in the long-term. We have stepped up investments in the construction of the Delta Cafés Brand, Innovation in R&D, on new markets and in our people. We wish to achieve our commitments to our business model where corporate responsibility and growth are not only connected but are totally inseparable, a reality which is very highly valued by our founder Rui Nabeiro. This means that our sustainable growth depends on our investments in the construction of a healthier future for people and for our Planet. Environmental sustainability is our commitment to protect the planet’s natural resources. We are investing in a healthier planet, reducing the use of water, increasing recycling levels and minimising our carbon footprint. We support sustainable agriculture and the communities linked to coffee growing where we directly act in the fields of water conservation, the proliferation of more efficient agriculture methods and an increase in access to drinking water. Economically speaking, the challenges are based on the maintenance of leadership of the national market, continuing to be the Brand of Trust of the Portuguese. We are also seeking to win over our leadership on the capsules’ market in Portugal, increasing the number of Delta Q machines. 30 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés In terms of exports we have plans to increase turnover by increasing Brand internationalisation on priority markets such as Spain, Luxembourg, France, as the platform to penetrate Europe, Brazil as the gateway to the Latin American markets and Angola as the access platform to southern Africa. At Delta Cafés we have built our commitments with the participation of the partners concerned, bringing about a transformational process in society. We are still committed to training and we are planning on increasing the number of hours’ training by employee, ensuring constant motivation. Our Alice Nabeiro Educational Centre project is an example and its continuity is certain. In this way we are seeking to achieve a spirit of entrepreneurialism in the children of Campo Maior and disseminate it amongst the national teachers and educators with the support of the Entrepreneurialism Manual. The Coração Delta Association was created to meet social emergency situations in the borough of Campo Maior and outskirts. However, it has ended up undertaking several national volunteering projects and has set out to expand its scope of action to those communities where Delta Cafés is present. In challenging times and the most difficult macroeconomic environment of recent decades, we are managing to achieve the commitments we have set ourselves. We can confidently say that Delta Cafés is still developing a business model based on a sustainable growth platform. Looking back at the last 50 years, we can conclude that it has been good for society and also for our company. This reality is extreme rely encouraging and although the current scenario may be turbulent, we have the resources, people, creativity and desire to keep moving forward successfully. That I am quite sure of. director global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 31 ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES Growth in turnover Cutting packaging aligned with the previous years, bearing in mind the current economic climate; and logistic costs restructuring and standardisation of the product range on the various markets which will allow environmental Exports benefits. to represent around 30% of total turnover by strengthening brand internationalisation on the priority markets; Optimisation of pallet type with a view to rationalising storage space and transport; Market Leadership in the capsules’ segment; Reduction in the waste generated by unit produced. Innovation introduction of new products and services which are still surprising our consumers; Traceability and Sustainability on the supply chain; Risk analysis to be implemented at the Delta Cafés SGPS Business Units which enable us to anticipate the business threats and opportunities. 32 global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés SOCIAL OBJECTIVES Talents attracting and retaining the best Coração Delta Association continuation of the work undertaken so as to meet social emergency situations in the borough of Campo Maior and Motivation outskirts; Ensuring that this is a constant in our employees; Social Fund for Employees Corporate Culture strengthening in the context of internationalisation; Social Shop and Laundry opening in Campo Maior in partnership with the institutions Coffee Science Centre of the borough; opening of a musicological space endowed with unique characteristics in the Peninsula which sets out to bring together all coffee-related themes; Tempo para Dar continuation of the Business Volunteering project and Alice Nabeiro Educational Centre extension of its actions to Spanish Extremadura; To lend continuity to the Project, driven on by the enterprising spirit through the dissemination of the Enove+’12 Entrepreneurialism Manual alongside the national participation in the organisation of the Job and teachers and educators Entrepreneurialism Fair with a view to promoting employability in the region; Entrepreneurialism Manual development of a new version for the age bracket 13-18 years; global compact report 2012 Delta Cafés 33 credits ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The Coordinating Team of the Delta Cafés SGPS Sustainability Report is COORDINATION grateful for the supported by the whole Administration of the Nabeiro Communication Department Group/Delta Cafés; by the financial manager António Cachola; Cláudia Portela the audit teams of Ernest & Young and PriceWaterHouseCoopers; comunicacao@delta-cafes.pt the chairman of GRACE, Maria da Conceição Zagalo and the Chancellor of the University of Évora, Carlos Braumann, for their testimonies. CONTENTS REVIEW Ana Isabel Carrapiço We would also like to say a special thank you to Diverge Design from Cláudia Portela the Nabeiro Group for the graphic design of this Report; the Alice Cláudia Gama Nabeiro Educational Centre (CEAN) and the Vangest Group. Dionisia Gomes João Vinagre A final word to all those who, even who have not been mentioned here, Miguel Ribeirinho made any contribution to the drawing up of this document. AUDITING COMPANIES Ernest & Young PriceWaterHouseCoopers GRAPHIC DESIGN Diverge Design | Lara Domingues PHOTOS Delta Cafés Arquivo For any further communication, please contact: Communication Department comunicacao@delta-cafes.pt Delta Cafés, SGPS SA Avenida Calouste Gulbenkian, 15 7370-025 Campo Maior T. 268 699 200 This Report was composed using portuguese typefont families, www.delta-cafes.pt Delta Slab and Dobra, design by Dino dos Santos. www.mydeltaq.com All rights reserved. www.grupo-nabeiro.com Delta Cafés, SGPS SA Avenida Calouste Gulbenkian, 15 7370-025 Campo Maior T. 268 699 200 www.delta-cafes.pt www.mydeltaq.com
