RESPONSIBILITY 2012 Toms Confectionery Group A/S Toms Allé 1 DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 www.toms.dk 2 Toms in Brief Toms is the maker of strong confectionery brands Toms is owned by Gerda and Victor B. Strand‘s such as Anthon Berg, Feodora and Hachez, and has Trust. We have production facilities in Denmark a comprehensive product range covering chocolate, (2), Germany (1), Sweden (1) and Poland(1), have a liquorice and sugar confectionery. Toms has a strong yearly production output of around 35.000 tons of position in its domestic market, Denmark, with the confectionery products and employ more than 1200 brands Toms, Galle & Jessen, Ga-Jol and Pingvin, people, depending on the season. but more than 50 % of the turnover is generated internationally, especially as a leading player in travel retail. 3 About this report This report is Toms’ a chocolate manufacturer in Communication of Progress made Germany, Hanseatische Gmbh, to implement UN Global Compact and establishing a packaging principles in 2012. plant in Poland. This report Furthermore, according to the will reflect human rights due Danish Financial Statements Act, diligence taken place prior to the article 99a, this is the statutory adoption of these two operations. report on corporate social However, as the two companies responsibility belonging to the have not been part of Toms for management report in Toms’ a full year they are not included annual financial report for 2012. in statements of statistical data During 2012 Toms has increased (energy consumption, incidences its operations by acquiring of work injuries etc.) for 2012. 4 Message from our CEO With this Communication on Progress Toms Gruppen hereby expresses our continued support to the principles of the UN Global Compact. As a signatory since 2006, we acknowledge our responsibility as a business to manage our impacts to contribute positively to sustainable development, socially, environmentally and economically in the world around us. At Toms the ten principles of UN Global Compact are reflected in our business strategy, culture and daily operations, and we find it our duty to continuously improve the part we play and engage ourselves in forward-looking ways of making progress. In this years report we are happy to be able to report on further progress in a number of areas. Especially when it comes to sourcing cocoa from Ghana we laid the foundation for a potentially leading edge program which we will start executing this year. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication and continue to be strong advocates of the UN Global Compact and its principles when discussing sustainability with management from other companies. 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT An overview of this report’s communication of progress made in the four issue areas of UN Global Compact in 2012 Human Rights Labour Principles Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced complicit in human rights abuses. and compulsory labor; Human rights in general in relation to Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; Toms: and • Taking on UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, p. 20 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in • Human rights in new Toms operations, p. 21 respect of employment and occupation. Child labour: actions taken to reduce risk of Labour standards in general in relation to child labour in our supply chains Toms: • Village Resource Centers, p. 8 • Ensuring standards in new Toms operations, • Read for the future, p. 10 p. 21 • New partnership in Ghana with IBIS, Source • Occupational heath and safety at Toms, Trust, FDB and Danida, p. 12 p. 28 • Cocoa butter, p. 19 • Child labour: actions taken to reduce risk of child labour in our supply chains p. 8, 10, 13 Sustainable cocoa • Village Resource Centers, p.8 • Ghana: p. 8-13 • Read for the future, p. 10 • Bolivia: p. 14-15 • New partnership in Ghana with IBIS, Source • CEN, p. 16 Trust, FDB and Danida, p. 12 • CISCI, p. 17 • Cocoa butter, p. 19 Other supply chains Other supply chains • Palm oil certification, p.19 • Ensuring standards through palm oil • Risk assessments of hazelnuts, gum arabic, certification, p.19 liquorice and coconut supply chain p. 19 • Risk assessments of hazelnuts, gum arabic, liquorice and coconut supply chains p. 19 6 Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 10: Businesses should work against precautionary approach to environmental corruption in all its forms, including extortion challenges; and bribery. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote • Strengthening anti-corruption p. 22 greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Environmental management p. 26 Environmental improvements • Reduction of dry matter in waste water p. 26 • Reduction of noise p. 27 Climate goal improvements • Reduction of energy consumption p. 24 • Green power p. 25 • Reduction of CO2 emissions p.25 7 Source Trust The cocoa that Toms buys from Ghana has had full traceability to village-level since 2009. Toms pays a voluntary premium for the traceable cocoa that goes to Source Trust, a not-for-profit organization set up by Armajaro Trading Ltd to help farmers improve their livelihoods through better crop yields and quality, achieved through sustainable farming practices. The premiums fund projects that work directly with the same farmers who grew the traceable cocoa bought by Toms. Until early 2012 Toms bought traceable cocoa from three districts in Ghana, Sankore, Bibiani and Sefwi Wiawso. We buy now from two districts in Ghana, Bibiani and Sefwi Wiaso, as the supply of cocoa from the districts has risen over the years and two districts now suffice to meet the supply needs for Toms. Village Resource Center Through Toms’ premiums to Source Trust in sensitisation to cocoa farmers to further raise 2012 two Village Resource Centers have been awareness of the worst forms of child labour and installed, one at Adukrom Junior High School in the ways in which farmers should prevent it. Bibiani district and one at Datano Junior High The Village Resource Centers are available for School in Sefwi Wiawso. appr. 300 students at Adukrom Junior High School in Bibiani and 90 students at Datano Village Resource Centers are pre-designed and Junior High in Sefwi Wiawso. fully furnished community learning centers that can be easily distributed across origin countries. They are located at schools and used by pupils during the school day. Agreements are made with the schools to ensure the Village Resource Centres are made available to farmers and extension officers in the evenings and at Completed Source Trust projects in weekends for Good Agricultural Practice training. 2012 in Toms cocoa districts: Village Resource Centres provide an important • 2 Village Resource Centers educational resource for children, offering value • School project: Read for the Future for them to attend school. The Centres also • A central seedling nursery serve as a platform for delivering training and 8 Samuel K. Atombire is 20 years old and a senior year student at Sankore Senior High School, where Toms previously has installed a Village Resource Center through Source Trust: “When I am able to browse the internet I love to read about Politics and Government especially here in Ghana during election time. The huge amount of information at my fingertips online makes me really excited to learn more about my political interests in such a fun way.” 9 Read for the Future In 2012 a school project, Read for the Future, carried out in partnership with IBIS and Source Trust, was finalized. This project was initiated in 2011 as the first school project to take place directly in the traceable districts from which Toms procures cocoa, as previous initiatives were started before Toms had full traceability established. Since 2006 it has been part of Toms’ long-term approach to address the challenges of child labour and development by increasing quality school education – IBIS being the implementing partner through teacher training and the provision of learning materials. • 2250 children were direct beneficiaries of Read for the Future took place at 15 basic Read for the Future schools in the three districts Sankore, Bibiani and Sefwi Wiawso.1 The overarching goal was • 141 teachers were trained in teaching to inculcate in school children good reading reading skills habits and improve their vocabulary and comprehension in order to raise the number • 30 teachers were trained in producing of children who can read and write at primary teaching-and-learning-materials level, and consequently perform well in the examinations that give them entry to secondary • 1,500 assorted story books were distributed schools in Ghana. as well as 15 book shelves • Reading test for school children took place Read for the Future can be seen as a pilot at the project schools project that has given us insights into working directly with schools in the traceable societies • Ghana Education Service (GES) were from which Toms buy cocoa, effecting the supported and trained to strengthen their farmers’ children and the general surrounding monitoring and supervision skills to ensure community. It will be followed by a long term sustainability school initiative in the districts as a part of the Danida Business Partnership program commencing early 2013 (see p. xxx) with IBIS as implementing partner. 1 Until early 2012 Toms sourced traceable cocoa from 3 districts. Now, as two districts were productive enough to produce to the needs of Toms, we source from Bibiani and Sefwi Wiawso. 10 Improving farmers access to planting material A central seedling nursery was established in seedlings that offer farmers increased income 2012 using pooled Source Trust funds from through higher yields, while also allowing old several Source Trust partners. The nursery and unproductive trees to be replaced by newer is available for those farmers wishing to varieties. Seeds for the nurseries are sourced rehabilitate their farms. 97 farmers from Toms from national research centre seed gardens, districts have chosen to collect seedlings from where many years of research and development the nursery so far. have been carried out to find the best parents for disease-resistant and high-yielding hybrids. Nurseries supply farmers with improved hybrid 11 Breaking new ground in our supply chain For Toms establishing full traceability has been increasing concern in the cocoa industry posing an important part of taking appropriate action fear of a looming supply crisis. to making true sustainable improvements in our cocoa supply chain in Ghana. Having established Child labour: In Ghana child labour exists in full traceability it has been our goal and task cocoa production, primarily within the families in 2012 to develop and initiate a long-term, through hazardous agricultural tasks. The innovative and holistic effort to create a cycle heart of the problem is poverty, along with lack of growth directly in the communities that Toms of awareness of the hazards of child labour, buy cocoa from. Furthermore, it has been our lack of social protection policies and systems, goal to match funds with others and work in and lack of quality learning in schools. Child partnership to maximize our impact. labour jeopardizes the children’s health and prevents them from going to school and create To summarize the challenges that the cocoa development for their future. Needless to say, supply chain in Ghana faces: child labour is a violation of fundamental human rights. Low farming income: Cocoa farmers in Ghana have very low production, 312 kg per hectare, Access to education: Lack of quality basic compared to the genetic potential of the trees education is a critical issue, affecting everything (1000-1200 kg per hectare), due to limited from farmer practices using children as labour to knowledge of modern farming techniques youth migrating to urban areas, thus hindering and farm management skills. Aging trees the future growth of cocoa farming. Functional that are past their peak cocoa pod production literacy and training teachers to quality and and decline in soil fertility also impedes their relevant education are essential to sustain productivity. An estimated 30-40% of the crop is cocoa-growing communities. lost to pests and diseases. Young farmers: Migration away from cocoa farming by young people is generating Source Trust is described on page xxx. 12 Leading new steps We are therefore very proud to have initiated in • Training 150 teachers at 30 schools 2012 a new partnership with Source Trust, Ibis, providing quality education for 7000 FDB and Danida Business Partnership, to work children and 1000 illiterate youth over a period of three years with the aim of obtaining sustainable cocoa production directly • Combating child labour through increased in the communities that Toms buy cocoa from. awareness of rights & hazards and the need We will be working with all 4800 farmers who for children to go to school and supporting supply cocoa to Toms and their communities, 96 the implementation of the Ghanaian in all, focusing on government’s child protection systems at society and district level. • Farming: helping farmers improve their yields to earn higher incomes and improve • Youth: making cocoa farming something their livelihood by training all farmers in to aspire to through education, improved sustainable farming practices, establishing community, access to seedlings, farm nurseries for new more productive cocoa inputs, IT and drinking water and seeing trees and farmer shops for other inputs. their parents earning higher incomes. • Village Resource Centers (IT suites) to Ibis Ghana is an NGO who works to create schools with no IT facilities, giving also access to quality education, improve school farmers increased agricultural training governance and stop child labour. IBIS has through video training programs. yearlong experience in working the cocoa areas of Ghana, training teachers etc. as described in • Farm acreage mapping with GPS for previous reports. farmers to know exact fertilizer needs in order to reach efficient rather than FDB is the owner of Coop, one of Denmark’s increased use of fertilizers etc. and to largest retail companies, that has a strong collect other data that will help us pinpoint ethical focus in its chains. FDB aims to promote problems and target them appropriately. responsibility within health, environment, climate and ethical trade, and wishes to educate • Establishing boreholes for drinking water Danish consumers on these issues. FDB aims to support development in Africa through ethical trade with products from the African continent. Nyame Asiedu is a cocoa farmer that already has received training in sustainable farming practices: “Before the training I could only get 6-7 bags of cocoa. But now I can get 20 bags. 13 Bolivia In 2012 a longstanding ambition to establish of in Palos Blancos, Alto Beni. Due to fluctuating a supply chain of sustainable organic fine flavour temperatures, humidity and days with no sun, cocoa was reached through the 3-year Danida farmers had suffered losing crops because of Business-to Business partnership that Toms inefficient fermentation and drying. During these has been engaged in in Bolivia with Rainforest adverse conditions the cocoa was not properly Exquisite Products SA, REPSA, and Danida fermented and often the cocoa moulded before during 2010-2012. drying, thus resulting in loss of income for the farmers. It was therefore decided to build the The goal has been to create sustainable plant to reduce this risk in the supply chain. improvements through building capacity of the The new plant has been installed with both Bolivian farmers and REPSA and create a source a sizable mechanical dryer and solar tunnel for Toms of organic, high quality cocoa. dryers, a fermentation area and facilities for quality control and storage. Farmers can choose The key elements of the project have been to to deliver fresh, already fermented, semi-dry train and improve cocoa production for the or dry cocoa beans and thereby secure their farmers, to reach organic certification and for harvest and income from cocoa. The plant is REPSA to develop and implement Total Quality named Flor de Cacao and is the first ever to be Management to secure the quality chain. built in Bolivia. During the project 400 farmers from two cocoa areas, Alto Beni and Chapare, have been trained Furthermore, funds and efforts were devoted in good farming practices and a manual for fine to help farmers combat Monilia, a cocoa pod cocoa production has been developed. disease predominant in Latin America that until 2012 has not had much attention in Bolivia, Over time the work of the project has turned but can result in considerable crop losses if not increasing focus to Alto Beni, as organic attended to through good farming practices. The certification was more feasible here and the activities have been in collaboration with CATIE, farmers in Chapare were less interested in cocoa the strongest cocoa research center in Latin and and more interested in other cultivars. America, and are in compliance with the manual All cocoa from Alto Beni has been certified as for fine cocoa production. organic by the certification organization CERES in 2012 and the internal control system run by Onwards, the aim is to strengthen future REPSA is in place. operational collaboration and ensure scale-up of future supplies of Bolivian organic fine flavor A major step of improvement in 2012 was the cocoa. installation of a fermentation and drying plant 14 15 CEN In 2012, Toms has been part of starting the representatives from the cocoa producing work creating an international standard for countries. Thus the working committee has sustainable and traceable cocoa in the CEN/ participants from the whole supply chain up to TC415. The aim throughout this standard is to consumer organizations. obtain clarity and transparency of requirements for cocoa sustainability and for the traceability In 2012 the CEN/TC415 group agreed on of cocoa beans and cocoa products. The aim is objectives for the standard and established also to obtain scalability, as only 5-10 % of the working groups for writing the standard. Toms is world’s cocoa is certified sustainable. active participating in the CEN/TC415 meetings and is represented in two of the working groups. The work in CEN/TC415 is consensus-based Toms also heads the Danish mirror group. and has much emphasis on inclusiveness. Therefore much effort has been on inviting all relevant stakeholders to the table, including 16 CISCI Côte d’Ivoire Sustainable Cocoa Initiative CISCI held a workshop in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire (CISCI) is a partnership initiative aimed at in October to share the results with partners contributing to the promotion of sustainable and achieved full support from the Ivorian cocoa supply chain in Côte d’Ivoire. government. CISCI (previously Nordic Cocoa Initiative) Reflecting on the results of the baseline study is a partnership between Nordic chocolate CISCI is in the process of designing a holistic producers, Toms being one of them, UNDP, program that includes the necessary actions to World Cocoa Foundation and International Cocoa meet the needs identified. Alongside, CISCI is Initiative. in dialogue with the development agencies of the Nordic governments to establish funding CISCI had a delayed start due to the upheaval additional to the contributions of the chocolate in the country following the Ivorian presidential companies. election in 2010 and the post-electoral crisis ending mid-2011. However, a thorough baseEven though Toms does not source cocoa beans line study was finalized in 2012 with the aim from Côte d’Ivoire, we buy cocoa butter, a of not only covering the social, environmental, blended product that can originate partly from economic and governance constraints, but Côte d’Ivoire. Therefore we decided to support also to map the already existing cocoa this project. Child labour and trafficking does sector projects and programs taking place take place in the cocoa production here, a clear through international organizations, industry, violation of fundamental human rights, and we governmental and official structures, certifiers find that the CISCI partnership is a strong way and NGOs. to take action. 17 International involvements It is important for Toms to be active in the main international organizations that deal more broad-based with the work of accelerating cocoa sustainability: Toms is an active member of World Cocoa The International Cocoa Initiative, ICI, is an Foundation, WCF, representing more than 100 independent, multi-stakeholder foundation member companies across the cocoa value composed of industry companies and civilchain. WCF promotes a sustainable cocoa society organizations. ICI works for the economy through field programs based on multi elimination of child labour in cocoa production stakeholder partnerships, cocoa research and through a variety of projects and initiatives convening the international cocoa community biannually. Toms works with both WCF and ICI in the CISCI program. To strengthen the many global cocoa initiatives, WCF in 2012 launched Cocoa Measurement and Progress (CocoaMAP), which will be an on-line program that tracks the global progress made to achieve sustainable cocoa. 18 Looking at other supply chains Cocoa butter Palm oil It is an obvious goal for Toms to achieve Palm oil is not a major ingredient for Toms (less sourcing of traceable cocoa butter to ensure than 2%) and much of it comes to our factories sustainability and mitigate human rights risks as a component in vegetable oil blends. here as well. Cocoa butter is the fat from the In 2012 we were ensured that all our suppliers cocoa bean, produced at factories that separate are members of RSPO, Round Table of the cocoa bean into cocoa butter and cocoa Sustainable Palm Oil, an international multi powder. To make chocolate cocoa butter is stakeholder initiative to promote the production necessary, additional to the sourced cocoa and use of sustainable palm oil. beans, to adjust viscosity for molding, enrobing Furthermore, 96% of the palm oil supplied is etc. now RSPO certified as sustainable. Traceable cocoa butter is more difficult to achieve than traceable cocoa. Most of the existing cocoa butter factories do not have Other ingredients facilities to segregate the traceable cocoa butter from the rest. Furthermore, due to variations During 2012 Toms has also initiated in of the melting curve of cocoa butter depending investigating the supply chains of other on where and the cocoa beans have grown and raw materials identified as critical, such as when they have been harvested, cocoa butter hazelnuts, gum arabic, liquorice and coconut. is normally a blend of several origins to achieve This has been part of mapping and identifying specific physical melting specifications. potential human right risks in supply chains However, in 2012 Toms has been very much to Toms to assess Toms’ appropriate activities engaged in dialogue with suppliers in finding forward-looking in the light of UN Guiding a solution and we aim to initiate traceability in Principles on Business and Human Rights. 2013. The goal is thereby to ensure that at the source of this supply chain sustainable practices will take place. 19 Taking on UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Much effort has been done in 2012 to taking in During 2012 the following activities have been the human rights expectations for companies started and are still in progress: and assessing Toms’ CSR work against the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human • Drafting a human rights policy. Toms Rights (UNGP) in order to put ourselves on has already related policies and implicit the path to alignment with these authoritative expectations in our culture, conduct guidelines and put them into practice in a and current CSR strategy, but this is an tangible way for Toms. opportunity to highlight our commitment to human rights as a company. The drafting UNGP has, apart from being integrated in the process includes risk identification and expectations from OECD and EU, also been external consultations, and will be finalized incorporated in the Danish National Action Plan in 2013. for CSR 2012-2015, through which new CSR reporting requirements have been established. • Revision of our Supplier Code of Conduct, Additionally a new Danish OECD mediation and Supplier Questionnaire and supplier audit complaint body became active 1. November questions in the light of UNGP. 2012. • Mapping and identifying potential human During 2012 the following has been carried out right risks in supply chains to Toms to at Toms: assess Toms’ appropriate activities forwardlooking in the light of UNGP. • Acquiring understanding of UNGP and how companies shall handle human rights impacts, through network meetings and seminars • Internal introduction & discussion sessions with CSR Management, Executive Management, Purchasing and Quality Assurance on UNGP, the new Danish OECD mediation and complaint body etc. discussing also ideas as to how Toms can reach compliance. 20 Human rights at new Toms operations During 2012 Toms acquired the German During 2012 Toms also established a packaging chocolate manufacturer, Hanseatische plant in Leszno, Poland. Here Toms has Chocolade.As a part of the acquisition process introduced Danish occupational safety standards human rights due diligence was carried out in and Danish labour standards based on local the form of desktop research, questionnaires payment rates. Generally labour standards are and visits at the plant. This process was led higher in DK than in Poland e.g. concerning by heads of Human Resources and M&A Dpt. repeating work flows and heavy lifting. assisted by external consultants. No human rights issues were found in the investigation. 21 Strengthening anti-corruption Toms has zero-tolerance for any form of Furthermore, Toms has in 2012 had a workshop corruption, including bribery, personal with anti-corruption consultants in order to find payments, extortions or kick-backs, regardless out how to undertake a proper risk assessment of local laws and practices. Therefore, our to determine which policies and procedures that commitment to fight corruption is clearly stated are appropriate and relevant for Toms. As we in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which mirrors are a moderate-sized company the aim is also to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. keep procedures tangible for daily business. To further strengthen a clear anti-corruption The goals are: culture at Toms, we have in 2012 been working to identify how to take further appropriate • To develop a practical corporate antiaction – a process that continues into 2013. corruption policy Firstly, as the UK Bribery Act came into force • To conduct anti-corruption compliance and in 2011 – often described as the toughest awareness training anti-corruption legislation in the world – it has been important for Toms to acquire a clear • To have specific procedures for identified understanding of the wide-ranging scope of high-risk areas this Act, not only to determine our own legal status in relation to this Act, but also to use it as pointer to our own actions concerning anticorruption. 22 23 Climate As a company we wish to limit our impact on the Several projects have been taken on in 2012 at our global environment. factories to reduce energy consumption and thereby Our climate goals: emission of CO2. Some of these have impact in 2012 already, and others are expected to impact in 2013 • Reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2015 and 2014. compared to 2008 • Reduce CO2 emissions by 75% in 2015 compared to 2008 The 25 % through energy savings and substitution of energy sources The 50 % by purchasing green electricity Energy consumption The energy consumption per ton product produced The total energy consumption at Toms decreased at Toms is steadily decreasing. Already in 2012 by 5% in 2012, and is now 15% below the total we reached our goal for 2015 to reduce energy consumption in 2008. by 10% compared to 2008. We have reduced the consumption by 13%. 13 % energy reduction Energy Consumption compared to 2008. MWh (MWh) 58.000 56.000 Goal 2015: 10 % 54.000 energy reduction 52.000 compared to 2008 50.000 48.000 46.000 44.000 42.000 2008 2010 2011 2012 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal 24 Green electricity In 2012 Toms continued purchasing green electricity, The power supply at Toms is 32% of the total energy 5000 MWh, from windmills in the North Sea. This consumption and the green power purchased in 2012 corresponds to 28% of Toms power supply and our corresponds therefore to 10% of Toms’ total energy goal is that all electricity consumption at Toms is consumption. converted to green power by 2015. CO2 emissions We have in 2012 reduced our total CO2 emission by Compared to 2008 Toms has by the end of 2012 11%: reduced total CO2 emission by 47%. • 5 % as a result of energy savings • 6 % as a result of substitution of energy sources CO2 emission ton 1000kg CO2 47% reduction of CO2 emissions 18.000 compared to 2008 16.000 14.000 Goal 2015: 75 % reduction of 12.000 CO2 emissions compared to 10.000 2008 8.000 6.000 4.000 2.000 2008 2010 2011 2012 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal 25 The Environment Environmental management All three factories at Toms have ISO 14001 residues we discharge to the sewer. At all three environmental certification and we successfully factories a group of employees continuously try to completed an independent review in 2012. The find improvements and implement them. review focused on our management system and our progress during the year. Our largest project in 2012 was at the Danish In 2012 our environmental targets have focused at chocolate factory were we have invested in a new the following subject: washing machine instead of 3 old machines. In addition to that, sedimentation of the waste from the • Reduction of dry matter in waste water drain in the washing area was implemented in order • Contingency planning to remove fat and other dry matter from the waste • Reduction of use of HCF-gasses (Freon) water. • Reduction of noise The projects we have made will without doubt have a positive effect on our wastewater. However, we Reduction of dry matter in have had difficulties measuring the effect of these waste water initiatives precisely due to a number of factors. As a result of this we will keep on working on the In order to use our resources as efficiently as measurement methods in 2013. The following possible Toms focus at the amount of product graphs must be read in this light. The graphs indicate that we are ahead of our target at the chocolate factory but behind at the sugar factory in Denmark. 26 Reduction of noise The location of Toms’ factory in Ballerup is in close In 2010 we decided to go in close dialogue with proximity of a residential area. The factory was built the municipality and we agreed upon some noise in 1962 and in the following years family houses limits for the factory. As part of this work Toms were built in a neighboring area in a proximity that identified and measured 115 different noise was accepted in the 60’s, but today would not be sources. Afterwards we prioritized to decrease the allowed. Due to this situation Toms has during the noise from around 40 sources and in April 2012 an years worked steadily to decrease external noise external consultant documented that we are in full from this factory. compliance with the agreed noise limits. 27 Occupational health and safety Health promoting initiatives for Toms’ employees For several years Toms has provided a range of Through Great Place to Work Toms was asked to options for all employees to stay healthy and participate in a competition of being among the well, initiatives such as free treatments from healthiest workplaces in Denmark. Through an physiotherapists, masseuses, chiropractors etc., external questionnaire Toms’ employees gave Toms indoor and outdoor exercise facilities, discount on 92 out 100 points, thus placing Toms in level 5 out gym memberships, health tests and more. of 5. During 2012 a number of additional healthpromoting programs were implemented: • Life style counseling for employees with BMI > 28 • Nutritional counseling by a dietician • Pregnancy at work • Stress management 28 Safety at work and work injuries In 2012 the health and safety organization was corrective action plans are made and implemented. reorganized in Denmark. The organization is now The graph below shows the number of lost workday consisting of fewer safety groups that each cover cases in the last 5 years. When multiplying the more employees than before. By doing this we hope result from all 3 factories 2012 has been the best that each member of the safety organization will get of the 5 years. Having said that we did not reach more experience in safety matters and therefore our target in 2012 which was that the factories all make a larger difference. together would have 25 accidents/mio. working hours. Instead we had 31 accidents/mio. working In 2012 we have kept on having a sharp view hours. There will be a continued focus to reduce this on reducing accidents at work and observe that number. Accidents for every 1. mio. working hours (with lost workdays) Accidents/1 mio. working hours 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Target Chocolate factory Sugar candy factory, Denmark Sugar candy factory, Sweden 29 30 31 32
