Global Compact/ COP/2013/schmidt hammer lassen architects/ www.shl.dk Content/ About us/ Statement of support/CEO/ The UN Global Compact principles/ Exhibitions/ Architectural case studies/ A Sustainable Agenda/The green scale/ The Nordic Built Charter/The Challenge/ Urban Mountain/Green lighthouse in Oslo/ Green Valley/ Groendalsvej/ Certified projects/ A social agenda/the human scale in architecture/ New Hospital Hvidovre/ The Urban Mediaspace/User involvement/ Sustainability/ Give knowledge/R+D/PhD/ Certified knowledge/ Quality management/ BIM/ Human Resource management/ End Poverty 2015 Campaign/ Business ethics/ Imprint/ Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway About us/ “We design sustainable solutions that focus on the environment, the user and the overall economy. We constantly challenge the concept of sustainability, because each project must reach new standards.“ schmidt hammer lassen architects /Core values schmidt hammer lassen architects is one of Scandinavia’s most recognized, award-winning architectural practices committed to innovative and sustainable design. Working out of studios located in Aarhus, Copenhagen, London, and Shanghai, the practice provides skilled architectural services all over the world. schmidt hammer lassen architects was founded in Denmark in 1986 and the practice has now grown substantially and employs 150 staff. The practice upholds a distinguished track record as designers of high-profile cultural buildings, such as art galleries, educational complexes and libraries. The architecture of schmidt hammer lassen architects has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions across a broad spectrum of building typologies. schmidt hammer lassen architects develops sustainable solutions with high emotional value that benefits the environment, society, user, and the overall economy. Adopting a holistic approach the practice believes that the basis of sustainable design is an understanding of every component that will deliver a healthy building. We continuously challenge the concept of architecture by adding innovative methodology and technology to classic Scandinavian design traditions. schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2008 and submits COP #4 in November 2013. The group of partners includes Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer, John F. Lassen, Kim Holst Jensen and Kristian Ahlmark along with four The COP will be available on Global Compact’s website and on our company website: www.shl.dk associate partners. Day-to-day management of the practice is the responsibility of CEO Bente Damgaard. The atrium/ Social/Spatial/Inclusive/ Despite their various forms, these buildings share a number of significant characteristics, the main one being the atrium, which the architects consider a basic requirement for social interaction. A schmidt hammer lassen atrium is, therefore, seldom a monumental, singular void of the type often found in office buildings with a need to radiate status – but rather a cascade of floors that creates all sorts of spatial relationships. The atrium at City of Westminster College, for example, is a playful system of straight and curved balustrades, double-height storeys and a staircase pontifically placed at a jaunty angle. Here, users can find a sheltered spot from which to survey the scene or opt for a place at the heart of the action. From the Introduction in the Give more exhibition catalogue/David Keuning/Editor at Mark Magazine City of Westminster College/London/United Kingdom Statement of support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects maintains a strong and ambitious focus on CSR initiatives. Our studio provides excellent sustainable architectural services with the overall goal to optimize existing standards for modern buildings and design all over the world for the benefit of society, people, environment, and economy. The architectural field in a wide sense is identified as our primary sphere of influence. We strive after defined principles and high standards to be included in all phases of our work; from acquisition, analysis, design phase, main project as well as construction management. New knowledge is essential and our studio continually invests a serious amount of time and resources in Research and Development activities such as Industrial PhDs, green and innovative research projects, collaborative partnerships with both industry and higher education institutions, and targeted internal continuing education. schmidt hammer lassen architects last year signed the Nordic Built Charter and as part of a multidisciplinary team, schmidt hammer lassen architects entered the Nordic Built Challenge in Norway Bente Damgaard/ with a winning proposal for the renovation of an existing high-rise building in central Oslo. MSc in Accounting & State Authorized Public Accountant CEO of schmidt hammer lassen architects since 2006. In COP 2013 we take the opportunity to describe CSR initiatives and achievements through selected Bente Damgaard is member of the Board of The Danish architectural case studies. We also address the internal focus on Human Resource management and Trade Council under the Foreign Ministry. how we deal with the challenges of increasing global activities. schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported The Global Compact initiative since 2008 and the principles continuously constitute an important and essential policy frame of CSR activities of our studios. I hereby state that we continuously support the UN initiative Global Compact and uphold the ten UN principles concerning; human rights, labour standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Bente Damgaard CEO at schmidt hammer lassen architects November 2013 The UN Global Compact schmidt hammer lassen architects joined the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative in 2008. Global Compact is the principles/ world‘s largest voluntary CSR initiative and initiates and supports corporate operational and strategic focus on social responsibility. This important initiative was started in 2000 under the leadership of then Secretary General Kofi Annan. The overall goal is to actively commit companies to work to improve the major social, economic and environmental challenges that follow globalization. Global Compact has today grown to be an extensive international network of more than 8,700 companies and other stakeholders from over 130 countries. The ten principles of Global Compact/ Global Compact‘s ten fundamental principles constitute the core of the stated objectives and cover four key focus areas: Human Rights human rights, labour rights, environment, and anti-corruption. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed schmidt hammer lassen architects continuously supports human rights; and the Global Compact and the targeted focus areas. Principle 2: businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark Exhibitions/ Show Me Your Model at Danish Architecture Center, Copenhagen, DK schmidt hammer lassen architects contributes with a working model of The International Criminal Court (ICC). 2012 West Bund Biennial 2013, Shanghai, CN The Shanghai West Bund Biennial for Architecture and Fine Arts promotes Shanghai as a center for architecture and fine arts. schmidt hammer lassen architects has been selected to create pavilions around two large industrial cranes remaining at the site as reminders of the industrial history of the West Bund location. The site is located just across the water from the 2010 Shanghai EXPO, an event which attracted millions of visitors and firmly established Shanghai as one of the 21st NEW NORDIC – Architecture & Identity at Louisiana Museum of Modern Art, DK century’s most important metropolises. The NEW NORDIC exhibition thematise on how we build in the Nordic countries today. 2013 The exhibition poses the question: Does such a thing as a common Nordic identity exist? schmidt hammer lassen architects is present with a model of the Cultural Center of Greenland in Nuuk. 2012 The Oslo Architecture Triennale 2013, NO 2013 Copenhagen Solutions, Singapore, Hong Kong & Beijing The exhibition illustrates how Copenhagen works with sustainable solutions on all consultative levels and features a number of high quality building projects in order to underline the connection to sustainability. In dialogue with the world – architecture by Henning Larsen Architects, schmidt hammer As an example of this, The Crystal is exhibited. Copenhagen Solutions lassen architects and ADEPT at Danish Architecture Center, Copenhagen, DK has been developed by Danish Architecture Center on behalf of the The exhibition shows how today‘s architects are bound by many other considerations than Municipality of Copenhagen and the Foundation Realdania along with the purely aesthetic, when they create their buildings. The Ministry of Culture in Denmark. 2012 2013 2013 Give more exhibitition/Berlin/Germany Architectural case studies/ “Architecture is about creating a better framework for human life and development as well as about considering the CSR perspectives in nature and resources of the planet from a global, sustainable perspective. As architects we do not only have the opportunity architecture/ but also the responsibility to design a better world.“ schmidt hammer lassen architects Green Manifesto ARoS Aarhus Museum of Art/Aarhus/Denmark A sustainable agenda/ Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway The Nordic Built Charter/ and the Challenge/ In 2012 schmidt hammer lassen architects signed the Nordic Built Charter; committed to accelerate the development of sustainable building concepts initiated by the Nordic ministers for trade and industry. The Nordic Built Charter is a public declaration of the values, intentions and ambitions of a united Nordic building sector. It describes a holistic approach to the built environment – taking energy, climate, economy and people into account. The intention is that relevant actors from across Nordic borders and across the entire value chain of the building sector will commit to its ten principles. In short, The Nordic Built Charter gives the building sector a platform for cooperation and provides a common set of fundamentally Nordic and sustainable values, promoting a balanced and integrated societal development based on environmental, economic and social sustainability. The Nordic Built programme combines key Nordic strengths, provides attractive and effective arenas for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. In 2012 the Nordic Built Challenge architectural competition was organized by Nordic Innovation. The ambition has been to create five lighthouse projects for the Nordic region, one in each country, demonstrating the solutions for sustainable refurbishment of the existing building stock, which the Nordic building industry is able to deliver. Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway Give change/ “An important part of this project is to allow the sustainable measures to be visible to the users and the city, hereby raising awareness of how the building works. For instance, when you look at the building from the outside the façade is characterized by a series of ‘green lungs‘.“ John Folbjerg Lassen, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway Urban Mountain/ Oslo/Norway/ When the refurbishment is complete the building will reach a total size of 79,000 square metres and will be a sustainable landmark for the city of Oslo. The building will be the tallest in Norway and the first high-rise building in Norway to enjoy natural ventilation. The Urban Mountain will be an outstanding Design team/schmidt hammer lassen architects/LOOP Architects/COWI Denmark/COWI Norway/Transsolar Energietechnik GmbH/Vugge til Vugge Denmark Client/Entra Eiendom AS Area/Existing: 50,875 m2, Extension: 28,375 m2 Competition/2013, 1st prize in open international competition example on green architecture an international lighthouse presenting innovative solutions on energy design, indoor climate, resource management and biodiversity. The strategy and concepts for the Based on principles from Cradle2Cradle thinking, as much as 90% of the demolished existing materials competition answers in Urban Mountain a broad range of environmental goals: are being recycled into new and upgraded building materials; 80% directly used in the new refurbished building. Optimizing the building to become an environmental landmark with significant reduction in carbon emission through a good passive design scheme and introducing innovative technologies in the As an example, all the façade elements from the existing building are being re-used in the new façade façade and new construction. design. Furthermore, the design concept operates with measurable Cradle2Cradle goals in areas of flexibility, biodiversity and recycling of water, heat and organic waste. Pursuing at least four Cradle2Cradle elements to be implemented and continuously developed for achieving highest level of positive impact to the users and surroundings. The ‘green lungs’ are an innovative part of the natural air intake in the building. With the use of regionally found plants, the ‘green lungs’ contribute to enhance biodiversity locally and to create a better and Boosting the lower levels with a dynamic flow of people and finance. Public access to a green mall, healthier indoor climate. The green plants clean, humidify and reduce the CO2-concentration of the restaurants and view terraces. Conference center at an intermediate level with large multifunctional incoming air for the comfort of the staff and visitors. auditoriums and spacious meeting facilities, catered by restaurant kitchens. Solar chimneys run from the bottom to the top of the building. A greenhouse on the rooftop captures Establishing a new infrastructure with centrally placed entrance points on more levels connecting to and reuses the excess heat of the building and the solar heat gain of the solar chimneys. The result is a street level, central station, metro and future bus terminal on top of railway tracks. recognizable building design – a sustainable landmark in the urban setting of the Oslo skyline. Expanding floor area to increase office spaces on all upper levels serviced by existing and new highAnother example of visible sustainable solutions in the building is the innovative ice storage, which can efficiency elevators for flexible distribution on each floor level. Combined with a super user-orientated be viewed through a large window by people going to and from the metro station. The more than 1000 and highly efficient and flexible working environment to accommodate tenants needs and future cubic metres ice storage is used as a heat source in an adapted heat pump design and as a source of expected changes in how we meet and work in offices. direct cooling during the summer. Introducing the quality of local nature in a vertical movement climbing from street level to the top of To integrate the office building into the local community at street level, public access is given through the building through a series of ‘green lungs’. An active element in cleaning the outdoor air pollution, an Urban Green Mall, selling healthy quality food and locally produced products. Here, people will meet humidifying and enhancing air quality inside the building taken in by natural ventilation. and interact in the large atria, on terraces, in cafés and restaurants. Nordic Built Principles adapted in the Urban Mountain project Charter/ O1/Is made for people and promotes quality of life/ UM supports the desire to a healthy life and attitude. Will have an outstanding indoor climate throughout the year, and ensure good daylight in all of the building. Through the choice of materials with no toxic off gassing we will ensure a safe, healthy and effectful working environment. 02/Pushes the limits of sustainable performance, as a result of our innovative mindset and high level of knowledge/ UM will be a precedence example of innovative building solutions and used as reference project in at least two Ph.D. studies on sustainability 03/Merges urban living with the qualities of nature/ 07/Utilises local ressources and is adapted to local conditions/ UM is an urban ecosystem; cleaning the city air pollution, absorbing CO2, generating O2. Introducing UM the building is heavily inspired by the local sounding environment. UM ensures at present reuse of outdoor and indoor ‘landscapes’ and green elements in a local context enhance the biodiversity and 90 % of demolished materials from existing structure to the building industry. 80 % of all demolished well-being for both human and nature. materials are reused in UM’s new structure or interior fitting. Optimal goal is zero waste! 04/Achieves zero emissions over its lifecycle/ 08/Is produced and maintained through partnerships founded on transparent collaboration across UM reduces the net energy consumption by 59 % compared to existing building (pr. m2). By mixing and borders and disciplines/ controlling the different energy sources, storages and equipment our flexible solution will ensure the UM sets new standards in cross-disciplinary interaction between highly specialized competences, lowest possible CO2-emission according to changing needs (seasonal and behavior). Furthermore the combined with an ambitious building owner/ operator and the Nordic Innovation platform. The carbon footprints of materials are minimized. integration of detailed design and technical, sustainable solutions through IDP/IED ensures effective collaboration throughout the whole value chain. 05/Is functional, smart and aesthetically appealing, building on the best of the Nordic design tradition/ UM even though we use the most advanced technology and building design, it will appear simple 09/Employs in concepts that are scalable and used globally/ and user-friendly. Flexible and timeless solutions in choice of materials and methods. High quality UM A whole range of the solutions can be used directly in other building projects around the world. assurance by prefabrication in a controlled building environment. Urban Mountain is already in this early stage an attraction for global and locally founded companies as a test ground for new technology and ways of working (take-back systems, leasing and service packs). 06/Is robust, durable, flexible and timeless – built to last/ The size and ambition level of UM is groundbreaking for new business development at a global scale. UM in every aspect thought to be ‘designed for disassembly’ and easy access to building components for replacement to ensure continuous improvement in performance. This building is not static, but 10/Profits people, business and the environment/ celebrates upgrading to highest quality standards whenever feasible, thus maintaining the value over UM is developed on a new mindset of a ‘value-triangle’ in which all future business models must find time. balance between social equity (people), economy (business) and ecology (environment). Give transformation/ The Green Valley is just one of four major projects currently being designed by schmidt hammer lassen architects in the centre of Shanghai. All the projects relate to the redevelopment of the former industrial areas along the riverfront, and build on the studio’s celebrated track record in regenerating a number of prominent waterfront sites in major cities throughout Scandinavia. In Shanghai, the studio is designing the new Xuhui Binjiang Performance Arts Centre, is working on a redevelopment of a former coal storage building which will become a new art gallery and museum for an international art dealer, and has recently designed pavilions for the Shanghai West Bund Biennial for Architecture and Contemporary Art, alongside architects Atelier Deshaus, Atelier BowWow and Pritzker prize winner Wang Shu. Green Valley/Shanghai/China Green Valley/ Shanghai/China/ Lead design architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Local architect/ECADI (East China Architecture and Design Institute) Client/Shanghai In May 2013, schmidt hammer lassen architects, East China Architecture and Design Institute, and EXPO Construction Development Co. Ltd. Area/50,000 m² Competition/2012, 1st prize in invited international competition Status/Construction Shanghai Expo Construction Development Company celebrated the ground breaking for, and start of period 2013 – 2015 construction of, the new Green Valley project on the site of the former 2010 Shanghai Expo. A central open space composed of greenery, water and a soft landscape runs through the middle of schmidt hammer lassen architects won the international competition in 2012 to design the the site. It functions as the spine of the Green Valley. This open space splits the site equally into two, 50,000-square-metre project located immediately next to the iconic Chinese pavilion. The Green Valley with two major buildings located on each side.The buildings have a large, connected structure, tightly development will become a new central urban development in Shanghai, integrating new sustainable choreographed to set a new scene for urban life. It will act as a guiding element in the development of solutions in both the urban design and the individual buildings on the site. the entire area. The Shanghai World Expo in 2010 placed emphasis on the future sustainable development of the formal The buildings are designed to offer modern office facilities with a high standard of finish, flexibility, industrial dockyard area of the city. The Expo event itself transformed this area into a new destination consideration of environmental issues, and low operating costs. The design expresses openness and for the city. What remains after the Expo event is over and most of the pavilions are torn down is a accessibility, with a strong identity. The green hanging gardens inside the open atriums will be visible strong and well-developed infrastructure with green parks, promenades and cultural attractions. The from the surrounding areas, and the people working in the buildings will be offered a great view to the Green Valley project will mark the heart of the new permanent development of the site. greenery and city beyond. ”The new Green Valley development, with offices, shops and restaurants, will become a new destination not only for the main users of the area but for people from Shanghai in general. It will be a green, sustainable landmark for the city and for the entire region.” Kristian Lars Ahlmark, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Give sustainability/ “The project Groendalsvej in Aarhus with its design approach is exemplary for the future tasks of the building sector.” Eike Musall, M.Sc.arch. Bergische Universität Wuppertal Groendalsvej/Aarhus/Denmark Groendalsvej/Aarhus/ Denmark/ The first zero-energy office building in Denmark was inaugurated in June 2013. The 6,286-square-metre building, designed by schmidt hammer lassen architects, has 1,100 square metres of solar cells for production of electricity and 420 square metres of solar thermal panels for absorption cooling and water heating. Furthermore there is rainwater harvesting for reuse in lavatories and for garden watering. The holistic approach to sustainability in the design of this building makes it outstanding, not only in Denmark but worldwide. It will now function as administrative office for the Municipality of Aarhus. From a sustainable point of view one of the design solutions that makes this building stand out is the very thin façades. By using a highly insulated material with a thickness of only 5 centimetres, the same effect as using 40 centimetres of normal rockwool is ensured. As a result, square metres for office space are freed within the same building frame and daylight can be Architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Client/Municipality of Aarhus Area/6,000 m² Competition/2009, 1st prize in design & Build competition used optimally to keep the use of electric light at a minimum. Status/Construction period 2010 2012 Engineer/Grontmij Contractor/E. Pihl & Son Landscape architect/GHB Landscape Architects Certified by schmidt hammer lassen architects projects/ DGNB provides a checklist to ensure the holistic approach to sustainable construction. During the design process the awareness of new potential issues rise which the given project may not solve, but still have to deal with. 1 2 5 3 4 1 Grondalsvej/Aarhus/DK/Completed in 2012/Zero-Energy/Zero-Energy Office building. 2 Office building/Buddinge/DK/completed 2013/DGNB Amazon Court is a flexible office building with a central atrium which also acts as an internal public square; the scheme incorporates a range of Silver Certification. 3 University of Aberdeen New Library/Scotland/Completed in 2012/BREAM Excellent rating/RIAS award 2013. 4 Dwellings in sustainable solutions and is located in the Karlin district, close to the historic heart of Prague. Lystrup/DK/Completed in 2009/German Passive House Standard + awarded Best Nordic Housing by The Nordic Association of Cooperative and Social Housing. 5 Amazon Court/Prague/CH/Completed in 2009. DGNB Silver certified. A social agenda/ the human scale in architecture IBC Innovation Factory/Kolding/Denmark Give care/ “On arrival, all patients, relatives and employees must feel welcome and accommodated. People must be received in a proper manner, which leaves them in no doubt about where to go. We created a new platform for arrival which angles towards the hospital in one smooth movement and leads below the building, where the green garden spaces will act as way-finding elements.” Kim Holst Jensen, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects New Hospital Hvidovre/Hvidovre/Denmark New Hospital Hvidovre/ Hvidovre/Denmark/ Consortium/Consultants: schmidt hammer lassen architects, aarhus arkitekterne, Sub-consultants: Søren Jensen Rådgivende Ingeniørfirma, Royal Haskoning, Kragh & Berglund Landscapearchitecture and Urban Design Client/The Capital Region of Denmark Area/30,560 m2 Competition/2013, 1st prize in restricted competition New Hospital Hvidovre is a 30,000-square-metre extension of Hvidovre Hospital, situated west of On top of the concrete base, the bed sections are placed as a sculptural structure, meandering around the existing hospital complex. The four-storey hospital extension comprises an emergency ward, a the new green garden spaces. The bed wards are individually sized according to the needs of the pediatrics ward and obstetrics and cardiology departments. respective ward which they serve, while at the same time constituting a single sculptural composition. The structure allows for quick access between the respective wards. In the design, special attention has been paid to creating an architectural dialogue between the existing hospital and the new extension. Thus, the hospital extension adjusts to the existing complex A unique feature is the new platform for arrival which angles towards the hospital in one smooth by adopting and continuing the building principles of the existing hospital. The architectural idea is movement and leads below the building, where green garden spaces will act as way-finding elements, to develop the concrete base into a flexible and respectful new interpretation while maintaining the bringing daylight to the parking level. The green garden spaces serve as reception areas for the new orthogonal geometry. main entrance and for the entrance to the emergency ward. Placing the main entrance level with the parking area is an innovative consequence of the majority of visitors arriving at the hospital by car. Thus The overall impression becomes a flexible, efficient, and expressive building complex, which is also the visitor is protected from the Danish weather and has easy and direct access as well as a good robust in relation to future changes. overview. New Hospital Hvidovre/Hvidovre/Denmark Give access/ Urbam Mediaspace/Aarhus/Denmark Urban Mediaspace/ Aarhus/Denmark/ Architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Client/The Municipality of Aarhus, Client partner Realdania Area/35,600 m² Competition/2009, 1st User involvement & Collaborative processes/ prize in restricted international competition Status/Construction period 2011-2014 Full-service consultant/schmidt hammer lassen architects In 2012 schmidt hammer lassen architects and the City of Aarhus were selected to receive a Best Engineer/Alectia Consulting Engineers Landscape Architect/Arkitekt Kristine Jensens Tegnestue Client consultant/Rambøll Denmark Other Consultants/Bahn arkitekter Other consultants during the competition/Bosch & Fjord Interior Design & Art, The Danish School of Librarians by Dr. art Collaboration Award 2012 for the extensive cooperation in creating the largest public library in Henrik Jochumsen and Dr. art Casper Hvenegaard Rasmussen Scandinavia: Urban Mediaspace. The Best Collaboration Award, an EU-initiative, rewards the best examples of collaboration between partners from the creative industries sector and local governments About the project/ in the North Sea Region of the European Union. Urban Mediaspace will be Scandinavia’s largest public library and represents a new generation of modern hybrid libraries and thus the building contains multiple potentials. The building is situated at The jury selected the Urban Mediaspace project team due to the broad and intensive collaboration the mouth of the Aarhus River in one of the most prominent sites of the city centre of Aarhus. process between the municipality, the architects, the citizens and future users. According to the jury report, “the intensive implication of citizens will be positive for the further development of the library Urban Mediaspace is part of the ambitious district plan to revitalise the former industrial cargo docks as a public space for information and exchange of ideas.” on the harbour front by connecting the area both visually and physically to the historic centre of the city. The philosophy behind the user involvement is that an active library will only come to life by actively involving the people who are going to use it. Therefore, citizens of Aarhus and the future staff of Urban Mediaspace is expected to be finished in 2014. Besides the Urban Mediaspace library in Urban Mediaspace have been engaged in the design process. Concurrent with user-group and Denmark, schmidt hammer lassen architects is currently working on two other library projects: one in citizen meetings information, images and movies about the future library were issued on the Urban Halifax and one in Edmonton, both in Canada. Like Urban Mediaspace, the Halifax Library project has Mediaspace website, which also hosts online dialogue, comments and opinions from citizens. taken shape after extensive sessions of user-group involvement. “The users assumed ownership of the building and their passionate participation has resulted in a library, which truly has the value of a ‘house of the citizens’. There were constructional facts that influenced the design, but the users’ ardent dream about the library’s future use and organization has definitely had an impact on the result. Summing up, we now have a building, which already before the inauguration has become a positive story in the conscience of many people.” Associate Partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Trine Berthold, Project Chief Design ”One of the most important elements of the new Urban Mediaspace is to rethink the library as a public meeting place in the city. Urban Mediaspace represents a new generation of modern hybrid libraries with a long list of diverse potentials for use” Partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Kim Holst Jensen “Urban Mediaspace will be an outstanding space for civic learning, experience and knowledge based activities.” Marie Østergard, Project Manager, Urban Mediaspace Aarhus, City of Aarhus Sustainability/ schmidt hammer lassen architects has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions across a broad spectrum of building typologies. Adopting a holistic approach, we believe that the basis of sustainable design is an understanding of every component that will deliver a healthy and enduring building, a building in which people will feel comfortable – both physically and socially. Above all, sustainability is about responding to the basic needs of a client, which can be an individual, a commercial enterprise, a school or an entire community. In the final analysis, sustainability is about delivering design that functions successfully as a catalyst for positive change. In other words, we are talking about successful place-making: when it works, sustainable design can engender a sense of civic pride, a sense of identity. This is an extraordinary challenge for architects – it is at the very heart of why we do what we do. The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark Give knowledge/ “To get the opportunity to closely follow the work of the practitioners at schmidt hammer lassen and their projects in China, has been of great importance for this study. Gathering the empirical material from professional practice, being a participant observer, gaining the insider’s view – all this has been very valuable.” Victoria Sjøstadt, Architect maa, Industrial PhD student Industrial PhD project/2013/ In August 2013 Victoria Sjøstedt handed in her Ph.D. dissertation at The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts Schools of Architecture, Design and Conservation) to be defended soon afterwards. The dissertation is titled Landscape-oriented new town development in China Prospects and implications for Western design firms. The thesis addresses the question of how Western design firms can contribute to raising the level of R+D/ environmental sustainability in the development of new towns in China. The main research question At schmidt hammer lassen architects we are passionate about developing large projects down to small explores if landscape-oriented urbanism can provide tools for Western design firms to approach details with a very high standard of quality. We want to push the barriers by generating holistic future environmental sustainability in this setting. Landscape-oriented urbanism is understood as a mode developments, following basic needs of continuously inventing new, smarter and greener building of practice that allows landscape to give direction to urban development. It brings the practitioner’s solutions. attention to found sites and thus provides a guide—in the complex idea of ‘landscape’— a guide to how to build on such sites. Hence, the thesis aims to shed light on the prospects for landscape-oriented R+D provides internal and external consulting services to our running projects and clients, who development of new towns in China and the subsequent practical implications for Western design firms. demand extraordinary custom-made architectural solutions. The deep knowhow of materials and technical solutions, the experiences over many years with our projects and the network of highly ranked This is the second Industrial PhD. project supported by schmidt hammer lassen architects. In 2012 PhD. engineering specialists and research departments of companies is our foundation to develop visionary and Architect MA Anne-Mette Manelius defended her PhD dissertation at the School of Architecture at and green solutions. the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. Certified knowledge/ “LEED will add another level of thought into the design process. Not only is the energy efficiency of the projects we design of high importance, but where and how Research and knowledge sharing is fundamental in our practice and also in the CPD strategy of the studio. To maintain a high level of innovation in our projects we continuously seek for new exciting they are built as well. LEED will quantify the materials and technologies and by that, opportunities to implement and develop them. Internally we decisions that are made throughout the arrange lectures about new materials in the GET MATERIALIZED forum where selected companies tell about their latest developments and we discuss potentials for our projects. design process in such a way that decisions can be compared and selected based on Another important knowledge sharing platform is the schmidt hammer lassen architects GREEN Group where passionate employees exchange cutting edge knowledge of highly sustainable projects and their environmental impact.” David Fink, BIM manager green ideas. Regular meetings in this forum are open and accessible for all employees. The specialized staff members of our studio often provide public lectures and communicate on our experienced work with innovative implementation. We tell about the process and our experiences. One of the focus areas at schmidt hammer lassen architects‘ CPD strategy is the education of a core group of employees in the most important building certification systems. These systems evaluate the sustainability and “green performance” of a building and give a better understanding of the interaction of the different sustainable parameters. Today the architectural staff counts BREEAM International Assessors, LEED Accredited Professionals, DGNB International Consultants and Cradle2Cradle trained professionals offering certification processes and benchmarking for our clients projects. schmidt hammer lassen architects is involved in different initiatives to promote sustainability in our field. As an active player we participated in an expert group for materials in the adaption process of the new Danish building certification system DGNB-DK to Danish standards, which is operational from June 2012. We participate in network initiatives with the focus on implementation of green solutions, like the sustainability network in Aarhus and the Danish Cradle2Cradle network. schmidt hammer lassen architects is member of Danish Green Building Council and we are listed in the BREEAM GREEN book. Quality management/ schmidt hammer lassen architects seeks to meet professional objectives through a well-structured analytic working approach as well as through qualified consultancy services based on professional knowledge. The basic principle of the studio’s quality assurance is to do things right the first time. The studio’s Quality Assurance Manual describes the quality control system used to ensure that all the services meet the quality requirements as well as the expectations of the client. The Quality Assurance Manual has been prepared according to the following guidelines and standards: Quality Assurance in Architects’ Offices prepared by the Danish Association of Architectural Firms/ DANSKE ARK DS/ISO 9001 standard Danish order on quality assurance of construction work The Quality Assurance Handbook is distributed to the employees and customers/clients of the studio. The Quality Assurance Handbook is verified and updated on an ongoing basis to ensure that it reflects the experience accrued from assignments and to ensure that it constantly meets the objectives of the studio. University of Aberdeen New Library/Aberdeen/Scotland BIM/ Kolding Hospital/Kolding/Denmark Building Information Modelling/ Building new knowledge/ Successful integration of new methods and technologies requires an extensive level of knowledge sharing. Therefore the BIM management group attends various BIM Networks, and is often invited to make presentations at conferences and educational institutions. These activities are essential in order to build new knowledge – internally as well as externally – and recent activities are listed below. Lecture on the BIM Show live, London UK Lecture on the Building Law conference, DK Lecture in The Hague and London/ The International Criminal Court/ BIM working methods Lecturer and panel member at the NTI BIM University 2012, Copenhagen/ BIM working processes Lecturer at the CIBSE 2012 Conference, UK / Assessing the costs and benefits of BIM Network European research program ICT. The DuraArk project with focus on secure and future-proof data storage RTC, Revit Technology Conference, Delft, Holland 2013 Second North American Revit Technology Conference 2012 Censoring at VIA University Colleges, DK Workshops under the governmental initiative Cuneco established to develop a new BIM standard for the Danish construction industry schmidt hammer lassen architects has been involved with starting and establishing “BIM Aarhus“ which is an active professional network for all participants in the construction industry. Meetings are held on The use of Building Information Modelling/BIM is today standard on the majority of the projects at a regular basis to discuss relevant BIM issues. More information can be found at www.bimaarhus.dk schmidt hammer lassen architects. Additional standard is also the use of environmental analysis and schmidt hammer lassen architects is also actively setting up a similar network in the Copenhagen area. simulation tools to improve the sustainability profile of the projects with specific focus on the design process. This is accomplished by using software tools such as Ecotect, Green Building Studio and Vasari. BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the internal strategic continuing education plan. Additional BIM has also its own internal taskforce and a separate internal budget as schmidt hammer lassen architects When environmental analysis and simulation tools are used from the earliest stages of design, projects acknowledge that being a first mover on this field requires constant research and education. Running can be designed to take advantage of local environmental conditions such as site orientation, solar evaluations of the BIM projects is part of these knowledge sharing initiatives. access and seasonal winds as well as the materials used to construct them. The essential approach is that a project will run more sustainable and energy efficient when analysis software is used at the earliest stages of design. schmidt hammer lassen architects is continuously researching new ways to implement this new technology as part of their design process. Human Resource management/ schmidt hammer lassen architects/Copenhagen office/Denmark Human Resource management/ schmidt hammer lassen architects are exclusively dependent on staff members’ performance to The Danish labour law and Collective agreement for architects in Denmark provides the following continue the success of creating and delivering modern, holistic and sustainable architectural solutions benefits to safeguard employee interests. for a diverse and international group of private and public clients. 1. Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority + individually salary negotiations Attracting, retaining, developing, and ensuring the health and safety of the staff members is therefore 2. Pension important to the organizational development and a top priority in the strategic management teams’ 3. Working hours regulation and overtime compensation ongoing efforts to realize the studio’s ambitious visions. 4. Favorable maternity and paternity leave 5. Holiday regulations (31 days per annum) The Scandinavian countries are by definition attending to secure labour rights and conditions of any 6. Continuing Professionel Development (CPD) funding staff members through collective agreements and state imposed regulations concerning employee 7. Employee representation on several deciding organisational boards (Health & Safety committee, safeguarding. Additionally, schmidt hammer lassen architects engages in several specifically selected Collaboration Committee and Continuing Education Committee) and designed activities to uphold these rights, extend them and continuously improve conditions for all 8. Free union representative elections without management intervention staff members. 9. Company assisted learning activities and Individual Development Plans 10. Mandatory Health & Safety Risk Assessment twice a year for all staff members to ensure In the section below, we outline the basic rules and regulations of the collective agreement pertinent ongoing professional and personal development. to safeguarding labour rights and we also include additional activities designed by the organisation to stimulate a positive working environment where work life and family life is well-balanced. Additionally, the organisation has chosen to offer extra health care insurances for almost all staff members. Although, public health systems are well-functioning in all countries in which the organisation A collective agreement is in place and applicable to the majority of the organisation’s staff members. operates, the company offers an additional insurance scheme to secure a fast paced healing process Colleagues in London and Shanghai are not covered by Danish collective agreement, but the organisation of any staff member who accidentally falls ill. Non-smoking policy and professional attention at has made significant efforts to create conditions comparable to the rights and benefits included in the recognizing and supporting staff members with substance abuse problems or stress are also in effect. Danish collective agreement. National rules and regulations in force on the non-Danish office sites are At all locations schmidt hammer lassen architects encourage the employees to participate in a wide followed with rigor. range of social and professional development activities. Human Resource management/ The ‘schmidt hammer lassen architects Give inspiration Calendar’ monthly presents different planned activities to ensure a good social life, knowledge sharing and continuing professional development. The health and safety of all staff members is highly valued by the organisation. Hence, dedicated committees are in place and the organisation’s strategic management participates actively and cooperatively. The meeting frequency in all three committees is quarterly. The Health & Safety Committee prevents any form of counterproductive physical and non-physical working conditions, including the prevention of any labour related accident. The Collaboration Committee ensures a positive working environment and engage in dialogue with union representative about organisational development and adjustment to foster employee commitment and retention. The Continuing Education Committee organise and administer the organisation’s strategic engagements in relation to staff member training and professional development. Measurement/ To monitor organisational development on ‘hard’ aspects (physical working conditions) and ‘soft’ issues (non-physical working environment), the organisation administers a detailed employee survey once every three years. The work place assessment (WPA) gives any employee an opportunity to voice general impressions about the organisation’s many conditions. Among these conditions are the physical working environment, cross-organisation collaboration, worklife balance, work content and professional challenges, evaluation of the strategic management, CPD Non-discrimination/ etc. All results are analysed and shared with the organisation at local office meetings and targeted At schmidt hammer lassen the employees are the most valuable resources. We strive to have our action plans are designed by the Management team to face specific challenges. composition of employees to reflect the surrounding community. And we believe that diversity at all The results from the survey conducted in 2012 showed a positive result for the general well -being levels age, gender, nationality, and educational background creates an innovative work environment of staff members. The general well-being score was 78, 1 on a scale from 1-100 (> 70 is considered with world class architecture as a result. Focusing on competencies and skills naturally detracts positive). Response rate in the survey was 77 %.The management team is continuously working to attention from discriminating and biased staff assessments at any recruitment and internal promotion improving all staff members well-being at work. The next WPA will be conducted in 2015. within the organization. Human Resource managment/ Staff member overview/2013/ Total number of staff (FTE) 153 Women 65 Men 88 Danish staff members 102 Other nationalities 51 Responsible behaviour/ At schmidt hammer lassen architect responsible behaviour is integrated not only in our professional work but also in everyday work life. If possible we travel by public transport and we keep travel activities at a minimum by investing in alternative communication platforms such as Smart Boards and video link equipment. This enables us to hold meetings and workshops across office locations in China, UK, and Denmark. In all our offices we show the good example by recycling used paper, using energy efficient light bulbs, buying organic products and drinking Fair Trade labelled coffee & tea. 25th Anniversary/schmidt hammer lassen architects day/2011 End Poverty 2015 Campain/ schmidt hammer lassen architects participates annually as business partner in the Danish NGO campaign The World’s Best News which is part of the Danish contribution to of the UN initiative End Poverty 2015 Campaign (supporting The United Nations Millennium Development Goals). We have supported the campaign since 2011 – and on the official Campaign Day the event has been marked at all schmidt hammer lassen architects offices – including information about the campaign material available at the office, on our website and also in the schmidt hammer lassen architects Newsletter we addressed the event and CSR perspectives in architecture. As business partner we contribute by spreading the positive news both inside and outside the organization telling that the effort and support is making profound changes in the developing countries. We also supported the 2013 campaign by serving juice and breakfast at all studio locations. The Danish campaign is financially supported by Danida and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, and the event has been developed as a unique collaboration between the UN, DANIDA and nearly 70 Danish development organizations and NGOs. Please find more information on the Campaign website/ 25th Anniversary/schmidt hammer lassen architects day/2011 Business of schmidt hammer lassen architects ethics/ The independent international NGO Transparency International was founded in 1993 and is now present in more than 100 countries. The organization annually publishes reports on corruption – and for many years Denmark has been placed as one of the world’s least corrupt countries. The result underlines the very high standards of Danish companies. We hold a reputation as a responsible and conscientious business partner and dissociate from corruption, extortion, and bribery in any form. The studio has never been involved in corruption or bribery and the company has worked out policy guidelines which are carefully described in the schmidt hammer lassen architects staff handbook that are handed out to all employees on their first day at work. In this we state that: „Our business ethics are grounded on trustworthiness, honesty and transparency. Accordingly, employees at all levels must avoid letting financial and/or personal interests influence – or arouse suspicion of influencing – their work-related decisions or conflicting with the interests and ethics of the organisation. Moreover, we expect all employees to act in accordance with applicable legislation.“ schmidt hammer lassen architects/Aarhus office/Denmark International Criminal Court/The Hauge/The Netherlands Imprint/ All rights in this COP is reserved by schmidt hammer lassen architects Contact/ Aaboulevarden 37 PO box 5117 8000 Aarhus C Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design/ schmidt hammer lassen architects Photos/ Adam Mørk Anders Back Daniel Greniman Jeppe Carlsen Ricky Molloy schmidt hammer lassen architects Global Compact/CSR/contact point/ Trine Steffenauer/trs@shl.dk We support the UN Global Compact initiative/ schmidt hammer lassen architects hereby states that we operate in accordance with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We state that our actions comply with Danish national legislation and related international conventions. This COP reports on the continued commitment and describes actions taken within all four areas. Office building Buddinge/Buddinge/Denmark
