COMMITMENT TO GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AT MMTC LIMITED CORPORATE MISSION As the largest trading company of India and a major trading company of Asia, MMTC aims at improving its position further by achieving sustainable and viable growth rate through excellence in all its activities, generating optimum profits through total satisfaction of shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees and society. CORPORATE OBJECTIVES  To be a leading International Trading House in India operating in the competitive global trading environment, with focus on “bulk” as core competency and to improve returns on capital employed.  To retain the position of single largest trader in the country for product lines like minerals, metals and precious metals.  To promote development of trade-related infrastructure.  To provide support services to the medium and small scale sectors.  To render high quality of service to all categories of customers with professionalism and efficiency.  To streamline system within the Company for settlement of commercial disputes.  To upgrade employees skills for achieving higher productivity. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP OUR RESPONSIBILITIES EXTEND BEYOND TRADING Contributing to the welfare of communities in which it operates is a natural element of MMTC's activities. MMTC continues its unstinted efforts to promote clean environment and scientific development of mines as also support the government relief measures in natural calamities. The Company and its employees have lived up to the responsibilities as Corporate Citizens and have been playing their role in the times of crisis in the country. SOCIAL AND WELFARE ACTIVITIES MMTC's social and welfare activities promote welfare of the employees through various schemes i.e. liberal loan facilities like house building advance, conveyance loan, house hold loan, marriage advance, gold loan, education loan for children of employees pursuing higher education etc. MMTC also provides subsidized canteen facilities, medical treatment, and residential accommodation in some of the major cities for its employees. MMTC is committed toward supporting green environment through afforestation in the mining areas. 1 MMTC has made various efforts to implement the Global Compact Principals and focused on diverse aspects of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. The scope of our actions included focus on socio-economic, environment, education, health care, natural calamity, infrastructure and cultural upliftment activities other than those statutory and also welfare activities for its employees. Human Rights 1) Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Being a Government of India company, MMTC owes allegiance to the Constitution of India, which resolves to secure to all its citizens justice, liberty, equality and fraternity and which also encompasses the fundamental human rights as envisioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. MMTC stands committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Systems Though there is no specific provision as such for human rights in the Manual on Personnel Management of the company, the sub-stratum of the Manual ensures that its employees enjoy the fundamental human rights. MMTC has 3 tier grievance redressal systems called “Sahayata” for resolving employees‟ grievances. MMTC has in its management system provisions for health, safety, housing and education. Comprehensively covering all these aspects, MMTC has appropriate systems in place. Actions Health  MMTC provides proper free medical facilities to its employees and dependent members of their families  Under the MMTC Medical Scheme, retired employees and their spouses get lifetime medical care for a nominal membership fee. Safety  MMTC attaches greater importance for safety of the employees.  Periodical medical examination of employees and their families are done in accordance with the prescribed schedule at Company office or at Company‟s residential colony. 2  Safety appliances such as safety shoes, helmets, rain suits, goggles, etc. are provided to employees posted at port offices or in field stations.  Various safety mock drills are also performed as per schedule. Housing  MMTC provides accommodation for the employees and the members of their families on normal rates.  MMTC provides house building advances to its employees to build their own houses at such locations in India as suitable to them. Education  MMTC trains its employees regularly to update themselves, professionally, managerially and technically.  MMTC encourages its employees to better their education and professional qualification by giving suitable incentives, study leave, etc.  MMTC also provide loan to employees for higher education of their wards. PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12:  Spent over Rs.26.79 crores on health care of its employees and their family members including retired employees and their spouses.  The Company organizes free health check up programmes at various locations throughout the year.  House building advance rules for employees.  Employees are nominated to training programmes both internal and external for which annual training calendar is drawn in advance.  979 employees were imparted training during the year  The employees deputed for training included 89 employees belonging to SC, 47 employees belonging to ST and 153 women employees  Such training works out to a total of 2418 man-days during the year 2011-12  The Company recognizes the long service rendered by the employees on completion of 30/15 years of service in the Company. During the period 1st October 201130th September 2012, 22 employees received Silver medallions of 100 grams each and 9 employees received Silver medallions of 70 grams each on completion of 30/15 years service respectively. 3 2) Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Being Government of India Company, MMTC owes allegiance to the Constitution of India, which resolves to secure to all its citizens justice, liberty, equality and fraternity and which also encompasses the fundamental human rights as envisioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. MMTC stands committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights at its work places. Systems  MMTC conforms to human rights principles and ensures that no violation of human rights takes place.  The company has an approved policy for redressal of grievances called “Sahayata” of its Employee, customers, business associates.  MMTC has recognized Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe Associations in each of its units and corporate office.  It also shares information on different issues under the Right to Information Act with various interested parties and stakeholders. MMTC is vigilant on implementation of proclaimed Human Rights of citizens/ employees through various measures and strict monitoring and reporting policies. ACTIONS & PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12 No case of human rights violation has been reported during the year. 4 Labour Standards 3) Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Commitment MMTC stands committed to the protection of freedom of association among its employees and business partners. Freedom of association is available to all employees. The organization has established policies and practices for collectives bargaining on issues of common interest and signs Long Term Settlements for salaries, wages and perks. Systems Associations are formed at Corporate and regional levels. Federation of MMTC Staff Unions is recognized as the sole apex level bargaining body on behalf of employees in workman cadres, with the Management. Similarly, Officers and SC/ST employees have formed their separate associations i.e. MMTC Officers‟ Association/SC ST Welfare Associations. In order to empower the employees and to encourage their involvement in decisionmaking and achievement of company‟s business targets, meetings are held at regular intervals under following forums:  Structured scheme of meetings at Regional/Zonal/Corporate Level  Joint Consultative Mechanism (JCM) with Federation of Employees/Officers/SC&ST Associations.  In addition, a structured internal communication scheme has been introduced recently in the company. Actions Meetings are held with different bodies of employees on quarterly, bi-annually and yearly basis, at regional, zonal and corporate level under „structured scheme of meetings‟. Besides, regular meetings with employees‟ representatives are held under Joint Consultative Mechanism (JCM). Issues of mutual interest are discussed and resolved in these meetings. The top management of the Company and principal office bearers of the Federation of employee unions/ Officers Associations/ Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Welfare 5 Association attends apex level meetings. These meetings act as a platform where frank and free views in the area of business as well as employees‟ welfare are shared between the management and the employees. PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12:  The company has a history of harmonious relationship between the management and employees. During last year not a single man day was lost due to industrial unrest.  The unanimous decisions taken at the Joint Committees are implemented and monitored. 4) Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Commitment MMTC stands committed not to resort to any form of forced and compulsory labour. There are in built provisions in the company policy for ensuring payment of minimum wages, Provident Fund and, Workmen‟s Compensation Act etc. Systems  No employee is required to deposit any sum of money for employment in MMTC.  A service bond is insisted upon from only such of those employees at the induction level of managerial positions+. The bond period is for 3 years for a nominal amount of Rs.50,000/-.  Any employee joining the company should declare that he or she is not an insolvent.  All Regional offices are required to send a certificate that No Workman is paid less than the minimum amount of wages declared by respective State Governments. Actions  Appointment orders issued by the company very specifically state the various important conditions of appointment.  Printed copies of Service Regulations and other rules are distributed to all Units for reference and use by every employee.  Personnel Manual containing various rules/regulations is hoisted on Company‟s website : www.mmtclimited.com  An Executive Handbook containing the rules and regulations of the company has been prepared and distributed widely.  Workmen have the additional facility of over time payment for working beyond the prescribed working hours 6 PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12  No form of forced or compulsory labour was resorted to. 5) Business should support the effective abolition of Child labour Commitment MMTC stands committed not to engage any child labour and do all that it can to abolish it from its surroundings. Systems  For appointment in the Company, the minimum age prescribed and scrupulously followed is 18 years.  Age verification is done with reference to approved documents in accordance with the practices prescribed by the Government of India. Actions  MMTC firmly adheres to the Government rule of nonrecruitment of children for any official work  All contractors are forbidden to engage child labour.  The company ensures effective abolition of child labour through its Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules under which engagement of child labour by employees even in their residences is prohibited. PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12  No child labour was employed by MMTC  No child labour was allowed to be employed by the contractors working for MMTC. 6) Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment MMTC by itself and as a Government company stands committed to follow the policy of nondiscrimination in all matters – recruitment, employment opportunity, promotion etc. 7 Systems  The Constitution of India, under Article 15, unambiguously prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth.  The Company has a scheme in place for prevention of sexual harassment to working woman at their work place. Under the scheme a committee comprises of senior officers is working in each regional office to monitor implementation of the scheme.  As a Government company, MMTC is bound to follow the Government directives, which are abundantly clear against any discrimination in any matters.  As a measure of protecting and improving the conditions of the downtrodden, special provisions have been made in terms of the Government directives in respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Backward class, both in recruitment and promotion.  MMTC Recruitment and Promotion rules provide for qualifications, skill and experience required for candidates for recruitment and promotion at various levels.  The grievance procedure in the company is designed in a very simple and easy to handle way for the employees to get grievances, if any, to be resolved quickly.  Unions and Associations representing the various levels of employees have easy access to the management to discuss and resolve discriminations, if any noticed, quickly and effectively. Actions Personnel Department of the company periodically assesses and evaluates job contents and job requirements. PERFORMANCE DURING 2011-12 Total number of employees 1673 Scheduled caste employees 360 Scheduled Tribe employees 135 Backward class employees 34 Persons with differently-abled 33 Total number of Woman employees 325 Men: Women ratio 4: 1 8 Environment 7) Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Commitment MMTC is committed towards environmental upkeep through afforestation in the mining areas, development of tribal areas and infrastructure development through rail links, port facilities, etc. Systems/Actions: In addition to statutory requirement, MMTC„s precautionary approach to environmental challenges include: The company provides safety equipments such as gum boots, rain coats, helmets, gloves, nose masks, and torch lights, umbrellas to employees posted in field areas and in port offices.  All employees are covered under group accident insurance schemes which take care of injuries/ accidents at work place.  Once a year a drill for fire-fighting is conducted in all office premises of the company.  Tree plantation drives are undertaken in and around Company‟s residential complexes at various locations. PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12 The Company ensures precautionary steps in its various activities to help environmental preservation. 8) Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Commitment MMTC has made efforts to imbibe the Global Compact Principals in its business process. Systems/Actions  Training programmes are arranged for employees on environmental awareness.  Diversification into an area like Wind power energy generation, which is a clean and environment friendly source of energy is a fine testimony to the fact that these principals are well integrated with the business activities of the company. The Company has set up a Wind mill in Karnataka state, which is first in the series.  In addition, MMTC continues its unstinted efforts to promote clean environment and develop green cover surrounding its areas of business activities.  In procurement of iron-ore from the mines, Company undertakes promotion of afforestation and Social Forestry in and around mining areas.  Wastes generated from MMTC Corporate Office and MMTC Housing Colony (both in New Delhi), collected and recycled. 9 PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12:  Afforestation has been done in MMTC's promoted Iron & Steel Plant namely Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited at Duburi, in the state of Orissa and also at Bellary and Barbil. Besides tree plantation campaigns are also undertaken in and around Company‟s residential complexes at various locations in the Country in an organized manner to support green environment. Wastes generated from MMTC Corporate Office and MMTC Housing Colony (both in New Delhi), collected and recycled. 9) Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment MMTC is primarily a trading organization engaged in International Trade. MMTC stands committed to encouraging the development and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies. Systems/ Actions As a part of its diversification plans, the company has set up a Wind power generation plant in the state of Karnataka, which is a non conventional and renewable source of energy. Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited an Iron and Steel plant promoted by MMTC is using environment friendly techniques like: Steam and power generation based on full utilization of by productblast furnace gas and coke oven. No external fuel is used.  Dust extraction and dust suppression units are installed at dust generation points. The collected dust is recycled in Sinter plant.  Complete recycle of solid waste generated.  The liquid slag produced (a by-product) in blast furnace is granulated and sold to cement companies.  Zero emission of solid, liquid and gaseous wastes.  Green developed on 200 acres of land inside the plant. PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12: The adoption of environment friendly technologies is making MMTC more efficient in controlling various types of pollution well within the prescribed limits and improving the health of employees and the members of their families. 10 Anti Corruption 10) Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment MMTC is committed to eradicate corruption in any form from all its business activities. Systems  A full fledged Vigilance Department is functional at the corporate office which is headed by a Chief Vigilance Officer who is appointed by the Government of India on deputation.  Each Regional Office also has a Vigilance Officer.  Vigilance cases are monitored by the respective Vigilance Officers.  At all offices of the Company, name, designation, with telephone number of Vigilance Officer and Chief Vigilance Officer of the Company is prominently displayed for the information of general public who can approach them for redressal of their complaints, if any.  Employees are required to submit periodical returns of the movable and immovable property they possess. Actions Frequent conferences and training sessions are conducted to apprise the employees on different aspects of vigilance. Timely replies of all queries under RTI Act are given with an aim to make all business activities more transparent. PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR 2011-12:  Grievances received were promptly attended for redressal.  Communication system between Regional Offices Vigilance and Head Office Vigilance Departments has been improved through intranet.  Preventive Vigilance has also been given prime importance in order to plug the loopholes in the system and to eradicate corrupt practices in the organization.  Suggestions made by Vigilance Department to help eradicate loopholes in systems and rules are implemented from time to time.  Vigilance Awareness Week was held during 30.10.2011 to 05.11.2011 11
