Communication on Progress December 27, 2013 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Barkley Kalpak Agency reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and daily operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. In this our first annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jeff Kalpak President BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 2 BKA OVERVIEW Jeff Kalpak and Lynnette Barkley founded Barkley Kalpak Associates (BKA) as a partnership in 1989. They started with only five dollars and a vision of translating their expertise in producing Broadway events into producing superior creative experiences in the corporate world. BKA quickly established itself in the industry, becoming well known for creative and customized experiences. Today, Barkley Kalpak Agency is an award-winning creative agency focused on providing event strategy, design, planning and production. For more than 20 years, many of the top corporate brands have turned to BKA as a trusted partner to elevate their messaging, create experiences that engage and impress their target audience, anticipate and plan their every need and execute it all impeccably. We provide creative solutions for: experiential events, business meetings, conferences, product launches, press events, galas and awards shows and celebrity entertainment. BKA has four main competencies as an events organization: STRATEGY Concept development, marketing solutions, branding, creative direction. DESIGN Graphic design, 3D animation, set & stage design, lighting design, environmental design, multimedia design, sound design, website design, decor design. PLANNING Hotel & venue sourcing/negotiation, registration, food & beverage management, transportation, agenda management, hospitality services. PRODUCTION Run of show, audio/visual, lighting, technology management, program management, logistical support, content development, speaking coaching, ground staff management, custom theatrical entertainment, celebrity talent sourcing & management. BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 3 BKA POLICY HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. BKA supports the Human Rights values of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and all internationally-accepted standards for the protection and defense of human rights. We have a zero tolerance policy for both human trafficking and other human rights abuses. BKA believes all employees have the right to individual freedom, equal employment and the right of expression and opinion. Therefore, we have a strongly worded ‘Code of Conduct’ policy in our Employee Handbook which provide guidelines to ensure that our workplace environment adheres to these rights. The BKA employee handbook outlines information about human rights policies which include, but are not limited to, Equal Employment Opportunity, Americans with Disabilities Act, Non-Harassment, Workplace Violence, Personal Property and Information, and more. BKA also feels that human rights extends further than basic protection from human rights violations but rather on our employees way of life. Therefore, we have taken actions to improve the quality of life for our employees, both on a personal and professional level. First, employees have numerous opportunities throughout the year to voice their opinions and thoughts on a professional level with senior management. Second, BKA has instituted a personal days for employees to attend to their financial and personal needs. BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 4 BKA POLICY HUMAN RIGHTS (CONT.) •A continuous commitment to QUALITY. BKA values in our Code of Conduct •Behavior that reflects the highest form of INTEGRITY. •RESPECT for everyone we encounter. •Displaying COURAGE in our ideas and actions. IMPLEMENTATION At the time of employment, there is a mandatory training period for all new hires to certify they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies found within the Code of Conduct regarding human rights. Apart from the employee handbook, BKA has opportunities for employees’ voices and opinions to be heard on a routine basis. We host weekly staff meetings, yearly company retreats and biyearly performance reviews with management where any and all topics and issues are addressed. In 2013, to further the human rights initiative, BKA started the “Breakfast Club” where employees were divided into smaller teams to discuss ways to improve the agency. Each employee had an opportunity to discuss the agencies strengths and shortcomings while brainstorming ways to improve our workplace environment and internal practices. This open forum encouraged employees to voice their opinions and suggest real, tangible ideas about how to improve our agency. Additionally, BKA has implemented a “Financial Health Day” this year which allows employees to take one work day per calendar year to focus on their personal finances, 401K plans and investments. We believe that an employees’ financial well-being and stability are important to their human rights. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We have an employee dedicated to serving the company as the Ethics & Human Resources officer who is responsible for monitoring all ethics complaints and violations. This officer has the responsibility to immediately communicate these issues with senior management so they may take appropriate action. BKA will continue to remind our employees of our Code of Conduct during yearly company meetings to ensure everyone is aware of their responsibilities and expectations in regards to human rights. We are confident that our employees will use good judgement and discretion when making ethical decisions in all of their dealings with, and on behalf of, BKA. BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 5 BKA POLICY LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. BKA offers equal employment opportunities to qualified persons without regard to race, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, pregnancy, age, physical or mental disability or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local laws. Forced and compulsory labour do not apply to BKA as our Code of Conduct provides each employee with a reasonable work schedule. BKA is a relatively small company at 30 employees and our risks associated with labor rights are limited. BKA recognizes and respects the rights of every employee who chooses to be represented, either by an independent or collective group. Although we are a company of 30 employees, many of our partners have organized in groups and we respect these rights. IMPLEMENTATION BKA believes that we have a collective responsibility to maintain a healthy and secure workplace, to promote safe working practices, and to uphold our standard with respect to labor rights. At the time of employment, there is a mandatory training period for all new hires to certify they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies found within the Code of Conduct regarding labor rights. Employees are encouraged to speak up when they witness labor violations and have methods to report these incidents; email Ethics & Human Resources officer or contact their direct supervisor or department head. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We have an employee dedicated to serving the company as the Ethics & Human Resources officer who is responsible for monitoring the labor violations. This officer has the responsibility to immediately communicate any ethics issues with senior management so they make take appropriate action. BKA will continue to remind our employees of our Code of Conduct during yearly company meetings to ensure everyone is aware of their responsibilities and expectations in regards to human rights. We are confident that our employees will use good judgement and discretion when making ethical decisions in all of their dealings with, and on behalf of, BKA. BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 6 BKA POLICY ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BKA policies have always encouraged the responsible use of energy and conservation of natural resources throughout our internal practices as well as when producing events for our clients. Long before the recent interest in “Going Green,” BKA maintained a strong sense of responsibility to curtail waste and reduce our carbon footprint. BKA’s environmentally friendly daily business practices are not only socially responsible but also make smart business sense. We believe that working together to protect our planet will all us all to continue our endeavors for years to come. Here are some of the ways that BKA has aimed to be more environmentally conscious in the workplace: • Dramatically reduce paper use, utilize paperless/electronic resources, purchase recycled paper products, envelops, folders, etc. • Recycle paper, print proposal/program materials on both sides • Internal recycling program: separating paper, landfill, glass, plastics, etc. • Reduce wasted energy by turning off/unplugging electronic equipment not in use • Utilize low-energy/LED lighting throughout the office • Slow junk mail by ending the receipt of unnecessary brochures, catalogues, flyers, etc. • Reduce usage of disposables by utilizing washable glassware, dish-ware, cutlery, etc. • Clean with non-toxic, environmentally friendly cleaning products • Our crews and staff are provided with water stations instead of bottled water BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 7 BKA POLICY ENVIRONMENT (CONT.) IMPLEMENTATION A primary function of our business is to produce corporate events. In many situations in 2013, we have recommended and provided sustainable solutions to our clients. Some of these solutions can be found below: • Implement paperless registration • Reduce/eliminate shipping to essentials only • Design for LED, low energy lighting options • Implement on onsite recycling program with clear signage • Organize group transportation (buses, shuttles, ride shares) as applicable for arrivals, departures and offsites to reduce emissions • When feasible, utilize locally grown resources • Minimize disposables • Utilize compostable eco-products and eco-friendly linens • Repurpose set pieces, displays, signage, florals, etc. • Donate excess/leftover meeting supplies, food, décor and costume items. (For example: Leftover food is redirected to food banks and soup kitchens, décor to nursing homes, hospices, children’s facilities, excess giveaways given to emergency shelters, etc.) • Share information with attendees: Provide green practices / environmental savings on-screen daily In 2014, we hope to take our commitment to the next level by not only offering sustainable solutions, but getting certified as an ISO 20121 company which will establish a new management standard on our events. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES BKA will continue its efforts to maintain environmental practices internally while adding to our external offering to clients. Internally. we have the systems in place to capture key data to better attain an understanding of all the products or physical materials that are used on a yearly basis. Once we understand this data, only then can we begin to benchmark and find ways to cut down on waste by making smarter choices. This process will be facilitated by the new BKA Office Manager who has begun to record and document all purchases so we can benchmark our environmental sustainability in the coming years. Lastly, BKA will look into becoming ISO 20121 in order to offer our clients a dedicated sustainability management system and process for events. BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 8 BKA GREEN POLICY ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BKA values transparent business practices, therefore, we do not participate in any politics or make payments to political parties. We have never offered nor received any bribes, kickbacks, or other improper benefits. Any behavior that violates our Code of Conduct regarding ethics or any application law regulation is expressly prohibited. IMPLEMENTATION At the time of employment, there is a mandatory training period for all new hires to certify they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies found within the Code of Conduct regarding anti-corruption. Employees are encouraged to speak up when they witness Anti-Corruption violations and have methods to report these incidents; email Ethics & Human Resources officer or contact their direct supervisor or department head. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We are confident that our employees will use good judgement and discretion when making ethical decisions in all of their dealings with, and on behalf of, BKA. BARKLEY KALPAK AGENCY 9 Thank You
