ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Our continuing efforts to achieve a sustainable society Editorial Policies INDEX Purpose of publishing this report ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 ROHM is currently striving towards actualizing NEXT50; our vision of what the next 50 years will bring, by helping to achieve a Editorial Policies / INDEX 1 sustainable society through innovations in Company Mission and Policies 2 product and management quality. Starting President’s Message 3 this year we will publish an Innovation Report in order to present our progress towards this goal to our stakeholders and ROHM Spirit—Promoting a free, increase understanding of the ROHM Group. uninhibited culture ROHM began publishing the Environmental Incorporating employee Data Book in 2001, and, from 2007 to 2011, feedback into published the report under the new title of management plans 7 CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Report. The current report is a further development of these previous efforts. Reporting organizations Product ROHM Co., Ltd. and all companies of ROHM Quality Group (Affiliated companies in Japan and abroad) Innovation 8 Reporting period ROHM Products ~ Highlight 9 Year 2011 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012) Reports on events and initiatives before and after this Business Processes period are also discussed in part. R&D 15 Production / Quality Assurance 16 Published on: July 2012 ROHM Spirit—Collaborating with a (Next issue: July 2013; previous issue: July 2011) diverse group of individuals Academic-industrial Guidelines used for reference GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 collaboration with Japanese Standards Association’s ISO26000:2010 universities in Japan Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental and abroad 17 Reporting Guidelines 2007 Version Relationship with other reports Information on CSR (including environmental Management conservation) Quality ROHM’s website includes information on CSR Initiatives that are not included in this report (in Japanese only). Innovation 18 Details on environmental conservation activities are also provided in the Environmental Data Book (PDF). The following diagram outlines the relationship Highlight (Strengthening the between these media forms and the current report. system to ensure stable supply) 19 High CSR Performance (Report of activities based on ISO26000) Degree of importance for Organizational governance 23 Community involvement and This report Human rights and community development 32 labor practices 27 CSR targets and results 33 stakeholders Environment 29 Website Fair operating practices 30 High Customer support Degree of importance for ROHM Group (consumer issues) 31 Financial results and financial information In addition to legally required reports, ROHM also ROHM Spirit—Nurturing published Interim Reports and Annual Reports that young musicians are available on its website in PDF format. Contributing to Corporate information http://www.rohm.com/corporate/index.html musical culture 35 CSR initiatives http://www.rohm.co.jp/csr/ Investor Relations Company Information 36 http://www.rohm.com/financial/index.html 1 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Company Mission and Policies ROHM has communicated the Company Mission, that has existed since its founding, to its employees to become a company trusted and relied upon by society. Company Mission and Policies COMPANY MISSION Quality is our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volumes to the global market. Policies to achieve this Company Mission are laid out and serve as guidelines for business activities. BASIC MANAGEMENT POLICY Secure reasonable profit through a concerted company-wide effort for a comprehensive quality assurance program. Develop globally leading products by improving upon technologies held by each department for continued advancement of the company. Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect and humanitarianism, hence contributing to society. Search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity. BASIC QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY 1. Promote internal standardization for the whole company and establish structures for QC management by data. 2. Conduct comprehensive and continuous research for the development of new technologies and products. 3. Proactively utilize methods of statistical control for all areas of company activities. 4. Establish quality assurance structures for all manufacturing processes. 5. Exert effort for cost reductions of each product by continual modernization of manufacturing systems. 6. Secure quality assurance programs of raw materials and components with our suppliers through contracts. BASIC GOALS FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1. Develop personnel at all levels to constantly strive to obtain new knowledge and to acquire empirical reasoning ability from a broad perspective. 2. Train staff to be dedicated as leaders in their field by utilizing their knowledge and experience. 3. Develop personnel who can overcome any adversity and strive towards achieving targets. 4. Train staff to place the highest value on teamwork, resulting from the combined efforts of all individuals. BASIC POLICY FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1. All employees will use every available opportunity to enhance self-development. 2. Those in leadership positions will exemplify model behavior at all times. 3. The emphasis of education is on-the-job training led by the supervisors through daily operations. Supplementary training off the job is also provided. 4. Each head of all management levels will appraise staff fairly and conduct effective training programs periodically and consistently. 5. Appraisals for each head of all management levels is based, as a general rule, on the success of staff education and training. Since ROHM’s inception, the environment that surrounds the company has changed to note the rise of an information-oriented society and diversification of values among the people, but these policies remain unchanged and serve as the driving force of business activities. ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 2 President’s Message Helping to promote a sustainable society through innovations in product and management quality responses, we were able to recover to our pre-flood With the collaborative effort of the ROHM supply levels as soon as January, 2012, two months Group we will fulfill our commitments in earlier than initially predicted. providing a stable supply to customers Taking this recent disaster as an example, the ROHM On behalf of all the employees at ROHM, I wish to extend Group is making concerted efforts to strengthen the our deepest sympathies to victims of the major floods stability of its supply system. First, we are strengthening that hit Thailand in 2011. We pray for a quick recovery in our multiple-base production system in preparation for the disaster-stricken areas. The floods dealt a heavy future disasters by building a system that enables blow to local communities and inflicted damage to production at multiple plants for all of our products. We industrial complexes used as production bases by many are conducting risk diagnostics and working on manufacturing businesses. The ROHM Group also measures at every production site to thoroughly suffered in the floods, with operations being suspended examine various risks against but not limited to at LAPIS Semiconductor (Ayutthaya) Co., Ltd. in Ayutthaya earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters. on October 8 and ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. and ROHM Mechatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. in Pathum Thani on October 15. We would like to express Four growth engines—Creating new value our sincerest apologies for the great inconvenience this added high quality innovative products has caused to many of our customers. In 2008 we celebrated our 50th anniversary and Upon suspension of operations at the production sites, created a ‘NEXT50’ campaign focused on our goal, the ROHM Group immediately brought together the activies, and expectations for the next 50 years. One collective efforts of the entire Group to maintain such activity is establishing four growth engines, equipment and carry out recovery efforts. In addition, we centered on ‘Synergy’, ‘Power Devices’, ‘LEDs’, and took prompt action that included lifting out submerged ‘Sensors’, in order to contribute to society through equipment and molds and resuming production at sustainable growth. other affiliated company plants. Thanks to these ‘Synergy Strategy’ involves creating new added Action items for sustainability Creating new values ROHM’s journey through innovative products through the next 50 years HUMAN RIGHTS NEXT50 LABOR Four growth engines STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT ANTIROHM’s DNA Synergy Power CORRUPTION Device Company Mission Strategy Strategy and Policies ICs LEDs Transistors Laser Diodes LED Sensor Adding value by communicating and Strategy Strategy cooperating with stakeholders Diodes Resistors 1960 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 2060 3 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Message from the President value by fully exploiting the synergy created by combining ROHM’s expertise in analog IC technology and LAPIS Semiconductor’s strength in digital IC technology. This strategy has already begun yielding results, such as the early completion of a dedicated chipset development for Intel processors in September 2010. ‘Power Device Strategy’ involves integrating device, power IC control, and module technologies in order to develop power semiconductors capable of efficient power conversion. In particular, we are focusing our efforts on developing power devices comprised of silicon carbide (SiC), a compound that achieves far better energy savings and miniaturization than conventional silicon (Si). In March 2012, ROHM was the first in the world to successfully begin mass production of full-SiC power modules. These modules are being used more and more in fields such as industrial Satoshi Sawamura equipment, solar power systems, electric cars and President plug-in hybrid cars, and will likely contribute to energy conservation for society as a whole. contributions to virtually all aspects of society. And ‘LED Strategy’ involves contributing to energy although solving social issues is never easy, we will conservation in society by providing total LED solutions continue to implement these strategies using ideas and for the lighting industry, from LED components to driver approaches that break previous norms and concepts. ICs and power supply modules. We are steadily expanding our lineup of consumer LED lighting devices and fixtures under the AGLED brand, which was Increasing management quality and solving launched in June 2011. issues in sustainability ‘Sensor Strategy’ involves responding to the needs of To become a company preferred not only by customers the sensor device market, in which there is a growing but stakeholders throughout the world, we must provide demand for sensors in a variety of applications, including innovative, high quality, value-added products. It is smartphones, automotive safety devices, security therefore essential that we improve our management systems, and even medical instruments. We are working quality to allow us to oversee the entire value chain across on strengthening our already world-class lineup while the globe, identify key challenges in attaining sustainability, leveraging the considerable resources of Kionix, Inc., a and overcoming those challenges. pioneer in MEMS accelerations sensor technology that In May 2011, ROHM signed the UN Global Compact joined the ROHM Group in FY 2009. (UNGC), exemplifying our commitment to aligning our As part of this strategy, in addition to the operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted automotive sector in which we have been previously principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, active, from FY 2012 we will further respond to the environment and anti-corruption—among not only ROHM needs of society and our customers in a variety of Group companies, but our partners and affiliates as well. fields by strengthening our efforts in the industrial We hope to fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR) equipment market. initiatives throughout the entire value chain. With four growth engines positioned at the core, the In FY 2011, we used the ISO26000 international ROHM Group has the potential to make significant standard on social responsibility as a guide to assess ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 4 President’s Message ROHM Group products, businesses and value chain CSR activities for all affiliated companies of the ROHM along each of the 7 core ISO26000 themes and Group both in Japan and abroad. determine priority CSR issues (see below, P33). With Internal audits concerning CSR have begun in FY the participation of all of our stakeholders, the entire 2012 in order to further improve the reliability of ROHM’s ROHM Group will continue implementing the PDCA global CSR management. (Plan, Do, Check, Act) cycle and make efforts to resolve these issues. ROHM has also been strengthening its organizational ROHM DNA—taking on challenges to system for carrying out and managing CSR activities achieve corporate goals among all group companies. A new CSR committee was ROHM was founded in 1958 as a manufacturer of formed in June 2011, and a CSR Division was created resistors that were groundbreaking at the time for their under the direct control of the ROHM President. This small size. In 1967 the company broke into the office has since become the center for CSR activities and semiconductor business and became the first Japanese its officers undertake instruction and management of company to establish a base in Silicon Valley. ROHM Group’s continuing efforts to towards a sustainable society ROHM Group Value Chain* Production (Fabrication) Business Product Partners Development Raw Materials for Products /Design Photomask Production Wafer Processing Business Production Partners Equipment Production Equipment Design/ Manufacture Assessing needs Competitor Value Chains* ROHM’s Integrated System Foundries No development or design function A prime feature of ROHM Group’s value chain is that it is Production Production an integrated system that encompasses everything from (Fabrication) (Assembly) product development and design to production, marketing and related services. Even the design and manufacture of production equipment is included, making it possible Factories without fabrication facilities No production function for ROHM to provide innovative products that contribute Development Sales and to resolving social issues. Ensuring product quality and /Design Services providing a stable supply as well as properly training employees around the world are also important responsibilities of the ROHM Group. Regular vertically integrated factories By implementing innovations in product and No design or manufacturing function for production equipment management quality, the ROHM Group hopes to Development Production Production Sales and fulfill these responsibilities and deliver added value to /Design (Fabrication) (Assembly) Services our customers. Priority CSR Issues of the ROHM Group * Value chain: A term for describing all the business activities of a given company, from procurement of raw materials and production Provide a stable supply of high quality products to marketing of products and services, as “a process for adding and Resolve social issues through product innovations accumulating value.” It is also used to describe the entire process of certain products and services reaching their ultimate Develop human resources for the global economy beneficiaries through the activities of multiple companies and stakeholders (interested parties). 5 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 ROHM will continue attempting new challenges in order to fulfill our company mission, which is “Quality is What is the UN Global Compact (UNGC) our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute The UNGC is an international initiative that enables businesses and other to the advancement and progress of our culture through Message from the President organizations to exercise responsible a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high and creative leadership in order to achieve quality products in large volumes to the global market.” sustainable growth. Companies supporting UNGC must maintain 10 principles in the June 2012 areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. What is ISO26000 ISO26000 is a guideline for social responsibility (SR) Satoshi Sawamura launched by the International Organization for Standardization President (ISO). It is considered a guide for fulfilling SR. ROHM Co., Ltd. Production (Assembly) Sales, Services Customers Dicing Packaging, etc. Product quality innovations Management quality innovations Resolve social issues through four growth engines Reinforcing a stable supply system Quickly develop and provide advanced ICs that ROHM is striving to reinforce its integrated system in order to Synergy provide a stable supply of products to customers throughout the Strategy meet customer needs through collaboration between ROHM and LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. world at any given time. Power Device Develop and provide power devices that contribute Reducing environmental burden Strategy to energy conservation and prevent global warming ROHM manufactures its own production equipment, making it easier to take voluntary efforts to reduce environmental LED Develop and provide LED products that contribute impact. The Group is working to achieve goals for reducing Strategy to energy conservation and prevent global warming CO 2 emissions, chemical usage and water consumption as specified in its medium-term environmental targets for Sensor Develop and provide sensor devices for security FY 2020. Strategy and other systems that contribute to a safer, more secure society Strengthening the global CSR management system Product quality assurance As a global company, ROHM is strengthening its system to fulfill Carry out design, production and all other company activities CSR throughout the entire value chain, based on the 10 based on a foundation of “quality first” to ensure the highest principles of the UN Global Compact and on the international quality for customers. standard ISO26000. ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 6 ROHM Spirit—Promoting a free, uninhibited culture Incorporating employee feedback into management plans Among ROHM’s first resistors A major advantage of ROHM is the free, uninhibited culture based on a capitalist spirit that has been passed down through the years since the company was founded. Many opportunities for dialogue are provided between ROHM’s president and the employees, and each employee is encouraged to exercise free thinking in shaping the company’s future. ROHM fosters a culture of unrestrained communication. Active dialogues between Reforming the development and sales ROHM’s President and employees structure based on employee feedback ROHM places great importance on dialogue with Feedback from employees actually comes into employees, because employees are also important play when improving the company’s structural stakeholders, and increasing employee satisfaction organization and operations. leads to greater satisfaction for other stakeholders. As an example, one employee’s idea that Based on this concept, since April 2010, “ROHM needs to strengthen its system for ROHM has held over 50 dialogues between the responding to the varied needs of its customers” company president and its employees, totaling as initiated the establishment of Product Strategy many as 350 participants. These opportunities Departments for each market in the New Product allow the president to convey the state of the Development Division. Another employee’s opinion, company and employees the chance to bring up that “customers carrying out business operations in various workplace issues. And together, they can multiple regions throughout the world want high brainstorm ideas to resolve those issues. quality services that are consistent across the various Due to the diversity of topics, such as regions,” was the basis for reorganizing the sales ‘improvements in workplace environment’ and structure from region-specific to customer-specific. ‘ideas to increase customer satisfaction,’ heated Now, a single sales group works with customers discussions have run longer than 5 hours. carrying out business operations in multiple regions. ROHM creates numerous opportunities for dialogue in order to foster uninhibited discussions that actively incorporate employee feedback into its management plan. A dialogue between the company president and employees 7 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Strategy Product Categories p. 9-14 Thermal ICs Printheads and IC Contact Image PH/ Tr Transistors Sensor Heads CIS Resistors and R/TC Di Diodes Tantalum ROHM Group Capacitors Laser SiC Power Diodes LD SiC Devices Optical Sensors S LED LEDs and LED Lighting ROHM offers a full lineup that crosses a diverse variety of product areas to meet a range of customer needs Product Key Areas Product Quality Innovation Quality Innovation Synergy Power Devices Four Growth Strategies LEDs Sensors The ROHM Group is committed towards developing innovative products that can help resolve social issues based on four key strategies R&D / PRODUCTION / QA p. 15-16 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 8 ROHM Products Meeting the needs of customers and society through new features and innovative technologies The ROHM Group offers products that not only meet the varied needs of its customers, but also contribute to resolving a variety of social issues, such as energy conservation. IC ICs IC development at ROHM is focused on creating IC Products features that meet customer requirements in a EEPROMs diverse array of fields, including wireless and Operational Amplifiers / Comparators communications, power and green energy, Voltage Detector ICs (Reset ICs) automotive, AV, and display. ROHM is also Clock Generator ICs working on developing a system IC that provides Analog Switches / Logic ICs high added-value through the development of D/A Converters new processing technology in anticipation of Sensor ICs future needs. Linear Regulators Switching Regulators Power Management ICs Automotive Regulators Motor Drivers LED / LCD Drivers IT Equipment / Interface ICs Video and Imaging ICs Audio ICs Wire bonding line Chemical/mechanical polish In-line ArF scanning stepper 9 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Highlight Developing a chipset in record time through group synergy The Intel® Atom™ Processor E600 series developed for embedded devices maximizes performance in general-purpose embedded CPU boards, industrial equipment, car infotainment devices and web-linked IP phones. ROHM, together with LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a ROHM Group company, were selected to develop a dedicated chipset for Intel’s new series. ROHM is an industry leader in power system ICs while LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. excels in communications system ICs. The strengths of both companies were brought together to develop power Product Quality Innovation management and clock generator ICs, input/output hubs and a reference board for the chipset. From the initial stages of development, the two companies worked closely with with Intel®. The resulting synergy from combining the latest technologies from the 3 companies enabled the development of a highly ICs for Intel® Atom™ integrated, high-performance chipset. E600 Series Processors: Power Management IC (PMIC) Clock Generator IC (CGIC) Input/Output Hub Reference Board LED drivers that increase safety and improve visibility in vehicles ROHM has patented critical technology for its LED LED Driver for Tail Lamps BD8372HFP-M driver circuit, a drive unit that enables efficient illumination of LED lamps. A broad lineup of LED drivers is offered for a variety of applications, including panel backlights, along with an LED driver for car headlamps. Particularly in North America and Europe, cars are increasingly being required to have LED daytime running lights (DRLs) in order to improve visibility and safety. The BD8381EFV-M LED driver for headlamps developed by ROHM features a built-in LED Driver for Headlamps oscillation circuit for DRLs, enabling PWM dimming* BD8381EFV-M without a microcontroller. Multiple protection functions are also included for improved reliability and fewer part count. For vehicle tail lamps ROHM offers the BD8372HFP-M LED driver, featuring an output current accuracy of ±3%, minimizing brightness fluctuations considerably compared with conventional products. * Used for efficient light control ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 10 ROHM Products Tr Transistors ROHM, one of the largest manufacturers of Tr Products transistors in the industry, develops transistors MOSFETs based on the concepts of energy savings, Bipolar Transistors space efficiency, and reliability. Besides Digital Transistors MOSFETs and bipolar transistors, ROHM Complex Transistors offers digital transistors that integrate a resistor (a ROHM original) and complex transistors featuring two or more elements. Di Diodes ROHM offers an industry-leading lineup of Di Products diodes featuring high reliability, ultra-compact Schottky Barrier Diodes packages, and low loss. In addition, Rectifier Diodes cutting-edge expertise in the small-signal and Fast Recovery Diodes medium power sectors makes it possible to Zener Diodes develop high quality power Schottky barrier Switching Diodes diodes and fast recovery diodes for power Band Switching Diodes applications. PIN Diodes Detection Schottky Diodes SiC SiC Power Devices SiC (silicon carbide) shows promise as a SiC Products next-generation low-loss element due to its SiC Schottky Barrier Diodes lower switching loss and superior operating SiC MOSFETs characteristics at high temperatures compared Full-SiC Power Modules with silicon devices. ROHM is the largest producer of SiC products for inverters for solar and wind power generation, chargers for plug-in hybrid/electric cars, and inverters for industrial equipment and air-conditioners. Transistor production line Diode production line SiC epitaxial device 11 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Highlight Mass-produced full-SiC power module achieves enormous reductions in power loss Power loss reduced up to 47% Supplying SiC products through ROHM’s SiC (silicon carbide) is a semiconductor material that is integrated production system quickly garnering interest from a number of industries, The ROHM Group has established a system for integrated such as electric power companies, automakers, and production, from wafers to packaging, of all SiC power electronics manufacturers, as the successor to silicon devices used in vehicles, trains, industrial equipment, in next-generation semiconductor devices. In the home consumer appliances and other applications. power sector in particular, replacing silicon (Si) with ROHM is developing SiC devices that provide even SiC (i.e. in inverters) is expected to yield much greater lower power consumption in order to minimize efficiency in a smaller form factor. environmental impact and prevent global warming. According to the New Energy and Industrial Predicted energy conservation from utilizing Technology Development Organization (NEDO), the SiC devices by 2030 energy-saving effects achieved by application of SiC Product Quality Innovation Crude oil equivalent: 10,000 kL/year 5,390 devices will reach 53,900,000 kL/year (crude oil 5,000 equivalent) by 2030. 4,000 In March 2012, ROHM was the first supplier in the world to establish a system for mass producing 3,000 full-SiC power modules that feature semiconductor 2,000 elements comprised entirely of SiC, reducing power 1,000 loss by approx. 47% compared to conventional silicon-based products. 0 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 (Year) (When the effects of general-purpose inverters are included) Source: FED-recommissioned survey on NEDO energy-saving rolling SiC Power Device Applications Industrial Wind Power Equipment Generation Systems Trains Electric Cars (Hybrid/Electric) Servers Solar Cells Uninterruptible Home Power Supply Appliances (UPS) Systems Full-SiC power module BSM100D12P2C005 SiC power devices show promise for solar power generation applications ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 12 ROHM Products LED LEDs and LED Lighting ROHM LEDs provide superior visibility and LED Products reliability and have proven results in Chip LEDs numerous vehicle applications requiring high reliability. ROHM has combined disparate LED Lamps technologies across different product lines LED Lighting to achieve optimum efficiency with low LED Numerical Displays power consumption. LED Dot Matrix Units S Optical Sensors ROHM’s diverse lineup of optical sensors are S Products designed to detect a variety of environmental Transmission Type Photointerrupters phenomena, such as motion, and can be Reflective Type Photosensors configured to meet customer needs. ROHM utilizes an integrated production system from Infrared LEDs fabrication of photo emitting/receiving Photodiodes devices to production of finished products, Phototransistors ensuring unmatched quality. 4 Direction Detector LD Laser Diodes ROHM commands a large market share in LD Products the laser diode sector. Stable production is 660/780nm High-power Dual Wavelength Lasers achieved by effective use of common 660/780nm Low-power Dual Wavelength Lasers assembly lines, made possible due to broad product compatibility. The wide lineup includes High-speed Multi-beam Lasers both low-power and high-power types. 660nm Low-power Lasers 780nm High-speed Lasers 780nm Low-power Lasers R/TC Resistors and Tantalum Capacitors ROHM was the first supplier to offer R/TC Products thick-film chip resistors and chip resistor Thick Film Chip Resistors networks—essential to IT equipment. The Low Ohmic Chip Resistors for Current Detection broad lineup features ultra-high reliability in a Ultra-low Ohmic Jumper Resistors compact size. ROHM also offers tantalum High Power Chip Resistors Anti-surge Chip Resistors capacitors with greater capacitance in a High Voltage Resistance Chip Resistors smaller form factor. Sulfur Tolerant Chip Resistors Tantalum Capacitors Conductive Polymer Capacitors PH/ Thermal Printheads and Contact Image Sensor Heads CIS ROHM offers an industry-leading lineup of PH/ CIS Products thermal printheads utilizing thick-film, Thermal Printheads thin-film, and IC technologies. In addition, For fax machines contact image sensor heads are available For mobile printers For gaming equipment and ATMs that adopt optical and IC technologies for Contact Image Sensor Heads greater compactness, less weight, and For POS terminals improved performance. High resolution type 8-inch type Low-inch type 13 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Highlight LED lighting saves energy in homes and offices Ceiling lights that offer among the highest Green building utilizing all LED lighting energy savings in the industry In May 2010, ROHM carried out a large-scale renovation AGLED Co., Ltd., a ROHM Group company that offers of its Kyoto Ekimae Building, which serves as its base for residential LED lighting and fixtures, launched 6 types sales and development. The entire building was retrofitted of LED ceiling lights in March 2012. with ROHM LED lamps, which, together with other initiatives, They provide not only industry-leading energy has cut annual power consumption by about 30%. savings and power consumption, but are also equipped Other energy-saving initiatives include the use with a circadian lighting mode as a standard feature of highly efficient that automatically adjusts the light according to the air-conditioning user’s biological rhythms. equipment, solar panels, rooftop gardening, and erecting a doubleskin curtain wall. Product Quality Innovation LED ceiling light AC401YC (slim type) ROHM Kyoto Ekimae Building ROHM Kyoto Ekimae Building (lit up) A variety of sensor-related products support increased power savings and comfortable operation in smartphones Proximity sensor IC that reduces power consumption High performance digital tri-axial ROHM optical infrared proximity acceleration sensor featuring sensors detect when the user’s reduced power consumption face is nearby (i.e. during a Digital tri-axial acceleration sensors phone conversation), preventing offered by ROHM Group company Kionix, incorrect operation while enhancing Inc. provide lower power consumption functionality and reducing set power and increased performance. They detect consumption. tilting and other movements as well as direction of travel. Controller IC that supports comfortable touch operation Controller ICs for touch screens are offered that enable intuitive operation for both capacitive and resistive systems. ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 14 Business Processes R&D From ‘MORE MOORE’ to ‘MORE THAN MOORE*’ Anticipating the next generation Creating new features in devices Developing advanced complex through material innovations devices by integrating disparate With the fundamental philosophy of “contributing Biomaterials technologies from a variety of fields to society through electronics,” the ROHM Compound semiconductors Magnetics Electronics Optics Group undertakes the development of Organic semiconductors MEMS/NEMS Bio Medicine Combined metal oxide products that is expected to be useful to Nano-materials Organic materials Nanotechnology Photonics society. In addition, ROHM pursues R&D Ferroelectric materials SiC Spintronics Mechanics activities that coordinate everything from materials, design and manufacturing technologies to quality improvement activities in Environmental Safety Security Comfort Convenience order to develop products that meet the needs Sustainability of the next generation. New technologies are constantly being cultivated based on the * MORE THAN MOORE: Reﬁne Moore’s Law and cultivate functional innovations by fusing different technologies and incorporating new materials. concept of “MORE THAN MOORE*.” ROHM actively adopts new SiC materials to pursue R&D of novel SiC MOSFETs SiC SBDs devices that achieve breakthroughs SiC Power Modules Power in efﬁciency, functionality and SiC Transfer Modules GaN miniaturization. IPMs (Intelligent Power Modules) High-temperature Capacitors ROHM conducts R&D activities that Visible and Near-infrared Image Sensors Infrared Image Sensors combine biotechnology with X-ray Image Sensors technology that realizes battery-less, UV Sensors Sensing wireless sensor networks based on Stress Sensors Pulse Wave Sensors the goals of energy conservation, Blood Testing Devices Blood Assay Chips safety and security. Dye-sensitized Photoelectric Conversion Devices Electric Double Layer Capacitors ROHM pursues R&D of optical Laser Diodes Optical Communications Modules functions with high added-value Photonics based on optical semiconductor High Output Photonic Crystal Lasers Terahertz Transmitting/Receiving Devices & technology in order to achieve Optics high speed, broadband communications. Highlight Expanding new technology in the fields of Full adoption in clinical health and medicine practice ROHM has developed a compact blood testing ROHM began selling its analyzer based on proprietary technology in system utilizing μTAS technology. October 2008 and in September Measurement requires only a minimal amount 2011 brought to market ROHMof blood taken from the ﬁngertip or earlobe branded devices and assay chips for clinical practices. and takes just a few minutes, making the system suitable for newborns, children and Licenses Acquired: Class II Pharmaceutical diabetics. The system is now available for Manufacture / Manufacturing Sales License purchase and eliminates the need for Class II Medical Device Manufacture / Manufacturing Sales License conventional large-scale equipment. 15 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Production / Quality Assurance First’ on a daily basis. QA Centers Building an integrated In addition, all employees are Analyzing quality issues production system trained extensively in order to from all angles The ROHM Group utilizes a maintain and utilize the quality The ROHM Group has established completely integrated production control system required to continue product analysis centers called QA system in which all processes, from these activities (see P31). (Quality Assurance) Centers equipped product design to production, are with a variety of analysis equipment performed in-house. Design Centers in 10 locations across the globe. Another distinctive feature is that Promoting localized design These centers enable ROHM to the production system was also and development quickly respond to quality issues developed by ROHM. Specialized When developing and designing virtually anywhere in the world. engineers for each type of product products, the ROHM Group places Technical experts are on hand are responsible for all phases, from great importance on accurately that can provide the necessary design to prototype building and assessing customer needs and assistance. The QA staff conducts maintenance, ensuring a prompt promptly providing products that a detailed analysis of past quality Product Quality Innovation response to virtually any scenario. meet their requirements. issues from every aspect in order to To achieve this, multiple Design determine the root cause of the Centers have been established problem and take corrective actions Putting quality first throughout the world as local to prevent reoccurrence. They also The ROHM Group pays strict development bases, providing a analyze countermeasures based on attention to the development global system that can closely the 4Ms (man, machine, material, and design of new products, the connect with customers. Placing method) and carry out ongoing development of production systems, developers and designers in each activities for quality improvement the procurement of raw materials, locale enables ROHM to achieve that include preventive measures. and all aspects of the manufacturing true globalization and generates process. All employees, from sales new products that match the needs to management, strive for ‘Quality of local customers. ROHM Group Quality Assurance System Customer comments fed back to source Feedback to design and standards Market Request Development Design Review Production Customer Evaluation from Customer Review Meeting (DR*1-DR4) Transfer Manufacture Inspection Shipping Customer Satisfaction (Initial Flow) New Product Planning Design and Prototyping Production and Shipment Quality Assurance Department * Design Review Participation in product development, engineering, manufacture, QC (Quality Control) and all other related departments A global system that connects closely with customers Dusseldorf Korea Shanghai Yokohama Sunnyvale Detroit Nagoya San Diego Shenzhen Kyoto HQ Thailand Taiwan Hong Kong Singapore QA Center Design Center ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 16 ROHM Spirit—Collaborating with a diverse group of individuals Academic-industrial collaboration with universities in Japan and abroad ROHM partners with universities and research institutes both in Japan and overseas to actively pursue development activities. ROHM has been undertaking initiatives to develop useful technology and increase cultural progress through collaborations with Tsinghua University and other research institutes in China and is working on establishing permanent partner relationships. Collaboration with research institutes, on new mechanisms and the creation of dedicated universities and companies in ICs compatible with China’s digital TV standards. dissimilar fields ROHM has also held joint engineering forums with In order to develop useful technology that can Tsinghua University since 2010, and donated and advance culture and society, ROHM considers it opened the Tsinghua-ROHM Electronic Engineering essential to build strong relationships with Hall that includes a clean room and an international research institutes, universities and companies in conference hall in April 2011 to celebrate Tsinghua’s dissimilar fields and take on cooperative initiatives. 100th anniversary. In April 2012, the Tsinghua-ROHM To promote academic-industrial collaboration, International Forum of Industries and Academia 2012 ROHM donated a ROHM Plaza to Ritsumeikan (TRIFIA2012) was held in this Engineering Hall to University, Doshisha University, and Kyoto University commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Electronic in Kyoto, ROHM’s hometown. These plazas are Engineering Course, over 2,000 visitors, including designed to carry out comprehensive academicspecial guests and current and past students, were in industry cooperative research. attendance. A Tsinghua-Rohm Joint Research Center was installed on the 7th floor of the Hall as a base for Comprehensive Academia-Industry the collaborative research system. In addition to Collaboration with Tsinghua University interns that have also worked there in the past, it will in China also be home to ROHM employees to enable foster The ROHM Group actively pursues academiceven greater technological development and social industry collaborations with countries outside of contribution based on interpersonal exchange and Japan, such as the U.S. and China, and undertakes a deeper understanding of each other’s culture. cutting-edge research and development of products With these centers as the axis, numerous that match the needs of each local region. research collaboration projects have been launched In April 2006, ROHM signed a comprehensive in a variety of fields, such as photonics devices, academia-industry collaboration agreement with communications and broadcasting, biochips, POCT Tsinghua University in China. This partnership has (Point of Care Testing) and power devices and already yielded results, such as the proposal and testing systems. The centers promise even more results of photonics devices (surface plasmon sensor) based in the future through increased interaction. ROHM Plaza at Ritsumeikan Opening ceremony for University (built in April 2000) Tsinghua-ROHM Electronic Engineering Hall ROHM Plaza at Doshisha University (built in Sept. 2003) Tsinghua-ROHM International Forum of Industries and Academia 2012 ROHM Plaza at Kyoto Tsinghua-ROHM Electronic Engineering Hall (built in April 2011) University (built in May 2005) 17 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Strategy UN Global Compact Membership p. 24 ROHM supports the United Nations Global Compact ISO26000 Initiatives p. 23-34 Human rights Community involvement and Labor practices development Management Consumer issues Organizational governance Environment Quality Fair operating practices Innovation The ROHM Group pursues global CSR management based on ISO26000. In addition to strengthening its system, ROHM is complying with ISO26000 guidelines, extracting priority issues from the entire value chain, and setting topics for initiatives, plans and targets. Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct (EICC) Initiatives p. 24-25 The ROHM Group is building a management system based on the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct (EICC) and began conducting internal audits in 2012. In addition, ROHM companies receive CSR audits from customers. Management Quality Innovation Evaluation by Society ROHM is included in the SRI Index (as of the end of March 2012) Ethibel Sustainability Indexes FTSE4Good Indexes Series MS-SRI ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 18 Highlight Strengthening the system to ensure stable supply (This article is based on information available at the end of March 2012) RIST staff dispatched to ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. in Japan to help with alternate production Impact of large-scale natural disasters— Focusing efforts into recovery after suspension of operation at some production sites due to the Thailand floods and achieving quick recovery from damage caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake In October 2011, flooding in Thailand caused extensive LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. (for LSA). d a m a g e t o 3 R O H M G ro u p c o m p a n i e s , R O H M Through these efforts, ROHM was able to achieve Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (RIST), LAPIS regular pre-suspension supply levels by January 2012. Semiconductor (Ayutthaya) Co., Ltd. (LSA) and ROHM The Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March Mechatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (RMT). Although there 11, 2011 also caused damage to two companies in the were no human casualties, operations were suspended ROHM Group, LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. due to the submergence of production equipment. A (OKI Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. at the time) and task force formed on October 8 carried out intense ROHM Tsukuba Co., Ltd. However, production was recovery efforts at RIST, enabling the resumption of resumed at ROHM Tsukuba in late March and in LAPIS some production lines by mid-November. At the same Semiconductor Miyagi by early April, with production time, alternate production was implemented at other volumes restored to normal levels. sites, such as ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. and ROHM Group Production sites Production sites that suffered the most damage in the Thailand floods ROHM Korea Corporation ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. (Okayama) ROHM Integrated ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. (Shizuoka) Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ROHM Mechatech (Navanakorn Industrial Zone, Thailand) (Tianjin) Co.,Ltd. ROHM Tsukuba Co., Ltd. (Ibaraki) ROHM Semiconductor LAPIS (China)Co., Ltd. Semiconductor Oct 15 – Operations suspended Miyagi Co., Ltd. Oct 20 – Flooding of the factory buildings ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. (Hirokawa) Oct 23 – Efforts begin to remove molds ROHM Co., Ltd. and parts (Kyoto) ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. (Chikugo) ROHM Mechatech Nov 16 – Partial recommencement of ROHM Mechatech Co., Ltd. (Kyoto) operations (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor (Yukuhashi) (Ayutthaya) Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor ROHM Mechatech (Ayutthaya) Co., Ltd. Philippines,Inc. (Rojana Industrial Park, Thailand) ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. (Decision made for closure in January 2012) ROHM-Wako Electronics Oct 8 – Operations suspended (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Oct 10 – Factory becomes flooded. The factory is a one-story building, so, ROHM Integrated Systems(Thailand) Co., Ltd. in consideration of future flood damage, alternate production begins at other facilities such as Fabrication (FAB) production sites Assembly (ASSY) production sites LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Mold and lead frame production sites Co., Ltd. 19 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 ROHM’s Pledge To ensure a stable supply system throughout the entire ROHM Group Takahisa Yamaha Managing Director ROHM Co., Ltd. On behalf of ROHM, I would like to express our sincere apologies for any inconveniences we have caused to our customers To the ROHM Group, whose company mission is, “Quality is our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volumes to the global market” , fulfilling our supply obligations to customers is a mission of utmost importance. Unfortunately, ROHM Group production sites suffered great damage in the Great East Japan Earthquake and Thailand floods of 2011, and were forced to suspend Several staff members deep in floodwater hold a boat steady to lift out molds (RMT) operations. We received amazing support from our customers and stakeholders, and everyone in the ROHM Group joined efforts in responding to the disasters. However, our customers suffered a great inconvenience until original production volumes were restored, and for this I offer our sincerest apologies. Risk diagnosis performed on all ROHM Group production sites Management Quality Innovation The ROHM Group is taking last year’s disasters very seriously, and all Group members are taking efforts to strengthen our supply system. As the first step, we are performing risk diagnosis on all ROHM Group production sites both in Japan and overseas. Recovery efforts at LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. that was damaged We are thoroughly investigating the risks from every by the Great East Japan Earthquake (clean room) angle, considering not only natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, tornadoes, lightning, Components of risk diagnosis floods, heavy rains, fog, sand storms and snowstorms, Natural disasters but also everything from fires, explosions, political uncertainty, infrastructure problems and disruptions in Earthquakes, supply of materials down to contagious disease. tsunamis Floods, Typhoons, heavy rain strong winds, tornados Measures taken to minimize operation suspension and rebuilding inventory Fog, Lightning sand storms, Based on the results of risk diagnosis, in addition to Production snowstorms previous measures such as reinforcing buildings against sites earthquakes, ROHM is following through with further countermeasures in each production site in the ROHM Political Fires, uncertainty explosions Group, such as raising the installation height of power receiving equipment to prepare against flooding and Infrastructure Other problems minimize operation stoppages. ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 20 Highlight We a l s o m a d e t h e d e c i s i o n t o o p e r a t e m u l t i p l e In order to live up to the supply obligations to our manufacturing facilities for each and every product in customers, the ROHM Group promises to continue order to minimize stoppages by distributing risk. This working together while reinforcing system-based and system will ensure that molds for each product are facility-based countermeasures. available at multiple factories and enable production at multiple sites. We will also increase our inventory as necessary to Receiving thanks from Thailand Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra for the ROHM Group’s ensure that no customer experiences any interruption in collaborative recovery efforts. product supply due to the suspension of operations at a particular production site. ROHM Group companies will join forces to meet the supply obligations of its customers The experiences of last year strongly motivated ROHM to further strengthen the systems and facilities already in place to provide a stable supply by all ROHM Group companies. It also reminded us of the importance of joining forces to overcome a crisis. Going forward, I hope that each and every ROHM employee understands At a Thailand Board of Investment party (January 17, 2012) the sense of danger and feels that they must do what they can to give their utmost cooperation, so that we can continue to move past organizational boundaries and move together as a family. Continually implementing RIST’s flood countermeasures flood countermeasures • Concentrate production processes in upper floors in Thailand • Raise the installation location for power receiving and other important equipment Hiroshi Minami • Build a cutoff wall around the factory building President ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. After the experience of last year’s floods, we are Concentrate production processes in the strengthening our flood countermeasures in the upper floors Navanakorn Industrial Zone where RIST is located. As a part of these measures, a cutoff wall running from 7 Conference During a Office Room Production Process disaster meters underground to 3.5 meters above ground will be built around the perimeter of the Industrial Zone. Office Conference Room Production Process The wall is scheduled for completion in August 2012. Water level We are also building our own system to allow us to Conference during a flood O Office ffic ce e Room R P od ro du on ctio uc Production nP rocess Process continue operation even in the event of a flood that includes concentrating production processes on upper floors and raising the height of the factory’s power receiving equipment and the installation areas for New Plan Production Process infrastructure-related equipment. Thailand is a prime location for the automobile industry Production Process and an absolutely critical region for ROHM’s growth Water level Office Conference Raise strategy, which includes raising the vehicle sales ratio. We Room height during a flood will continue to pursue efforts to reduce flood risk and live up to the supply obligations of our customers. 21 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Carrying out Lapis Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. countermeasures to earthquake countermeasures prevent power and • Strengthen privately-owned electrical power facilities (completed in July 2011) water supply interruptions • Build a well as a source for industrial water supply Muneyuki Matsumoto (completed April 2012) President • Renew equipment to increase seismic resistance LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. (e.g. water storage tanks) (Completed in 2005. Sequential reinforcement in order of precedence from March 2011) In the immediate aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11, 2011, the power and industrial water supply stopped at Lapis Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd., forcing the company to suspend production. Luckily, there were no human casualties and damage to equipment was only minimal, making it possible to recommence production in early April after restoration of the public infrastructure. Remembering the prolonged period until the public infrastructure was recovered after last year’s earthquake, we are strengthening our privately-owned electrical power facilities to enable the company to establish its own power supply in the event of long-term power interference and have drilled a well in preparation for shortages in the industrial water supply. We are also continually renewing Privately-owned electrical power facilities equipment to make it even more resistant to seismic activity. Strengthening Additional earthquake countermeasures at countermeasures to ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. prepare against a Tokai • Build a cutoff wall to prevent tsunami damage (completed March 2012)* earthquake • Build more wells to secure a water supply Management Quality Innovation Yasuhiko Matsumoto (completed March 2012) Director, Member of the Board • Reinforce water and chemical treatment facilities ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. (completed March 2012) • Measures to prevent tipping and breakage of kilns ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. (Hamamatsu, Shizuoka) (scheduled for completion in March 2014) has taken various measures against earthquakes and * ROHM will take action to respond to the Cabinet Office’s interim report on tsunamis up until now, including building a seismically tsunami height published on March 31, 2012 by the Committee for Modeling a Nankai Trough Megaquake once guidelines have been issued. isolated structure. Currently, we are further strengthening these measures based on revised estimates of damages that would be caused by a major Tokai earthquake. Although ROHM Hamamatsu is 6km away from the coast, it is possible that a tsunami could cause flooding. We therefore built a new cutoff wall. We are a l s o c a r r y i n g o u t n u m e ro u s o t h e r e a r t h q u a k e countermeasures, such as building more wells to prepare for potential interruption in the industrial water supply, reinforcing water treatment facilites used in the manufacturing process and strengthening structures to prevent kiln tipping and breakage. Installation site for cutoff wall to prevent tsunami damage (red line) ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 22 CSR Performance (Report of activities based on ISO26000) Organizational governance Corporate governance structure m e e t i n g s a n d other important In addition to announcing our Board of Directors (Directors) meetings and inspecting operations. aim to contribute to the sustainable ROHM limits the number of Directors They also cooperate with the progress of society, it stipulates the on the Board that manages Group accounting auditor and ROHM’s initiatives that should be pursued activities to 10 in order to encourage Internal Audit Division to increase the by each stakeholder. sufficient discussion while allowing accuracy of audits. adequate and swift decision-making. Establishing a CSR Division A d d i t i o n a l l y, t w o i n d e p e n d e n t Internal Audit Division as a specialized organization outside directors are designated to An Audit Division was put into place under direct control of the enhance mutual supervision among as ROHM’s Internal Audit Division. President the directors. The Audit Division meets with board As CSR activities cover a wide Remuneration and bonuses members and employees to talk range of areas, ROHM has for directors are based on a about operations carried out established specialized committees performance pay system and throughout the ROHM Group and for CSR promotion, environmental determined using the consolidated inspect documents and forms, protection, information disclosure, profits of the relevant fiscal year as a among other duties. compliance, risk management / performance indicator, and to clarify Staff members in the Audit Division business continuity management the management responsibilities of also work together with auditors and (BCM) and health and safety. the directors. accounting auditors to review In June 2011, a supervisory CSR compliance of company regulations Committee was also established to Board of Auditors (Auditors) and the validity of assets. control the activities of the To e n s u r e t r a n s p a r e n c y a n d abovementioned committees and a objectivity of management CSR Management CSR Division was formed under practices, all 5 members on the Fundamental policy direct control of the president. Board of Auditors are independent Contributing to the sustainable In June 2012, a CSR promotion outside auditors. growth of society representative was assigned to 15 Each auditor reviews the A basic CSR policy is in place in the major domestic and overseas management operations of the ROHM Group to help achieve the production companies in the ROHM directors by attending board company mission. G ro u p a n d a C S R P ro m o t i o n Corporate governance organizational chart ROHM GROUP General Shareholders Meeting Election/Dismissal Executive Functions Board of Directors 9 directors ( 2 external ) Board of Auditors Chief Executive Officer Audit 5 auditors Cooperation CSR Committee (5 external) CSR Division (Office) Accounting Auditor Cooperation CSR Promotion Committee Environmental Conservation Information Disclosure Committee Compliance Committee Risk Management and BCM Committee Central Safety and Hygiene Committee R&D Division Production Division Sales Division Administrative Division Cooperation Management Committee Audit Division (Internal Audit Division) Auditing Functions Group Affiliated Companies (Domestic and Overseas) 23 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Committee was formed. This Implementing measures designated important challenges system will facilitate global CSR based on international across the entire value chain and management. initiatives set initiative themes, plans and goals A CSR promotion policy will be The ROHM Group joined the UN (details on p. 5-6 and 33-34). Efforts formulated for each company that Global Compact (UNGC) in FY 2011. have already begun to build a incorporates the wishes of the Based on the ISO26000 management system based on the stakeholders in their respective international standard concerning Electronic Industry Citizenship region. social responsibility, ROHM has Coalition Code of Conduct (EICC). Main policies based on international initiative guidelines and standards Overview of the international initiative guidelines and standards FY 2011 Results FY 2012 Plans United Nations Global Compact (UNGC): Implement internal training An international initiative whereby companies and other organizations Signed the UNGC concerning the 10 principles cooperate to pursue the sustainable growth of society of the UNGC ISO26000: Extract priority issues and set A guidance standard concerning social responsibility (SR) published by themes for initiatives, plans and Implement the PDCA cycle the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Considered a qualitative/quantitative targets based on plans and targets guide for all types of organizations to fulfill their social responsibilities (details on p. 5-6, p. 33-34) Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct (EICC): Wrote procedures for building Apply the procedures noted on A code formulated by an organization composed mainly of electronics a management system based the left to affiliated overseas manufacturers and major suppliers. The EICC is composed of standards on the EICC and applied those companies related to human rights and labor practices, health and safety, the procedures throughout Verify actual compliance to the environment, fair trade and ethics and a system to manage these areas domestic Group companies code through internal audits ROHM Group Basic CSR Policy We conduct our business activities from a global point of view in conformance with ROHM’s Company Mission and Basic Management Policy in order to contribute to the sustainable progress of society. We also endeavor to Management Quality Innovation establish good relationships with our stakeholders (below), gain trust from society, and aim for the continued growth of the company. ROHM seeks to obtain customer satisfaction and confidence by continuing to supply of high quality products and services in a timely and appropriate manner. ROHM is also open to customer feedback and suggestions, Customers and will evaluate them internally. ROHM places the highest priority on the safety of its products and strives to disclose relevant information as necessary. ROHM selects its business partners according to equitable and rational criteria. ROHM values the Business Partners relationship with its business partners and conducts equal and fair transactions for mutual prosperity. ROHM strives to ensure a safe and pleasant working environment, respect human values and individuality, Employees and create a fair and appropriate workplace where each employee may demonstrate individual initiative. ROHM seeks to continuously improve corporate value and secure appropriate profits in order to provide a Shareholders and Investors steady return to both shareholders and investors. ROHM offers financial information in order to keep shareholders and investors actively informed. ROHM works to deepen its relationship with each country and local community, respect their culture and Local Societies and history, and implement and support social, cultural, and art activities. ROHM also endeavors to preserve the Communities global environment throughout its daily business activities. ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 24 Commencement of internal outside entities, the ROHM Group Headquarters o n c e e v e r y t w o CSR audits has begun carrying out two types years on the 15 companies to Many electronics manufacturers of internal audits concerning CSR check the status of their internal perform CSR audits to verify from FY 2012. An internal CSR CSR audits and compliance with that their suppliers are meeting audit is held once a year by each EICC. CSR criteria, such as the Electronic of the 15 major domestic and Applying audit recommendations Industry Citizenship Coalition overseas production companies to to all the other production companies Code of Conduct (EICC). The check their compliance with the improves CSR management ROHM Group also receives CSR EICC. In addition, a comprehensive t h ro u g h o u t a l l R O H M G ro u p audits. internal CSR audit is performed by companies. In addition to these audits from the CSR Division at ROHM Internal CSR audits and comprehensive audit ROHM (Headquarters) Comprehensive Internal CSR Audit ROHM Group ROHM Group ROHM Group ROHM Group ROHM Group Production Company Production Company Production Company Production Company Production Company CSR CSR CSR CSR CSR Internal Audit Internal Audit Internal Audit Internal Audit Internal Audit … 15 major domestic and overseas production companies in the ROHM Group CSR audits from customer companies – Making improvements based on recommendations to strengthen our CSR organization. The ROHM Group considers CSR audits (including our CSR management structure. In FY 2011, ROHM EICC audits) from customer companies important also revised basic transaction agreements with opportunities to increase our management quality. business partners to ensure that they also comply Making steady improvements based on suggestions with the EICC. received during these audits allows ROHM to strengthen Partial list of CSR audits including EICC audits received in FY 2011 Customer Companies ROHM Group Companies Audited ROHM Co., Ltd. / ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. / ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. / Amazon.com, Inc. ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. / ROHM Semiconductor (China) Co., Ltd. International Business Machines ROHM Semiconductor (China) Co., Ltd. / Corporation (IBM) ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 25 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Stakeholder participation possible. Collaborative research Valuing dialogue with with educational institutions in Creating a global CSR stakeholders J a p a n a n d a b ro a d a n d s o c i a l management system To ensure company prosperity, it is contribution activities provide other ISO26000 was formulated in necessary to incorporate the ideas venues for deepening exchanges cooperation with numerous of the various in the company’s with people in countries across the stakeholders in each country management plan. globe. around the world and can be The ROHM Group receives many The ROHM Group values these considered a universal suggestions and requests from opportunities for dialogue with language that surpasses the customers during regular sales stakeholders, and firmly utilizes the differences between the laws activities and CSR audits. Requests opinions and requests received in its and cultures of each country. and opinions are also received directly business and CSR activities. This makes it an excellent from business partners during factory guide for the ROHM Group audits and other occasions. In Management system based when taking on various addition, meetings between on international standards management challenges management executives and Commencing activities aimed around the world. Therefore, we representative employees are held at OHSAS18001 certification are currently moving ahead in periodically to discuss topics such as Numerous ROHM Group companies formulating a global CSR workplace environment and have already been certified for management system based on employee treatment, and dialogues the ISO14001 environmental this standard. are frequently held between the management system and ISO9001 We are also focusing efforts ROHM President and employees quality management system on developing products and (details on p. 7). ROHM takes standards. technology that help resolve advantage of these opportunities to In FY 2011, ROHM began pursuing social issues from the gather opinions and suggestions activities to become certified in perspective of strategic CSR from employees on various topics. OHSAS18001, an inter national that provides us with a IR meetings are also held in Japan standard related to occupational competitive advantage. and overseas in an attempt to obtain health and safety management Going forward, the ROHM direct feedback from a s m a n y systems. Group will set CSR as a shareholders and investors as primary management axis and actively pursue CSR activities. Main opportunities for dialogue with stakeholders Management Quality Innovation Customers ............... CSR audits, regular sales activities Hidemi Takasu Business partners ... Briefings on topics such as green procurement, factory Chairperson of the CSR Promotion Committee audits Managing Director, Member of the Board Employees ............... Dialogues between the ROHM President and employees, Research and Development Headquarters ROHM Co., Ltd. labor-management dialogues Shareholders The Japan Society of Applied Physics Fellow and investors ........... Shareholders’ meetings, IR meetings in Japan and overseas China Tsinghua University Guest Professor Zhejiang University Guest Professor Society and Xi’an Jiaotong University Guest Professor local communities ... Collaborative research with educational institutions, Osaka Prefecture University Guest Professor social contribution activities Current status of management system formulation ISO9001 20 certifications in the entire ROHM Group. Built a management system based on ISO14001 for the entire ROHM Group. ISO14001 (ROHM, domestic affiliates and ROHM Korea Corporation have received third-party certification as an integrated system. Overseas Group companies have created a management system based on the ISO14001 standard, and have self-declared their conformance.) ROHM and ROHM Semiconductor (China) Co., Ltd are OHSAS18001 currently preparing for certification within the 2012 fiscal year. ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 26 CSR Performance (Report of activities based on ISO26000) Human rights and labor practices Respecting human rights and each and every new employee for program for parents of children up to diversity in employment their first year at the company. This 3rd grade, as well as a program that Protecting the International helps promote mutual understanding makes a portion of childcare leave a Labor Organization’s between employees of various paid holiday. Fundamental Principles and nationalities at ROHM. To reduce stress for employees Rights at Work returning to work after their childcare The ROHM Group protects the Female employee leave, work duties are adjusted on Fundamental Principles and Rights participation an individual basis. ROHM will at Work declared by the International The ratio of female employees at continue to take such efforts to Labor Organization (ILO). ROHM is set to approximately 25% establish excellent work-life balance The ROHM Group has set the (as of March 2012). and create a work environment that ‘prohibition of forced labor and child The ratio of women among new is comfortable for all employess. l a b o r ’ a n d ‘ re s p e c t f o r e q u a l graduates hired has recently increased opportunity and diversity and the among sales staff and engineers prohibition of unfair discrimination and there are steadily increasing Words from an employee based on sex, age, nationality, race, opportunities for female employees who took childcare leave ethnicity, beliefs, religion, social in the company. I began thinking about childcare status or physical disability’ as its leave when I found out that I Ratio of females among new standards, and respects the human graduates hired (ROHM HQ) would soon be the father of rights of each and every R O H M twins and felt we would need employee. FY 2010 FY 2011 extra help at home. In 2010, I Sales 35% 50% was the first man at ROHM to Employing people of Engineering 10% 12% take childcare leave. At the time, diverse backgrounds I worried about what my Globally, ROHM actively accepts coworkers would think, but employees and foreign students Work-life balance everyone was deeply respectful from diverse backgrounds, ROHM is creating programs to of my decision and actually exceeding boundaries of academic enable continuous employment expressed concern, for which I history or sex. throughout life events such as am very grateful. After joining ROHM, foreign marriage, pregnancy and childbirth. During my leave I received employees are provided training in Since 2010, ROHM has been great support and understanding English and a mentor is given to implementing a short-term service from those around me, each and every day I became more aware of the importance of family. I gained a renewed sense of how truly important it was for me, as a father, to be there for my family at a crucial time to offer my support. I later heard that other men began taking childcare leave, and am very glad I took the opportunity. Yoshiyuki Hojo Team Leader LSI Product Development Headquarters Power System Team ROHM Co., Ltd. Generating new ideas through an exchange of opinions between employees from diverse backgrounds. 27 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Employee Support Center Occupational health and safety Human resource development A support center has been Aiming for zero work-related Supporting employee established in the Personnel Division injuries growth through a variety of to receive complaints and questions ROHM carries out risk assessments training programs from employees. and internal patrols through its ROHM focuses efforts on level-based Counseling staff are available for Central Health and Safety Committee training for employees as well consultations concerning career with the goal of zero work-related as department-specific courses issues, interpersonal relations at injuries. These efforts have ensured for sect o r s s u c h a s s a l e s a n d work, and any harassment by phone, zero accidents that require time off development. e-mail and in person. A female from work for 17 consecutive years N e w t r a i n i n g p ro j e c t s w e re counseling staff member is also up until FY 2011. launched for young sales staff in available to facilitate easier Health and safety management F Y 2009 and young product consultation for female employees. is being enforced at each domestic development engineers in FY 2011 and overseas production company to develop the skills required for each Employing people with with the goal of zero incidences of stage of development. ROHM also disabilities work-related injuries. ROHM also offers specialized training programs ROHM Group companies in Japan uses a Legal Compliance Checklist such as quality management courses are open to employment of once a year to check the degree and external training courses for individuals with disabilities. of understanding and level of various certifications. The employment rate for people compliance with laws related to A total of 2,298 employees took with disabilities in FY 2011 was health and safety at each company. part in training courses in FY 2011, 1.81% at ROHM Headquarters and which corresponds to over half of all Incidence rate (Rohm Group) 1.96% throughout Group companies employees taking some type of in Japan. *ROHM HQ incidence rate is 0 for all years shown course during the one-year period. Employment rate for people with disabilities 0.05 Support system for employees 0.03 0.02 seeking to carry out global (%) ROHM HQ ROHM Group in Japan activities 1.98 2.05 1.96 ROHM created a global human 2009 2010 2011 (FY) resources development system in FY 1.95 1.99 1.81 2009, in which career plans are Number of casualties Legal employment rate 1.80 (as of March 2012) from work-related injury proposed that enable individual Incidence rate = ×1,000,000 Total labor time employees to make full use of their Management Quality Innovation 2009 2010 2011 (FY) capabilities based on their particular Severity rate (Rohm Group) stage of development. Respect for human rights *ROHM HQ severity rate is 0 for all years shown For example, in the management Requesting business partners and sales divisions, ROHM trains to observe human rights employees that desire to be live 0.0004 0.0005 ROHM requests the prohibition of 0.0002 and work around the world and inhumane treatment or discrimination dispatches them to various as well as forced or child labor from locations to achieve their goals. business partners i n i t s b a s i c E m p l o y e e s a re p ro v i d e d w i t h transaction agreement. 2009 2010 2011 (FY) support in the form of career In FY 2011, ROHM revised this Total number of work-days lost planning and training courses to Severity rate = ×1,000 contract and added requests for Total labor time increase awareness of their compliance to the Electronic Industry professional objectives and gives Citizenship Coalition Code of them the power and freedom to Conduct (EICC) including detailed turn their dreams into reality. regulations concerning human rights and labor (details on p. 30). ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 28 CSR Performance (Report of activities based on ISO26000) Environment Environmental targets VOC Emissions (ROHM Group) e n v i ro n m e n t a l a d m i n i s t r a t i o n , Medium-term targets for (tons) helping to preserve the local aquatic FY 2020 173 environment. 169 The ROHM Group has set FY 2020 160 In addition, industrial and ground Target as the goal for medium-term targets 152 Target water from ROHM plants are turned (refer to p33). 147 into ultra-pure water for cleaning Goals have also been set for semiconductors, and after use is each year to reach medium-term relatively free of impurities, making it targets and the PDCA cycle is being possible to recycle up to roughly implemented. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2020 (FY) 40% of the total water intake. And activities such as cultivating Activities to reduce Preserving Water Sources technology that may help reduce environmental load Industrial wastewater is neutralized the amount of water consumed by Energy-saving chemically before discharging. To production equipment are also production activities to help enhance environmental being conducted in order to prevent global warming conservation around the discharge minimize water consumption. The ROHM Group established a area in rivers, ROHM uses a Closed Water Consumption (ROHM Group) high efficiency production line ROHM Tr e a t m e n t S y s t e m , w h i c h (thousands of m3 ) Production System (RPS—ROHM concentrates the treated water and Production System) that minimizes then evaporates it completely using 10,775 Target 10,215 10,042 10,011 Target energy used in semiconductor a special drier. 9,698 manufacturing. In addition, critical The ROHM Group has production equipment is produced implemented this system at in-house whenever possible in order production factories near Lake to high quality, low cost and quick Laguna, one of the most important delivery (QCD). lakes under the Philippines’ 2009 2010 2011 2012 2020 (FY) Through these efforts, ROHM has successfully increased p ro d u c t i o n e ffi c i e n c y a n d c u t Outstanding Environmental Performer Award (From by wasteful processes, resulting in the Philippine Economic Zone Authority) significant energy savings. In April 2012, ROHM’s production site in the Philippines was awarded the CO2 Emissions (ROHM Group) Outstanding Environmental Performer Award by the Philippine Economic Zone (thousands of tons of CO2) Authority. This is the second time the company has received the award (the first time was in 2009). The company has continued to receive a number of 712 707 Target Target prestigious awards, including the Outstanding Community Projects Award and 648 658 651 the Outstanding Employer Award given out last year. These awards are a testament to the high evaluations the company has received for its appropriate environmental management and legal compliance as well as its environmental conservation activities that are closely linked to the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2020 (FY) local community (tree planting, recycling, environmental education) and * The Thailand floods caused a reduction in production volume in FY 2011, which initiatives to reduce the environmental load (CO 2 reduction and energy temporarily reduced CO2 emissions. conservation activities). We will continue to improve the environment in the Philippines through steady environmental protection efforts. Reduction O r g a n i c s o l v e n t s re q u i re d f o r Emerline A. Malicdem Safety and Environment semiconductor manufacturing Department processes are classified as volatile General Affairs Division ROHM Electronics organic compounds (VOC). VOCs Philippines, Inc. released into the atmosphere may generate photochemical smog. The ROHM Group cuts VOC use t h r o u g h m o d i fi c a t i o n s a n d improvements in processing as well Awards Ceremony attended by the Philippines a s t h ro u g h a c t i v i t i e s s u c h a s President (April 26, 2012) installing VOC removal systems. 29 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Fair operating practices Compliance System and business Conditions Required for Basic Contracts conduct guidelines Request CSR activities based on the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC) ROHM established and maintains 1. Human rights and labor ............... Prohibit forced labor an appropriate compliance system 2. Safety and hygiene ....................... Safety measures for mechanical required as a company. ROHM also equipment, workplace safety and hygiene formed a Compliance Committee to 3. Environment ................................... Control chemical substances included teach and promote the system in in products order to prevent non-compliance in 4. Fair transactions and ethics ....... Prohibit abuses of dominant any Group company. bargaining position ROHM Group Business Conduct 5. Quality and safety ......................... Ensure product safety Guidelines specifying basic ethical 6. Information security ...................... Defend against network threats rules that should be applied in 7. Social contribution ........................ Contribute to society and daily business activities are utilized local communities throughout all Group companies. 8. Business continuity plan (BCP) .... Build a crisis management system In addition, ROHM strives to disseminate and increase awareness of the concept of Promoting social responsibility includes conflict minerals procured compliance through inter nal throughout the value chain through inhumane methods such as educational activities such as Requesting EICC compliance looting by illegally armed groups in establishing Compliance by business partners disputed regions. Reinforcement Months and The ROHM Group includes in its Since FY 2010, the ROHM Group conducting workshops. checklist items such as factory carefully has been carefully selecting audit results to business partners, its suppliers and, as of June 2012, is Compliance hotline for environmental evaluation using no conflict minerals. business partners authorization results, ISO ROHM has set up a compliance certification status and business Implementing CSR hotline for consultations and to continuity plan (BCP) formulation procurement receive non-compliance reports status, and regularly assesses In FY 2012, ROHM will review f ro m a n y e m p l o y e e , i n c l u d i n g business partners as well. ROHM and launch CSR surveys and non-regular employees, working in also requests CSR considerations follow through with initiatives any of ROHM’s domestic from business partners through the such as establishing a BCP companies. This allows swift basic contract agreement. Management Quality Innovation system based on mutual assessment of compliance In FY 2011, the previous understanding and cooperation breaches and enables ROHM to contract agreement was revised to from business partners. take appropriate responses. In FY include a clause requesting All employees in the divisions 2011, compliance hotlines for Electronic Industry Code of fully understand the rules and business partners were also set up Conduct (EICC) compliance. In the concepts specified in UN Global at ROHM Headquarters and in future ROHM will use this revised Compact ISO26000, EICC and major overseas affiliates. agreement when entering into a other relevant standards, and contract with all its business ROHM will make a concerted effort Comprehensive partners. In addition, ROHM will to have these regulations applied anti-corruption (bribery distribute a CSR self-assessment by its business partners as well. prevention) measures checklist based on EICC to The ROHM Group established business partners to verify Mamoru Shimazu a d m i n i s t r a t i o n re g u l a t i o n s t o compliance status and provide Group Manager Procurement Division prevent bribery in January 2012 and instructions on how to make the ROHM Co., Ltd. s e n t t h e m o u t t o a l l a ffi l i a t e d necessary improvements. companies in Japan and overseas in an effort to eliminate corruption. Non-use of conflicting ROHM will continue to conduct materials ongoing educational activities such Tin, gold, tantalum and tungsten as level-based training courses. are used in a number of ROHM Group products. The supply of these four minerals in the market ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 30 CSR Performance (Report of activities based on ISO26000) Customer support (consumer issues) Quality assurance to ensure the product meets information appropriately, and Providing corporate clients customer demands, is safe and manage information obtained strictly and consumers with ROHM’s reliable, and is brought to and securely. industry-leading quality m a r k e t i n a t i m e l y m a n n e r. I n ROHM also formulated an ROHM Group products are mostly addition, evaluations are carried out information security policy to parts and devices and are rarely at each stage of production, from appropriately protect confidential r a re l y e n d p ro d u c t s ( w i t h t h e prototype development to mass information received from customers exception of LED lighting solutions). production. Feedback regarding based on contract and took However, ROHM’s pursuit of ‘Quality improvements is conveyed to the measures to that included creating a First’ extends to providing our employees in the design and system for preventing security leaks customers with high quality development departments, who and raising awareness among products that contribute to high will address the issue(s) and apply employees. reliability end-products. them in successive designs. In FY 2011, ROHM conducted online information security training Quality control system Thorough quality training for all employees. Results such as A t R O H M , t h e re i s a s e p a r a t e The ROHM Group is focused on participation and degree of production department for each providing comprehensive employee understanding were summarized in product category (i.e. ICs, training regarding quality to enable a visual format and appropriately transistors, LEDs) within the the Development, Sales and disclosed to participants as Manufacturing Division. These Manufacturing Divisions to ensure feedback, resulting in increased departments carry out daily ‘Quality First’ in all aspects of their a w a re n e s s a b o u t i n f o r m a t i o n management duties to ensure high dealings with customers. security among all employees. This quality, low cost and quick delivery. In addition to training for all new training will be held in FY 2012 and Each production department has its employees about basic methods for on and updated based on the latest own QC (Quality Control) Division achieving quality control, various information accordingly. t h a t i s re s p o n s i b l e f o r o v e r a l l c o u r s e s a re a v a i l a b l e s u c h a s It should be noted that in FY environmental and quality classes on reliability techniques for 2011 there were no incidents of assurance for each product and e n g i n e e r s a n d l e v e l s p e c i fi c leakage or loss of private or implements a quality management courses on quality management for confidential customer information. system based on the ISO9001 each position. Training on quality international standard. are also conducted at each A Quality Assurance Division has production site. also been established, under direct control of ROHM’s President. This Protection of confidential Company-wide pursuit Division is responsible for building a information of ‘Quality First’ quality management system for the Improved information ‘Quality First’ cannot be achieved entire company—not limited to the security awareness solely by the quality divisions. It Manufacturing Division or Based on “Act on the Protection of m u s t b e a c o n c e r t e d e ff o r t Headquarters—and performs duties Personal Information” and “Guidelines taken by employees of all such as information disclosure and Targeting Economic and Industrial divisions, from the Development, supervising the activities of the Sectors Pertaining to the Act on the Material Procurement, Production Manufacturing Division QC Protection of Personal Information,” Equipment Management, and Department. ROHM makes every effort to clarify Manufacturing Divisions to the When developing a new product, the purpose for using private Sales Division and the divisions a 4-stage design review is conducted customer information, collect that manage personnel affairs, general affairs and accounting. All employees are trained to achieve this goal. Keiichi Aihara Senior Engineer Market Quality Assurance Group Corporate Quality Assurance Division ROHM Co., Ltd. Training at the Dalian production site 31 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Community involvement and community development Disaster assistance A total of 46 stories have been “ROHM Forest”— Recovery efforts in areas posted to date. A tree-planting project damaged by the Great As an initiative to prevent global East Japan Earthquake Environmental conservation w a r m i n g , R O H M b e g a n a t re e In July 2011 the ROHM Group classes for elementary planting project in 2001. The total donated 15,000 LED bulbs to the school students area encompassed by the “ROHM Association of Architectural Firms in Since FY 2010 ROHM has been F o re s t ” i n V i c t o r i a , a s t a t e i n Fukushima, Miyagi and Iwate conducting environmental southern Australia, grew to 923ha prefectures. The LED bulbs are conservation classes for elementary by FY 2010. Starting in 2011, adult being used in restoration work in school students in Kyoto. trees in the forest will be trimmed houses and other buildings. Classes are held in the schools. In and the chips will be made into In addition, charity concerts were addition to lessons on topics such as paper. held in each disaster area through the the mechanisms of global warming ROHM Music Foundation (a Public and actions children can take at Donations and Monetary Contributions in FY 2011 Interest Incorporated Foundation), home and at school to save energy, (millions of yen) totaling 85 performances by 27 experiments are also also performed Sports Support Science and organizations (refer to p35). using ROHM-made LEDs. During the 24 ( 5%) Technology experiments, the children can 8 ( 2%) Monetary donations to compare the amount of power used Arts and Culture areas affected by the in LED bulbs versus miniature bulbs 67 (15%) Thailand floods using a manual power generator, Human Resources The ROHM Group makes donations letting them see the energy-saving Development to afflicted regions around the effects for themselves. Environmental/ Community 321 (73%) world to support disaster recovery Today’ s children have fewer Contributions and Others efforts. In FY 2011, funds were opportunities to experience in crafts 23 (5%) d o n a t e d t o h e l p re b u i l d a re a s and manufacturing, inevitably destroyed in Thailand by the major resulting in waning interest. ROHM floods and on Mindanao Island in seeks to take advantage of Kyoto’s the Philippines that was hit by a place as a manufacturing city and typhoon. create opportunities for elementary and junior high school students to Social contribution activities learn and experience manufacturing Implementing social Teaching kids about science firsthand. As part of this goal, contribution activities There is growing concern in Japan ROHM opened a both in the Kyoto rooted in the community that young people are becoming Student City Lifestyle Investigation As part of our social Management Quality Innovation increasingly disinterested in science Building where elementary students contribution to the local and technology. In response to this in Kyoto can take part in simulated community, we donated 4,000 ROHM published a section in its social activities, and hold classes sheets of paper for studying official website to foster interest in on environmental studies. Braille to students of the Tianjin science among young people. ROHM will continue these School for the Visually Impaired. The section titled, “D ia r y of initiatives in FY 2012 and beyond We have continued this the New and Natural History of and will strive to convey to children practice since last year, to the ROHM-kun: Turning Fables into the importance of energy delight of the children, and hope Science,” explains the mysteries of conservation and the joys of to continue carrying out social fables from a scientific perspective. manufacturing. contribution activities at the local level. Li Haoran CSR Promotion Department ROHM Semiconductor (China) Co., Ltd. Environmental Studies class ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 32 CSR Performance (Report of activities based on ISO26000) CSR targets and results Priority CSR Issues of the ROHM Group < 1 Provide a stable supply of high quality products 2 Resolve social issues through product innovations 3 Develop human resources for the global economy> Core ISO26000 Initiative Themes FY 2011 Targets/Plans <*FY 2020 Targets/Plans> Issues < 1 2 3 are numbers for priority issues> Strengthen the CSR system Strengthen the global CSR management system Implement CSR activities based on Initiate CSR management based on the UN Global Compact and ISO26000 international initiative guidelines CSR Maintain and improve the business continuity management Revise the BCM system as needed management (BCM) system for stable supply < 1 > Organizational system Maintain and improve the quality Maintain a management system based on ISO9001 Governance maintenance management system < 1 > and improvement Maintain and improve the environmental Maintain a management system based on ISO14001 management system Maintain and improve the occupational Begin preparations to obtain OHSAS18001 certification health and safety management system Hold stakeholder dialogues Hold dialogues with various stakeholders Make revisions to the basic contracts to have business partners comply with EICC criteria, including respect for Respecting human rights human rights Human Actively employ foreign staff at domestic Group companies Promote diversity and creating a comfortable working Rights environment Maintain the legal employment rate of 1.80% for disabled people (Domestic Group companies) Provide a working environment that is comfortable for a wide variety of people Labor Develop human resources to undertake global businesses < 3 > Continue operation of a global human resource training system Practices Build a safe, comfortable working environment Aim for zero work-related injuries and carry out thorough health and safety management activities (ROHM) Verify the occupational health and safety indicators at domestic and overseas ROHM Group companies Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% from the previous year’s level <*25% reduction compared to FY 2005> CO2 countermeasures at each site Reduce CO2 emissions (per production unit) by 2% from the previous year’s level <*50% reduction compared to FY 1990> Reduce PFC and SF6 emissions by more than 14% from the 1995 level <*50% reduction compared to FY 1995> Reduce CO2 emissions from offices by 1% from the 2009 level <*10% reduction compared to FY 2009> Increase the percentage of total sales that are attributed to eco-friendly products to 50% <*100%> CO2 countermeasures through the value chain < 2 > Reduce the CO2 emission level for logistics (per production unit) by 2% from the previous year’s level Develop a policy Reduce the volume of chemical substances handled (voluntarily reduced substances) by 2% from the 2009 level centered on the Reduce the volume of PRTR substances handled (per production unit) by 1% from the previous year’s level Reducing environmental pollutants Environmental <*10% reduction compared to FY 2010> Targets for Reduce VOC emissions by 33% from the 2000 level <*40% reduction compared to FY 2000> Environment FY 2020 Reduce the volume of waste (per production unit) in domestic companies by 2% from the previous year’s level <*40% reduction compared to FY 2000> Effective use of resources Reduce the volume of waste (per production unit) in overseas companies by 2% from the previous year’s level <*60% reduction compared to FY 2000> Reduce water consumption by 1% from the previous year’s level <*10% reduction compared to FY 2009> Maintain zero emissions in domestic consolidation Implementing environment-related communication Continue environmental training and education initiatives for children Exhaustive chemical substance management in line with green Ensure compliance with guidelines for the usage/non-usage of designated chemicals procurement guidelines Continue with Compliance Reinforcement Months Promoting Strengthen the compliance system Continue conducting level-based compliance training courses fair business Establish a compliance hotline for business partners activities Fair Operating based on the Practices ROHM Group Revise contracts to reflect EICC criteria Fair competition and trading Business Ensure zero usage of 4 conflict minerals (tin, gold, tantalum and tungsten) Conduct Guidelines Corruption and bribery prevention Create company rules related to bribery prevention Protection and appropriate management of Familiarize all employees with critical information regarding information security information Ensuring product quality < 1 > Carry out exhaustive analysis of quality issues and ongoing improvement initiatives Customer Accurately assessing customer needs and developing Develop products that help resolve social issues, such as energy conservation Support industry-leading products < 2 > (consumer issues) Thorough implementation of policies related to Consider revising CSR procurement criteria CSR procurement Contribution to promote and develop Continue to support music culture Contribute to music culture Community the growth and Involvement well-being of and society as a Development good corporate Suitable donations and support initiatives that Continue donations and support initiatives targeted at providing aid to disaster areas, etc. citizen respond to a broad range of social needs Activities that match the demands of Strive to support local communities and provide a forum for industry-government-university cooperation local communities 33 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 The ROHM Group pursues global CSR management based on ISO26000. In addition to strengthening the system and complying with ISO26000, ROHM is extracting priority issues across the entire value chain and establishing themes for initiatives, plans and targets. EvaluaFY 2011 Results tion FY 2012 Targets/Plans Assign a CSR promotions representative in major domestic and overseas production companies within Established a CSR Committee chaired by the president in order to control all CSR activities within the ROHM Group and establish a CSR Promotions Committee the Group, and set up a CSR Division under direct control of the president Conduct internal CSR audits at major domestic and overseas production companies within the ROHM Group Joined the UN Global Compact Provide training on the UN Global Compact, ISO26000 and other standards Set priority issues, themes for initiatives, goals and plans based on ISO26000 Implement the PDCA cycle in order to achieve targets and plans Applied the experiences learned from the production stoppages during the Great East Japan Review the BCP and implement it globally Earthquake and Thailand floods to strengthen the BCM system Maintained and implemented appropriately Maintain and implement a management system based on ISO9001 Maintained and implemented appropriately Maintain and implement a management system based on ISO14001 ROHM HQ and ROHM Group companies in China launched activities to obtain certification Obtain certification for ROHM HQ and ROHM Group companies in China in FY 2012 Consider obtaining certification for other ROHM Group companies Held dialogues between the president and employees Consider further dialogues, etc. with various stakeholders Underwent CSR audits by customers and strived to improve points of concern Strengthen CSR audit response and aim for zero points of concern Revised contracts Renegotiate contracts based on the revised agreement Increased the employment rate of foreign staff from 10% (FY 2010) to 14% (FY 2011) Maintained a level above the legal employment rate for disabled people at ROHM HQ and Recruit a diverse staff (not limited by race or sex) capable of thriving in the global market domestic Group companies Maintain the legal employment rate of 1.80% for disabled people (Domestic Group companies) Continued to implement a system that ensures continuous employment through life events Introduce and implement a system that enables a variety of people to work and fosters a good such as marriage, pregnancy and childbirth working environment Train staff that can capture global markets and establish a system to achieve this Continued to provide support in the form of career plan proposals and training courses Continue implementing a system to develop global human resources and introduce a new overseas training program for young employees Introduce global grading and promote standardization throughout the ROHM Group Achieved a record of zero work-related injuries requiring leave at ROHM HQ (17 consecutive years) Disclosed the number of work-related injuries at domestic and overseas ROHM Group companies Aim for zero work-related injuries and thoroughly manage health and safety CO2 emissions were reduced by 8.3% from the previous year’s level Reduce CO2 emissions by 7% from the 2010 level CO2 emissions (per unit production) were reduced by 4.0% from the previous year’s level Reduce CO2 emissions (per unit production) by 9% from the 2010 level PFC and SF6 emissions were reduced by 62.0% from the 1995 level Reduce greenhouse gas (i.e. PFCs, SF6) emissions by 43% from the 1995 level CO2 emissions from offices were reduced by 7.0% from the 2009 level The percentage of eco-friendly products that comprised sales profits increased to 50.6% Construct a mechanism for assessing the volume of CO2 emissions across the entire value chain The CO2 emission level for logistics (per production unit) increased by 4.5% from the previous year’s level Increase the ratio of eco-friendly products that comprise sales profits to 60% The handled volume of chemical substances (voluntarily reduced substances) was reduced by 6.2% from the 2009 level Reduce the volume of PRTR substances handled (per production unit) by 1% from the 2010 level The handled volume of PRTR substances (per production unit) rose by 2.5% from the previous year’s level Reduce VOC emissions by 38% from the 2000 level VOC emissions were reduced by 35.5% from the 2000 level The volume of waste (per production unit) at domestic companies was reduced by 6.3% from the previous year’s level Reduce the volume of consolidated waste overseas (per unit production) by 2% from the 2010 level The volume of waste (per production unit) at overseas companies was reduced by 3.9% Reduce water consumption by 2% from the 2010 level from the previous year’s level Maintain zero emissions in domestic consolidation and reduce waste volume (per unit production) Water consumption was reduced by 3.0% from the previous year’s level by 4% Zero emissions were maintained in domestic consolidated. (99.95%) Management Quality Innovation Conducted 8 environment-related classes at 5 elementary schools in Kyoto Continue conducting environment-related classes Continued compliance with the use/non-use of designated chemicals Continue complying with guidelines for the use/non-use of designated chemicals Expand Compliance Reinforcement Month to overseas ROHM Group companies Held Compliance Reinforcement Months at ROHM HQ and ROHM Group companies in Japan Continue providing level-based compliance education Continued conducting compliance training workshops for new recruits and newly appointed Implement support for compliance education and training at overseas ROHM Group companies managerial staff Develop ‘Legal e-learning’ for employees Established compliance hotlines for domestic and overseas business partners Consider revising the Code of Conduct in consideration of the UN Global Compact and ISO26000 Added a request for compliance with EICC criteria to the contracts Distribute the CSR Initiative Self-Assessment Checklist based on EICC to business partners, Collected written agreements on the non-use of conflict minerals from business partners verify compliance, and provide guidance on making improvements as needed Formulated management regulations to prevent bribery and distributed them to ROHM HQ Provide bribery prevention education such as level-based training courses and all ROHM Group companies Continue holding online information security training courses Conducted online information security training for all ROHM employees Consider enriching course content based on the level of understanding of course participants Analyzed countermeasures against the root causes of quality issues based on the 4Ms (man, machine, Carry out exhaustive analysis of quality issues and ongoing improvement initiatives material, method) and carried out initiatives for improvement, including preventive measures Began mass production of full-SiC power modules that provide enormous energy savings Continue with sales activities of energy saving products such as SiC power devices Develop products that help resolve social issues, such as energy conservation Started CSR procurement that takes into account business continuity management (BCM) Implement CSR procurement that takes BCM into account for preparation against unforeseen events such as large-scale natural disasters Supported activities of the ROHM Music Foundation, for example by providing aid to concerts held to benefit areas destroyed by the Great East Japan Earthquake (The Foundation was awarded the Kyoto Prefecture Cultural Lifetime Achievement Award and Continue to support music culture the 30th Commemorative Special Award for its activities) Co-sponsored numerous concerts, including some performed by the Kyoto Symphony Orchestra in ROHM’s hometown Made donations to support recovery efforts in Thailand (floods), the Philippines (typhoon), Continue to provide donations and sponsorships in a timely and appropriate manner based on and Wakayama Prefecture in Japan (typhoon) actual need Donated energy-saving LED bulbs to areas destroyed in the Great East Japan Earthquake and Continue to support local communities and provide a forum for industry-government-university for local events (e.g. the Kyoto Higashiyama Lantern Festival). collaboration Promoted industry-government-university research collaborations in Japan, the U.S. and China Consider social contribution activities in cooperation with NGOs and NPOs Evaluation criteria: Achieved target/plan Slight gap between target/plan and achievements Large gap between target/plan and achievements ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 34 ROHM Spirit —— Nurturing young musicians Contributing to musical culture Outstanding music builds ties among people and and enables us to see the possibilities for art and culture. ROHM nurtures young talent and takes on a wide variety of initiatives to create a rich culture through the world of music. Helping young musicians grow past scholarship recipients includes Daishin Kashimoto ROHM has been involved in a number of (1st Concertmaster of the Berliner Philharmoniker), music-related support activities, beginning with music Tatsuya Shimono (Resident Conductor of the Yomiuri book publishing in 1965 and holding and supporting Nippon Symphony Orchestra) and numerous other concerts continuously since 1989. musicians who are currently active around the world. From 2000 ROHM has agreed to sponsor the Seiji The Foundation also holds music seminars to nurture Ozawa Music Academy in response to Seiji Ozawa’s professional musicians, hosts the Kyoto International passion for nurturing young musicians, and also Music Students Festival to promote international supported an educational initiative for young exchange, and sponsors music-related performances musicians called the Orchestra Project, which gave and research. performances in Beijing and Shanghai on September In FY 2011, the Foundation promoted benefit 4 and September 11, respectively. concerts in areas destroyed by the Great East Japan Earthquake to give hope through music to people Public Interest Incorporated Foundation affected by the disaster. A total of 85 concerts were ROHM Music Foundation held in 75 locations by 27 orchestras and brass The ROHM Music Foundation, a Public Interest bands from around Japan, delivering heartwarming Incorporated Foundation, was established in 1991 with music to about 25,000 people. the goal of promoting and developing music culture through scholarships, public concerts, and other initiatives. The total projected costs in FY 2011 were 1.30213 billion yen, with a total of 270.3 million yen allotted to scholarships for 100 students. The list of Seiji Ozawa Music Kyoto Symphony Music seminar Conductor Class Kyoto International Music Students Festival Academy performance Orchestra concert (Photo by Tatsuo Sasaki) (Photo by Tatsuo Sasaki) Disaster Area Benefit Concert (Natori, Miyagi) 35 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 Company Information Corporate Data Organization Chart Company Name: ROHM Co.,Ltd. President Headquarters: 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, Ukyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8585 Japan Tel: +81 (75) 311-2121 Fax: +81 (75) 315-0172 Research & Development Date Established: September 17, 1958 Research and Development Headquarters Capital: 86,969 million JPY (as of March 31, 2012) Representative: Satoshi Sawamura, President LSI Product Development Headquarters Sales Volume: Consolidated 304,652 million JPY (fiscal year ending March 2012) LSI Development System Headquaters Main ROHM Group products Production ICs LSI Operations Headquarters • EEPROMs • Automotive Regulators • Operational Amplifiers / • Motor Drivers Discrete Devices Production Headquarters Comparators • LED / LCD Drivers • Voltage Detector ICs (Reset ICs) • IT Equipment / Interface ICs Modules & Lighting Production Headquarters • Clock Generator ICs • Video and Imaging ICs • Analog Switches / Logic ICs • Audio ICs Sales • D/A Converters • Low Power Microcontrollers • Sensor ICs • Voice Synthesis ICs Japan Sales Headquarters • Linear Regulators • P2ROM • Switching Regulators • Display Drivers China Sales Headquarters • Power Management ICs • Battery Monitoring ICs Asia Sales Headquarters Discrete Semiconductors Modules (Sub Systems) • Transistors • Power Modules Euro-American Sales Headquarters • Diodes • Contact Image Sensor Heads • SiC Power Devices • Printheads Administration • LED Lighting Modules Opto Electronics • LED Displays Administrative Headquarters • IrDA Infrared Communication • LEDs Modules Accounting Headquarters • Laser Diodes • Remote Control Receiver • Optical Sensors Modules Passive Components Semiconductor CSR Division • Resistors Application Products • Tantalum Capacitors • Acceleration Sensors Corporate Quality Assurance Division • Gyroscopes Medical Equipment Audit Division • Clinical Diagnostic Analyzers • Clinical Diagnostic Chips Sales Volume Operating Profits Number of Employees (millions of yen) (millions of yen) (persons) 373,405 67,361 317,140 335,640 341,885 304,652 20,539 22,034 21,005 21,560 21,295 32,736 18,809 10,540 6,352 ’08/3 ’09/3 ’10/3 ’11/3 ’12/3 ’08/3 ’09/3 ’10/3 ’11/3 ’12/3 ’08/3 ’09/3 ’10/3 ’11/3 ’12/3 Sales Volume by Business Sales Volume by Region Employees by Geographical Region (millions of yen) (million yen) (persons) Europe Europe Others ICs 10,294 (3%) Japan 195 (1%) Japan 51,656 149,134 117,618 5,900 (17%) (49%) Americas (39%) Americas (28%) Total 12,606 Total 362 (2%) Total March March March (4%) Company FY 2012 FY 2012 FY 2012 304,652 304,652 21,295 information Discrete Asia Asia Devices 164,133 14,838 103,861 (34%) (54%) (69%) ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 36 Company Locations ROHM Group ROHM Group (Japan) R&D Centers Overview Sales Offices Kyoto Technology Center Japan Sales Headquarters (Headquarters) 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, Ukyo-ku, Kyoto JAPAN Yokohama 615-8585 Japan ROHM Shin Yokohama Ekimae Building, TEL: +81 (75) 311-2121 • Sales Offices: 11 sites 2-4-8 Shin Yokohama, Kohoku-ku, FAX: +81 (75) 314-6559 • Production Facilities: 10 sites Yokohama 222-8575 Japan Kyoto Technology Center TEL: +81 (45) 476-2121 • R&D (Design) FAX: +81 (45) 476-2500 (Kyoto Ekimae) ROHM Mechatech Co., Ltd. Centers: 4 sites ROHM Kyoto Ekimae Building, 579-32 3-6-1 Tsuchida, Ooi-cho, Kameoka, Tokyo • QA Centers: 2 sites 4F Kayaba-cho First Building, 1-17-21, Hihashi Shiokoji-cho, Karasuma Nishi-iru, Kyoto 621-0011 Japan Shiokoji-dori, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto TEL: +81 (771) 25-4717 Shinkawa, Chuo-ku,Tokyo 104-0033 600-8216 Japan FAX: +81 (771) 25-4707 Japan TEL: +81 (75) 365-1077 Main products: Molding dies and lead frames TEL: +81 (3) 6280-0820 FAX: +81 (75) 365-1079 FAX: +81 (3) 6280-0850 Yokohama Technology Center Nishitokyo ROHM Shin Yokohama Ekimae Building, ASIA 8F Hachioji First Square, 3-20-6, Myojincho, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0046 2-4-8 Shin Yokohama, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama 222-8575 Japan • Sales Offices: 37 sites Japan TEL: +81 (45) 476-2131 TEL: +81 (42) 648-7821 • Production Facilities: 9 sites FAX: +81 (42) 648-7823 FAX: +81 (45) 476-2128 • R&D (Design) Nagoya Design Center Kyoto Centers: 4 sites 14F Nagoya Prime Central Tower, ROHM Kyoto Ekimae Building, 579-32 2-27-8, Meieki, Nishi-ku, Nagoya • QA Centers: 6 sites Higashi Shiokoji-cho, Karasuma Nishi-iru, 451-0045 Japan LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Shiokoji-dori, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto TEL: +81 (52) 581-0185 550-1 Higashiasakawa-cho, Hachioji-shi, 600-8216 Japan FAX: +81 (52) 561-0187 Tokyo 193-8550 Japan TEL: +81 (75) 365-1077 TEL: +81 (42) 663-1111 FAX: +81 (75) 365-1079 FAX: +81 (42) 666-7213 Production Facilities Main products: ICs, and optical components Nagoya 14F Nagoya Prime Central Tower, 2-27-8, Meieki, Nishi-ku, Nagoya 451-0045 Japan TEL: +81 (52) 581-8521 FAX: +81 (52) 561-2173 Takasaki 12F Takasaki East Tower, 16-11, Sakae-cho, Takasaki, Gunma 370-0841 Japan TEL: +81 (27) 310-7111 ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. FAX: +81 (27) 310-7114 10 Sanwa-cho, Minami-ku, Hamamatsu LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Sendai 435-0038 Japan Co., Ltd. TEL: +81 (53) 468-1000 1 Okinodaira, Ohira-mura, Kurokawa-gun, 8F MB Odakyu Building, 4-12-12, FAX: +81 (53) 468-1195 Tsutsujigaoka, Miyaginoku, Sendai Miyagi Miyagi 981-3693 Japan Main products: ICs and LEDs TEL: +81 (22) 345-1211 983-0852 Japan TEL: +81 (22) 295-3011 FAX: +81 (22) 345-1310 EUROPE FAX: +81 (22) 295-3012 Main products: ICs • Sales Offices: 10 sites Mito • Production Facilities: 1 site 8F Fukoku-Seimei Building, 1-1-4, • R&D (Design) Izumi-cho, Mito, Ibaraki 310-0026 Japan TEL: +81 (29) 300-0585 Centers: 1 site FAX: +81 (29) 300-0588 • QA Centers: 1 site Matsumoto 5F Nihon-seimei Matsumoto-Ekimae Building, 1-4-20, Chuo, Matsumoto, ROHM Tsukuba Co., Ltd. Nagano 390-0811 Japan 10 Kitahara, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 300-3293 TEL: +81 (263) 34-8601 Japan LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki FAX: +81 (263) 34-8603 TEL: +81 (29) 877-1010 Co., Ltd. FAX: +81 (29) 877-1156 Hiroshima Main products: Transistors, diodes, and 727 Kihara, Kiyotake-cho, Miyazaki-shi, 5F Higashihiroshima Sea Place, 10-30, Miyazaki 889-1695 Japan SiC devices TEL: +81 (985) 85-5111 Saijo Sakae-machi, Higashihiroshima, Hiroshima 739-0015 Japan FAX: +81 (985) 85-5143 TEL: +81 (82) 423-8153 Main products: ICs FAX: +81 (82) 423-8154 Fukuoka 3F Sanix Hakata Building, 2-1-23, Hakataeki-higashi, Hakata-ku, Fukuoka 812-0013 Japan TEL: +81 (92) 483-3496 FAX: +81 (92) 483-3497 China Sales Headquarters ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. ROHM Kyoto Ekimae Building, 579-32 100 Tomioka, Kasaoka, Okayama Higashi Shiokoji-cho, Karasuma Nishi-iru, 714-8585 Japan AGLED Co., Ltd. AMERICAS Shiokoji-dori, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto TEL: +81 (865) 67-0111 2-16, Higashi-arioka, Itami, Hyogo 600-8216 Japan FAX: +81 (865) 67-2551 • Sales Offices: 12 sites TEL: +81 (75) 365-1216 Main products: ICs and diodes 664-0845 Japan TEL: +81 (72) 770-8060 • Production Facilities: 1 site FAX: +81 (75) 365-1226 FAX: +81 (72) 780-2024 • R&D (Design) Asia Sales Headquarters Main products: LED lighting equipment Centers: 2 sites ROHM Kyoto Ekimae Building, 579-32 and others Higashi Shiokoji-cho, Karasuma Nishi-iru, • QA Centers: 1 site Shiokoji-dori, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto 600-8216 Japan Distribution / Other Group TEL: +81 (75) 365-1217 Companies FAX: +81 (75) 365-1227 ROHM Logistec Co., Ltd. Euro-American Sales 75 Masusaka, Kamogata-cho, Asakuchi, Headquarters Okayama 719-0234 Japan ROHM Kyoto Ekimae Building, 579-32 ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. TEL: +81 (865) 44-3181 Higashi Shiokoji-cho, Karasuma Nishi-iru, FAX: +81 (865) 44-3185 1164-2, Hiyoshi, Hirokawa, Yame, Shiokoji-dori, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto Fukuoka 834-0111 Japan Narita Giken Co., Ltd. * As of the end of March 2012 600-8216 Japan TEL: +81 (943) 32-3000 1-29-13 Minamimukonoso, Amagasaki, TEL: +81 (75) 365-1218 FAX: +81 (943) 32-6180 FAX: +81 (75) 365-1228 Hyogo 661-0033 Japan Main products: ICs, transistors, tantalum TEL: +81 (6) 6433-0410 capacitors, SiCs, LED lighting FAX: +81 (6) 6433-0480 37 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 ROHM Group (Global) ROHM Semiconductor Production Facilities (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sales Offices 11th Floor GPF Witthayu Towers A, 93/1 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, AMERICA Bangkok 10330 Thailand ROHM Semiconductor U.S.A., TEL: +66-2-254-4890 LLC FAX: +66-2-256-6334 6815 Flanders Drive, Suite 150, ROHM Semiconductor SanDiego, CA 92121 U.S.A. TEL: +1-858-625-3600 Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ROHM-Wako Electronics FAX: +1-858-625-3640 Suite 2.2 Level2 MENERA AXIS NO.2 (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Jalan 51A/223, 46100, Petaling Jaya, ROHM Korea Corporation ROHM Semiconductor do Brasil Malaysia Lot 1320 Kawasan Perindustrian, Ltda. 371-11 Gasan-Dong, Guemcheon-gu, Pengkalan Chepa II, Padang Tembak, TEL: +60-3-7958-8355 Seoul 153-803, Korea 16100 Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia Rua Dr.Candido Espinheira, no.396, 12th FAX: +60-3-7958-8377 TEL:+82-2-8182-600 TEL:+60 (9) 7741500 floor, rooms 123 and 124, FAX:+82-2-837-0039 ROHM Semiconductor FAX:+60 (9) 7741540 bairro Perdizes, Sao Paulo SP 05004-000 Main products: ICs, transistors, and diodes India Pvt. Ltd. Main products: Diodes and LEDs Brasil TEL:+55-11-3539-6320 Unit 103, 1st Floor Sigma Wing, FAX:+55-11-2892-5697 Raheja-Towers, 177 Anna Salai, Chennai 600002, Tamil Nadu, India EUROPE TEL: +91-44-4352-0008 FAX: +91-44-4352-0003 ROHM Semiconductor GmbH Karl-Arnold-Stra e 15, 47877 Willich-Munchheide Germany R&D Centers TEL:+49-2154-9210 America Design Center FAX:+49-2154-921400 (San Diego) 6815 Flanders Drive, Suite 150, ROHM Electronics ROHM Mechatech ASIA San Diego, CA 92121 U.S.A. Philippines, Inc. Philippines, Inc. ROHM Semiconductor TEL: +1-858-625-3660 People’s Technology Complex Special People’s Technology Complex Special Korea Corporation FAX: +1-858-625-3616 Economic Zone, Carmona,Cavite 4116 Economic Zone, Carmona, Cavite 4116 371-11 Gasan-dong, Gumcheon-gu, Philippines Philippines America Design Center TEL:+63-2-894-1536 TEL:+63-46-430-2281 Seoul 153-803 Korea (Sunnyvale) TEL: +82-2-8182-700 FAX:+63-2-894-1544 FAX:+63-46-430-2282 785 N. Mary Avenue, Suite 120, Main products: ICs, transistors, diodes, Main products: Molding dies and lead frames FAX: +82-2-8182-715 Sunnyvale, CA 94085 U.S.A. and resistors ROHM Semiconductor TEL: +1-408-720-1900 Trading (Dalian) Co., Ltd. FAX: +1-408-720-1918 1201 Swiss Hotel, 21 Wuhui Road, Europe Design Center Zhong Shan District, Dalian 116001 China Karl-Arnold-Stra e 15, 47877 TEL: +86-411-8230-8549 Willich-Munchheide Germany FAX: +86-411-8230-8537 TEL:+49-2154-9210 ROHM Semiconductor FAX:+49-2154-921400 (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Korea Design Center 28F UNITED PLAZA, 1468 Nanjing Road 371-11 Gasan-Dong, Gumcheon-gu, ROHM Mechatech West, Shanghai 200040 China Seoul 153-803, Korea ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. TEL: +86-21-6279-2727 TEL:+82-2-8182-695 (Thailand) Co., Ltd. FAX: +86-21-6247-2066 102/2 Navanakorn Industrial Zone, Moo FAX:+82-2-8182-789 101/94, 102 Navanakorn Industrial Zone, 20, Phaholyothin Road, Tambol ROHM Semiconductor Moo 20, Phaholyothin Road, Tambol Khlong-Nueng, Amphur Khlong-Luong, Shanghai Design Center Khlong-Nueng, Amphur Khlong-Luong, (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Pathumthani 12120 Thailand 25F UNITED PLAZA, 1468 Nanjing Road Pathumthani 12120 Thailand TEL:+66-2-908-7271~5 Room 02B-03 5/F Tower Two, Kerry West, Shanghai 200040 China TEL:+66-2-909-7100 FAX:+66-2-908-7270 Plaza, 1 Zhongxinsi Road, Futian, TEL:+86-21-6279-2727 FAX:+66-2-909-7744 Main products: Molding dies and lead frames Shenzhen 518034 China FAX:+86-21-6247-2067 Main products: ICs, transistors, diodes, TEL: +86-755-8307-3008 resistors, and tantalum capacitors FAX: +86-755-8307-3003 Shenzhen Design Center Room 02B-03 5/F Tower Two, Kerry ROHM Semiconductor Plaza, 1 Zhongxinsi Road, Futian, Hong Kong Co., Ltd. Shenzhen 518034 China Room 1402-10 Tower 1, Silvercord, 30 TEL: +86-755-8307-3008 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, FAX: +86-755-8307-3003 Hong Kong TEL: +852-2740-6262 Taiwan Design Center FAX: +852-2375-8971 10F No.6 Sec.3 Min Chuan E. Road, Taipei, Taiwan ROHM Mechatech (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor TEL:+886-2-2500-6976 Taiwan Co., Ltd. FAX:+886-2-2503-2869 ROHM Semiconductor No.21, 2nd Saida Road, Xiqing Economic Development Area, Tianjin 300385 China 11F No.6 Sec.3 Min Chuan E. Road, (China) Co., Ltd. TEL:+86-22-2388-8585 Taipei, Taiwan No.7, Weisan Road, Micro-electronics FAX:+86-22-2388-8586 TEL: +886-2-2500-6956 Industrial Park, Jingang Highway, Xiqing Main products: Molding dies and lead frames FAX: +886-2-2503-2869 District, Tianjin 300385 China TEL:+86-22-8398-9000 ROHM Semiconductor FAX:+86-22-8398-9002 Singapore Pte. Ltd. Main products: Transistors, diodes, LEDs, 9 Temasek Boulevard laser diodes, LED displays, and optical #21-01 Suntec Tower Two, Singapore, sensors 038989 TEL: +65-6332-2322 FAX: +65-6332-5662 ROHM Semiconductor Philippines Corporation Kionix, Inc. Unit 4B Citibank-Frabelle Building, 36 Thornwood Drive, Ithaca, Madrigal Business Park, Alabang-Zapote NY 14850 U.S.A. Road, TEL:+1-607-257-1080 Muntinlupa City 1770 Philippines FAX:+1-607-257-1146 TEL: +63-2-807-6872 Main products: MEMS inertial sensors FAX: +63-2-809-1568 ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. No.20 Four Street East & North, Dalian Economic & Technical Development Zone, Dalian 116600 China TEL:+86-411-8762-0001 FAX:+86-411-8762-0101 Company Main products: Power modules, thermal printheads, contact image sensor heads, photolink modules, LED lighting, optical information sensors, and LED displays SiCrystal AG Thurn-und-Taxis-Strasse 20 90411 Nuremberg Germany TEL:+49-911-8177599-0 FAX:+49-911-8177599-100 Main products: SiC wafers ROHM Group Innovation Report 2012 38 55C6616E 07.2012 ROHM © 5000 . BR
