United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2013 Statement of continued support from Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose Over the past year, Allens has continued to implement and support the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which seeks to promote responsible corporate citizenship, encouraging business to be part of the solution to the challenges of globalisation. As a firm, we recognise that we have broad responsibilities to our people, their families and the communities in which we live, as well as our clients. In addition to maintaining the highest ethical standards, we engage with the wider community through our pro bono, reconciliation, charity and environment programs, and nurture close relationships with a wide range of community groups in each of those areas. Examples of Allens’ commitment to corporate social responsibility include: • Our Reconciliation Action Plan: We continue to assist Indigenous people and their communties; to inspire like-minded businesses to engage; and to raise cultural awareness. • Our Affirmative Action Program: Allens received the 2012 Employer of Choice for Women citation from the Federal Government’s Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency. This is the eighth consecutive time that the firm has received this citation. • The activities of our Footprint Committees: Allens, Footprint Committees are a driving force behind the firm’s environment-related activities, policies and initiatives, and they are leading our major initiative for this year: becoming carbon neutral. • Our pro bono contribution: Allens lawyers completed more than 41,000 hours of pro bono work during the past year. I am pleased to present this Communication on Progress, which outlines not only our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, but also the efforts of our people in honouring that commitment. Michael Rose Chief Executive Partner © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 Introduction Allens is a leading international law firm with partners, lawyers and corporate services staff across Asia and Australia. The firm works with many of the world’s leading organisations – including 55 of the world’s top 100 companies and more than 75 of Australia’s top 100 companies. We offer our clients access to leading lawyers and resources in Australia, Asia and around the world. Our clients recognise us for our commerciality, professionalism, integrity and technical expertise. We are praised for our innovative approach to complex work and delivering market-leading solutions to clients. Allens, which was the first organisation in Australia to become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, demands the highest of ethical standards from its employees and partners. These ethical standards support the 10 principles of the Global Compact while also supporting our client service, and increasing trust in our business and in the legal industry generally. Working to fulfil the Global Compact means businesses like ours can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. That’s why Allens is committed to internal and external practices – including our workplace and environment policies and community activities – that meet the criteria set by the Global Compact. Human Rights Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Human Rights Commitment Every human being is entitled to basic human rights – that is, freedom, equality, justice and the right to life. However, not everyone has access to the help or finances required to uphold these rights, both in Australia and Asia, and around the world. Allens has developed lasting relationships with non-government organisations and others within the community who are working to advance human rights. We recognise that these groups are often in the best position to identify the issues, while we have the commitment, resources and expertise to assist. Systems Allens has a number of systems in place that support human rights. The firm’s Pro Bono and Reconciliation systems are outlined below. Pro Bono Allens is committed to pro bono work and to having a coordinated, focused, well-balanced and meaningful pro bono practice. Our pro bono practice provides free legal assistance to a range of not-for-profit and charitable clients, as well as to individuals in need. Our particular priorities include human rights work, the advancement of Indigenous causes, and environmental protection. The pro bono practice runs across all of our legal departments and we aim to give all staff an opportunity to become involved in pro bono work. We see the enthusiastic engagement of our people as the key to the success of our pro bono program. We were a Foundation Signatory to the National Pro Bono Aspirational Target, which means we have committed to use our best efforts to ensure that the firm will undertake, on average, at least 35 hours of pro bono legal work per lawyer each year. In fact, our internal target is 50 hours per lawyer per year, so, in the four years that compliance has been measured, we have far exceeded the target. The number of pro bono clients Allens has at any time is between 300 and 400, and they include UN Women, UN Special Representative, Amnesty International Australia, the Human Rights Law Centre, the Ovarian Cancer Research Foundation, and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The firm also undertakes ground-breaking legal work for refugees. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 4 ‘Allens has established In the 2012-13 financial year, Allens: what is clearly one of • completed more than 41,000 hours of pro bono work; the world’s leading • assisted more than 200 organisations; and pro bono programs, • helped around 200 individuals. distinguished by an unwavering Reconciliation commitment to In 2009, Allens became the first top-tier law firm in Australia to launch a Reconciliation Action clients and their Plan (RAP). Our RAP focuses on the development of relationships between Indigenous and cause and exceptional non-Indigenous people, the fostering of respect and the creation of opportunities. The aim is quality legal services.’ to enable our firm to play a role in closing the gap that exists between Indigenous and nonPhilip Lynch, Indigenous Australians. We are proud of what we have helped achieve through our RAP and we Human Rights Law are excited about the possibilities for the future. Centre (Australia) Executive Director Activities We work hard to promote human rights via our RAP and our pro bono practice, and through our charitable giving program. Below is a snapshot of what our firm has been doing in the area during the past year. AIME Hoodie Day 2012 The Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience (AIME) provides an educational program that enables Indigenous high school students to experience mentoring opportunities, and develop confidence in their abilities, to encourage them to complete high school at the same rate as their peers. AIME programs have been shown to improve dramatically the chances of Indigenous students finishing school. In 2012, Allens supported AIME’s national hoodie day for the third time, with employees across our Australian offices wearing a hoodie and attending events in each office. We have also been involved in local mentoring activities and in supporting AIME’s work through its corporate partners. Allens staff support AIME National Hoodie Day. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 5 Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier Council AIMSC provides a direct business-to-business purchasing link between corporate Australia, government agencies and Indigenous-owned businesses. In the past financial year, Allens has participated in AIMSC-supported supplier-diversity training, trade shows, conferences and ‘meet the buyer’ events. We have been increasing community awareness of AIMSC’s cause by hosting forums on Indigenous business and supplier diversity. With AIMSC’s assistance, we have increased our supplier base by engaging Indigenous chef Mark Olive, corporate gift provider Thulli Dreaming, CCAB for coffee cups and Nallawilli Office Ware for notebooks in the Melbourne office. This year, Allens also signed its second contract with Indigenous technology, communications and media service provider Message Stick. Fairtrade The Fairtrade label guarantees that a farmer from a developing country will receive a fair price for their produce, no child labour or forced labour was used in its production, and that employment and environmental standards were met. Allens was one of the first Australian organisations, and one of the first law firms, to become a certified Fairtrade workplace. Under the Fairtrade certification, kitchens in our Australian offices stock Fairtrade tea, coffee, chocolate and sugar. As part of Fairtrade Week, all Australian offices hosted a morning tea, with a range of Fairtrade products, to mark the occasion. Allens also undertakes extensive pro bono legal work for Fairtrade Australia and New Zealand. Homeless Persons’ Legal Clinics Allens is involved in the Homeless Persons’ Legal Clinics in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, which are run by the Public Interest Law Clearing Houses in each State. These clinics provide free legal assistance to, and advocacy and law reform work on behalf of, people who are homeless or who are at risk of becoming homeless. More than 60 of our lawyers volunteer to provide advice at the clinics. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 6 ‘It opened my eyes Human Rights Law Centre to another world The Human Rights Law Centre (the HRLC) is an independent, non-profit organisation that of the law that also promotes and protects human rights through strategic litigation, education, advocacy and law has great depth reform. and complexity, as Allens has a very strong relationship with the HRLC, and has partnered with them in major High well as to a leading Court cases, such as Roach v Commonwealth (a successful constitutional challenge regarding international law firm prisoners’ voting rights) and Momcilovic v R (regarding the application of the Victorian Charter of Human Rights) and acted for the HRLC at a recent coronial inquest into the police shooting of that is dedicated to 15-year-old Tyler Cassidy. reconciliation and bridging the gap Indigenous legal internship 2012 between Indigenous Allens offers legal internships to Indigenous law students in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and and non-Indigenous Perth. Our two-week internship program is an opportunity for Indigenous students to find out people.’ more about working in a commercial legal environment. This year, we welcomed 17 interns to the fold in each of those four offices. Indigenous Intern, Allens. Jawun Jawun secondments are an opportunity for our Corporate Services employees to work with Indigenous businesses in the Goulburn Murray, inner Sydney, north-east Arnhem Land and Cape York. This year, Secretarial Services Project Officer Michelle Fitzsimmons and Legal Products and Know-How Manager Dominie Banfield completed Jawun secondments in the Goulburn Murray, Victoria, and north-east Arnhem Land, respectively. Dominie and Michelle worked on a range of projects during their secondments. These included helping draft a response to a Commonwealth Government tender for delivering regional employment and training services, helping document the course of an outbreak of Panama disease at a local banana farm, and providing generalist HR support for the Yorta Yorta Nation Aboriginal Corporation. Dominie Banfield and her fellow Jawun secondees experience north-east Arnhem Land. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 7 ‘The progress of Legal Profession Reconciliation Network women is an issue the In conjunction with Arnold Bloch Leibler, Allens leads a network that brings together law firms, firm takes seriously, regulatory bodies, and Indigenous legal organisations to collaborate on reconciliation initiatives. so we were delighted to be asked by UN Mentoring and investing in education partnerships Women Australia We continue to work closely with the Australian Indigenous Education Foundation (AIEF) to support them in and AIME to support their work in Indigenous education. We are now part of AIEF’s mentoring program in Brisbane and support their students via development days and workshops. We also the launch of this provide AIEF with pro bono legal advice. Allens employees also continue to mentor Indigenous important global students via the AIEF, AIME, Show Me The Way and Skyline programs, and through our involvement report.’ with Australian universities. Maryjane Crabtree, Partner Progress of the World’s Women: In pursuit of justice Allens’ Australian offices hosted the national launch of a global study into the progress of women. The United Nations Women report, Progress of the World’s Women: In pursuit of justice, was launched in our Sydney office and streamed into our Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth offices. The panel included Australian Human Rights Commission President Catherine Branson and UN Women Australia’s Executive Director Julie McKay. Executive Partner Maryjane Crabtree said the firm was honoured to have been involved in the launch. Julie McKay, UN Women Australia’s Executive Director; Michael Rose, and Catherine Branson, Human Rights Commission President, at the launch in Sydney of the United Nations Women report, Progress of the World’s Women: In Pursuit of Justice © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 8 National Reconciliation Week National Reconciliation Week provides an excellent opportunity for everyone at Allens to join the national conversation about the unique place of Indigenous Australians and contribute to the great work being done by our RAP committees. Our people engaged in a range of activities during National Reconciliation Week, involving consideration of Indigenous and legal history, constitutional recognition of Indigenous Australians and various cultural awareness events. Stolen Generations’ Testimonies Foundation The Stolen Generations’ Testimonies project is an initiative to record on film the personal testimonies of Australia’s Stolen Generations survivors and share them online. A team at Allens worked with the Stolen Generations’ Testimonies Foundation, providing pro bono legal advice to assist with the production and launch of the testimonies on film and online. Stolen Wages Reparation Scheme WA The West Australian Stolen Wages Reparation Scheme provided for a one-off payment of $2,000 to Indigenous people who were resident in a State Government-operated facility (such as Roelands Native Mission) during the ‘stolen generations’ era; and experienced government control over all or part of their income during that period. During the past year, lawyers from Allens’ Perth office have assisted the Aboriginal Legal Service of Western Australia with stolen wages applications. Each Friday, two lawyers have been seconded to ALSWA’s Perth office to assist its in-house lawyers with matters relating to the scheme. Two Allens lawyers travelled to Western Australia’s Kimberley Region to assist the ALSWA with the preparation of applications under the scheme. Allens lawyers travelled to the Kimberley Region to assist the ALSWA. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 9 UN Special Representative Allens has worked on a number of projects with the UN that are aimed at protecting labour standards in the workplace. One of the most longstanding projects the firm has been involved with is working for the UN Special Representative on business and human rights. We have advised on issues around governmental obligations and in respect of the human rights obligations of corporations, and we’ve also advised on social, legal and policy issues surrounding the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights Allens assisted the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights with its Corporate Law Tools project by advising on and drafting a Hong Kong chapter for a larger report that addresses corporate laws and corporate social responsibility across the region. Performance Allens works hard to achieve its human rights-related goals, as set out by the firm’s various community committees. Our goals have been exceeded during the past year and revised targets for the coming year have been set. Our commitment to improving and protecting human rights, and our continual desire to push our human rights agenda, has been widely recognised within the broader community. In FY2012-13, Allens pushed the envelope in a range of different ways, some of which are outlined below: ‘We have a longAsylum seekers standing commitment The law applying to asylum seekers is an important and developing area in Australia and to pro bono work in internationally. It is a relatively new and contentious landscape that our governments, refugee this area of the law legal representatives and lawyers must navigate. The firm’s asylum seeker work is an extension of the human rights pro bono matters we have advised on for many years. In the past few and that will continue.’ years, Allens has been called on by those representing asylum seekers – refugee legal clinics Malcolm Stephens, Partner and community centres – to help clarify important points of law. This has meant we have been involved in landmark cases that have led to significant changes in the law and made a great difference to hundreds of asylum seekers. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 10 Close the Gap event at Parliament House It has been five years since the Federal Government’s apology to members of Australia’s Stolen Generations and the establishment of Closing the Gap targets. Allens was invited to participate in a series of events to mark the Prime Minister’s statement and the five-year anniversary of the apology, including a showcase of best practice RAPs, a presentation on the legal profession reconciliation network that we have established, and a workshop to design the future of RAPs. Tom Calma, Tim Goodwin, Julie Bishop, Kathryn Whyte-Southcombe, Bryony McCormack and Chris Schulz. ‘It’s really exciting Constitutional recognition that our firm is at the A group of partners, senior associates, lawyers and graduates from the Melbourne, Sydney and forefront, promoting Perth offices came together to write a submission to the Federal Government’s Expert Panel on reconciliation within Constitutional Recognition of Indigenous Australians Enquiry. the community The submission welcomed the current bipartisan support for a referendum to amend the and campaigning Constitution to recognise Indigenous Australians and the unique status they hold as the for meaningful first Australians. recognition on a The firm’s submission to the Expert Panel featured prominently in the Recognising Aboriginal and national scale.’ Torres Strait Islander Peoples in the Constitution report, which was presented to the Prime Minister Alison Matthews, Lawyer of Australia, Julia Gillard. Following the submission, Allens and You Me Unity kept the issue in the public eye by hosting an expert panel discussion on the key developments since the recommendations were provided to the Federal Government. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 11 Labour Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour Allens maintains employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. The firm opposes all forms of forced and compulsory labour and seeks to abolish child labour. The firm is also active in its endeavour to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment. Systems Allens has a number of systems in place that are designed to advance the UN Global Compact principles relating to labour. A number of these systems are highlighted below. Diversity Strategy Allens’ diversity strategy is built on four key pillars: gender, flexibility, reconciliation and family. Broader areas of focus for the firm include disability, ethnicity, lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and intersex. Our diversity strategy is supported by the creation of a Diversity Advisory Board, which consists of internal and external members and is chaired by our Chief Executive Partner, Michael Rose. The Diversity Advisory Board met in May and October in 2012, and made recommendations for diversity actions within the firm. Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Allens is committed to the principles of EEO and takes a zero tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment and bullying in the workplace. Providing a safe and supportive workplace for our partners and employees is critical to our business. We value the diversity of our workforce, respect the differences between employees, and recognise that each person has individual talents and skills to bring to their role. All partners and employees work in an environment in which they can enjoy their work and relationships with colleagues, free from discrimination, harassment and bullying. All new starters have compulsory online EEO training upon commencement with the firm. Our EEO training module was updated during 2012 and was relaunched in February 2013. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 13 Flexible work arrangements Allens’ goal is to create an engaging work environment that inspires our people to give their best. We are committed to enabling our people to balance their work and other responsibilities. Policies such as purchased annual leave, part-time work, job sharing, flexible hours, working from home and a graduated return from parental leave have been introduced across the firm. All programs are supported by coaching, tools and information kits, and are led by the Head of Flexibility and Diversity, Jacqui Abbott. In 2012, Allens was one of the sponsors of the ‘Get flexible’ and ‘Men get flexible’ research conducted by Diversity Council Australia. Gender The firm has a gender action plan based on four pillars: empower our people; build engagement and accountability; invest in partnerships and profiles; and ensure compelling careers. The four pillars provide the structure for development of gender strategy, initiatives and the measurement of outcomes. The firm’s Women at Allens program regularly provides the opportunity for employees to attend events related to the development and progression of women in business. The firm also supports external organisations, including Chief Executive Women and UN Women, by hosting seminars and events at our offices. Each Australian office has a Women at Allens committee and, in 2012, the four committees delivered a total of 23 events. Women at Allens includes a mentoring program and ties into the firm’s 2010 commitment to provide corporate leadership for gender equality. Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) Interest Group In 2012, we expanded the interest group to include intersex employees and their support networks. The LGBTI interest group held individual networking meetings during 2012 with a number of the firm’s clients in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. In early 2013, the firm participated in the online ‘LGBTI inclusion in the workplace’ survey via Pride in Diversity. The survey was open to all employees. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 14 Managing the Transition Allens recognises that employees’ flexibility needs will vary at different life stages, particularly when family circumstances change. The premise behind the Managing the Transition program is to acknowledge that flexibility will be different for each individual and may change over time. The program enables women and men to achieve and maintain a balance between their professional and personal commitments. One component of the Managing the Transition program is access for all partners and staff to information kits. These kits cover topics such as families and work, eldercare, mental illness and next phase/retirement. Children of Allens staff get into the festive spirit at Bring your Kids to Work Day. Activities In 2012, Allens conducted a range of activities that demonstrate commitment to the UN Global Compact principles on labour standards. A snapshot of some recent work in this area is below. • Allens hosted the UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, Rashida Manjoo, during her visit to Australia in May 2012. • In October 2012, Allens produced its annual Equality and Diversity Report, which focused on gender equality for legal professionals. The expanded report adheres to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles and details the firm’s recent achievements, performance and key areas for improvement. • Executive presence workshops were held in all states with an open invitation to all female staff. During 2012, our Head of Diversity and Flexibility conducted more than 60 individual sessions with partners and directors across the firm, to discuss progress on gender initiatives and communicate engagement results. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 15 • In 2012, Allens conducted a number of programs relating to unconscious bias. These were delivered to recruiting teams, groups within the Corporate Services Department and a range of Senior Associates. • Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose was invited to be on the judging panel for the Westpac 100 Women of Influence Awards in October 2012. • Allens was one of the sponsors of the Diversity Council Australia – Get Flexible research project. The aim of the research was to identify actions and a framework to increase flexibility in Australia. Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose provided leadership support via a video presentation where he discussed the research. The video was shown on the Diversity Council Australia website. • As part of the firm’s Managing the Transition program, ‘Bring your kids to work’ morning tea events were held in all states in December 2012. • Allens was one of the first organisations in Australia to sign the Women’s Empowerment Principles, produced and disseminated by the UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, and the UN Global Compact. Performance EOWA citation for eighth consecutive year In March 2012, Allens was awarded the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency’s Employer of Choice for Women citation for the eighth year in a row. The firm was one of 125 organisations awarded the citation, which is given to non-government organisations with more than 100 employees that have policies and practices supporting women across the organisation. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 16 Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment Commitment Allens takes its environmental responsibilities very seriously, both in our internal practices and in our involvement in outside programs. We strive to add social, environmental and economic value from our operations and services or, if this is not realisable, to reduce our environmental impact as much as possible. This accords with our core value of having respect for our colleagues, our clients and suppliers, and the broader community. The firm’s environmental initiatives are also guided by the belief that corporate sustainability in all its forms, including environmental sustainability, is a key long-term business driver. Allens’ concentration on its environmental responsibilities is reflected in three ways: • Legislative compliance: Legislative compliance is a minimum requirement. Environmentalrelated legislation is constantly changing and is therefore continually monitored by management. • Our internal office environmental management: Our aim is to facilitate and encourage good individual environmental practices among our partners and staff through providing a range of resources and education (discussed further below). • Environmental citizenship: Our good environmental citizenship includes contributions to environmental causes both on a pro bono and financial basis. Our pro bono clients in this area include: the Australian Bush Heritage Fund; the World Society for the Protection of Animals; and the World Wide Fund for Nature. Allens also participates in professional initiatives that further environmental aims, including advocacy and policy development. Perhaps most significantly, the firm has resolved to become carbon neutral. The Footprint Committees are in the process of preparing an Emissions Management Plan for the firm and will continue to develop and implement ways to reduce greehouse gas emissions. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 18 ‘The average Systems Australian needs Allens has been committed to sustainability and to supporting the environment for the past 5.8 earths to support 10 years, and the firm’s commitment to being sustainable leaders is driven by the Allens their lifestyle. Footprint Committees. When we started The Footprint Committees have achieved a lot over the past decade, making significant changes recording, Allens was to the way the firm operates – such as virtualising servers, reducing paper usage, becoming a at 1.8 earths for our Fairtrade workplace, rolling out subsidised KeepCups, supplying public transport tickets instead existence. We have of cab charges and removing globes from all fridges. got that down to 0.8 Below is a list of some of the formal systems the Committees have introduced to ensure Allens earths. We are now achieves best practice when it comes to the environment. taking the next major step to assure the Australian Building Greenhouse Rating scheme firm’s environmental The firm has joined a scheme that commits us to considering energy efficiency when we make sustainability – changes to our offices or look for new premises. We were the first large business tenant in becoming a carbon Australia to sign up to the Australian Building Greenhouse Rating scheme, run by the NSW Government’s Sustainable Energy Development Authority. neutral organisation.’ Phillip Cornwell, Partner The idea of the scheme is that commercial tenants who sign up will both improve their existing buildings and look for good greenhouse performance when they’re choosing new offices. This should, in turn, encourage the building sector to make energy efficiency a priority. Signing up to the scheme is part of our ongoing commitment to the environment. Carbon neutral Allens plans to become a carbon neutral firm in the current financial year. We have significantly reduced our carbon footprint over the past few years through the range of initiatives rolled out by our Footprint Committees. While we will continue that effort, we have decided that now is the time to offset the firm’s remaining carbon footprint. Through the purchase of fully accredited Carbon Credits, Allens will achieve the objective of becoming carbon neutral, and, in the process – even after audit and certification costs and purchasing Carbon Credits – we expect to save money. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 19 Green Partner program in Hong Kong Allens is the first law firm accepted as a member of the Green Partner program run by Hong Kong’s Environmental Protection Department. To be part of the program, organisations must meet with a set of internationally recognised protocols and guidelines set out in the Carbon Reduction Charter. To comply, our Hong Kong office will carry out activities that reduce our office’s greenhouse gas emissions, identify areas of improvement and run programs that reduce and/or offset emissions relating to our building. Recycling Recycling is an excellent way to help solve the growing environmental issue of waste in landfill sites and its negative impact on the natural environment. It also saves money and can benefit many who are disadvantaged. We’re surrounded by waste: empty office blocks with lights blazing well into the night; used paper tossed out with the rest of the garbage; millions of emails printed out and discarded. At Allens, we’re trying to stop this kind of waste happening. The firm provides employees with a suite of recycling options, ranging from battery recycling to confidential paper recycling. Employees are constantly reminded to ‘reduce the use’ and then recycle what’s left. One creative example of recycling at Allens is the annual Stationery Amnesty, where unwanted office supplies are recovered and redistributed throughout the firm. Allens staff with the goods and clothes they collected and recycled as part of a charity drive. The items donated went to rural communities and schools in Guinan County, Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Qinghai Province, PRC. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 20 Sustainable transport Travel has a huge impact on an organisation’s sustainability balance – especially with international organisations where interactions are required on a global scale. Apart from sending a strong message about sustainability, implementing innovative sustainable transport practices makes economic sense. During the past year, Allens has been working on a formal transport policy and, in doing so, has asked employees whether they can avoid the need to travel, reduce the distance travelled (or use a more environmentally friendly means of transport) and offset emissions where travel cannot be avoided. The firm has also invested in innovative communication tools, such as video phones and conferencing facilities, to help reduce the need for transport. Activities Earth Hour Hundreds of millions of people, businesses and governments around the world unite each year to support the largest environmental event in history – Earth Hour. More than 5200 cities and towns in 135 countries worldwide switched off their lights for Earth Hour 2012. Once again, lights were switched off across Allens’ offices. The view from our Sydney office during Earth Hour. Fitted for Work Fitted for Work provides recycled interview-appropriate clothes, mentoring and training, to disadvantaged women. More than 75 per cent of the women helped by Fitted For Work secure jobs within three months. This makes a huge difference to their lives, and to the lives of their families. In recognition of the courage these women show in putting on a suit and continuing to try to find work, the women of Allens dared to wear fancy dress to work for the day. The firm is participating in the event again this year, and intends to better last year’s fundraising tally and recycled clothing drive. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 21 Mobile phone recycling Australia has more than 29 million mobile phone subscribers and more than nine million mobiles are imported into Australia each year. It’s estimated there are more than 22 million mobile phones in Australia and none are biodegradable. Mobile phone components should not be thrown in the rubbish because, when disposed of correctly, 90 per cent of the materials used in mobile phones can be salvaged. That’s why, in 2013, Allens is partnering with telecommunications giant Vodafone on a mobile phone recycling initiative called Mobile Muster. Performance With more than 2000 staff at our firm, we believe we can make a real difference, and we have made all of our offices greener through improvements such as: • using movement sensors for our lighting system: if the office is empty, the lights are off; • placing paper recycling bins under every desk; • placing plastic and glass recycling bins on each floor; • using glasses instead of polystyrene cups; • encouraging staff to use less paper by using double-sided printing – or even two-to-apage printing – and reviewing documents on screen; • using recycled paper in photocopiers and printers; • recycling all wastepaper from our photocopiers and printers; • recycling used toner cartridges by collecting them and forwarding to Planet Ark; • reusing stationery items where practicable; • returning all obsolete computers and monitors to the supplier for recycling; and • installing water-saving devices in internal shower systems, reducing water usage and cost by 60 per cent. The firm’s Footprint Committee assisted the wider firm to reduce our environmental impact during the past year. Some of the year’s most significant achievements are listed below: • saved more than 2.3 million pages of paper since 2004; • saved enough water over five years to fill 26 Olympic-sized pools; • saved more than 5.6 kWh; • saved more than $5.8 million over eight years via ‘green initiatives’; and • resolved to become carbon neutral. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 22 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment As a leading law firm, Allens is committed to ensuring that our employees abide by the law. This includes laws that prohibit corruption in all its forms. Systems Allens has its own policies that aim to prevent corruption in all its forms, including a Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy. Two of the firm’s systems that relate to anti-corruption are outlined below. Ethics Committee Allens’ Ethics Committee continues to help our people deal with ethical issues encountered during the course of their work, including situations where it might be suspected that a party to a transaction is engaging in corrupt conduct. The Ethics Committee is closely involved in a wide range of training at the firm, covering the issues of ethical conduct, professional responsibility and anti-corruption. Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy The Fraud and Corruption Policy aims to ensure that Allens personnel, as well as third parties that act on behalf of Allens, do not engage in corruption and minimise the risk of Allens breaching anti-corruption laws. All Allens partners, employees and contractors are responsible for the prevention of fraud and corruption when acting on behalf of Allens and must ensure their own actions do not result in fraud or corruption. Additionally, all personnel have an obligation to report (anonymously, if preferred) suspected fraud or corruption. Activities During the past year, Allens engaged in a range of activities that demonstrated support for the Global Compact principle on anti-corruption. These included: • holding seminars for clients detailing compliance requirements according to Australian and overseas anti-bribery laws; • leading the work of the UN Global Compact Australian Network’s anti-bribery leadership group; and • providing extensive advice to a range of clients on establishing anti-bribery policies and compliance programs in Australia and overseas, and on conducting anti-bribery due diligence on client-proposed transactions and business relationships. © 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 24 www.allens.com.au Allens is an independent partnership operating in alliance with Linklaters LLP. 16521
