CORPOR ATE SOCI A L RESPONSIBILIT Y 2012 REPORT contents 12 2 20 28 34 14 32 8 4 30 00.1 — The Altran Group at a glance 2 GROW BLOSSOM WIDEN 01 — CULTIVATING NEW IDEAS 12 02 — ENHANCING STAFF POTENTIAL 20 03 — expanding OUR HORIZONS 30 00.2 —Message from the Chairman 4 01.1 — Developing sustainable solutions 14 02.1 — Human capital, 03.1 — Acting for the common good 32 00.3 — Reference texts 6 a key asset to be developed 22 01.2— Ethical policies 17 03.2 — A Group-wide commitment 34 00.4 — Our networks 7 02.2 — Promoting diversity 25 01.3 — Working to serve our clients 18 03.3 — Supporting innovative projects 36 00.5 —Our stakeholders 8 02.3 — Open to suggestion 26 01.4 — Responsible purchasing 19 03.4 — Limiting the environmental 00.6 — Key CSR events 10 02.4 —  Raising awareness all year round 29 impact of our activity 38 04 — Methodology 41 05 — Cross-reference table 42 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 3 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 GLOBAL LEADER 00.1— THE ALTRAN GROUP— An international group AT A GLANCE— IN INNOVATiON Canada The Netherlands Norway Sweden Belgium China Austria Luxembourg As global leader in Innovation and Advanced Engineering Consulting, The UK Altran accompanies its clients in the creation and development Germany of their new products and services. France Portugal The Group has been providing services for thirty years to key players The US Switzerland in the aerospace, defence, automotive, energy, nuclear, railways, finance, healthcare and telecoms sectors. Covering every stage of Spain project development from strategic planning through to manuItaly facturing, Altran’s offers capitalise on the Group’s technological knowIndia how in four key areas: Product Lifecycle Management, Mechanical (1) Brazil Engineering, Intelligent Systems, and Information Systems. (1) Via a licensee Thanks to Altran’s innovation skills and the unique expertise of its consultants (all graduates from the most prestigious schools Our values and universities worldwide), the Group has been able to consolidate its positions of excellence by offering modes of engagement Innovation Excellence Dynamism Care Responsibility Respect Our DNA Expertise Agility Commitment Pride tailored to meet customer-specific requirements. We provide Proximity Proximity Performance Business integrity Performance Performance Diversity consulting services and expertise in a variety of service formats Professional Boldness Professional Initiative development development Anticipation Synergy ranging from high value-added technical support to fixed-price Highest Standards Initiative Diversity Initiative Complexity Synergy projects and customised end-to-end solutions. management Talents International teams Key figures in 2012 €1,456 m 18,130 + 500 30 years SBF 120 revenues employees worldwide, client accounts experience providing listed company of which 16,126 worldwide innovative solutions consultants tailored to meet our clients’ needs 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 5 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 A S TAT E OF M I N D “My aim, in this respect, has been to share these common 00.2— 00.2— MESSAGE FROM— MESSAGE FROM— THE CHAIRMAN THE CHAIRMAN values across the Group so that they can guide us in our BASED ON SIMPLE daily tasks.” YET SOLID VALUES Innovation remains ever present in the minds and (Chapter 9, Section 4). A certification of attendance hearts of Altran’s “Innovation Makers”, comprising the issued by the Group’s statutory auditors is included employees within the Group and at Cambridge in Appendix 3 of the 2012 registration document. We Consultants, worldwide. have made efforts to further enhance the reliability At Altran, our team of Innovation Makers is our human of, and standardise the social, environmental and capital. In a bid to provide our employees with support society-related information published by the Group. in shaping their career paths, we have developed farFor the years ahead, our priorities are to become reaching HR policies, such as the “Career-Paths” better acquainted with the expectations of our programme geared to promote internal mobility and employees, as well as to promote and showcase their professional development. Because we are proud of commitment vis-à-vis our CSR strategy. These prioriour employees, we have created promotional opporties will be applied as of 2013 in the field of human tunities, such as “One of Us”, a dedicated page on the resources, with the implementation of an Employee Group’s Intranet, featuring an original approach to Feedback Programme in the form of a satisfaction individual profiles of our employees. Since the launch survey. And last but not least, innovation, the DNA of of this column at the beginning of 2012, Altran’s Inour Group; in this area my aim is to push even further tranet audience numbers have climbed week-on-week. ahead by bringing fresh challenges to our team of As of 2012, the Group adapted its CSR reporting to Innovation Makers! take into account requirements set forth in Article 225 of the French Grenelle 2 law (Grenelle de l’environment). Philippe Salle A chapter dedicated to CSR is included in the ManageInnovation Maker ment Report of the 2012 registration document Chairman and Chief Executive of the Altran Group Background Adoption of the first indicators in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines Altran becomes actively involved First employee satisfaction survey in the Solar Impulse adventure (“Employee Feedback Programme”) Creation of the Sustainable Development Commission 2011 2009 2010 2008 1996 2004 In 2012, Altran decided to promote and support five overall values of our regional subsidiaries worldwide. 2003 Altran Belgium Creation of Altran awarded the Belgian key values: innovation, the DNA of the company; care In 2012, our “excellence” was notably illustrated by Research “Energy and Environand responsibility, its backbone; excellence and dythe three prestigious prizes awarded to the Group for Creation of the Altran ment” prize namism, the company’s main strengths. our HR actions and policies in Germany, Spain and Innovation Awards, Altran becomes a signatory Creation of the Altran an in-house competition of the United Nations Global This was not merely an exercise in style or a trend; inFrance. Our “dynamism”, was highlighted by Altran’s Foundation for Innovation Compact and the Diversity Altran Spain awarded to reward consultants the National Innovation deed, most of Altran’s regional subsidiaries had already new strategic partnerships forged with PSA Peugeot Charter Prize by HRH Queen Sofia begun reflecting on the adoption of values such as these Citroën and with Bosch, and our “responsibility” was of Spain Creation of the Sustainablebefore 2012. My aim, in this respect, has been to share underpinned by the 2012 International Prize awarded Development Correspondents Altran Germany obtains these common values across the Group so that they can by the Altran Foundation for Innovation; an award Network and the Sustainable“Top Employers” certification guide us in our daily tasks. designed to promote outstanding technological inDevelopment Experts Network Our values represent both the culture and the ambinovations serving the common good and to support Publication of the first Sustainable tions of the Group. Organised around a networked particularly innovative projects in Germany, Belgium, Development Report system, these are interconnected to combine the Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and the UK. 6 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 7 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 GU I DI NG ORG A N I S I NG 00.3— 00.4— REFERENCE — OUR NETWORKS — TEXTS — PRINCIPLES TO MOVE FORWARD global compact fessional level and notably in the workplace are inteTight working relationship between performance. The Group’s correspondent network Since 2009, Altran has adhered to the ten principles grated in the Group’s regional ethical charters and Group departments comprises members of Altran’s Corporate Commuof the UN Global Compact relative to human rights, codes of conduct. Altran respects legislation specific Altran’s Corporate Social Responsibility strategy is nications and Human Resources departments, as well labour standards, respect for the environment and to human rights and labour standards in the countries coordinated by the Group’s CSR Manager in the comas environment and sustainable-development consultcombating corruption. As part of its commitment, the where it operates. munications department. The CSR Manager works ants, QHSE (Quality, Health, Safety & Environment) Group is obliged to publish an annual communication closely with Altran’s other departments in charge of managers and operational directors. As such, this on progress (COP). The CSR report is an integral part The Diversity Charters in France, Italy relations with one or several stakeholders and/or those network ensures that all aspects of company funcWE SUPPORT of this annual reporting. and Spain responsible for implementing a continuous improvetions are covered and that the Group’s different CSR As a signatory of the Corporate Diversity Charters in ment approach related to a CSR issue. These notably challenges are understood. Fundamental principles of France (Charte de la diversité) and in Italy (Carta per include the Human Resources, Legal, Internal Audit, the International Labour Organisation le pari opportunità e l’uguaglianza sul lavoro) since Purchasing, IT-Systems Security and General Services Altran’s network of sustainable-solution In the everyday running of its business, the Altran 2009, as well as in Spain (Chárter de la Diversidad) departments. experts Group endeavours to provide its employees with a since 2010, Altran has strengthened its commitment The Altran Group mobilised a number of its specialists high-quality working environment that respects the towards eliminating discrimination in terms of emInternational network and, in 2009, created an international network of skilled main principles laid down in the Declaration of the ployment and the profession and promoting diversity of correspondents professionals to develop sustainable solutions in the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Commitand equal opportunity. The purpose of the correspondents network in the Group’s fields of energy efficiency, renewable energy, the susments towards eliminating discrimination at the promain operating markets is to implement and deploy tainable city and territories (mobility, buildings and Altran’s CSR strategy at the regional level, and, if necagriculture), eco-technologies and eco-design. These essary, to adapt it to meet local needs and challenges. specialists also provide support solutions for health The ten principles of the UN Global Compact In addition, the network communicates initiatives and management, security, the environment, Corporate information across the Group, participates in coordiSocial Responsibility (CSR) and sustainable finance. nating actions and the exchange of best practices Human Rights Labour Respect for the Combating between the Group’s regional markets, develops a diastandards environment Corruption logue with local stakeholders and contributes to CSR reporting by collecting information and measuring 1 3 7 10 Support and respect the Uphold the freedom of Support a precautionary Work against corruption protection of internationally association and recognise approach to environmental in all its forms, including A word from… proclaimed human rights the right to collective challenges extortion and bribery bargaining “I became interested in voluntary work when I was in my teens 2 8 and have been involved in several associations over the years. 4 For each action implemented by Altran Ensure that they are not Undertake initiatives to proin relation with one the Global Compact I’ve always enjoyed using my skills to help others. Since my complicit in any form Eliminate all forms of forced mote greater environmental principles, there will be a reference at the top of the page. appointment as CSR Manager for Altran Italy, I have had the of human rights abuse and compulsory labour responsibility opportunity of putting all my energy and passion into dealing 5 9 with Altran’s society-related issues. My job gives me tremenSupport the effective abolition Encourage the dous personal satisfaction and is a source of motivation to of child labour development and diffusion reinforce the integration of CSR strategies in our activity.” of environment-friendly 6 technologies Tiziana Sforza, Head of Communications and CSR, Altran Italy Eliminate discrimination relative to employment and occupation 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 9 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 Internet sites Marketing dossiers A C O M M I T M E N T to all 00.5— OUR STAKEHOLDERS — Conferences & seminars OUR STAKEHOLDERS Questionnaires & client-satisfaction surveys Convergence meetings Direct dialogues with Altran Clients managers and experts Trade fairs and events The stakeholders of the Altran Group include all persons educational institutions and civil society. In the course or corporate bodies which have a major impact on, of carrying out its Innovation and Advanced Engineering or are significantly affected by the Group’s activities, Consulting business, the Group interacts with its stakeor which play a key role in maintaining the Company’s holders at several levels and develops data-exchange Internet sites credibility and legitimacy. These include clients, emtools for information, consultation and dialoguing ployees, candidates, shareholders, partners, suppliers, purposes. Shareholders’ toll-free number Shareholders Annual and interim accounts Registration document and Dialoguing tools other financial publications Annual shareholders’ general meeting with written questions Intranet Newsletters Partners and suppliers Conferences & in-house events Dialogues with staff representatives Employees Tender bids Social networks Approved-supplier contracts Employee satisfaction surveys Auto-evaluation questionnaires Annual performance reviews Partnerships & event co-organisation Educational institutions, Internet sites civil society Candidates Internet sites Social networks University and professional Internet sites school forums Press Recruitment events Academic partnerships Recruitment news Partnerships with associations Student events & non-governmental organisations (NGO) Interviews Participation in Global Compact local networks Conferences & work groups 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 11 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 2 01 2 : A Y E A R 00.6— KEY CSR EVENTS— — OF PROGRESS 7 5 3 1 4 6 2 Belgium 2 Germany: June North America: April 5 Spain 7 Switzerland: October The UK: December Altran Belgium developed “Smart Altran Germany launched “What Altran North America climbed to Altran Spain participated in the As part of the Company’s strategy Altran UK renewed its support for the Move”, a three-mobility solution it does”, a dedicated page on the 283rd place in the prestigious Top 500 development of the electric car via to encounter students, Altran Team London Bridge association and package providing employees a set company’s regional Internet site Design Firms listed in the Engineering the opening of Altran’s excellence Switzerland presented its iPadits “Community Christmas” project of sustainable mobility solutions as for consultants to showcase the News Record (ENR) index. centre devoted to new automotive controlled drone at the last forum by organising a collection of gifts for a replacement for the company car. positive impact of their activities technologies and its partnership organised by the EPFL (Swiss Federal local residents. Seven of the Group’s This mobility package consists of and projects on the society and Portugal: May in the Quimera electric-car project, Institute of Technology in Lausanne). operating subsidiaries organised a public transport pass, the provision the environment. In the context of a partnership with and by developing solutions This innovative and technological charity campaigns at the end of 2012. of a folding bike with security EPIS (Entrepreneurship and Social designed for the intelligent city challenge served to enhance the accessories and access to a car 3 India: December Inclusion), Altran Portugal hosted (Smart society portfolio). Company’s attractiveness at recruitpooling solution. Altran India participated in the Mida seven-week internship for students ment fairs and elicit discussion with night Marathon, an event organised from the Fernando Namora college in 6 Scandinavia students on Altran’s activities. 1 France: September in Bangalore by the Rotary Bangalore Lisbon during which the participants Altran Scandinavia renewed its Certified HEQ (High Environmental IT Corridor to raise money for local were able to discover the activities “Environmental Diploma”, a national The Netherlands Quality), Altran France’s new head associations. of Altran Portugal and the working label certifying the environmental Altran Netherlands is developing a office based in Vélizy-Villacoublay environment of the Company’s management system implemented solution to convert restaurant waste was designed to provide a pleasant 4 Italy: October employees. The objective of this by Altran at all Group sites in Sweden. into fuel. working/living environment complete A team of 40 runners made up of internship was to encourage students 60% of the company’s employees with convivial meeting areas. Altran Altran Italy employees and students in the pursuit of their studies. received training in 2012 with a view France inaugurated the opening of took part in Susan G. Komen’s “Race to obtaining the “Environmental the new building by inviting its 4,000 for the Cure” in Naples. Designed Diploma”. employees based in the Paris region to raise awareness to, and collect and their families to its “Family Day” funds for, the fight against breast event on 29 September 2012. cancer, this event was part of a series of running marathons which brought together more than one million participants worldwide. 01 — CULTIVATING NEW IDEAS 92% of our clients interviewed in 2012 GROW considered the quality of services provided by Altran teams as “satisfactory” or “highly satisfactory”. Client satisfaction is central to Group strategy. By developing innovative and sustainable solutions for our customers, and, as such, working hand-in-hand with our clients to “invent” a more responsible future, as well as protecting our client data; and respecting the ethical and social responsibility standards shared by the Group and our partners, we strive in our everyday activities to be a partner of excellence. Gaïa SRI Index Altran was selected by, and integrated into, the Gaïa stock market index for Socially Responsible Investment (SRI), developed by the extra-financial analysis company, EthiFinance. Aveillant the Cambridge-Consultants’ spin-off, develops a new 3D radar technology designed to boost wind turbine deployment. 14 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 15 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 DEVELOPING 01.1— FOCUS / Aveillant SUSTAINABLE Global Compact N° 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of envi3D radar for wind turbines SOLUTIONS ronment-friendly technologies Until recently, growth in the wind energy industry has been held back mainly because of safety reasons linked to air defence. Altran’s Via its international network of skilled professionals, Altran subsidiary Cambridge Consultants has created has developed sustainable solutions in a variety of fields: Aveillant, whose 3D radar has removed a key obstacle to wind-farm expansion and aeolian technology, mobility and the sustainable city, energy efficiency energy production. and renewable energy, as well as the corporate management One of the key obstacles holding back wind of environment and health, etc. farm deployment has, in fact, been the inability of air traffic controllers to distinguish aircraft from the rotating blades of wind turbines. Aveillant provides air traffic controllers and Inauguration of sustainable mobility methodologies for different product types, thereby airports precise radar data necessary to excellence centre setting the conditions to be met by companies seeking eliminate any potential clutter and confusion. In 2012, Altran Spain launched the excellence centre for certification for their products. Designed to limit the impact of wind farms, new automotive technologies in Barcelona. This interAveillant’s innovative approach is the fruit of national centre of excellence houses Group projects in Assessing the level of security in-depth research carried out with key players the field of innovation and the development of the elecin the workplace in the UK aviation and wind power sectors. tric car, thereby giving our clients access to the Group’s Altran Belgium’s HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) These notably include wind-farm developers, unique expertise in electric and hybrid technologies as team was commissioned by an industrial leader to airport operators, the Department of Energy well as in systems for reducing CO2 emissions. carry out a study to assess the security of its working and Climate Change and the British Ministry of stations. This study involved a field analysis of all the Defence. As a result, Aveillant’s groundbreaking Assessing the acoustic impact risks to which the client’s working stations are exposed technology is capable of meeting the demands of off-shore wind farms and an assessment of the degree of compliance of its in both the civil and military sectors, being a Within the context of the first tender bids launched by equipment. Based on the observations made and the profitable asset for small wind farms and creating the French government for the installation of off-shore interviews carried out with the company’s operators, jobs in the green energy sector. wind farms, Altran France was commissioned by a cona qualitative and quantitative analysis was presented sortium to carry out a preliminary study on the acoustic and a conformity plan of action drawn up. This study impact of this form of renewable energy on the sub-sea was carried out by a team of consultants at more than environment and notably on marine fauna. Altran nine of the client’s production sites in Belgium. France’s role in this mission is to make a synthesis of acoustic impact studies carried out in a marine environSharing expert skills ment, take an inventory of the animal species on the Altran Italy took part in the 12th European Energy Consite and assess the initial ambient noise. ference at the Ca’ Foscari University in Venice where the Group presented an Italian gas infrastructure Creation of an environmental analysis model for the purposes of optimising future quality label scenarios. Altran Italy participated in the “Italian label of enviAltran also hosted two conferences at the 2012 Pollutec ronmental quality” project designed to develop a trade fair. Altran Belgium presented the phases and sustainable consumer production model. Initially essential steps required to reduce energy consumption intended for the furniture sector, this label could be in buildings as well as the means of production. Four extended to cover all types of goods and services of Altran’s experts from Group subsidiaries in France, throughout the country. Altran’s experts have develGermany and the Netherlands came up with answers oped a set of production specifications designed to to the question on the relevance of developing regional lay the foundations for environmental qualification resources to produce energy. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 17 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 ETHICAL 01.1— DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 01.2— Assessing the sustainability timedia, IT-services management, development, techPOLICIES of plastics recycling nical design and project management. These TTE Global Compact N° 1 Recycling oil-based products is one solution envisaged support modules are designed to enhance trainee Support and respect to limit our dependence on fossil fuels such as oil, coal employability and to meet the current and future the protection of internationally and natural gas. trends in the job market. In addition, trainees have proclaimed human The objective of the RPM (Recycling of Petroleum-based access to a free support system for exam preparation. rights Materials) project is to develop methods and tools to The Altran Education Services’ TTE programme obGlobal Compact N° 10 Altran is committed to ethical policies and standards at tained Eduqua certification in 2003. Combat corruption measure the sustainability of existing and future recycling segments and procedures. This means taking in all its forms, the Group and regional levels and complies with legislation including extortion into account the environmental, social and economic Development of a social tool designed to and bribery with respect to the fight against corruption. impact involved and comparing these performances combat malnutrition with those of the traditional waste-disposal and storage Altran Pr[i]me has designed and developed a stylish, segments. The value of the RPM project developed by modular “mobile kitchenette” that serves a social purAltran Research, the Group’s internal research departpose. Commissioned by the French Federation of Food 1 The Group’s ethical charter 3 Anti-corruption policy ment, was recognised in France when it was awarded Banks (FFBA), this “mobile kitchenette” is by no means a Performance Trophy by Veolia Environnement in 2012. a gadget, but rather a support tool used in the cooking classes given by food-bank volunteers in the context 80% of Altran UK managers In 2009, Altran adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility Charter, in line with the directives set forth in Altran develops regional strategies required to comply with legislation concerning the fight against corruption. have already been the UN Global Compact, which reflects the Company’s As such, Altran Italy deployed an in-house organiFostering professional reintegration of food-donation programmes. By creating a convivial trained in the requirekey commitments. The Group is currently developing a sation model and implemented administrative, Altran Switzerland has been actively promoting proenvironment conducive to exchange, the “mobile ments of the 2010 Bribery Act. continuous improvement approach to define an ethical financial and operational procedures that are comfessional reintegration for nearly 20 years. The exkitchenette” helps people learn how to cook balanced charter for all its employees and which is based on a pliant with decree n° 231/01. This model integrates all perts attached to Altran’s Education Services, the meals. Specially designed to lend support to particicommon set of commitments. This ethical charter is areas which could be exposed to risks of corruption, Group’s dedicated training entity, develop and deploy pants, this tool is a veritable arm in the fight against designed so that the Group will be able to harmonise namely: purchasing, Human Resources, tender bids, training-towards-employment (TTE) programmes in malnutrition, a demanding and pressing issue. its commitments made at the regional level since 2008. local-authority services, legal issues, project financa wide range of areas: administration, logistics, muling, etc. Employees can alert the surveillance com2 Commitments at the regional level mittee of any potential risks via a dedicated e-mail Several of the Group’s regional subsidiaries have inaddress provided for this purpose. Altran Italy trained Two questions for… tegrated their commitments in terms of business eth80% of its recruits in the requirements of the 231/01 ics, labour standards, the respect for human rights organisational, management and control model, using and the environment into their strategies and code a programme coordinated by the HR department and of ethics. evaluated by the designated 231/01 supervisory body. “At Altran, we can take advantage of all the technical expertise As such, in 2008, Altran Spain published a CorpoAltran North America is in compliance with the specithat is right there at our fingertips. What I appreciate the rate Responsibility Code (Código de Responsabilidad fications set forth in the Foreign Corrupt Practices most is the fact that we can all work together, pool our Social) defining the basic code of conduct for Altran Act (FCPA) and is developing training modules on the resources, and draw on our expertise to create personalised employees in Spain. This code is in line with Altran subject for its employees and recruits. solutions tailored to suit our clients’ needs and promote Spain’s regional social responsibility policy and in compliance with existing legislation. The purpose of In 2011, Altran UK implemented an ethical strategy the protection of the environment.” this code is to present the guiding principles of the defining its commitments in terms of human rights, company’s key actions with regard to its stakeholders. labour standards, the environment, conflicts of inFranck Desieter, Consultant in environmental and chemical management, Altran Belgium In 2011, Altran Italy adopted a code of ethics which terest, confidentiality of information and corruption. it communicated to all company stakeholders via its This involved the adoption of a “hospitality and gifts” What is your job at Altran? organic compounds in the air, my job only constantly increasing in number but Intranet and Internet sites. policy compliant with the 2010 Bribery Act, and a I am a consultant specialised in environis above all to gather together a handare more stringent than ever. Our job is Altran Belgium, Altran Netherlands, Altran Scandinawhistle-blowing policy, both of which are detailed in mental and chemical management. I use picked team of experts capable of to provide targeted solutions to address via and Cambridge Consultants have all published the “Employee Handbook” distributed to all Altran a multidisciplinary approach to manage crafting the right, personalised solution. these challenges. At the same time, our policies regarding CSR or business ethics (codes of UK employees. Altran UK also developed a manager client projects which requires working Continuous client-site improvement is clients are aware of the environmental conduct, ethical and anti-corruption strategies). All training programme in line with the requirements of in close collaboration with process engiensured thanks to environmental impact impact of their activity on society and, Altran Scandinavia employees receive training in the the 2010 Bribery Act. To date, 80% of the company’s neers, life science specialists and innovaassessment (EIA), feasibility studies and as such, are eager to find an alternative. key commitments related to these codes during the managers have received training in the requirements tion experts. Whether we are called upon urban planning analysis. Our job is to develop solutions designed integration programmes organised for recruits joinof 2010 Bribery Act. to help a pharmaceuticals company to to help our clients reduce their ecologiing the company. Cambridge Consultants’ ethical Altran is currently drawing up an anti-corruption improve mobility flows throughout an What are the challenges? cal footprint. industrial site or a paint manufacturer Our clients must ensure compliance with strategy is communicated to company employees via policy for the Group as a whole. to reduce the concentration of volatile environmental regulations that are not its in-house monthly magazine, bulletin boards and dedicated news bulletins. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 19 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 WORKING TO SERVE RESPONSIBLE 01.3— 01.4— OUR CLIENTS PURCHASING Global Compact N° 2 Companies must ensure that they are not complicit in any form of human rights abuse To better serve our clients’ needs, Altran carries out an Global Compact N° 8 Undertake Aware that a socially responsible approach requires annual international survey to assess the level of customer initiatives to promote greater establishing relationships with like-minded suppliers, environmental satisfaction, and ensures the protection of client, employee responsibility Altran has developed responsible purchasing strategies and third-party data. and initiatives. 1 Measuring customer satisfaction countries where it operates, and meets all client expec1 Commitments to suppliers to carry out a professional activity in a specially-adapted 92% An extensive customer satisfaction survey was carried out in June 2012 with Group clients worldwide. To tations in terms of data security. Altran’s objective is to implement best practices and recommendations based In 2012, Altran France purchases Altran is progressively drawing up specific purchasing policies outlining the reciprocal commitments of the working environment. HandiZen, which ensures Altran France’s concierge services at the company’s new head in the sheltered and of clients ensure an accurate and reliable interpretation, all client on industrial standards and to tailor these to suit its adapted employCompany and its suppliers at the Group and regional office in Vélizy-Villacoublay, offers people with disabilinterviewed in 2012 data was gathered by the independent market research clients’ specific lines of business. Security practices and ment sector totalled levels. The Group has been a signatory of the French ities the opportunity of working within a corporate consider the quality of services provided by Altran teams as organisation, GfK, then organised and analysed by Altran’s marketing department. levels are defined in accordance with risk-management objectives, as well as the needs and means of system €260k Charter of Inter-Company Relations since the end of 2011. Altran has designated an internal mediator to structure on a daily basis, via the Company’s partnership with the work-assistance establishment, ESAT satisfactory or highly satisfactory. Out of 3,000 people interviewed across 18 countries users. As such, Altran develops specific safety assurance deal with mediation requests submitted by the na(Etablissements et services d’aide par le travail). and all industrial sectors, 92% consider the quality of plans and solutions, and implements dedicated project tional ombudsman in charge of inter-company relaservices provided by Altran teams as “satisfactory” or solutions (software, equipment, control procedures and tions. Altran Spain and Altran Scandinavia have drawn 3 Encouraging our suppliers to adopt “highly satisfactory”. 89% of respondents judged their premises). Altran’s information security approach is inup specific purchasing policies outlining the reciprosociety-related responsibility policies commercial relations with Altran as “good” or “very tegrated across all of the Company’s activities. The cal sustainable purchasing commitments of the comAltran encourages its suppliers to adopt and assess good”. The findings of this survey were taken into conGroup has integrated security practices and regulations panies and their suppliers. In 2012, an internal ethical CSR strategies. As such, Altran Spain distributes a sideration and action plans implemented. into Altran Excellence, its quality management system charter governing purchasing conditions and require“supplier’s pack” to all new suppliers. This pack comin France, and is gradually implementing an information ments was dispatched to all Group employees in Gerprises Altran’s ethical policies in terms of purchasing 2 Data protection, a key challenge security management system based on the ISO27001 many. Regional ethical charters and CSR policies deand the environment, the Global-Compact memberAltran’s Information security approach underpins standard. veloped in Belgium, Italy, Spain and the UK include ship protocol and an auto-evaluation questionnaire Group strategy in that it protects the core of the Altran ensures compliance with laws and regulations responsible purchasing management and supplier to be completed by the supplier. The suppliers of Group’s activity. governing the collection, treatment, conservation, prorelationship commitments. Altran Italy and Cambridge Consultants in the UK are Its purpose is to ensure the confidentiality, availability tection and use of personal data. In all of the Group’s also required to complete an auto-evaluation questionand integrity of the material elements of Altran’s IT syscompanies, the person in charge of personal-data pro2 Integrating environmental and social naire. The tendering processes employed by Altran tems, applications and data. Altran is committed to tection is responsible for making the necessary declarachallenges in France and Switzerland, as well as by Cambridge ensuring that its information security approach is comtions to the competent authorities. For certain purchases, Altran’s supplier-selection Consultants include corporate society-related responpliant with legal and regulatory specifications in the process integrates a set of environmental impact sibility criteria. Clauses ensuring compliance with assessment (EIA) criteria. Depending on the country, regulations governing the environment and working A word from… these criteria may include the suppliers’ choice of paper, conditions are specified in the general purchasing electronic equipment, company car fleet, office supplies, conditions. gifts and treats. In France, Spain and the US, Altran promotes the “We have opted for an on-line, awareness-raising tool employment of people with a recognised disability by to assess our new consultants’ knowledge of risks related out-sourcing to companies in the sheltered-employment to the protection of their digital data, and to instruct them sector. These companies enable people with a disability in best practices. The objective here is to raise awareness to the risks involved and foster changes in behaviour to limit these risks.” Pascal Poublan, Information Security Manager, IT Systems Department 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player One of us Altran’s weekly in-house column features 02 — ENHANCing STAFF individual portraits of our employees. POTENTIAL Blossom At Altran, human capital is our main asset and the women and men in the company, our major strength. As part of our daily commitment to our staff, we value their talents, foster their professional development, preserve their health and safety and ensure that they are informed. In addition, by fostering the exchange of knowledge, diversity, and the quality of life in the workplace, as well as involving our staff in the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility strategy, we strive to be a responsible employer. Women’s Forum Altran chairs round-table conferences on innovation and engineering CARE at the 2012 Women’s Forum in a bid to promote the presence of women Altran designs human resource programmes dedicated to career paths, in the scientific arena. as well as performance development and training. 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 HUMAN CAPITAL, 02.1 — 02.1 — HUMAN CAPITAL, A KEY ASSET TO BE DEVELOPED 3 Promote internal mobility These recruitment contracts ensure staff loyalty, A KEY ASSET and international transfer notably for employees with strong-potential and Altran employees can benefit from two in-house mobility particularly active international profiles. Altran has options; Mov’Altran and international transfer. Launched significantly stepped up the number of international TO BE DEVELOPED seven years ago, Mov’Altran is a programme designed for VIE contracts, which totalled 120 in 2012, compared all Altran employees wishing to move to another region/ with 30 in 2008. 120 Altran’s employees country or assume new responsibilities. While Altran’s global mobility strategy was developed and implemented by the Group’s Human Resources Division, the process 4 Meeting students Through its close ties with prestigious schools and uniparticipated in the VIE scheme (Volunteer and management has since been decentralised and a reversities, faculty heads, professors and student bodies, Since human capital is Altran’s main asset, the Group pays for International Experience) gional HR/mobility structure set up in each of the Group’s Altran lends support to the most talented students operating countries. Moreover, all Group employees, irthroughout the course of their studies .The Altran Group particular attention to the professional development of its in December 2012. respective of their function and length of service, can shares the knowledge and expertise of its consultants employees by offering career-path enhancement, as well as benefit if they so wish. In addition, within the context of with students by offering courses, job interview simulatheir missions, managers may be called upon to offer tions, training courses and conferences. training and mobility opportunities. employees the possibility of working abroad on projects Altran participates in numerous recruitment fairs and workeither within the Group, or for a client. Irrespective of the shops to meet with students and young graduates and to length of the mission, employees retain their status withdiscuss the different career paths open to them within the in the Company and their original employment contract. Group. In 2012, the management of the Altran employer 1 Standardising career paths 2 Promote the professional development In 2012, around 10,000 transfers and Altran missions were brand team presented a new event to attract students; The commitment of all Altran employees is key to the of our employees carried out worldwide, thus enhancing the international a competition in which contestants were invited to control success of the 2012-2015 strategic plan. Because In 2012, Altran created a Training and Development profile of our teams and giving us a better understanding a Drone from an iPad. The Altran Drone Contest attracted human capital is Altran’s key asset, the Group Committee to coordinate the training module proof the demands of our foreign clients. thousands of students in Lausanne (Switzerland) and Rome Group employees decided to strengthen the commitment and satisfacgramme with the strategic objectives of, and the Altran also promotes international missions via Volunteer (Italy), as well as at the Edhec regatta (a boat race organised received a total of tion of its employees by designing and implementing specific requirements related to, the Group’s activity. 198,729 Human Resource programmes dedicated to careerThe Committee monitors the development of Altran’s for International Experience (VIE) contracts. by students from the EDHEC Business School in France). hours of training path enhancement, performance development and Group-wide training programme and works with the in 2012. training. Within the context of this strategy, the Group Human Resources and operational departments to Three questions for... implemented CARE (Competencies to Acquire Responprovide a development plan designed for staff members. sibilities & Evolve), a programme focused on the skills This development plan offers Altran employees the required to acquire responsibility and progress. possibility of developing their skills in-house either at “Career Paths” is one of the key projects in the CARE the corporate level via the International Management programme. Academy (IMA), at the Group’s regional training acadeDesigned to provide Group employees with visibility mies, or via Altran Education Services. “ Strengthening the Altran employer brand to attract on their professional development, “Career Paths”: • L aunched more than ten years ago, the IMA is the engineers is an investment in the future and a key • Breaks down the process of acquiring skills, assuming Group’s professional development centre focused priority for the Group.” responsibility and ensuring career enhancement into on the strategic skills required in the fields of managefour phases; namely, start, grow, manage and lead; ment and leadership, project management and busiNicolas Mayer, CEO, Altran Switzerland • Promotes functional and geographic mobility thanks ness development. The IMA designs and implements to standardised job descriptions of employment Group-wide sales and managerial training proWhat is the Drone Contest? Not only is it a novel way for the Group to The word of mouth impact has been opportunities advertised across the Group worldwide; grammes (both classroom-based and via e-learning). The Altran Drone Contest involves distinguish itself from the competition even greater than what we had imagined. • Creates 12 career paths covering technical activities, Its role is to provide staff with support in assuming piloting a drone from an iPad through but it also leaves its mark on students Students and a lot of exhibitors, project management, sales and team management, responsibility, and career development. an obstacle course in the fastest time and visitors alike. The fact that Altran including some of our major clients, as well as support functions. • The purpose of the Group’s regional training academies possible. At the end of the forum, the uses the same technologies to pilot the spread the word and, together with is to meet the specific needs of Altran’s employees in “pilot” that makes the best time wins drone from an iPad as those developed the social-network buzz on Facebook Each regional subsidiary is responsible for its local terms of acquiring technical and language skills, and at an iPad. for its clients is a way of showcasing the and Twitter, etc., we had at least 160 deployment schedule. The roll-out of the “Careerthe personal-development level. activities of the Group and a source for participants in two days, as well as Paths” programme, which started in 2012, will be • Altran Education Services (AES) provides a framework Why did you develop this spontaneous discussion. a radio interview that got notice and recruitment tool? several press reviews. This contest completed for operational functions in 2013 and for the entire range of training programmes offered to It really is an innovative crowd-puller. What were the results? has ultimately strengthened our image extended to support functions in 2014. Group clients. This was particularly obvious at I must admit that I was quite surprised as an employer of choice with a highly the Swiss Federal Institute forums by the extent of feedback we have sought-after public: Altran’s future in Lausanne and Zurich, the two major had, both during the forums and after. engineers and consultants. recruitment fairs in Switzerland. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 25 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 PROMOTING 02.2 — Focus / ONE OF US Who are The DIVERSITY Global Compact N° 6 Eliminate discrimination Innovation Makers? relative to employment and occupation Human capital is Altran’s main asset. Because it is proud of the women and men who make up the Company, Altran implemented several programmes At the regional level, Altran is developing strategies to promote its Innovation Makers in 2012. designed to tackle discrimination and promote the A new column, “One of Us” was launched on diversity of its employees. the Group’s Intranet, presenting the portrait of a different “Innovation Maker” every week, from a new angle. Employees are invited to present their professional environment, main functions Altran’s anti-discrimination policies are implemented 2 End-of-career support and guidance and key centres of interest and round off their 74% 26% at the regional level in compliance with the correspondWithin the framework of the Group’s Senior Action Plan, portrait by completing “The Proust Questionnaire”, ing laws and regulatory requirements in the countries Altran France provides all employees aged over 45 years which gives this weekly feature a rather unusual where the Group operates. Altran is a signatory of the old support and guidance to help them reflect upon and personal touch. Employees may chose to Percentage of men / Percentage of women. Diversity Charters in France, Italy and Spain. and prepare the latter part of their career. Regarding approach the personality quiz in a serious, Altran Spain signed an agreement with FAMMA, the personal and career paths, Altran France offers its humoristic, detached or provocative way, and Federation of Associations of People with Physical and employees a customised action plan designed to promote the questions offer participants considerable Mental Disabilities. The Human Resources strategies an individual, forward-looking approach to careerscope to reveal their personalities. implemented in the UK by Altran UK and Cambridge development management. In 2012, all of the Group’s regional subsidiaries Consultants are in compliance with the Equity Act, and Altran Belgium complies with Belgian regulations participated in this initiative. Altran commemoAltran Scandinavia has set up an equality plan. regarding the reclassification of employees aged over rated its thirtieth anniversary by featuring 30 profiles of consultants who also celebrated 1.98% Some of the Group’s regional subsidiaries have devel45 years old. Italy oped initiatives to foster employment for the disabled, their thirtieth birthday last year. 0.85% as well as women and senior employees, and to pro3 Diversity and Innovation UK mote diversity amongst Group employees. at the Women’s Forum In a bid to challenge the stereotypes that continue to 0.79% 1 Altran’s commitment to the disabled hamper the careers of women engineers, Altran, in conSpain Since May 2009, Altran’s Mission Handicap division junction with Areva, Chicago Booth, EADS, Safran and 0.43% in France determines and deploys the priority actions SNCF, chaired a series of panel discussions at the “Women France necessary to support Altran’s disabled employees and in Engineering Corner” during the 2012 Women’s Forum. 0.41% ensure their integration within the Group via a threeThemes discussed included the wide range of profesGermany pronged strategy: sional skills and training programmes, as well as the • The recruitment of disabled people and the integration diversity of nationalities and cultural profiles required Percentage of of disabled employees (DE) hired on a temporary to ensure innovation in companies. Particular emphasis employees recognised as basis, as well as DE trainees undergoing professional was put on the importance of promoting women alongdisabled workers. conversion. side men in the field of engineering in order to enhance • Recourse to outsourcing via sheltered-employment corporate performance. At the 2012 forum, Altran organisations such as work-assistance establishments: helped raise awareness to the subject of diversity and ESATs (Etablissements et services d’aide par le travail), the vital role it plays in cutting-edge technologies. and adapted companies (Entreprises adaptées EA). • Promoting job security for disabled employees. In North America, Altran’s DE employment strategy is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Altran North America is committed to promoting equal opportunities for qualified candidates with a physical or mental disability by providing, within reason, a workplace that is reasonably adapted to its disabled employees’ specific needs and job requirements. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 OPEN TO 02.3 — 02.3 — OPEN TO SUGGESTION A word from... SUGGESTION “I n 2012, we increased and structured our use of social networks as a forum for exchange dedicated to Altran One of Altran’s priorities is to remain open to the needs employees and candidates worldwide. To find out more and suggestions of its employees in order to foster commuabout the presence of Altran and its regional subsidiaries nication and the exchange of ideas, preserve their health on the social networks, you can consult www.altran.com/ and safety and improve the quality of their working lives. social-media” Julien Gasco, Community Manager, Group communications department 1 EXCHANGE IDEAS and select ideas with innovation potential. All Altran its makeover in 2012, Altitude has become a magazine Ensure the safety of consultants at Altran sites, Exchange ideas about the workplace of the future Portugal, employees can contribute by posting their with even greater focus on the Group’s Innovation client facilities and on business trips Every quarter, Altran Germany organises a “Meet & More” ideas on a dedicated page on the company Intranet. Makers. A Group employee is now featured in the At most of Altran’s regional subsidiaries, the Group meeting to bring its employees together so that they A committee made up of regional employees filters headlines of every issue. has implemented on-site emergency and rescue procan catch up on the latest Altran news and take part the ideas, and their implementation is validated by cedures in the buildings and offices it manages. in workshops. management. 2 PROMOTE HEALTH AND SAFETY Teams of voluntary staff members have been trained Seven “Meet & More” sessions were held in seven IN THE WORKPLACE in site evacuation, fire prevention and staff rescue German towns in June and July 2012. The 791 parPromote the transmission of information Preserve the health of our employees procedures. In addition, emergency instructions are ticipants were invited to a “World Café” where they Every two weeks, Altran’s Group communications and prevent risk posted in all facilities. Equipment maintenance is enexchanged ideas on the workplace of the future. department distributes a newsletter to staff members, Altran is committed to preserving the health and sured by specialists (on a one-off servicing basis or Small groups were formed to discuss the degree of worldwide. The purpose of this newsletter is to transsafety of its employees in compliance with EU direcvia outsourced service contracts). Every year, a report importance that employees attached to career prosmit and share the latest information concerning the tives, and national legislation and regulatory requireis issued by the regulatory authorities in charge of pects, salaries and safety in the workplace. 2,334 ideas Group’s regional entities, as well as corporate news. ments in the countries where it operates. Health and fire and electrical equipment inspection. were collected, examined and integrated into Altran This information is also posted as daily news on the safety strategies as well as professional-risk prevenAn intervention management procedure, developed Germany’s roadmap. Intranet. Given the specific nature of Altran’s consulttion plans are defined at the regional level. As such, for consultants working on assignment at client sites, ing business, with nearly three quarters of the Group’s these health and safety requirements have been inhas been integrated into Altran’s quality management Propose new ideas consultants working on assignment at client facilities, tegrated into the quality management systems of system. This notably includes prevention plans and Eureka! is an Internet platform where employees at Altran’s Intranet site is the main vehicle for internal Altran France and Altran Portugal. new-risk notification procedures which are distribAltran Spain can put forward and exchange ideas, communication and exchange. The Company Intranet Every year, Altran France defines its HSE strategy for uted to Group consultants. In France, the Group submit innovative solutions to improve the working provides workplaces dedicated to themes, networks the year ahead. In 2012, the strategic objectives were has integrated the recognised standards, CEFRI of the company and develop new initiatives. These and projects, known as communities. Altran’s corpothree-fold: (Training and Dosimetric Monitoring of Workers Exexchanges are organised around several themes, rate and regional pages on Facebook, LinkedIn, • Pursue a continuous reduction in the number of acposed to Ionising Radiation) and MASE (Manual for namely: attracting and developing fresh talents, the Twitter, etc. serve as a platform for passing on inforcidents and incidents by eliminating their causes and the Improvement of Safety in Enterprises), into its quality and optimisation of in-house processes, marmation and exchanging ideas on the life and events controlling risks at the health, safety and environquality management system, notably those conkets and clients, as well as Corporate Social Responof the Company. mental levels; cerning risks in industrial sectors. Altran Belgium has sibility issues, partnerships, innovation and commuIn 2012, Altran integrated all of its regional subsidia• Guarantee that all dangerous operations undertaken improved ionising-radiation risk management via nication. Altran Spain regularly organises theme-based ries into a single Internet platform. Altran’s corporate by Altran at client sites are covered by risk-preventhe external entity, CESI. The company has also upchallenges and competitions to elicit new ideas. In and regional web sites present information about the tion plans; graded fire prevention procedures and is carrying out this way, over the course of the year, 1,000 employees Group, its main commitments, services, news, finan• Implement, check and improve the efficiency of an analysis of psychosocial care. shared their ideas, giving rise to 66 new initiatives. cial information and job offers, as well as the entire health and safety practices of the Group and propose Altran Portugal has implemented a tool to manage product services range of each regional entity. solutions to optimise the practices of its clients. research, development and innovation according to Altitude, Altran’s flagship communication tool, is a the NP 4457:2007 standard applying to Information scientific and technological magazine. Launched Altran monitors its employees’ health via pre-employand Engineering systems. One of the objectives of nearly ten years ago, the magazine is distributed to ment, regular and periodic check-ups. Health centre this tool is to implement idea and opportunity manall employees across the Group, as well as to external visits are free of charge for all Altran employees. agement to collect, analyse and evaluate the feedback subscribers, and young graduates worldwide. Since 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RAISING AWARENESS 02.3— 02.3 — OPEN TO SUGGESTION Raising awareness to safety issues Altran employees at Group subsidiaries in France, Spain, with lockers for consultants, dedicated project areas complete with screens, multi-connections and glass ALL YEAR ROUND Italy, Belgium, Scandinavia, Portugal and the US, as well board partitions, are juxtaposed with collaborative as Cambridge Consultants employees in the UK are workplaces more conducive to creativity and geared Jan 1 regularly informed about safety issues on-site and when to enhance the quality of life at work. Altran Belgium’s 2 travelling for business. In France and Spain, the accent Brussels-based headquarters have been renovated 3 Dec Feb is on travel safety via dedicated news bulletins and to provide a meeting point for all the company’s 4 5 quizzes. At Altran Italy, all employees are given a oneteams, thus facilitating travel and enhancing team 6 day, e-learning training course in on-site safety issues. communication. 7 8 Altran Germany’s change management plan, resulting 9 3 ENHANCE THE QUALITY OF LIFE from employee discussions held during the “Meet & More” 10 Nov Mar IN THE WORKPLACE sessions, includes a project for the creation of a more 11 Full and part-time employees in several of Altran’s convivial and healthier working environment. 12 13 regional subsidiaries can take a leave of absence with A number of Altran’s regional subsidiaries offer 14 a guarantee of employment at the end of the sabbatical services and activities geared to promoting a feeling 15 period. In Belgium, Altran staff can benefit from time of well being in the workplace and helping employees credits and educational leave. Initiatives introduced strike an even balance between their private and by Altran Italy comply with Italian legislation, and the professional lives. Within this context, Cambridge Oct Apr national collective agreement (Contratto collettivo Consultants provides mentoring programmes and nazionale di lavoro) which allows employees to take a stress management for its consultants. In Belgium, leave of absence with a guarantee of employment on France, Scandinavia and the Netherlands, a number return for reasons related to the family, personal and of sporting activities are available (jogging, badminton, family-member health, education and maternity. mini-football, etc.) and fruit is distributed freely Employees at Altran North America with more than to staff members. The images used for Altran Italy’s Sep May one year’s service can request a leave of absence of 2013 calendar were selected from a series of drawings up to 30 days for personal reasons. made by employees’ children, based on the theme: The headquarters of Altran France in Vélizy-Villacoublay “The Innovation Makers, through the eyes of their have been fitted, and those of Altran Belgium in Brussels children”. At Altran Spain, the Employee Club encomAug June renovated to enhance the quality of life in the work passes all these themes and initiatives (sports and place. At Altran France’s headquarters, bubble-type games, participation in charity campaigns and proJuly meeting venues, telephone capsules, open-plan areas motional offers). At the Group and Integration  Events Publications Digital regional levels, & Training & Competitions & posters A word from… several initiatives and 1. Training 4. Sustainable 10. Eco-gesture 12.Somos MASS programmes were programmes Development posters and flyers CSR Blog implemented and in environmental issues Week Belgium, France, Spain events organised for recruits France Germany, Italy, throughout the year Belgium, Germany Portugal, Spain, 13. CSR-project Spain, Scandinavia and 5. Mobility Week the Netherlands and to raise the awareness news on Intranet Cambridge Consultants France Cambridge Consultants of, and train employees All countries “O ne of our stakeholder priorities is to develop innovative (UK) (the UK) in sustainable 6. Earth hour communication tools and activities that serve as a bridge development issues, 14. Dedicated CSR 2. Altran IMA’s CSR Belgium and Spain 11. Environmental page on regional to create good relationships between Altran’s employees as well as in environmodule best practices Internet sites and the Company. This is how the Eureka! initiative and mental, social and Manager training 7. Employment for guides, dedicated All countries society-related matters, All countries Disabled People Week articles in the in-house the “Employee Club” came about.” France magazine Spain and 15. e-mailing and to include staff 3. Environment Cambridge Consultants eco-gestures and members in the Group’s Alicia Sanchez Ruiz, Director of Human Resources, Altran Spain training catalogue 8. International days sustainable mobility CSR strategy. Belgium, Italy and Spain Spain and Portugal at work Belgium, France, 9. Bike experience Germany, Italy, Belgium Portugal and Spain 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 03 — expanding OUR HORIZONS WIDEN The Altran Foundation for Innovation at end-2012, the Altran Foundation for Innovation awarded seven To fulfil our commitment to society and the environment in which prizes to projects in seven European we live, work and evolve, we mobilise the skills of our experts to serve countries. the common good and to create more eco-friendly innovative solutions, propose charitable initiatives, measure and limit the impact of our activities on the environment and promote innovation to those around us. Through these actions we endeavour Solar Impulse to be a committed player. Altran is an official engineering partner of the solar plane project. ISO 14001 Altran is developing Environmental Management Systems (EMS) in accordance with the ISO14001 standard. 30 Years of Innovation to celebrate its 30th anniversary, Altran publishes a book on innovation. 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 ACTING FOR 03.1— THE COMMON GOOD Via the Foundation for Innovation and skill-based sponsorships, Altran aims to foster citizen commitment by mobilising and pooling Group skills to carry out creative, innovative projects. Altran Foundation for Innovation Skills-sponsorship programmes In 2012, The Altran Foundation for Innovation was founded in Altran France provides skills sponsoring to cultural 876 work-days were 1996 for the purposes of promoting technological innovation for the common good. To carry out this institutions and associations. Employees skilled in highly specialised fields can thus widen their profesdedicated to mission, the Foundation organises a scientific comsional horizons, while enhancing their experience in the conservation petition every year in several countries, and awards pro-community projects. FOCUS / FOUNDATION FOR INNOVATION and promotion of cultural heritage a national prize to the technological innovations Since the autumn of 2012, Altran France has been and to organising which best serve the common good. The national participating in a skills-based sponsorship procharitable actions. prize winners qualify to participate in the annual gramme at the Musée Rodin (in Paris) to improve the The international international competition. Each participating country chooses a national theme that deals with a topical museum’s IT infrastructures. The mission of Altran’s employees is to audit the present IT network and help prize winner social issue. set up new technologies, while implementing a project In 2012, Luis de Matos’ Portuguese prize-winning In 2012, France, Italy and Portugal chose healthcare culture that ensures the sustainability of actions project “wi-GO” won the Altran Foundation for as the theme for their national competitions, while carried out. Innovation’s international prize, and was awarded Spain and Belgium opted for mobility and the UK and Since the first quarter of 2012, Altran France has been the Innovation Makers’ prize with 52% of the Germany focused on the responsible use of technolworking with the Valentin Haüy Association (for the employee vote. ogies. The Altran Foundation of Innovation offers blind) on a project focused on accessibility issues of, What is wi-GO? The wi-GO robot is a shopping skill-based sponsorship to the laureates of each and the development of audio-description facilities for, caddie designed to accompany people with participating country. This comprises six months of visually-impaired audiences in cinemas in Toulouse. reduced mobility (such as the elderly and support from Altran engineers with a view to speedThe aim of the Valentin Haüy Association is to help people in wheelchairs), as well as parents with ing up and ensuring the development of their projects. people with impaired vision to participate in social babies. The robot is programmed in such a way and professional activities. as to ensure the safety of users while following them in an independent manner on shopping The Group wishes to involve its employees in the trips. Thanks to the use of advanced technologies Altran Foundation and at different stages of the award and image recognition, the wi-GO caddie can process. One possibility open to employees is to become identify and follow the movements of the user. a coach who acts as an intermediary between the Developed by IS2you, a spin-off of UBI, the Foundation and the candidate. All candidates can Portuguese University of Beira Interior, the request a coach and all Altran employees can offer prototype can be used in airports, supermartheir coaching ser vices. The aim is to answer kets and certain industrial settings. the candidate’s questions about the mission of the This project, which was selected by the Altran Foundation and the organisation of the award, and Portugal jury, is an innovative response to the to help candidates draft and optimise their application. national theme chosen by Portugal in 2012: “Technology and innovation serving social integration”. The project will benefit from six months of support from a team of Altran experts as of 2013. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 34 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 35 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 A GROUP-WIDE 03.2— 4 5 COMMITMENT Altran and its regional subsidiaries participate in numerous charitable causes, such as charity races, collections and donations, and provide financial assistance to associations and non-governmental organisations (NGO). 1 3 2 Running for a good cause Spain and Italy and participated in the Pirilampo ItalY North America 5 North America Employees from Altran Italy and Magico (magical firefly) operation Altran Italy participated in donations Altran North America continued Altran North America made a 1 France Altran Spain took part in the in support of a rehabilitation and of computers to several schools to lend support to “Toys for Tots” donation to the Red Cross in support More than 50 Altran employees ran Women’s race in Barcelona and adaptation centre for disabled and associations, and office supplies by organising a toy drive in several of the victims of Hurricane Sandy. in the 20km Paris marathon to collect Susan G. Komen’s “Race for the children. Two blood donation to an association in Sicily. cities at the end of the year. funds for two projects of the Enfants Cure” in Naples. operations were organised at Germany du Mékong Association; the opening Altran’s offices in Lisbon during France Altran Germany continued to Financial support of three classes and the renovation the year. In 2012, Altran France renewed its support Unicef and the Luftfahrt for associations and NGOs of a school in Cambodia. Collections and donations commitment to the French charity ohne Grenzen association. Belgium restaurant organisation, Restos du ItalY 2 India 3 Portugal For several years, Altran Belgium Cœur by organising a collection of ScandinaviA Altran Italy supports the Nuovi A team of 40 Altran India employees Altran Portugal employees organised employees have been able to particitoys, food and clothes in December Altran Scandinavia continued to Mecenati Foundation whose purpose ran in the Bangalore 10km Midnight a collection of books which were pate in the annual Saint Nicolas at sixteen Altran France sites. support the Swedish humanitarian is to promote the creativity of young Marathon (organised by the Rotary donated to EFAO (Earth For All Organitoy-collection campaign. association, Plan International Sverige. French artists via festivals and cultural Bangalore IT Corridor) in support of sation) to support the creation of the Altran Belgium also donated 4 Spain events in forty cities throughout Italy. several local associations. Mozambique and Cap Verde ibraries. eco-cheques (1) to several associations. Altran Spain employees organised a united kingdom The Italian subsidiary also promotes The employees also collected food campaign to collect toys, pens and Cambridge Consultants made a (1) Eco-cheques are distributed by employers Telethons and the AGIR humanitarian products for the international healthto finance the acquistion of ecological products food products which were donated financial donation to Cam Sight, associations’ network. care assistance organisation, AMI and services to the Caritas food bank. a local association for blind and (Assistência Médica Internacional) visually impaired people. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 36 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 37 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 SUPPORTING 03.3— FOCUS / solar impulse INNOVATIVE PROJECTS Global Compact N° 9 Encourage the development and Simulation tools diffusion of environment-friendly technologies. At Altran, innovation is our DNA. To mark our 30th Altran’s Complex System Modelling team created simulation tools to prepare and anniversary, Altran commemorated the history optimise Solar Impulse flights. of innovation in 2012 and lent support to a number After having completed the aircraft modelling, of innovative environmental projects. Altran developed the MISSIM flight simulator which calculates the optimal flight path for the plane in advance. This tool is used for managing trade-offs, optimising design choices, flight Altran commemorates the history production models (capacity of innovation and comsimulation and preparing long and short-haul of innovation petitiveness) and corporate investment in R&D, with flights. In 2012, Altran celebrated its 30th anniversary by the overall aim of sustaining the growing innovation publishing a book, “30 Years of Innovation for a Brighter capacity of EU member countries. “Platoo” is a routing tool designed to track flights Future”, which traces the story of the Company as well in real time that is operated from the mission control centre, and which offers alternatives in as the history of innovation and the revolutionary Official engineering partner of the Solar the case of any unforeseen events. This tool proved breakthroughs made over the past thirty years. Impulse project Scan the QR-Code or essential during the Madrid-Rabat flight when the Altran uses innovation, the DNA of the Group since Altran’s partnership with Solar Impulse was forged out click on the Altran aircraft had to change course and retrace its website link below its inception, in an original and imaginative manner. of our passion for, and willingness to invest in, the steps for two hours. to view the pdf of Its ability to transform ideas into reality made innovation revolutionary concept of a solar-powered aircraft. Both The Platoo system integrates real-time treatment the book the essential component in the creation of Technology parties decided to pool their expertise in order to of meteorological data, ultra-fine, spectralhttp://www.altran.com/ press-news/publications Consulting, a new profession that gave rise to some demonstrate the tremendous potential of renewable phenomena modelling, a high-precision predictive of the finest achievements over the past thirty years. energy. This gave birth to one of the most ambitious routing system, reduced calculation times, the The book traces the accomplishments of our consulthuman and technological exploits of the 21st century. ability to render significantly more accurate ants over the years and gives the keys to understandIn 2003, Altran became actively involved in the Solar results, real-time take-off decision criteria during ing what still needs to be done in terms of innovation Impulse adventure. As an official partner, Altran and “Mission” countdown and even more precise analyses for the second solar plane, etc. in a number of fields such as transport, energy, healthits team of experts have been working side by side These simulation tools are at the heart of the care, and telecommunications. on a daily basis with Bertrand Piccard and André preparations for the 2013 trans-American mission. Borschberg and their team towards achieving the obEvery year, Altran Spain publishes a book on the subject jectives of the Solar Impulse project. to help professionals understand and promote innovation within their organisations. Three books have been Altran’s commitment Scan the QR-Code or click on the Altran website link below to view the video published to date: the first dictionary of innovation, Altran’s consultants, who have been involved in project http://www.altran.com/about-us/ “Who is responsible here?”, and “Innovate now”. management, as well as the development of the misaltran-and-solar-impulse/ sion simulator used to calculate flight paths and create The Altran Innovation Potential Index flight scenarios since 2003, have also worked on For the eighth year running, Altran’s Madrid-based numerous other aspects of the solar plane, including Innovation Potential Index served to assess the innovastress analysis and electric architecture. tion capacity of European countries and to determine the recommendations for each country on how to im2012: The first intercontinental flight prove their potential in the fields of sciences, technoAfter accomplishing the first day-and-night flight in logy and innovation. The index showed that the Nordic 2010, then the first European flight in 2011, the solar countries, such as Denmark, Finland and Sweden, have plane continued to push back the boundaries in 2012 the strongest potential and revealed a correlation by completing a 6,000km fuel-free round trip flight between R&D investment and the best rankings in between Switzerland and Morocco. Altran teams were terms of key innovation variables. The objective of the present at the stopover points in Madrid in Spain and exercise is to promote efficient methods of improving Toulouse in France to welcome the solar plane and criteria, such as technology-sector weightings in promote the project. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 38 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 39 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 LIMITING THE 03.4— 03.4— LIMITING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR ACTIVITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Global Compact N° 7 Apply a precautionary approach to environmental Measures implemented to reduce energy consumption coffee machines, and water fountains, etc.). All water consumed by the Company is drawn from urban water OF OUR ACTIVITY issues include: 1. energy-saving lighting and air-conditioning Global Compact N° 8 systems ensuring that power is automatically shut reserves. Altran promotes efforts to reduce the level Undertake initiatives down outside office hours, 2. smart lighting systems of water consumption and has installed dual-flush to promote greater environmental that use sensors to measure the movement and degree toilets and soap dispensers mounted on wash hand responsibility of natural light, 3. HEQ (High Environmental Quality) basin taps at its sites. The development of Environmental Management Systems buildings, 4. smaller office-space areas, 5. security(EMS) enables Altran to measure and limit the impact officer surveillance to ensure that lights are switched 5 Travel of Group transport, paper and energy consumption and off and windows are closed, etc, and 6. the use of 100% renewable energy. In 2012, Altran implemented a continuous progress approach to assess more accurately and exhaustively waste management. the impact of staff business trips; the aim being to 3 Paper measure the environmental impact of group travel by 1 Environment management ensures that initiatives are implemented to reduce In 2012, paper consumption at the sites in the Group’s car, plane and train. Car transport includes company 60% The Altran Group has implemented strategies at the pollution caused by Group transport and measures regional reporting scope (1) totalled 18,794 kg (2). vehicles, the use of personal cars for professional regional level focused on Health, Security and Environtheir efficiency on a continuous improvement basis. (1) Excluding To reduce paper consumption, tools have been implepurposes and car rentals. The total number of staff 10% ment (HSE) and Environment Management Systems Altran France sites. mented to monitor printing, and automatically contrips by company car and by plane is presented in the (EMS). Depending on the regional EMS strategy in An Environmental Management System (EMS) is curfigure printers to print exclusively in black and white Management Report (Chapter 9, Section 4.12) of the 30% place, a designated person or monitoring committee rently being set up in France, and will be rolled out (2) Only A3/A4 paper used for and recto/verso. The Group also organised a “paper2012 registration document. printers and bought % of sites with is officially responsible for environment related issues. in 2013 with a view to obtaining ISO14001 standard for use in sites free week”, replaced its individual printers with colTo reduce pollution caused by Group transport, vehienvironmental Management systems ensure an analysis of the real certification in 2014. Pending deployment, environwithin the scope lective models, and implemented paperless solutions cles in Altran’s car fleet are low CO2 emission models. certification of consolidation and potential impacts of Group activities on the enmental impact is measured by collecting data from (excluding paper for electronic administrative and human-resources In addition, all sites are equipped with video and au% of sites measuring and reducing vironment. On this basis, Altran defines the objectives financial services, purchasing departments, car-fleet consumption by management, as well as billing, etc. dio conference systems, and car-pooling platforms their environmental employees working and action plans for the rational and efficient use of managers, general services departments, buildings at client sites). and free shuttle services are available to employees. impact its natural resources. Compliance monitoring guarmanagers, and the Group’s services providers. This 4 Water Public transport fares are reimbursed in full, and a % of sites measuring their environmental antees that Group activities respect environmental organisation promotes the development of initiatives Given the nature of Altran’s activities, water consumpmobility programme promoting the most eco-friendimpact standards. to reduce the environmental impact caused by Group tion is limited to domestic use (toilets, showers, washly means of transport has been introduced (public Since Altran is an intellectual services provider, the transport and purchased goods. The manager of hand basins, kitchen sinks, dish washing machines, transport, train, car-sharing, bicycles, etc.). main impacts of its activity on the environment stem Environment France is in charge of coordinating from the Group’s paper and energy consumption, staff actions and implementing the EMS. travel and resulting CO2 emissions, as well as waste A word from... management. In the UK, health, security, environmental and CSR managers organise data collection for the purposes Altran sites in Belgium, Italy, Scandinavia, Spain as well of measuring the main environmental impacts of the “Since 2009, we have been developing initiatives to reduce as the Cambridge Consultants site have obtained Group’s activity. the environmental impact of our company vehicles. environmental certification (IS0 14001, the Swedish At present, our company car fleet is composed exclusively label miljödiplomering and the eco-dynamic company 2 Energy of low CO2 emission vehicles, which consume very little label). Developed by the Brussels Institute of EnvironThe energy consumption levels of the Altran sites in energy (Blue Motion, BlueEfficiency, GreenLine). We have mental Management, the Ecodynamic Enterprise label the Group’s scope of environmental indicators are is the equivalent certification for the European Ecogiven in the Management Report (Chapter 9, Section reduced the number of company vehicles and implemented Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) standard. 4.11) of the 2012 registration document. driver-training programmes. Having reduced fuel Altran’s energy consumption in 2012 totalled consumption by 5.1% in 2012, Altran was awarded the Green Elsewhere, Altran is progressively implementing 23,484,428 kWh (84,544 GJ) of which electricity conFleet Prize by Naturschutzbund Deutschland (the German procedures to measure and reduce the environmental sumption for 20,275,250 kWh (72 991GJ). Altran’s NABU: Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union).” impact of its activity. In Germany, environmental energy consumption is supplied by several sources of impact is measured by collecting data from the purenergy (energy mix) of which renewable energies for Petra Dannenberg, Mobility Manager, Altran Germany chasing department and the mobility manager who 17% and non-renewable energies for 83%. 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 40 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 41 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 03.4— LIMITING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR ACTIVITY 04. Methodology 6 Greenhouse gas emissions and Initiatives carried out to limit CO2 emissions are presented CSR Reporting • Switzerland: ALTRAN AG (CHE) Reporting framework the climate change issue by emission source in specific chapters in this report. In 2012, the Altran Group adapted its CSR • The Netherlands: Altran International, A reporting framework for social, environAltran’s commitment to the protection of the environreporting to take into account requirements Altran BV mental and society-related data has been ment prompted the Group to develop several projects 7 Waste management set forth in Article 225 of the French Grenelle • UK: Cambridge Consultants drawn up and deployed. This reporting tool focused on measuring and reducing CO2 emissions and Altran is gradually equipping all of its sites with facilities 2 law (Grenelle de l’environment). A chapter • US: Altran Solutions Corp will be updated every year to take into acdeveloping more environment-friendly innovative soluto sort and recycle waste generated by its activity. dedicated to CSR is included in the Managecount consolidation work and data verificaCO2 emission sources tions. The Altran Group mobilised a number of its spement Report (Chapter 9, Section 4 of the 2012 Indicator selection criteria tion carried out, as well as contributor and Associated CO2 registration document). A certification of and information statutory auditor comments and the progress cialists and, in 2009, created an international network Percentage of sites equipped with selective waste sorting emission coefficients and recycling facilities(1): attendance issued by the Group’s statutory When defining the contents of this report, plan. This framework provides details of the (tonnes) of skilled professionals to develop sustainable solutions auditors is included in Appendix 3 of the regAltran’s objective was to give a balanced and methods used to obtain indicator feedback in the fields of energy, the sustainable city (mobility and 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% istration document. The CSR report completes relative to scope, frequency, definitions, coherent overview of the Group’s actions and buildings), eco-technologies and eco-design. An internal this information by detailing the key events methodology principles, calculation formu6,192 Paper / cardboard and projects developed throughout the year. performances at the environmental, ecolas and standard factors. The methodologies research programme has been in place since 2009 for nomic, social and society-related levels, withPlastic It also provides additional information relative implemented for certain indicators may be the purposes of developing skills and tools geared to out omitting any information that may be 4,555 Cans and other metal packaging to Altran’s Corporate Social Responsibility limited and could therefore be a source of considered pertinent to stakeholders, or enhance the sustainable value of solutions, products Glass which is not a legal requirement but expected information whose exclusion could have an uncertainty given the use of estimates in the and services (see Chapter 1, Section 1). by Group stakeholders. case of missing data, calculation errors and 2,367 General waste unwarranted influence on them. Because of its sector of activity, Altran does not expect omissions, and simplifying assumptions. Light bulbs/fluorescent tubes risks of a regulatory nature or those related to material Reporting period Batteries In the preparation of this report, Altran 25 changes caused by climate change to have a significant This report covers the period from 1 January Responsibilities and controls adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Ink cartridges impact on the Group’s financial situation. to 31 December 2012. Unless mentioned otherdirectives set forth in version 3.1 of the GRI’s The information and the performance indicaAir-conditioning cooling liquid wise, all of its contents relate to activities car“Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (GRI tors presented in this report were collected Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment ried out in 2012. Every year, Altran publishes 3.1) defining the principles, directives and from several data management systems set o/w company cars Altran monitors its greenhouse gas emissions at the (WEEE) information concerning its Corporate Social contents required in sustainable developup by the Group’s Communication Departo/w business flights Group level and in several of its regional markets and Cleaning liquid products & containers Responsibility (CSR) strategy. The contents of ment reports. The joint approach used to ment in charge of coordinating internal and group sites (energy consumed) has set up a continuous progress approach to integrate the previous report, published in June 2012 draw up this report was coordinated by the external CSR communication. Altran has all relevant sources of emissions related to its activity (1) Data not available for all waste types at the Paris (CapEtoile) and relate to activities carried out in 2011. Group’s Communications Department in asimplemented a data validation and monitorpaper consumption and to extend its geographical coverage. Illkirch sites, for glass waste at the Vélizy-Villacoublay site, for lightsociation with Altran’s foreign CSR correing system to ensure the quality and exactibulb and light-tube waste at the Rennes and Lyon sites, for all cooling Scope spondents and teams responsible for Group tude of the information presented in this liquid waste at all sites in France, except Blagnac, and for all cleaning stakeholder relations. report. Altran’s scope of social, environmental and product waste at Levallois, Vélizy-Villacoublay, Rennes and Lyon. society-related indicators in the CSR report A certification of attendance issued by the is identical to that defined within the context This process is based on a forward-looking Group’s statutory auditors concerning the of the Group’s continuous improvement apapproach designed to improve the pooling social, environmental and society-related proach regarding the social, environmental and coordination of information collected information in the Management Report deand society-related information contained and communicated, to include information scribes the nature and extent of their work. in the Management Report. The operating relative to new performance indicators and countries included in the 2012 regional scope to extend the geographic coverage of these Contacts of consolidation were Germany, Belgium, indicators. To define the contents of this reAltran’s 2012 CSR Report is issued for public Spain, France, Italy and the UK (excluding port, Altran adopted the most pertinent diinformation and can be consulted on the Cambridge Consultants). The regional scope rectives of the Global Reporting Initiative Group’s Internet site: www.altran.com. of consolidation is detailed in the Managewith respect to stakeholder interests and All comments and questions concerning this ment Report of the 2012 registration docuindicators (notably via client CSR questionreport should be addressed to the Group’s ment (Chapter 9, Section 4.22). naires), legislation, regulations (notably CSR Manager: The CSR report also includes information those specific to article 225 of the Grenelle related to Altran’s legal entities and the 2 law) and Altran’s voluntary strategic comGroup’s main sites in the US, India, Portugal, mitments, the Group’s strategy and mission, Altran Technologies, the Netherlands, the Scandinavian countries its key values and operational management 96, avenue Charles de Gaulle and Switzerland, as well as to Cambridge systems, employee expectations and initia92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France Consultants. All information related to the tives developed by the Group’s regional subor by mail to countries herein listed is specified as such sidiaries, as well as the major risks identified, corporate.responsibility@altran.com in the CSR report. Group operations in India and the possible contributions in terms of and Switzerland were included in the CSR sustainable development of an innovation reporting scope as of 2012. and advanced engineering consulting company. Relevant themes have been organised The subsidiaries included in the additional by area of commitment. For each theme, Alinformation in the CSR report are: tran has presented one or several major ex• India: Altran Technologies India amples and/or a progress review. This report is designed for all the Group’s stakeholders, • Portugal: Altran Portugal SGPS as specified in the first part of the report. • Scandinavia: Altran Technologies Sweden AB, Altran Sverige and Altran Norway AS 01 — A Partner of Excellence 02 — A Responsible Employer 03 — A Commited Player 42 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 43 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 05. Cross-reference table 05. Cross-reference table Global Reporting Initiative Global Reporting Initiative Profil Profil GRI Information 2012 CSR 2012 Registration Comments GRI Information 2012 CSR 2012 Registration Comments Report Document Report Document 1,1 Message from the Chairman 00.2 Information concerning Altran’s strategy and com3,1 Reporting period for informa04 00.3 mitments, together with trends that could have an tion provided impact on the company and its CSR strategy, as 00.6 well as the key events in 2012 and the company’s 3,2 Date of last published report, 04 01 goals for the future are given in “The message if any 02 from the Chariman” and throughout the present report. The Group’s continuous improvement 3,3 Reporting cycle 04 03 approach ensures performance improvement vis-à-vis the key identified challenges which will 3,4 Contact person for all 04 be the Group’s main objectives for 2013 and questions related to the report beyond. In 2012, Altran made progress regarding and its contents the implementation of its commitments and reporting on its actions, as presented in the 3,5 Process for defining report 04 corresponding sections of this report and in the contents performance indicators. 3,6 Scope of the report 04 1,2 Description of key impacts, 00.4 4.1 3,7 Specific limitations on the 04 risks and opportunities 00.5 4.6 scope or boundary of the 01.1 9.4 report 2,1 Name of organisation 00.1 5.1.1 3,8 Principles adopted for 04 reporting on joint-ventures 2,2 Primary products and/or 6.1 and subsidiaries services and related brands 3,9 Data measurement techniques 04 2,3 Operational structure 07 and the bases of calculations of the organisation 3,10 Explanation of the conse04 No reformulation of information communicated 2,4 Location of the organisation’s 5.1.4 quences of, and the reasons in previous reports headquarters for, any reformulation of information communicated 2,5 Number and name of countries 07 in previous reports where the organisation 20 Note 2 operates 3,11 Significant changes in scope, 04 boundary and measurement 2,6 Nature of ownership 00.1 5.1.4 methods used in the report and legal form relative to the period covered 21.1 in previous reports 2,7 Operating markets 6.2 3,12 Table identifying the location 05 2,8 Size of organisation 00.1 03 of the standard disclosures in the report 6.2 9.2 3,13 Third-party validation 04 9.3 17.1.1 18.1.1 20.3.1 2,9 Significant changes during 9.1 reporting period 18.1 2,10 Awards received during 00.2 reporting period 00.6 01.1 03.4-5 44 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 45 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 05. Cross-reference table 05. Cross-reference table Global Reporting Initiative Global Reporting Initiative Profil Profil GRI Information 2012 CSR 2012 Registration Comments GRI Information 2012 CSR 2012 Registration Comments Report Document Report Document 4,1 Governance 14.1 4,11 Explanation of the organisation’s Altran is a signatory of the United Nations Global Appendix 1-1 position regarding its precautionary Compact. Progress made related to directive approach or principle and the actions number 7 of the Global Compact are presented 4,2 Indicate whether the chairman 14.1.2 taken in this respect. in Chapter 3, Section 4 of the CSR report. of the board is also an executive officer Appendix 1 1.3 4,12 Externally-developed economic, 00.3 4,3 For organisations with a unitary Appendix 1 1.2 environmental, and social charters, board structure, state the number principles, and other initiatives of independent directors and/or to which the organisation subscribes non-executive members or endorses. 4,13 Memberships in associations Altran is a member of Syntec Numérique, Syntec 4,4 Mechanisms in place for shareholders 21.2 Altran shareholders can make recommen(such as industry associations) Ingénierie and GIFAS in France, and a premium and employees to make recommendaAppendix 1 1.2 dations or submit questions to the Board and/or national/international partner member of Autosar in Germany. tions or transmit instructions to the Appendix 1 2 in writing at the Annual Shareholders’ organisations board of directors Meeting, or by mail to Altran’s contact email address via the Group’s Internet site 4,14 List of the organisation’s stakeholders 00.5 (www.altran.com), or by using the Shareholders’ toll-free number. 4,15 Basis for identification and selection 00.5 4,5 Relation between the remuneration 9.4.2 of stakeholders with whom to engage of Board members (or similar), 15.1 senior executives and executive directors and corporate performance 4,16 Approaches to stakeholder engageThe Group develops dialoguing tools for ment, notably regarding frequency its stakeholders. Some of these tools are 4,6 Process implemented by the Board 14.3 of engagement by type and by available for use all year round (Internet sites of Directors (or similar) to avoid stakeholder group and social networks, etc), while others are Appendix 1 1.2 any conflicts of interest implemented occasionally for specific purposes or events (annual satisfaction 4,7 Process used to determine the 14.1.1 surveys, trade fairs and forums, etc.). qualifications and expertise of the Appendix 1-1.1 members of the Board and its 4,17 Questions and concerns that have Stakeholder expectations have become the committees, including consideration been raised through stakeholder key centres of Altran’s commitment and focus of diversity indicators engagement and the way the for improvement which are at the core of organisation has dealt with these the actions described in the sections of this 4,8 Internally developed statements of 00.2 issues report: notably in terms of being a partner mission or values, codes of conduct, 01.2 of excellence for our clients, suppliers and and principles relevant to economic, shareholders; being a responsible employee for environmental, and social performance our current and future employees, and being a and the status of their implementation committed player for society as a whole. 4,9 Procedures defined by the Board of Appendix 1 1.2 Directors (or similar) for overseeing Appendix 1 1.5 the organisation’s identification and Information relative to the disclosure on management approach (DMA) management of economic, environmental, and social performances, GRI 2012 CSR Report 2012 Registration Comments including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence to, Document or compliance with international standards, codes of conduct, and EC 01 / 01.1 / 01.3 / 03.1 0.3 / 6.2 / 9.4.1.3 / 9.4.2 principles. EN 03.4-1 / 05 LA 02 4,10 Process used to evaluate the perforAppendix 1-1.1 mance of the Board of Directors, HR 9.4.18 notably with respect to economic, environmental, and social performances SO 05 PR 01.3 / 05 46 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran 47 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 RESPONSIBILITY 2012 05. Cross-reference table 05. Cross-reference table Performance GRI Not 2012 CSR 2012 Registration Comments relevant Report Document GRI Not 2012 CSR 2012 Registration Comments relevant Report Document LA7 9.4.5 LA9 9.4.5 EC2 01.1 4.6 03.4-6 9.4.14 LA10 9.4.6 The average number of staff training hours is published by region 9.4.2 LA11 02.1-2 9.4.6 EC3 20 Note 4-4.13 02.2-2 02.3-3 EC5 9.4.2 HR3 EC7 9.4.1.3 At 31 December 2012, the CEO in the countries in Altran’s scope of social, environmental and society-related indicators listed in the Management HR5 9.4.18 Report are citizens of the country under their management. HR6 9.4.18 EC8 03.1 9.4.17 HR7 9.4.18 EN1 03.4-3 9.4.10 HR8 EN3 HR9 EN4 03.4-2 9.4.11 HR10 EN6 03.4-2 9.4.13 HR11 EN8 9.4.10 9.4.13 SO1 EN9 SO7 Where necessary, refer to the Registration Document, Chapter 4.7 Legal Risks, and Chapter 20.8, Legal and arbitration proceedings EN10 SO8 Where necessary, refer to the Registration Document, Chapter 4.7 EN12 Legal Risks, and Chapter 20.8, Legal and arbitration proceedings EN13 SO9 EN14 SO10 EN15 PR1 EN16 03.4-6 9.4.14 Altran uses Version 6.1 of ADEME’s carbon footprint “Guide to PR2 Emission Factors” to measure its greenhouse gas emissions. PR5 01.3-1 EN18 03.4-6 9.4.13 9.4.14 PR8 Where necessary, refer to the Registration Document, Chapter 4.7 Legal Risks, and Chapter 20.8, Legal and arbitration proceedings EN20 PR9 Where necessary, refer to the Registration Document, Chapter 4.7 EN21 Legal Risks, and Chapter 20.8, Legal and arbitration proceedings EN22 03.4-7 9.4.15 The reasons justifying the irrelevant profile of certain indicators such as those mentioned above are given in the reporting framework EN23 developed and deployed within the company in 2012. These can be obtained from the Group’s Communication Department. EN24 Level of GRI application EN25 EN26 03.4 9.4.13 Altran has submitted the Group’s 2012 CSR EN27 report to the Global Reporting Initiative for EN28 Where necessary, refer to the Registration Document, Chapter 4 verification of its application level. Section .7 “Legal Risks”, and Chapter 20 Section 8, “Legal and The GRI has confirmed that Altran has arbitration proceedings. reached level B. EN29 03.4-5 9.4.12 EN30 LA1 9.4.1.1 9.4.3 LA4 9.4.4 LA6 9.4.5 48 CORPORATE SOCIAL Altran RESPONSIBILITY 2012 05. Cross-reference table UN Global Compact The cross reference table is based on the guidelines of the Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative “Making the connection, The GRI guidelines and the UNGC Communication on Progress” which are available on the Global Climate’s web site; www.unglobalcompact.org. Global Compact Performance indicators 2012 CSR Report 2012 Registration Document principles (GRI – Altran) Principles regarding human EC5 01.2 9.4.2 rights LA4 01.4 9.4.4 1, 2 LA6 05 9.4.5 LA7 LA9 PR8 Principles regarding labour EC7 00.3 9.4.1.3 standards 3, 4, 5, 6 LA4 0.2.2 9.4.4 % of employees with recognised 9.4.7.1 disability 9.4.7.2 Female employees as a % of total workforce 9.4.18 Principles regarding the EN1 01.1 9.4.10 environment 7, 8, 9 EN4 03.3 9.4.11 EN6 03.4 9.4.12 EN8 9.4.13 EN16 9.4.14 EN18 EN26 EN28 EN29 EC2 Principle 10: Combating % of employees trained in policies 01.2 corruption and procedures related to the fight against corruption. 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Conception and design Head office Director of publication 54-56, avenue Hoche Philippe Salle 75008 Paris, France Chairman and Chief Executive of the Altran Group Translation WordDesigners Administrative headquarters Editorial director 96, avenue Charles de Gaulle Frédéric Fougerat Photo credits 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France Director of Group Communications DR © Altran, Tristan Deschamps, © Solar Impulse | Revillard | Rezo.ch, www.altran.com Coordination © B.PAGET corporate.responsibility@altran.com Clara Lorentz Group Communications Manager CSR Printed in France Graph Imprim Acknowledgements The Director of Communications for the Group This report has been composed in Lucida and wishes to thank all of Altran’s CSR corresponEF Filzerhand and printed on Triple Star Volume dents, as well as the members of the CSR Mat Papers (cover: 300g / interior: 115g) in four network, for their participation in the drafting colors on a Heidelberg XL 105 printing press. of this report and their actions undertaken throughout the year concerning the Corporate Social Responsibility of the Group. 10-31-2629 ALTRAN TECHNOLOGIES Public limited liability company with a share capital of 87,286,212 euros Head office 54-56, avenue Hoche 75008 PARIS 702 012 956 RCS Paris
