Corporate Social Responsibility 2012 CSR 2012 | 1 Company values Dynamics In order to retain a solid platform in a changeable world we want to be an innovative, dynamic, and efficient company that other companies in the business look to for inspiration. Passion With equal parts competence, durability, enthusiasm, and good spirits we wish to ensure our customers optimum solutions and thereby add value to benefit our customers and ourselves. Credibility Honesty and credibility must be our guidelines in everything we do. Quality Everything we do must be marked with a high quality stamp. 2 | CSR 2012 Workwear with a point of view The 1st of June 2012 Nybo Jensen Konfektion In 2012, we have conducted at structured process A/S (hereafter Nybo Jensen) celebrated its 50th aiming at integrating CSR further into our business anniversary. To deliver high quality workwear based strategy. We have looked deeper into our potential on trustworthy business relations and qualityrisks, identified our most significant stakeholders minded, well-qualified and passionate employees as well as conducted a materiality assessment in have been our guiding star for 50 years. order to prioritize those CSR activities that create most value to both our business and the society Nybo Jensen is a family owned company. As a family around us. These priorities are reflected in our owned company, it is real people who own us – and report. this ownership condition means a huge difference in the way we run our business. It is of utmost We are constantly setting new targets for importance to us to value both responsibility and a improvement, and in 2013 we will further solid bottom line equally. strengthen our partnership with our suppliers in Asia with the goal of enhancing responsibility in our We work with corporate social responsibility supply chain. because of four main reasons: About our CSR report 1. We believe that we must behave decently in The purpose of our CSR reporting is to provide a relation to other people our own employees, comprehensive picture to our stakeholders on our our suppliers’ employees, our customers, their CSR performance in 2012. Our CSR report form at customers and others we meet on our way. the same time the obligatory Communication on 2. We believe that we must focus on our Progress (COP) report to UN Global Compact. environment and nature we have a responsibility to pass it on in good condition The report covers our two facilities controlled by for future generations Nybo Jensen: our headquarter in Viborg, Denmark 3. We believe that decent behaviour and sound and our production facility in Dobele, Latvia. business are interdependent 4. We appreciate that many of our customers In order to ensure a transparent, balanced and focus on CSR and places high demands on us. reasonable presentation of our CSR performance, These requirements we would like to meet. we are inspired by general accepted reporting principles: Global Reporting Initiative (www.gri. Continued support to Global Compact com). Nybo Jensen has been supporting the UN Global Compact since 2010. Together with our core As we will continue our strategic and systematic values, these 10 principles form the basis for our work with CSR, any constructive comment for holistic approach to CSR. further improvements are highly appreciated. We hope you will enjoy reading it! Torben Bang CEO Nybo Jensen Konfektion A/S CSR 2012 | 3 Purchase: Trustful partnership is key to responsible sourcing We understand purchase as all sourcing activities What we said in 2012 related to procurement and supplier management In 2012 our objective has been to further implement at Nybo Jensen. the FairFashion Code of conduct among our seven 9 key suppliers of textile. All European suppliers with Nybo Jensen has 9 main suppliers of textile more than 500.000 Dkr. must sign the FairFashion distributed in Europe and Asia. We have conducted Code of Conduct as an integrated part of the a risk assessment identifying that major risks contract with Nybo Jensen. As for Asian suppliers of doing harm are related to the social and it is suppliers with more than 100.000 Dkr. who are environmental conditions of our main suppliers obliged to sign the FairFashion Code of Conduct as in Asia since our European suppliers are subject an integrated part of their contract. to strict European legislation. Likewise our key supplier in India holds a SA8000 certification, which Another goal was to develop a supplier selfguarantees a satisfactory high CSR standard. Our assessment tool and to implement this tool among focus is therefore to cooperate with our suppliers our key Asian suppliers of textiles. in China in order to ensure that they live up to our high standards in regard to human rights, labour What we did in 2012 rights and environmental issues as well as quality • All our 9 key suppliers of textile have signed and stable delivery. our FairFashion Code of Conduct • A supplier self-assessment tool based on BSCI Policies and strategies (http://www.bsci-intl.org) has been developed Our ambition is to do business with suppliers • One new Chinese supplier has undergone a who intend to meet the same high standards as self-assessment regards quality, ethics, environment and security of • 2 suppliers were visited during 2012 supplies as we do ourselves. We only source from international recognized suppliers. What we achieved in 2012 Our “old” suppliers all live up to our high standards We believe that we achieve the best results through for quality and responsibility. However, we identified trustful partnerships striving for improvement some failings among our new Chinese supplier and in regards to human right, labour rights and agreed on a plan of action to improve the sanitary environmental issues. Therefore we are convinced conditions for employees. that it is through a long-term partnership with our key suppliers that we can achieve the best results. What’s next for 2013 Regular visits in the places of production guarantee Our objective for 2013 is to full implement our observance of the agreed conditions. procedures for monitoring of suppliers of raw material. Our plan is that all our suppliers in Nybo Jensen is a member of the trade association Asia have conducted the Nybo Jensen’s self“Danish Fashion and Textile” that have developed assessment. If we identify any failings, we will a recognized code of conduct targeting suppliers agree on a plan of action within 6 months in order named FairFashion. Our goal is to ensure that to ensure satisfactory improvements. In addition, our suppliers live up to the standards similar to we will ask all our suppliers to document that FairFashion (http://www.dmogt.dk/csr/code_of_ they handle substances according to the REACH conduct_fairfashion.aspx).Our objective is that all Directive. our suppliers have signed FairFashion as part of the We will visit our Chinese supplier during 2013 to contract between Nybo Jensen and the supplier. check whether our agreed plan of action has been implemented. 4 | CSR 2012 Responsible sourcing from main supplier “Our suppliers must comply to high CSR standards. When it comes to our non-European suppliers we focus especially on staff conditions because we consider issues in relation to human rights and labour rights to be high-risk areas. We have signed the UN Global Compact which sends a strong signal to our customers that we have things under control and we are keen on living up to that”. Helle Nybo Holmberg, Purchasing Manager and Part Owner at Nybo Jensen “We decided to go for a SA8000 standard. Through a SA8000 we can document to our business partners that we are a trustful company in terms of CSR. We are regularly audited by authorised bodies and must continuously prove that we live up to the criteria issued in a SA8000. If they come across any critical aspect, we agree on a plan of action and they will follow up. It is both serious and professional” Indian supplier to Nybo Jensen SA8000 Standard ISA8000 is one of the world’s first auditable social certification standards for decent workplaces based on conventions of the ILO, UN and national laws. Those who complies with SA8000 have adopted policies and procedures covering child labor, forced and compulsory labor, health and safety, freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, discrimination, disciplinary practices, working hours and remuneration. The company undergoes regularly audits – both announced and unannounced. CSR 2012 | 5 Product: High quality in every-thing we do We understand product as the full assortment of Nybo Jensen’s work wear collections, customer What’s next for 2013 relations, sales and marketing activities related to • We will continue to live up to our customers our products. demands in regard to environmental and social impact from our products As a textile company our main impacts on society • We will continue to contribute to new innovative are related to the quality and content of the and environmentally friendly products. products we sell. It means that our focus related to the products we send to the market are closely related to the environmental friendly fabrics we use Nybo Jensen’s work wear fulfils these standards in our products. ISO 15797 We use, as one of the first in the industry, the Policies and strategies international test standard ISO 15797 by selecSince the foundation of Nybo Jensen we have tion of raw material and to guarantee that Nybo strived towards high quality in everything we do. We Jensen’s products meet the requirements of believe that quality and responsibility are two sides industrial washing. of the same matter. Oeko-Tex Standard 100 As far as possible, we buy fabrics and accessories We also believe that we have an obligation to that are Oeko-Tex Standard 100-certified. The develop innovative and environmentally friendly scheme is the most common labelling for textiles products. in the world. The system checks content of harmful substances in textiles, and ensure user from Nybo Jensen works only with experienced textiles release hazardous substances. and international recognized sub-suppliers of raw material for industrial washable products. EU-Ecolabel All specifications of fabrics and accessories In our assortments you will find products that are are determined and controlled according to EU-Ecolabel certified, which is the guarantee of international standards regarding quality, an environmentally friendly production. This label environmental requirements and healthy working is awarded only clothing, which is analysed from conditions. A continuous follow-up takes place “cradle-to-cradle”, and that meets strict requireregarding the fulfilment of the agreed demands ments among other reduced water consumption and arrangements. during production and restrictions on the use of hazardous substances. In our catalogues we have clearly indicated the Bluesign Standard certifications related to each product. It assists our A number of our products are based on fabrics customers in making a responsible choice. who have achieved certification by Bluesign Standard. This ensures that production is done What we said in 2012 with the utmost consideration for resource utiliza• We continue to ensure that our products live tion, negative impact on air and water, health and up to international standards concerning consumer protection. quality, environmental and ethical concerns. • What we did in 2012 • An assortment of environmental friendly Tencel products was launched in 2012. What we achieved in 2012 • 95 % of the raw material in our products is Oeko-Tex 100 certified. 6 | CSR 2012 Tencel and nature TENCEL fibres are made of 100% organic eucalyptus wood, which has been harvested in a closed circuit, without the influence of pesticides. The fibres are naturally clean. The production of Tencel is guaranteed free from hazardous substances and therefore fibres often been recognized as green and environmentally friendly. In addition to OekoTex Standard 100 is Tencel also certified with the Blue sign Standard. TENCEL fibres are the strongest among the cellulose fibres, and this particular feature makes Tencel a super partner for workwear. CSR 2012 | 7 Process: Environmental precautions from the very beginning We understand process as all the activities involved consumption was related to our administrative in operation and managing our company, including building. In consequence we have started to production, logistics, properties and utilities. use the majority of wind turbine produced energy in this building. Our facility in Viborg, Denmark contains • We continued our recycling project of paper administration and stock. In consequence our and plastic in cooperation with Zala Josta environmental challenges are mainly related to our Ltd., which is a Latvian company caring for production facility in Latvia. As a textile producing a clean Latvia. We collected and sorted all company our main task is to sew high quality work waste: paper, cartons and plastic and sold wear which means that we have no environmental it for recycling. Our systematic work with issues related to hazardous waste and our water recycling gave us the Zala Josta certificate, consumption is very limited. which certifies that our production site “Sia Nybo Dobele” is environmentally friendly. We Policies and strategies also started to recycle the boxes used to send We consider ourselves to be an integrated part of finished goods to DK and which are returned our common environment. As a company we believe to Latvia. we must take our part in showing responsibility towards our common planet and its resources. What we achieved in 2012 Even we are a small company we believe we have an • We manage to reduce our electricity obligation to demonstrate environmental concerns consumption with 17.5 %. The very satisfactory and responsible resource management. reduction is mainly due to increased efficient use of our windmill in Denmark together with We decided already in 1980 to set up a wind turbine a number of energy efficient initiatives such a at our facility in Denmark and thus become selfchange of IT equipment, instalment of on-andsufficient in electricity. Our wind turbine produces off sensors etc. 65,000 kW annually. We consume the majority • We increased our recycling project, which itself, and the surplus we market to the local power mean that we recycled 60.89 tons in total. plant. • Our water consumption was stabilized with a minor increase on 3,6 % during 2012 due to What we said in 2012 a change in operations and the moving of our Our first objective for 2012 is to continue our focus washing test to Latvia. on reducing energy use and to undertake further initiatives to achieve this objective. Our second What’s next for 2013 objective is to stabilize our water consumption We want to continue reducing our energy on present level. Our third objective is to further consumption. Our next step is to look deeper into strengthen our recycling project in Latvia. our future IT investment and to make energy use a parameter for the future choice of IT. What we did in 2012 In the future we want to include transportation in • We conducted an analysis of our energy our energy consumption. consumption at our facility in Viborg, Denmark We want to continue to stabilize our water and discovered that our major energy consumption and bring it back on 2011 level. Environmental key figures Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele) Total Energy consumption Electricity: 24,064 kWh 216,860 kwH 240,924 kwH Gas: 7005 m3 9750 m3 16755 m3 Water consumption 210 m3 1,113 m3 1,323 Recycling 14.75 tons Zala Josta certified 17.75 tons “We manage to reduce our electricity consumption with 17.5 %. The very satisfactory reduction is mainly due to increased efficient use of our windmill in Denmark together with a number of energy efficient initiatives such a change of IT equipment, instalment of on-and-off sensors etc.” 8 | CSR 2012 People: Good working conditions are key to success We understand people as all activities related to • We want to improve our data management on managing and developing our employees. This CSR to cover both Denmark and Latvia. includes a safe and healthy working environment, • We have zero tolerance when it comes to leadership and compliance with Nybo Jensen’s corruption. code of conduct. What we did in 2012 Nybo Jensen employs 172 persons – 37 are • Continued English language training in Latvia. working at the headquarter in Denmark and 135 • Continued systematic employee development are working at our main production facility in Latvia. dialogues for all employees in Denmark and all We regretfully had to lay off 5 employees in 2012 managers in Latvia. due to the financial crisis that has serious impact • Continued to support to staff training, including on the textile industry. access to free English training in Latvia • Conducted the BSCI self-assessment at our Policies and strategies own facilities in Denmark and Latvia. We want to offer a desirable, developing and • Increased systematic documentation on challenging place of work that is able to attract and health and safety issues in both Denmark and retain quality-minded, well-qualified and passionate Latvia together with a number of employee employees. We believe that our employees are the initiatives regarding improvement of health most important key to success. conditions under the supervision of Danish and Latvian authorities ex first aid course, To ensure and document that we live up to our high defibrillator and massage. standards we take our own medicine and follow the • Continued our cooperation with Viborg principles of BSCI code of conduct internally at our Municipality to include socially vulnerable own operations in Denmark, Latvia. citizens into our company. In 2012 we have 3 persons employed on special terms. We respect and live up to the national labour market laws in Denmark and Latvia including What we achieved in 2012 minimum wages, health and safety, working hours The BSCI self-assessment documented full etc. All conditions regarding employees are detailed compliance. Through our improved registration described in our Handbook for Personnel, which is and documentation of staff conditions, we have handed out to every new employee. Even the labour achieved a better overview. marked laws in both Denmark and Latvia are of very high standards, we want to go beyond the law and What’s next for 2013 provide support to ex training, health insurance and We want continuously to focus on improvement in staff celebrations. regard to health and safety among our employees. Our ambition is to grow in a responsible manner What we said in 2012 with respect for the well-being of our employees. • We continue to deploy our staff procedures Concern for our employees has always been at the and politics as described in the Handbook for heart of the Nybo Jensen company spirit. Personnel. Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele) Total Employees 37 135 172 Blue collar 7 110 117 White collar 30 25 55 Sick leave (5) 5,4 7,7 Injuries 0 3 during the last 5 years Employee Development Dialogue 37 25 62 Employees received training 0 12 12 Employees on special terms 3 0 3 CSR 2012 | 9 Subject Objective Result Global GRI Page Compact Implementing Supplier All suppliers of fabrics and All 4 European and 5 All prinGeneral 4, 6,7 Purchase Code of Conduct sewing sign supplier Code Asian suppliers of fabrics ciples of Conduct. and sewing has signed supplier Code of Conduct. Number of suppliers that All major suppliers in Asia 2 out of 5 Asian suppliers All prinGeneral 4, 6,7 has undergone screening must conduct our selfhas conducted a selfciples assessement. assessment. Monitoring and improving Plan of action to be moni1 plan of Action has been All prinGeneral 4, 6, 7 supplier standards tored within a 6 month issued ciples period Development of environA collection of environ9 5 Product/customers mental friendly products mental friendly Tencel products has been launched. Certifications: Oeco-Tex 90% of our products are 95 % of our products are 9 PR3 5 Standard 100, Eco-Label, Oeko-Tex certified Oeko-Tex certified Bluesign, ISO 15797 60% of our products are 65 % of our products are Eco-label/Bluesign certifed Eco-label/Bluesign certifed Energy consumption 5 % reduction 17.5 % 7 EN3 8 Process Initiatives to reduce energy consumption Efficient use of windmill 28,340 kWh equals to 17.5 % reduction 7,8 EN5 8 Total greenhouse gas 5 % reduction Mangler 7,8 EN16 8 emission Total water consumption Maintain 2011 level 3,6 % increase 7 EN8 8 Recycling 5 % increase in volumen 14,75 tons 7,8 EN2 8 Diversity of workforce Blue collar: 117 1,2, 6 LA1 9 People/society White collar: 55 Employee development Access to English language 12 employees 1,2 LA10 9 training for employees in Latvia Number of employees All blue collar employees 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 covered by collective bargaining agreements Wage level Observe and respect 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 national labour marked laws regarding minimum wage level Staff compensation Pensions, heath insur1,2 LA3 9 rance, compensation on sick leave, pregnancy etc. • Health and safety: • zero injuries • 2 injuries 1,2 LA7 9 rates of injury • improve health • health insurrance, • health programs programs canteen etc. • sick leave • reduction of sick • DK: 4,3 %; Latvia: leaves 7,7 % • Observe and respect • 100 % national labour marked laws on OHS Number of employees on -Contribute to an inclusive 3 employees on special 1,2, 6 LA13 9 special terms labour marked terms Implementation of Code of All Nybo Jensen companies Completed All prinGeneral 2, 9 Conduct must sign our Code of Conciples duct and Global Compact (Denmark and Latvia) CSR Performance at Nybo Jensen Konfektion A/S 10 | CSR 2012 Nybo Jensen Konfektion A/S in brief Company name Nybo Jensen Konfektion A/S Address Industrivej 24-26, DK-8800 Viborg Phone +45 8727 3000? E-mail: salg@nybo.dk CVR number 36745118 Locations of operaNybo Jensen Konfektion A/S is headquartered in Viborg, Denmark and has own productions: tion facilities in Latvia. The company is represented in all North European markets. Our customers consist of laundries and wholesalers. Our main suppliers are located in Europe, India and China. Number of employ172 ees 2012 Contact person Helle Nybo Holmberg Purchasing Manager, Part Owner +45 87273006? hnh@nybo.dk About Nybo JenMargit and Peder Nybo Jensen established Nybo Jensen Konfektion A/S in 1962. The comsen Konfektion A/S pany is a family owned business. The management team consists of the next generation of the Nybo Jensen family together with Torben Bang appointed as CEO in 2012. Nybo Jensen Konfektion A/S offers a broad assortment of fashionable work wear. We supply fashionable clothing for laundries, industry retail trade, the services, hotels, restaurants and even to the Danish Royal Family. In other words we deliver overall solutions that meet every work wear demand from the shop assistant up to the manager. Awards and certifications Global Compacts 10 principper Human Rights Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 1: Businesses should support and precautionary approach to environmental respect the protection of internationally challenges; proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit greater environmental responsibility; and in human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Labour technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Anti-Corruption recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced corruption in all its forms, including extortion and and compulsory labour; bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CSR 2012 | 11
