Communication on Progress Report of the Global Pact from the United Nations For Biblomodel being a socially responsible company involves carrying out our business operations and our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, consumers, the community and the environment in a respectful, conscious and committed with the purpose of being sustainable along our way through dedication and teamwork. We firmly believe that the best way to practice our philosophy of social responsibility is through our values ​and our Code of Ethics. For our company's the adherence to the Global Pact has meant the opportunity to sustain its commitment to its employees and society, strengthening the trust and loyalty of our customers, while adding the efforts to preserve the environment, as responsible citizens of the world that we live in. Attentively.Ing. Alfredo de la Peña CEO Principle One: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle Two: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle Three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle Four: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle Five: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle Six: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. .Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We recognize the importance of our values ​and our way of working. We know that under this framework for action, will strengthen our operations in the market for this new century. That’s why our goal is to know and understand how we want to be in Biblomodel living our principles and values ​which apply in all roles of life of each person, not just at work. When daily living principles and values, they ​form habits and develop into virtues. Virtuous people are the ones that make organizations virtuous. We encourage work teams with the highest possible authority We foster an environment of participatory work. We appreciate the diversity of opinions, debate and agree enriches the decision making to be encountered in seeking consensus. We maintain our sense of humor and optimism in our interactions. We measure and recognize the results of the teams and their members. Work with programs and development techniques for teamwork skills. ​ ​  We search to be better at what we are and do. We recognize that everything we do is a process that can be eliminated, simplified or improved. MEJORA We are convinced that the quality of the process ensures the quality of the CONTIN result. We implemented systems and methods that promote continuous V UA improvement and productivity. We Promote the self-development of the whole individual. B A Is when the person is expected to perform an activity or action although it hasn’t I been requested. B Being proactive means not only take the lead, but to always decide, at any moment what we do and how we do it. L Being proactive means not to act quickly, disorganized, or carried away by the impulse of the moment. O People who have the habit of proactivity are not aggressive, arrogant or L insensitive, but are moved by values​​, know what they need and act accordingly. M It implies to be creative to generate improvements. O PROACTI VIDAD D E U L DESARR OLLO DEL We aim to be better at what we do and how we act. We strive to support our staff with knowledge, experience and skills necessary to meet the company's strategic goals and challenges of each employee. Establish personal development commitments by the employee and the company. E PERSON We seek congruence between the interests of employees and the company AL plans. S RESPET O AL We care about the environment, meeting and exceeding the regulations in this area. Establish development programs and family activities. We contribute to the social development of the communities where our MEDIO businesses are located. AMBIEN We support educational institutions and social welfare that share our TE principles and values. Biblomodel according to the first one: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally recognized human rights“. During the month of February 2012 was held the “working environment” course, to be improved in Biblomodel. This survey was conducted in May in order to identify and analyze the state of job satisfaction, identify sources of conflict, assess behavior, to be able to take corrective measures, correct behaviors of the leaders, among other things. Performing well and working on our weaknesses as a company. TPS The Toyota Production System (TPS) is an integrated socio-technical system, developed by Toyota, which is part of its management philosophy and practices. The TPS organizes manufacturing and logistics for the automaker to include in its interaction with suppliers and customers. The system is an important precursor of lean manufacturing . Taiichi Ohno, Shigeo Shingo and Eiji Toyota the system was developed between 1948 and 1975. The main objectives of the TPS are to design a system that allows us to carry out the reduction of: overload (muri), stress in employees, customers and suppliers inconsistency (mura), in the realization of products, processes and services and eliminate residues or waste (muda), anything that increases costs and does not create value. The most significant effects are achieved in delivering added value to the products at different stages of the process and this is achieved by designing a process capable of producing the required results smoothly through design that eliminates the inconsistencies ( mura ). It is also essential to ensure that the process is as flexible as necessary without causing stress or muri (overburden) since this generates muda (residues). Finally the tactical improvements of waste reduction and / or elimination of residues (muda) are invaluable. There are seven types of waste that are addressed in the TPS: 1. Transportation (internal and external) 2. Excess or overload in inventory 3. Unnecessary movement of product 4. Waits, stoppages, accumulation, etc.. 5. Overproduction (more than required) 6. Overprocess (more than necessary specified) 7. Defects generated rework, quarantine areas, decision making, deviations, etc.. In Biblomodel implementation of this system has for goal the development of several projects that focus on savings and process improvement. 5 “s” Training Enviromental safety IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS (TPS) Improventin The use of metal Raw materials sheet control Saving projects In 2012, 106 courses were given in the training areas of: Safety, Environment, Continuous Improvement and operator training, giving a total of 2,435 man hours. In 2012 was reduced the number of workers who did not have their basic primary and secondary education finished, the Continuing Education program, has given opportunities for Biblomodel workers to continue preparing. SOCCER TOURNAMENTS TEAM INTEGRATION (SPORTING EVENTS) Each year there are two soccer tournaments, one internal and one external, where everyone can participate, in these tournaments we deliver awards for 1st, 2nd and scoring champion and promote coexistence among the finalist teams. Biblomodel conduced in december 2012 “Bibgloton contest” to promote healt a mong employees, wich are supported by the medical service with balanced diets to ichieve the goal: reduce weight In December, we delivered seniority Recognitions to workers who turned 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 years of service of working in our company, followed by ameeting to recognize his carrer within our company. Biblomodel recognize the efforts of the working moms in our company, and held an event where a party was held to celebrate them during the meal we raffle personal and household items. To encourage teamwork there was a contest, in which teams were formed to create our traditional “altar de muertos” in which all teams were rewarded for their hard work. CONTEST “ALTAR DE MUERTOS” We celebrated the children's “Posada” in order to celebrate it we hired an amusement park for children under 12. The event promoted family life. In December we held our traditional Christmas Party, which took place in a dance saloon called Far West for more than four hours people had fun and enjoyed healthy fellowship, within the same was held a raffle of household items such as televisions, Blue rays, stereos, coolers, tablets, printers and more household items. DOING OUR PART Biblomodel, based in a nondiscrimination principle, makes donations to foundations that help disadvantaged people, as well as children with disabilities. In accordance with the non-discrimination principle, Biblomodel received a gratitude letter for furniture donation to this foundation and in conjunction with that, Biblomodel let them sell their products in the company, that people with Down syndrome, make this functions, with support of people with Down Syndrome aims to provide a significant learning, trough a functional instruction, an appropriate development in personal, educational, social and labor areas. Supporting the non-discrimination principle performed a furniture donation to the “Hermanas del buen samaritano” foundation, located in Mexico D.F.; that started 6 years ago supporting people with medic help, giving them some food and visiting ill people. Based on that, Biblomodel helped them furnishing their facilities. Biblomodel, in support of the non-discrimination principle, contributed with furniture for the “Club de niños y niñas de Nuevo Leon” installations. In wich children and young people that are disadvantaged, are supported in their formation with helpful activities in academic subjects, cultural and sports activities. Biblomodel and the nondiscrimination principle collaborate with a donation to schools of the Escobedo, Nuevo Leon city, helping with cabinets and archivists for the campus offices. Each year we review the collective bargaining agreement, Where company representatives , and representatives of the workers participate, where they freely elect as well as the union delegate. In 2012, compared with past years, the personal carrier service widened, helping workers living long distances from Biblomodel, providing them with boarding passes and discounts with public transportation rate, trough the FERIA card, which is a prepaid public transportation card. When a decease occurs in the immediate family of the employee two financial aids are granted: one for the company and another by the Union. The number of scholarships to be awarded in 2012 was increased, and that includes from the start of school until the end of the school year. Financial aid is granted for every live born child of the worker. We have a Health and Safety Commission who is responsible for reviewing the working conditions of staff and also to look that the Rules and Security Policy are met in full. In 2012 thanks to development projects of TPS, changed our training procedure. In which we pledge that once the person (new entrants) are hired, training is needed to develop the work of his position at a 100% For this reason we modified all profiles for the job and know what kind of training should be carried in every area, and likewise benefit to lower the number of accidents due to lack of training. Equal opportunity for all is a substantial rule to implement processes and HR practices. On the other hand, searches always begin internally, then if no suitable staff for that office, launches an external search . Biblomodel has increased participation and staff development, in which 32% of the company's headquarters staff is females ( 68% male staff) thereby strengthens equality and avoiding gender and sex discrimination. COMPARATIVE 100% 50% 0% Nivel Superior HOMBRES 68 % MUJERES 32% Fulfilling with the Guidelines the Laws dictate in our Mexican legal framework, Biblomodel doesn't hire minors under 18 for any of its positions in the organization. Procedure declared in induction of our ISO That’s why Biblomodel builds access ramps to enter our offices and lunch areas People with disabilities, suppliers, workers and clients with no problem. Biblomodel, has a strong commitment with the Authority, the Community and the Contributors that's why the top management of the company is focused in reducing year over year, the Residuals considered as Hazardous Waste, which includes the storage and disposal of residues in accordance to the guidelines of the General Law of Integrated Waste Prevention (LEPGIR). Each year a report is delivered to the authority to report pollutants that are Federal and State order, on each report the company is committed to reduce substantially when compared against the previous year. We have an Integrated Management System ( ISO 9001 Process, occupational Health ISO18001, ISO14001 Environmental) qualified by a certifying agency called Det Norske Veritas (DNV) who conducts audits every year for recertification, We should mention that there are three ReCertifications currently approved. As stated in Principle 1, Biblomodel formalized a group of workers from various areas to develop a project of Environmental Eco-Efficiency promoted by the PROFEPA (Procuraduria Federal de Proteccion al Medio Ambiente) and the IPA (Instituto de Proteccion Ambiental), both are government agencies, the purpose of this project is looking to be more competitive, bringing improvements to production processes, such as, raw materials, waste, supplies, energy, etc.., plus bringing positive impacts to the environment. The projects in wich Biblomodel is working since 2011 to date are related to energy, water and gas saving, whereby were obtained great results which are show on the next parameters: We use electrostatic painting process, we set up a pair of extractors to contain and control air emissions, To harness the process we created a system for the air that is used to remove the paint, either cleaned or injected again into the plant, having as benefit lowering down the high temperature in the summer time within the plant. In the paint booth we build a container for electrostatic paint, so it does not spread and avoid contamination and aspiration of the same. In the month of October we began the process of decantation of contaminated water, allowing us to separate the sludges and confine them, with this and by verifying a water study, we obtained permission to use this water for irrigation of green areas and thus reducing pollutants and waste indicator and having as profit the savings on drinking water for landscape and irrigation use. LINE 3 INCREASE THE EFFICIENCY OF THE BURNERS TO REDUCE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSION The emission of electrostatic painting is the largest waste that we generate, that’s why studies were performed so it can be used as a by-product and thereby avoid confinement. Current use is to delimit areas and give a better visual aspect to the company. Biblomodel In order to contribute to the support in recycling we engaged in collecting alkaline batteries in the company and send them to the municipality of Escobedo which is responsible for their confinement, to help taking care of the environment. This year we sent 37,115 kg of alkaline batteries. Biblomodel supports with a autonomous maintenance program on machines keeping records and periodic checkups. In past years, the oil change in machines was made every 2 or 3 months. From 2012, the oil changes on machines are made every 6 or 12 months, having positive results like optimum condition machines for their functioning, savings on oil consumption and of course, caring for the environment. Civil Protection Program In terms of what dictates the Mexican Official Norms on safety conditions, prevention, protection and fire fighting in the workplace, have met in order to safeguard the safety of personnel and property. Biblomodel has identified according to the risks of Property, as well as the activities of the same Civil Protection Committee the following Emergency Brigades: Evacuation Brigade composed of 20 brigade members. First Aid Brigade consists of 10 brigade members. Fire Brigade Team consists of 10 Brigadiers. Search and Rescue Brigade made ​up of 10 Brigadiers. For the formation of the emergency brigades were trained volunteer staff, both theoretical and practical. In Biblomodel we fight everyday strengthening our value of honesty, and therefore, avoiding corruption: Fulfilling individual and collective contract staff. Complying with legal requirements and permits. Proudly Getting and keeping our certifications such as ISO 9001. ISO 14001 and OHSAS. Winning bids nationally and internationally for the quality, design and price of our products. And of course with full attention to our employees in the complaint of theft, extortion and uncertainties that may be on our company acting efficiently and honestly with measures attached to the law through suggestion bixes located in different areas of the organization.
