Sustainable Development Report 2012 / 2013 eco.lyreco.com A WORD FROM THE CEO Sustainability has become an essential ingredient to doing business responsibly and successfully. “D espite the challenging business climate Lyreco has continued • In 2012, we made great strides in our supplier auditing programme and the pursuit and strengthening of its sustainability strategy. are leading the supply chain to address challenges. Through responsible Recessions come and go, but relationships, properly nurtured, supply chain management, a diverse supply base, strong corporate continue to create stakeholder value year after year. governance and active participation on important That is part of the reason that we have subscribed At Lyreco, we industry issues, Lyreco continues to demonstrate to the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, a commitment to responsible and ethical conduct. consider we hAve joining like minded companies and organisations in subscribing to ten universally accepted principles on A speciAL obLigAtion n Supporting our customers in their sustainable approach is one of our strong Eco Future human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. to pLAy A LeAding commitments. To Lyreco, a sustainable business model is clearly roLe in defining And In 2012, our new “Green Products Assessment” in the best interests of all our stakeholders. It is the method has been approved by SGS – the well known surest way to produce economic value for our sharesupporting A truLy and major certification company – recognising the holders, to contribute to a cleaner environment for our sustAinAbLe industry robustness of the system for Environmentally Prefeemployees and their communities, and to reduce the rable Products. The roll-out of the method throughout carbon footprint of our production and logistics activities. It is both good our subsidiaries will also enable a consistent approach across the product business and good for the planet. categories, and the countries. During 2012 this took a number of forms: Like all Lyreco employees, I’m proud of the work we do and I continue to n The enlargement of our product ranges and services enabled us to be inspired by the many positive ways people are providing our products move from a worldwide “office supplies” company to a wider “workplace and services around the world. solutions” key player. This report is itself a vital component of our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. We are grateful to the members of our Sustainable Development n We are now able to deliver to customers in more countries than ever report team for their valuable input into our ongoing efforts to report more thanks to new partnerships set up in 2012. transparently on our challenges as well as our successes; to the many n Community has always been and continues to be important to Lyreco. organisations and communities with which we interact each day; and to We encourage employees to get involved in our corporate Lyreco For you, whose thoughts and feedback we welcome. Education programme. We look forward to working with you not only in 2013, but for many years • In 2012, Lyreco employees proudly volunteered their time and supported to come as we work together to build a more sustainable future for us all. actions to collect more than 284,000 €. Sincerely, n As a global organisation, Lyreco takes its commitment to social Steve Law accountability seriously, and is committed to running its business and working with our partners in an ethical manner that respects the employees, If you have comments to make or solutions to offer do not hesitate to get in touch with our environment and communities where we operate. Group Quality, Security & Sustainability Director at nasser.kahil@lyreco.com 2 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 CONTENT p. 2 .................................................... A WORD FROM THE CEO p. 4 .................................................................... THE buSiNESS ExECuTivE SuMMARy p. 5 ........................................................................ kEy FiguRES p. 6 ......................... SuPPORTiNg THE uN gLObAL COMPACT Our main actions through 2012 & 2013: p. 7 ......................................... SuSTAiNAbiLiTy MANAgEMENT n A worldwide sustainability strategy: n Development of the programmes to p. 8 ................................................ SuSTAiNAbiLiTy STRATEgy “ECO FUTURE” reduce Lyreco’s Carbon Footprint p. 9 ...................................................... “ECO FuTuRE” uPDATE such as increasing of the share in terms n A new “GREEN PRODUCTS ASSESSof Environmentally Friendly Vans & Cars, MENT” method roll-out of the Small Packaging concept and videoconference implementation p. 10-25 .............. ENviRONMENTAL ACTiONS n A wider SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY p. 12-13 .................................................................CARBON FOOTPRINT involvement programme n Integration of sustainable credentials p. 14-15 .................................................................................. PRODUCTS in the new buildings and renovations n Development of the EU ecolabel for p. 16-18 ......................................................................................DELIVERY Lyreco Private label products n Increasing the support to the local p. 19....................................................................................... PACKAGING communities with projects such as p. 20-23 .......................................................................................... WASTE n Lyreco For Education programme donations to Food Banks, collaboration p. 24-25 ......................................................................INFRASTRUCTURE continues aiming to support the with Junior Achievement foundation education of 50,000 children in Togo and Training Support to the Community n Continuation of the internal Human n More support to customers with the Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 p. 26-37 ....................................... SOCiAL ACTiONS Resources programmes to develop launch of the new release of “Sustainable p. 28-31 .........................................................................LYRECO PEOPLE Lyreco’s people: Lyreco University tools for Customers” and the start of and Lyreco Campus a “Customer Sustainability Award” p. 32-37 ................................................................................COMMUNITY ECO WEbSiTE p. 38-55................................ ECONOMiC ACTiONS p. 40-42 ............................................................................... CUSTOMERS Always more to read online p. 43-47 ............................................................................MARKETPLACE In addition to the regular content updates on the Group and local Sustainability websites, some structural changes were made in early 2013 to better market our ongoing activities: n The Eco Future strategy is now displayed more prominently. p. 48-50 ........................................... CuSTOMER TESTiMONiES n A completely new area dedicated to our Carbon Footprint has p. 51 ............... WORkiNg SuSTAiNAbLy WiTH OuR PARTNERS ben added. p. 52 ....................................................... FiNANCiAL iNTEgRiTy n Links to our Sustainability videos: “Eco Future”, “Green Products Assessment” and “Lyreco For Education” are now accessible p. 53-55 ........................................................................ AWARDS from the welcome page. Sustainability at Lyreco has never been so well show-cased nor content rich. It can be accessed via eco.lyreco.com. 3 Work made easy 4 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 THE BUSINESS KEY FIGURES Your office... Our world 44 countries, one Lyreco In addition to the extensive markets covered by Lyreco, we have also formed strategic sales alliances with 12 partners: Askul, OfficeMax, Officepro, Office Products Depot, Waltons, Inforshop, Marken, Officemag, RTC, Akoffice, 24% Benir E-Store Solutions and Officeday. 16 green products order PreParation and delivery 31 distribution Continuous improvement products family SaleS force and Areas for improvement is the rule centers 1,800 vans cuStomer Service n Reduce Health & Safety risks All subsidiaries contribute to the continuous improvement of the group model by sharing new ideas and best practices. Areas for improvement n Increase communication on and drivers 215,000 n Increase waste recycling n Energy savings initiatives Sustainable Development with boxes delivered 10,000 n Reduce environmental imSustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Sustainable Development takes advantage of these synergies from all areas of the business customers pacts due to transportation n Reduce environmental impacts everyday (route planning) and group experts help by improving the employees 99,4% group best practices. due to travelling 7,500 n Reduction of printed reports 12 strategic alliances Product offering n Reduce environmental impacts availability rate These alliances allow us to better serve our due to hard copy orders Areas for improvement international clients with a presence in Japan, Mexico, United States, Taiwan, New Zealand, South Africa, Namibia, Mozambique, Brazil, stocked products 63,000 n Continue to develop a deeper range of environmentally orders /day friendly products Argentina, Russia, Romania, Turkey, India, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. n Continue to raise consumer awareness on Sustainable Development and pay special attention to certified suppliers n Define strict and formalised criteria for qualification as green product. n Reduce hard copy invoices (e-biller) 5 CONTiNuED SuPPORT FOR THE uN gLObAL COMPACT Next year, Lyreco will celebrate its 10 years since joining the UN Global Compact. All members of the Global Compact are required to issue an annual Communication on Progress (COP); a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and in supporting broad UN development goals. This document is Lyreco’s COP 2013 and can be found both on the UN Global Compact and Lyreco’s Sustainability websites. We invite all our stakeholders (employees, clients, suppliers, local authorities, local communities), to read it and learn more about our commitment in favour of human rights, labour rights, environmental stewardship and anti-corruption. About United Nations Global Compact Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. As a multi-stakeholder leadership initiative, it seeks to align business operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and to catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals. With 7,000 corporate signatories in 135 countries, it is the world's largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. For more information, go to: www.unglobalcompact.org 6 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 SuSTAiNAbiLiTy MANAgEMENT A team of 29 people all over the world An integrated Management System – the foundation To ensure a reliable basis and common operating practice for all subsidiaries, Lyreco uses the recognised international standards ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 to which the Integrated Management Systems are certified. This ensures that quality and environmental matters are dealt with at a level trusted by interested parties and understood by employees. Aligned with the Quality & Environmental Management System, Health & Safety A unique certification In 2012, 100% of Lyreco countries successfully as well as roles dedicated to the purpose. Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 passed their surveillance or recertification In every subsidiary, there is a department whose management is based on Lyreco’s guidelines body for continuous audits, with 65% of the countries having no main responsibilities are the components of referring to the OHSAS 18001 standard and improvement gap (also named Non Conformance) at all. Sustainable Development, including Quality local legislation, applied in the subsidiaries The Lyreco Quality & Environmental ManageIn addition, some countries have also chosen and Environmental management. by the Senior Management Teams. ment System focuses on preventive actions to obtain an FSC CoC Certification (Forest Each country has its own Quality, Security HEALTH & SAFETY and continuous improvement. To ensure a Stewardship Council – Chain of Custody). & Sustainability Manager (QSS), who is a consistent approach, Lyreco have chosen These certifications are also issued by SGS. member of the Senior Management Team. OHSAS 18001 SGS as the unique certification body for all The audit feedback and results are shared The QSS Manager reports directly to the QUALITY ENVIRONMENT Managing Director. The aim of this structure the subsidiaries world-wide. within Lyreco and used for internal benchISO ISO marking as well as global improvement. is to ensure that key business decisions are SGS audits all Lyreco subsidiaries annually 9001 14001 Through years of cooperation, SGS report made with Quality, Environment, Health, on the standards ISO 9001 & ISO 14001 that Lyreco’s management system is alive at Safety, Economic and Social aspects taken and re-certifications are done once every ISO all levels of the organisation, which shows into account – thus ensuring a sustainable three years. growth. 26000 daily in all Lyreco’s processes. SUSTAINABILITY During these audits, external SGS auditors Each local Senior Management Team is review and check all the Lyreco processes supported by a Management Team at Lyreco In 2012, ISO 26000, the guideline for Cor(operational, management & support) against Group level. porate Social Responsibility, was adopted Lyreco’s requirements and ISO standards. DAILY MANAGEMENT Regular Group Directors meetings are held to to provide structure to the sustainability Depending on the country, the duration of Lyreco believe that a successful sustainabianalyse and discuss Sustainability projects, journey, with several employees fully trained the audit may take up to 18 days – showing lity approach requires understanding from actions and results, and make corporate in its application. the thoroughness of the process. employees on all levels of the organisation, decisions regarding these matters. 7 SuSTAiNAbiLiTy STRATEgy: Eco FuturE 2012 rEsults In early 2012, Lyreco launched a mid-term The strategy consists of: Sustainability strategy named Eco Future. n 3 guiding principles n 10 clearly defined commitments n 9 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). GUIDING PRINCIPLE GUIDING PRINCIPLE GUIDING PRINCIPLE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC SUCCESS n Reduce our ecological footprint n Reinforce our long term relationship n Build lasting customer relationships by providing solutions n Help our customers and suppliers to do the same n Focusing on human relationships and Development to their sustainability goals COMMITMENTS 4. Ensure a safe and healthy working environment COMMITMENTS 5. Contribute to the personal development 8. Establish customer partnerships on of each individual sustainability 6. Focus on the development of our best 9. Establish supplier assessment programmes talents on sustainability 7. Promote education of children in deveCOMMITMENTS loping countries 10. Develop sustainable innovations in products & services 1. Develop environmentally preferable products & services social rEsult responsibility Goal for 2017 2. Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions KPI 2012** 3. Prevent and manage waste 90% of all employees responding WorKInG to the bi-annual Internal Opinion 81% Survey answer positively when Economic rEsult (excluding Goal for 2017 condItIons success KPI 2012** asked how they feel about their Korea) working conditions. Environmental rEsult Goal for 2017 Supplier Performance Protection KPI 2012** suPPlIEr The number of lost working days n/a PErformancE Improvement Programme +1.70% lost ImProvEmEnt average mark increases (versus 2011) due to illness or on the job acci(Data consolida25% of sales (common WorKInG dents is decreased by 10% tion started mid ProGrammE by 10% per year. salEs of range products) days 26% based on the 2011 figures. 2012) “GrEEn Products” are made with “green products”. 100% of the factories pro90% of all employees ducing Lyreco products in responding to the bi-annual Internal the developing countries 52% traInInG 82% suPPlIEr co2 EmIssIons CO2 Emissions Opinion Survey will answer posi(excluding -1.89% (excluding Korea socIal audIts are subject to social from our decrease by 20% lEvEl tively when asked if they consider Canada) (versus 2010) that they are properly trained to do & Germany) and Environmental actIvItIEs from a 2010 base year. their job. audits 89.13% The internal collection target for (*) Normally, the increase is 10% but follow the trend of the general busi90% of the Waste charIty the “Lyreco for Education” charity WastE rEcyclEd coming from Lyreco (excluding SingacontrIbu+11% ness, Lyreco decided to increase the target by 5% in 2013. pore, Malaysia programme is increased by (versus 2011) activities are recycled. tIon & Honk-Kong) 10% every year*. (**) consolidated results for all the countries. 8 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 SuSTAiNAbiLiTy STRATEgy: raising awarEnEss oF Eco FuturE In order to engage employees on the importance of the Eco Future strategy, awareness-raising events In BENELUX, were held throughout Ecover and Lyreco teamed up to run a sustainability event, subsidiaries during 2012. attended by 58 companies that are Here are 2 exemples: Lyreco customers. The event included presentations, a supplier fair focussed on sustainable product and a visit to the Ecover production site. Presentations by Sales, Marketing and QSS with focus on Green and Eco Future. Hybrid cars that Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 customers could drive themselves to drive to the Ecover factory visit. In CANADA, “Earth Day” was hosted in an Eco Future themed lounge where tea and coffee was served whilst Sustainable Development films were shown. Employees discussed individual actions they could take to make a difference and each committed action was documented on a “leaf”. The leaves were then gathered up to create an Eco-Future tree that grew throughout the day and is a reminder of commitments going forwards. 9 ENviRONMENTAL ACTiONS In the delivery of its Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims to: n Identify and evaluate opportunities to reduce This means dedicated actions and programmes environmental impacts in serving customers and on Products, Packaging, Delivery, Waste Manato take opportunities to enhance the environment. gement, Carbon Footprint and Infrastructures. n Ensure our operations and projects are managed The following pages detail activity carried out in in accordance with accredited quality (ISO 9001) 2012 or scheduled to be carried out in 2013. and environmental management (ISO 14001) systems to include sustainability priorities. 10 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 ENviRONMENTAL APPROACH Environmental actions across the whole business Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Environmental Our Environmental Actions Actions CARBON PRODUCTS DELIVERY PACKAGING WASTE INFRASTRUCTURE FOOTPRINT n Lyreco carbon footprint n Green Products n Green vans n Re-use supplier boxes n Target zero waste n New building Assessment n Greener fax order n Eco driving n Wrapping machines n Waste management n IT infrastructure solution n Shop green guide consolidation n Route optimisation n Small packaging n Working with n Ecolabel paper n Clean up day n Energy saving in technology n Paper storage lighting n Ecological detergent n Rubbish free day n Collection of returns n Reducing water consumption n Fuel consumption challenges p. 12-13 p. 14-15 p. 16-18 p. 19 p. 20-23 p. 24-25 11 CARbON FOOTPRiNT LyRECO CARbON FOOTPRiNT LCFC – Lyreco’s bespoke A list of improvement programmes have resULts: Lyreco’s carbon footprint is been identified within the different areas of and dedicated Carbon broken down as detailed in the tables below. 2010 2011 2012 our businesses across the countries with the Footprint Calculator Energy Sources t CO2 eq. 17,826 15,141 15,937 view to being implemented wherever possible. has been used for the Freight t CO2 eq. 23,783 22,544 22,050 ENERGY SOURCES second year in a row Movement of People t CO2 eq. 20,695 21,879 21,741 n Evolution of technologies e.g. LED lighting n Energy Saving Programmes to report on activities Consumables and Materials t CO2 eq. 12,508 13,497 13,545 n Green Electricity Direct Waste t CO2 eq. 279 261 250 across the countries. Fixed Assets t CO2 eq. 19,990 20,152 19,761 n Green IT e.g. equipment with lower energy consumption Based on the international standard ISO 14064, TOTAL t CO2 eq. 95,081 93,475 93,285 FREIGHT the LCFC takes into account scope 1 and Kg CO2 eq. per Delivery 6.3630 6.3603 6.3602 n Green Fleet Policy scope 2 emissions and part of scope 3. n Evolution of technologies e.g. EURO 6 engines Energy Sources % of Total 18.7 16.2 17.1 n Environmentally Friendly fleet e.g. NGV, n Scope 1 Direct emissions Freight % of Total 25 24.1 23.6 Electric, LPG, Hybrids Movement of People % of Total 21.8 23.4 23.3 n Increase of the average order values e.g. Direct emissions resulting from activities Consumables and Materials % of Total 13.2 14.4 14.5 Webshop awareness actions within the Lyreco’s control. It includes n Eco-Driving Distribution (company vans), process Direct Waste % of Total 0.3 0.3 0.3 n Direct Delivery of Paper to Regional emissions such as Consumables and Fixed Assets % of Total 21 21.6 21.2 Distribution Centres Materials, and Fixed Assets. Scope = All countries except Hong-Kong MOVEMENTS OF EMPLOYEES * t CO2 eq. = equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide. n Scope 2 Energy Indirect emissions n Group Company Mobility Plan n Development of the video conferencing Indirect emissions from Energy Sources n Eco-Driving purchased and used by Lyreco, such as Lyreco’s carbon Footprint (in %) 2012 totaL t co2 eq. n Green Fleet Policy electricity and gas. Evolution of technologies e.g. EURO 6 engines 17.1% n 23.6% 96,000 n Scope 3 Other Indirect emissions 0.3% CONSUMABLES AND MATERIAL Any other indirect emissions from sources n Green Printing 95.500 n Reuse of cardboard boxes not directly controlled by Lyreco. n Reduced Packaging Lyreco includes Movement of People 21.2% 95,000 n Increase of trading done electronically (employee business travel) and Direct n e-tariffs, e-reports, Sales Force Mobility Waste (waste disposal). 94.500 14.5% DIRECT WASTE 23.3% Freight 94,000 n Reuse cardboard boxes Movement of people n Less wrapping (stretch films) from suppliers Fixed Assets 93.500 n Pallets strategy Energy Sources Consumables and materials 93,000 FIXED ASSETS Direct waste 2010 2011 2012 n Green IT e.g. development of the MFP (Multi Function Printers) 12 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 CARBON FOOTPRINT A gREENER FAx ORDERS WORkiNg WiTH TECHNOLOgy SOLuTiON Video-conferencing in all the countries To facilitate cross-country work and help reduce Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Environmental Actions SInCE 2012, MOrE Than inter-country air travel, Lyreco invested in a 100 vIDEOCOnFErEnCES havE full video conferencing technology in 2011. bEEn OrganISED WIThIn LyrECO This solution includes active speaker, contiWhICh havE rEPLaCED 100 TrIPS. nuous presence and data sharing. Video and an avEragE TrIP rEPLaCED by voice go through the Internet directly without vIDEO-COnFErEnCE IS EquaL TO a dedicated network. Lyreco works with a 2 TOnnES OF CO2 SavED. third party who hosts an HD gateway to allow The goal for 2013 is to ensure that employees interconnections within subsidiaries and each have been effectively communicated to subsidiary is equipped with this system. regards the use of this technology and the Two meeting rooms in the Headquarters are environmental benefits, encouraging its use equipped for this kind of meeting. before travel plans are arranged. Placing orders has traditionally been a paper By providing Customer Service operators intensive operation. With the rise of online with two screens, the faxed email order can and integrated ordering, paper usage should be displayed on one and keyed in our order reduce, but in Thailand faxed ordering contifulfillment system on the other. nues to be a popular order method requiring The fax server has reduced expenses and at least one sheet of paper at each end of effect on environment, while also providing the process. increased data protection. In 2012, emailed orders in Thailand increased and faxes decreased, however, investigation % of orders per media in Thailand 2011 2012 50 % showed that customers were scanning and emailing documents they would have previously 45 % faxed. This meant that the orders still needed 40 % 46.2 to be printed out and then manually inputted, 35 % 38.9 generating uncontrolled operational cost 30 % and environmental impact due to paper use, 25 % cartridge use and maintenance. Moreover, there was a risk of data loss if the documents 20 % 20.3 were not managed correctly. 15 % 13.6 17.9 17.7 10 % 14.9 A decision wAs mAde to instALL A 15.2 “fAx server” thAt AutomAticALLy 5% 10.2 5.1 converts incoming fAxes into 0% Fax. Telephone Webshop Rep email emAiLs on screen. 13 PRODuCTS gREEN PRODuCTS ASSESSMENT LivE iN THE COuNTRiES The objectives were: Webshop: Lyreco has implemented a bespoke and “unique in time” n To be transparent in the criteria used to The products are identified with the same Green Products Assessment from January, 1st 2013. classify the products with a green tree. “Green Tree” icon for consistency. n To increase the percentage of “Green Products” as per the Eco Future strategy. n The “Product Details” page has a link enabling the customer to access to the PaPiers M uLtiusag es PreMiu “Green Tree Certificate” and highlighting M Why the approach is reliable: the reasons why the product was awarded Pap ier Sup erio r Doc um ent Nouvelle blan n It is based on the recognised as environmentally preferable. international ISO 14020 standard, “Le multiusag eà Blancheur extrê blancheur renforcée”. 80 g A4 cheur The roll-out will be completed for the 2014 me (CIE 170) qualité d’im , rigidité de pres la feuille, Idéal pour des sion haute définition. which is at the highest level of présentations catalogue with Finland, CASH (Czech, Austria, Compatible exte rnes , avec courriers La ram ette tous les équipements laser … de 500 feui et jet d’encre. the ISO Environmental Claims lles n 1.56 8.60 Ce produit 1 5 Slovakia and Hungary) and Asia Pacific. Pour comman est vend xxxxxxx k for der 5 rametteu par carton de 5 ence: xxxx ramettes. xxxxxxxx s, indiquer amewor series standards. en quantité Lyreco Refer xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx erce) Fr Uti lisa : 1 carton. r of Comm tion scr iption: xx Chambe Jet d’encre NB De ational **** RECO Jet d’encre LY (Intern couleur tur er: ICC **** n It is in line with the International Manufac e Laser NB 02 0 and th o.com) ***** o.lyrec * The “Lyreco Green Products Assessment” has been reLaser coule th ISO 14 ur , visit ec *** liant wi Photocopie ormation ur NB nt comp ***** more inf Chamber of Commerce advertising Photocopie Assessme ims (for ur couleur viewed by SGS CTS Sustainability Services and appro*** on mental Cla . Envir mentioned ” is practices which give recommendawhen “ 024) ved as being in general conformance with the principles the product ims (ISO 14 The claim applies for Certified cla tions to prevent green washing. of the ISO 14020 standard and the ICC Framework for 14021) claims (ISO envir onmental Blue Angel Self-declared  Environmental Claims. n The system applied is the same for Disponible aussi en 90 an R le: Nordic Sw g Compostab Nouvelle blan all products, in the subsidiaries. cheur EU Ecolabel 07 ED BY* e: Degradabl ME TH OD OL OG Y AP PR OV Pap iers Tex t and Gra  Papier blanc phi cs A4 n The assessment method has been ly: haut de gamm et A3 disassemb pour de meill e. Blancheur Designed for ment eurs contrastes intense (CIE NF Environne 170) Papier d’impression . Surface lissé optim e pour une quali Emballage refer ale, restituant chaque  détail et chaq té approved by SGS * (the worldwide mable sur le duct: ue nuance. ed life pro La ram ette A4. Extend UTZ Form at g/m 2 Nb feuilles auditing company). energy: /ramette Recovered  80 Réf. A4 500 tion AB Produc 1.56 8.80 5 : 100% 90 5 500 Recyclable A3 80 1.59 2.96 7 4  Ce 500 1.56 8.81 6 5 Uti lisa tion Recycled con tent: % Rainforest 5 ramettes.produit est vendu par er waste: Pour comman carton de Jet d’encre Paper catalogue: Pre-consum en quantité der 5 ramettes, indi NB **** mer waste: 75%  : 1 carton. quer Jet d’encre couleur **** Mark Laser NB Post-consu Japan Eco Laser coule ur ***** Photocopie *** ption ur NB Each product is identified with a rgy consum  Photocopie ***** Reduced ene ur couleur t: ed *** of the produc FSC Recycl in the use Reduce d res our ce use in the of the produc t:   FSC “Green Tree” icon. production n “Green Tree Guidelines” per section ption  R ter consum  PEFC Reduced wa t: of the produc are briefly presented on the section in the use le:  Mirel Pap ier bla and refillab header page. Reusable Pre miu mtenc rep ro Fut ure ch 80 g A4 production , tur e  Blan cheur (CIE 172) uction in the product:  Paper by Na Bon éclat. Opac et main extra . Lissé et touc Waste red osal of the ité écrits important élevée. Convient parfa her soyeux. , use or disp item les mémoires s qui exigent une présenta ent pour des documen distribution  , les tion ts en Mark La ram ette invitations, irréprochable les têtes de Taiwan Gre de 500 feui lettres. , tels que lles A4 n Ce produit 978 .133 5 Pour comman est vend e Criteria: der 5 rametteu par carton de 5 ram SHOP gREEN tainabl s, indiquer ettes. Sig nificant Sus en quantité Additional : 1 carton. Uti lisa tion Jet d’encre NB Jet d’encre **** couleur Laser **** NB ich were ***** duct, and wh Laser coule ur cerned pro acturers will“Nouvelle Photocopie *** rs of the con ur NB the manuf WiTH LyRECO ***** manufacture rs and/or évaluation Photocopie ur couleur rs and/or the y the supplie environne *** the sup plie lity. Onl me ntale de ty of ve respon sibi ent are the proper and exc lusi nos produ in this doc um er their full es of its : eco.l mentioned acturers, und the principl yreco.fr“ t the data the manuf ance with rms you tha pliers and/or eral conform 257 Lyreco info by the sup tion. to be in gen to Lyreco us informa was found transmitted of erroneo Services and lity in case tainability engage the ir res pon sibi ed by SGS CTS Sus work for Env iron me nta l Claims Example of a been review catalogue pa As reported in 2012, the Lyreco Web team ment” has rce) Frame er of Comme *The “Lyrec o Green Pro ducts Assess (Internatio nal Chamb ge d and the ICC 20 standar are busily developing a “shop green” feature the ISO 140 cate” March 2013 Version: 21 Tree Certifi for the Webshop, which will allow the user to a “Green Example of convert the shopping basket contents into greener alternatives with a single click. The feature will be available by the end of 2013. visit eco.lyreco.com to view the dedicated video 14 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 PRODUCTS LyRECO PAPER WiTH ECOLAbEL In 2012 Lyreco launched EU Ecolabelling to own brand office papers Lyreco Premium 78,000 and Lyreco Standard for customers within LYRECO STANDARD AND PREMIUM PAPERS Europe. Offering quality and sustainability, are accredited and produced Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Environmental Actions the credentials of these own brand papers using the following EU Ecolabel are visible at a glance with the ‘green tree’ requirements: icon and EU Ecolabel flower printed on each tonnes of paper n The use of virgin fibre from sustaiream and box. switched from nably managed forests One year on, Lyreco has successfully switched more than 78,000 Tonnes of paper standard to n The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and air and water pollution sold, from standard to greener and EU Eco greener and EU labeled ranges – indicating that customers n The banning of substances harmful welcome this change to greater quality and Eco labelled to the environment and human health sustainability in their products. LyRECO ECOLOgiCAL DETERgENT RANgE Ecological cleaning products demanded by business EU Ecolabel for detergents: A rise in public awareness has driven stronger The EU Ecolabel stands for the use of a reduced amount of total chemidemand for products that will be less harmful cals. For example on health issues, perfumes must be allergen free. On to people and planet both in business and environmental issues, phosphates and other harmful ingredients cannot consumer sectors, prompting the creation of be used. The end-life of the product is also important and there must be own brand ecological detergents from Lyreco. a proof of biodegradability. Available since January 2013 in most of the European markets, Lyreco detergents are built Packaging: EU Ecolabel verifies the weight utility ratio which ensures exclusively on an ecological range with the less packaging is used per dosage of detergent. Moreover EU Ecolabel vast majority supporting the EU Ecolabel. supports the use of recycled material. The manufacturer chosen for the range was Another key criterion for detergents, EU Ecolabel certifies only products selected for its high commitment to green which give reliable consumer information and it guarantees the product lifecycle from conception to the production meets the performance, equal to or higher, than the market leaders. of product and beyond. In detergents EU Ecolabel guarantees: The Lyreco ecological detergent n A reduced amount of total chemicals range covers: n Limited substances harmful to the aquatic environment n All purpose cleaner (in 1L and 5L) n Increased biodegradability n Floor cleaner (in 1L and 5L) n Less packaging n Washing-up liquid (in 500ML and 5L) n An efficient wash, equivalent to the market leaders n Toilet cleaner (in 750ML) n Reliable consumer information n Window spray cleaner (in 500ML) 15 DELivERy gREEN vANS ECO DRiviNg On-going development of the fleet New countries joining the approach Four years ago, Lyreco began development In some countries, such as Italy there are a The eco driving programmes are designed switzerLAnd And poLAnd of a greener fleet when a number of countries large network of gas stations, but in others to teach drivers how to modify their driving introduced natural gas and electric vehicles such as the United Kingdom there are none. In style in order to reduce fuel consumption, initiAted their first eco to their fleets. The benefit of these vehicles France there are just one hundred gas stations in turn reducing emissions and damage the driving progrAmme four is that they emit only very small quantities of readily accessible, which is clearly a limiting environment. pollutants such as NOx and SOx (nitrogen factor in such a large country. yeArs Ago with initiAL fueL The side effect of these programmes is a oxides and sulphurus oxides) into the atmosAt the end of 2012, the Lyreco green van fleet decrease in the number of accidents and sAvings of between 5% phere. However, there are limitations to such was made up of 38 vehicles. the financial saving due to reduced fuel a scheme. And 8% per cAr fLeet. consumption. From a commercial perspective, new vehicles In addition to the initial eco driving training given Since then, Belgium, the Netherlands, Australia can only be introduced to the fleet when older 27 additional “green vans” are budgeted to the staff, ongoing ‘reminder’ activities are and Scandinavia have decided to implement ones are due for renewal. Target required; in order to maintain fuel reductions. Eco Driving Programmes. 2011 2012 The energy source and performance of each 2013 > October 2012 – Eco Driving session organised in a Benelux Regional Distribution Center. vehicle is also critical, for example an electric Benelux 1 2 2 vehicle has to be able to manage a delivery France 0 19 34 The PROGRAMMe includeS route without running out of charge! Similarly, Germany 0 0 5 Regional Distribution Centres wishing to use n Refresher training Italy 1 14 20 Natural Gas vehicles need to ensure that there n Leaflets highlighting the ‘golden Thailand 0 1 2 is a gas supplier nearby, otherwise unnecessary eco driving rules’ to be followed UK 2 2 2 miles can be clocked up travelling to distant filling stations. TOTAL 4 38 65 n A presention of monthly statistics displaying fuel consumption by turnover and number of deliveries n The involvement of the Managers in the awareness process and notifying them when an individual fuel consumption is higher than recommended for a car type n The communication of actions and plans in the internal newsletter, and also in external local environmental newspapers 16 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 DELIVERY SuSTAiNAbLE TRAFFiC PAPER STORAgE AT THE RDC'S MANAgEMENT THROugH Deliveries of paper to Paris on a daily basis amount to tonnes of paper per year. In order Furthermore, a fourth paper – Lyreco 75g has been added to the list of papers handled ROuTE OPTiMiSATiON to reduce daily transportation of this high in this way. Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Environmental Actions volume product between the main French National Distribution Centre and 4 Parisian Regional Distribution Centres (RDC's), a decision was made to ship Lyreco A4, Lyreco + + = Premium A4 and Lyreco Budget A4 direct 47,000 l from supplier mills to the RDC's serving Paris. This results in the paper travelling significantly THE EQUIVALENT OF 3 TRUCKS less road distances and therefore produces ARE SAVED DAILY, EQUATING TO less emissions. 47,000 LITRES OF DIESEL PER YEAR AND 123,000 TONS OF CO2. Paper orders received from Parisian customers are then prepared by RDC's employees and During 2013, the same 4 paper products shipped with normal deliveries on a daily basis. should also be available in two other RDC's In 2012, this process was extended to in France: Lyon and Marseille. The target will 2 additional RDC's in France: Lille and be to save 63,000 diesel litres and 165,000 Valenciennes. tonnes of CO2. Driving the shortest and quickest economically viable route is key to delivering parcels to Lyreco customers every day. However there is a constant evolution in the number of customers and routes regularly need to be adjusted and re-defined. Therefore the 2011 2012 Target 2013 purpose of route optimisation is two-fold: CO2 Emissions 10,000 kg 123,000 kg 165,000 kg Saved 1 optimisAtion to reduce the number of km trAveLLed And time tAken Route optimisation processes are in place in the countries. Such practices are also part of the Distribution Best Practices that are shared within the countries. In 2013, a more structural project will be achieved in Finland as the organisation of the routes will be completely revisited with the expectation to reduce petrol consumption between 5% and 10% on an annual basis. 2 optimisAtion to increAse the number of customers deLivered to in A dAy 17 DELivERy COLLECTiON FuEL OF CuSTOMER CONSuMPTiON RETuRNS CHALLENgES In the past, customer returns would have been Whilst route optimization assists drivers collected by the delivery driver the day after in planning how to get to their customers, the customer’s call. Lyreco now waits until challenges on fuel consumption are run the customer’s next order (within a limit of 5 by distribution departments with a focus days maximum) to simultaneously deliver the on eco-driving. new order and collect the return. This simple For instance, in France, an analysis of change of process saves transportation costs fuel consumption is carried out quarterly, by visiting the customer once instead of twice. comparing the success of each driver. The three best teams receive an award and Example (France): This system was implemented in France in the following quarter, a new challenge is 2012 Fuel Consumption Challenge (Q1) 2012, without disturbing the service level arranged. 1 for customers and since then has been implemented in Benelux, Germany, Norway, In Benelux in 2013, an individual dashboard 2 VALENCIENNES 3 RDC* Sweden, Denmark, Slovakia and Hong Kong for sales force car drivers will be implemented. AMIENS RDC* -1.346 L TOULON RDC* -1.035 L with positive effects. Switzerland should The dashboard will give each driver his fuel -0.978 L follow in 2013. consumption and compare that to average The best consumption consumption. It will also give an overview of the damage cases/accidents. The fleet 1 As the return coLLection coordinator will continue to focus on the 2 CARHAIX RDC* 3 corresponds on AverAge high consumers: LYON RDC* -0.481 L CHARTRES RDC* to 1% of the totAL -0.377 L -0.369 L deLiveries, this sAves A similar scheme is being introduced in The best improvement Australia in 2013. About 30,000 dieseL Litres on A yeArLy bAsis. Creating competition amongst drivers and rewarding those who do best, ensures Emissions reduction target 2013 that fuel consumption remains high on the agenda and continues to reduce France (vans) 165,000 kg 2011 2012 Target 2013 emissions, whilst impacting costs. Benelux (cars) 72,000 kg CO2 Emissions 37,300 kg 78,500 kg 95,000 kg Australia (vans) 14,000 kg Saved * RDC = Regional Distribution Centre 18 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 PACKAGING RE-uSE OF SuPPLiER bOxES WRAPPiNg MACHiNES A second life for cardboard packaging REDuCE PACkAgiNg Re-using the cardboard boxes in which suppliers Communication to customers regards the Orders prepared in the National Distributhis wiLL enAbLe deliver goods to Lyreco for onward shipping reasons for re-use of the delivery box is key tion Centres (NDC) are sent nightly to the A sAving of 6,000 kg of Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Environmental Actions of orders to customers is a very simple, but to the success of the concept and is made Regional Distribution Centres (RDC) across poLyethyLene per yeAr. effective resource re-use initiative. It was either through a flier in the box, a sticker on the countries. To achieve safe delivery of conceived in Canada in 2011, followed by the box or by sales people and sales media. products, each prepared order is placed on Number of countries equipped with Sweden and Finland in 2012 and to be taken a pallet and wrapped in stretched film. This wrapping machines up in Australia in 2013 where the targeted ensures that the pallets are easily loaded number of boxes re-used will be 34,000. in sweden, re-used and unloaded, safe to move and the integrity 2011 2012 Target 2013 This works extremely well in Distribution boxes Account for of the product is maintained for customers. 10* 10 12 centres where orders are manually picked and 16% of pAckAging. this In 2013, new investments are planned for (*) France, Germany, Belgium, UK, Italy, Poland, Spain, packed but unfortunately wrapping machines in Slovakia and Australia. Denmark, Switzerland, Sweden cannot be applied represents 30,000 boxes where automatic in 7 months, the equivAbox closing Most of the NDC’s are equipped with machines are Lent of 13 tons of automatic wrapping machines which affect: in use. cArdboArd per yeAr. n A higher quality of wrapping compared < Sticker put on the Finnish supplier boxes. to a manual process n An increased productivity in terms of 2011 2012 Target number of pallets wrapped in one hour 2013 n A reduction of wrapping film (less Number of boxes per month 20,500 30,800 34,000 polyethylene material) as the machine is able to stretch the film by 300% CO2 emissions saved 5,000 kg 45,500 kg 50,500 kg Wrapping machine NEW PACkAgiNg FOR SMALL ORDERS In countries where a conveyor system is In Italy, a new application was developed in < Envelope used in Italy for small orders used in the National Distribution Centres, 2012 whereby small volume orders could be box sizes were limited to 3 or 4 in order for packaged in an envelope. This was required the sealing system to handle them. When as envelopes will not travel easily around a used with a box cutting machine prior to conveyor and cannot be read by bar-code sealing, the amount of cardboard sent to readers. Thanks to this new system, more than the customers was usually significantly less 5% of the orders are packed in envelopes, 2011 2012 Target 2013 than it would have been. However, limitations enabling a significant reduction of the number of boxes used annually. Number of orders packed came with very small volume orders, such with small packaging 3,000 22,340 83,140 as a single USB flash drive, when even the In 2012, Belgium and Poland introduced the smallest box would look large in comparison new system and in 2013 France and Germany CO2 emissions saved / year 5,000 kg 33,000 kg 125,000 kg to the content. will follow suit. 19 WASTE uPDATE ON “TARgET ZERO WASTE” Under the “Eco Future” strategy the recycling kitchen. In partnership with Harper Adams Recycling rate league table rate target to be achieved in all Lyreco countries University (local to headquarters) Lyreco’s Oct Dec 2012 UK RDC To support and encourage waste segregation is 90% by the end of 2017. The UK wants to food waste, otherwise destined for landfill, is and increase recycling rate, a national RDC Dartford go a step further and achieve Zero landfill collected from the Lyreco Telford site and is recycling league table was launched by the 56 status in the headquarters by the end of 2013. transported to an Anaerobic Digester (AD) plant end of 2012. A presentation package with tips Basildon 79 Tottenham In 2012 UK finished with a 96% recycling rate, at Harper Adams. This waste is put through on how to reduce general waste and increase 57 however still generating just over 6 tonnes of the AD process, producing three tangible recycling was communicated to all sites. Bracknell 60 general waste a month. benefits: firstly waste is kept from resting in Waste produced in each site is either collected Southampton 67 landfill producing methane; secondly energy directly from our National Waste Contractor Exeter 36 Among the initiatives analysed to reduce landfill waste (plastic strapping, label backing, is produced for the University College, and (general waste and mixed recycling) or it is Bristol 62 mixed hard plastic), two new ones have been thirdly the process produces digestate, an sent back to the National Distribution Centre Bridgend 58 implemented in 2012: organic fertiliser used around the agricultural (cardboard, plastic, pallets) by our third party Norwich 42 college land. The waste from the crops is then haulier. The QSS Department collects monthly Luton 73 n waste food recovery and data of all sites and generates a monthly recycling collected and put into the AD process again. Leicester 74 n a recycling rate league table for all our rate league table. In addition, recycling rates The scheme was introduced in March 2012 in all RDC’s has become part of their annual Warrington 76 Regional Distribution Centres. and by the end of 2012, UK collected and KPI’s. The friendly competition generated Manchester 66 Waste food recovery recovered over 5 tonnes of food waste. In by the league table encourages each site to Leeds 77 In 2012 the UK set up a scheme to collect 2013 by the extension of the scheme in the achieve their annual target. Washington 66 all food waste generated in the canteen and offices, the aim is to collect over 6 tonnes. All Scotland 10 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% <Recycling rate league table < Waste food recycling 20 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 WASTE TARgET ZERO WASTE 2 CASE STuDiES UK has been setting up links within different networks for the last few years and has been part of the steering group of a local Resource Efficiency Club called BESST (http://www. Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Environmental Actions telfordbesst.co.uk). Additionally Lyreco has been working with NISP (http://www.nispnetwork.com) which is a business network that identifies mutually profitable links between its business members so that resources (materials, energy and water) are recovered and reused elsewhere in the industrial network creating a truly circular economy. Through these synergies in 2012 two case studies on resource efficiency were set up: Label Backing Label backing is made of paper with a waxed coating which prevents it being recycled in the same way as normal office paper. through our own transport network to a > Pallet Toppers protectors (previously recycled), providing Working in partnership with NISP, a regional a further sustainable solution to our waste. company that shreds the waxed paper and company was identified to provide a sususes the material for packaging protection. tainable solution for this waste stream. All in 5 months 1,100 waxed paper that is re-spooled in the printers this represents is collected in boxes. These boxes are sent pALLet toppers And LAndfiLL sAvings of 3 LArge boxes of cArd> Label Backing About 3.5 tonnes / yeAr, boArd edge protectors but most importantly the material is used as hAve been re-used. a raw material for another process. Additionally Lyreco and the printing company are sharing a common 3rd party haulier for Pallet Toppers the rest of the business activity, which makes revenue). NISP facilitated the link between In 2011 Lyreco set up a contract with a the transport even more efficient. Lyreco and a local company (BESST member) regional company to collect all pallets and Building on these examples UK is now working in the printing sector to re-use the material wood material generated in Lyreco’s activity. rather than recycle it. In August 2012 Lyreco on sustainable solutions for other materials: Most of the pallets are being re-used or set up a commercial agreement with this hardwood, cardboard spools from wrapping recycled generating good revenue for UK. company to sell the pallet toppers for them to and loose waxed paper; as a result Lyreco However, pallet toppers (coming from shipment be re-use in their shipments. The symbiosis are on target to achieve their zero waste of paper) were recycled as mulch (with no has now been extended to cardboard edge target for UK headquarters. 21 WASTE Thanks to the operational and long term WASTE experiences existing in the countries, Lyreco would like to share the current CLEAN uP DAy Waste Management knowlede internally MANAgEMENT within all the Lyreco locations as well as In 2012 Iberia launched the “Clean Up Day” with the objective of improving externally with the customers. guiDE Therefore during 2013 Scandinavia plan working conditions in the workplaces and to coordinate the development of a waste at the same time encourage employees to segregate management guide. waste correctly. The aim is to make the document transparent, in a similar style to the Green products To support the activity, each employee Distribution Headquarters Assessment introduced in 2013. was provided with a “Cleaning Up kit” Waste Centre (kg) (kg) The objective is to explain the various that included a pair of gloves, a mask and waste characteristics in the different proa waste bag. Additional containers were Paper/Cardboard 195 300 duct categories, what materials could be also provided, in order to accommodate included in the products and how it may the waste collected and segregated along Batteries 3 20 be possible to recycle them. the day. Cartridges 3 This waste management guide will hopefully A large amount of waste was collected be another step of assisting the customers during the day, of which 90% was recycled CD/DVD 20 2 to strengthen their green profiles. in the Iberia Headquarters and 79% was Electronic waste 8 recycled in Iberia Distribution Centre. Informatic waste 1.5 100 (obsolete hardware) Metal 10 Pens 1 1 Plastic 2 90 Wood 20 TOTAL 290.5 546 > Volume of collected waste during the clean up day The positive results of these two Clean Up days in 2012 will result in similar events being organised for 2013; keeping employees engaged in sustainability and ensuring pride in their own workplaces too. 22 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 RubbiSH FREE DAy Poland, together with the waste contractor (company Rekopol) created a campaign called “I want to RECYCLE”. The aim was to draw attention to how much it is possible Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Environmental Actions to recycle. Employees actively joined to the campaign by: a) Segregating the waste in the Headquarters, as well as at home – including paper, plastic, batteries, aluminium, b) Collecting the empty toner cartridges and boxes, and electrical and electronic equipment from our customers, c) Promoting the products derived from the recycling of waste and available in our catalogue, marked with a “green tree”, e) Sending an informative e-mail about Rubbish Free Day to clients, suppliers & friends. > Cleaning day in Iberia Headquarter Communication sent to the employees > 23 iNFRASTRuCTuRE NEW buiLDiNgS AND SuSTAiNAbLE CONSTRuCTiON A ll new construction is undertaken with sustainability in mind. ITALY In summer 2013, Italy will move into a brand Examples of the sustainable new building with modern, environmentally build are as follows: friendly technology and sustainable working n Mechanic Ventilation System with heat conditions. The move will alleviate cramped recovery – less energy losses and conditions caused by tripling of the workforce consumption saving (15-20%) over the last ten years and give back open n Solar panels plan spaces and meeting rooms which have been lost to redevelopment of the existing n Heat pump – more efficient versus space during that time. A new build provides standard systems (using methane gas) After the re-designed works in Lyreco HQ. the opportunity to start from scratch and use n Thermostats in every office and central the best technologies available. temperature regulation – system that will offer some flexibility to the users and FRANCE National Distribution Centres reduce the energy waste at the same time Three years ago, Lyreco launched a programme At the end of 2012, France started the extension Working conditions will be improved by: for the renovation of the headquarters. This n Lighting system – the whole building works of the Villaines and Digoin Distribution n Ergonomic position of all desks conforming 6-year programme, with a annual budget of Centres. was planned with large windows to use to H&S requirements 200 k€, was an ideal opportunity to re-define daylight as much as possible. In common n More light the concept of the workstation taking account Sustainability considerations areas like bathrooms there will be motion n Better microclimate thanks to better sensors and in corridors led technology of well-being in the workplace. were made regarding: temperature control and Mechanical will be used Particular attention has been paid to the n The selection of raw materials e.g. for Ventilation System that will provide a physiological effects of the jobs and those frost protection n Printing rooms – two per floor, reducing filtered air the number of small printers and multiwith office based jobs who may be at risk of n The maximisation of the natural lighting n Less noise as each open-space will have function machines to save energy suffering general stress and/or musculoskeletal e.g. with transparent roof sections and an acoustic ceiling and noise-reducing disorders. windows on the upper part of walls n Collection of rainwater – to be used in (see page 25) flooring the garden In order to prevent these risks, the services of a colour architect specialising in office n The installation of energy-saving lighting: n Printing rooms which will be closed n “Smog-eating” cement panels buildings are used. optimised gas unit heaters; dynamic rooms with mechanic extraction of the lighting management combined with air containing the toner powder From the space per employee (10 m2), to day light and new loading bays n Bigger and better equipped canteen natural lighting, through colours, carpets, ceilings or light fixtures, everything has In addition, in Digoin, “Autodocks” been thought out to create a place where will be installed which will provide: it is a pleasure to work. n Greater security when the trucks are in position for unloading to-dAte, three n Optimisation of the floorspace in the open pLAn spAces, warehouse < New building in Italy covering 2,000m2, n Complete closure against water and (Blueprint) cold air hAve been renovAted. 24 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 INFRASTRUCTURE iT iNFRASTRuCTuRE CONSOLiDATiON ENERgy SAviNgS iN LigHTiNg An Innovative Approach LED lighting Lyreco is the first company in the world using With the new infrastructure, the power Thanks to new technologies, Lyreco is able to “Exadata for SAP OLTP transactions”, with consumption is reduced by around 10% for benefit from significant energy savings as a all Lyreco’s SAP ERP environments being our database servers. result of installation of lighting systems in the Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Environmental Actions migrated to Exadata in 2012. This new dataFor software application servers, the same National Distribution Centres (NDC) across the base machine enables server consolidation, logic will be applied and as a consequence of countries. LED lighting has the benefit of long reducing the sizing of our installed base and pooling these on mutualized and more recent life energy efficiency and ecological friendliness. the power consumption. server technology, an additional reduction In Italy in 2012, the NDC fluorescent tubes In 2013, we plan to pool around twenty databy 5 points of the power consumption is were replaced with LED lamps. bases and resell leftover machines (around 10), expected by the end of 2013. In Benelux during 2013 dimmable LED will which will result in less energy consumption be installed. that than 2012 and the years prior. > UK – Focus on the LED lighting system In the UK, 1/3 of the National Distribution Centre EVOLUTION OF THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION (NDC) was fitted with T5 lamps in 2012: the main The increase in 2012 is advantage is that each lamp is equipped with 2011 During the project At the end of Target explained by the need a movement sensor and the luminosity can be 2012 2012 2013 to double the machines adjusted lamp by lamp, offering a significant to maintain quality and For the specific 1 1.39 0.55 0.45 security of Lyreco’s reduction of power usage. In 2013, the rest of data system (reference) business during this the NDC will be fitted with the new lamps with Overall power infrastructure change. projected savings as follows: consumption 1 / -10 % -15 % n Week-days: 18% n Week-end: 39% Natural lighting REDuCiNg WATER CONSuMPTiON When the need arose to extend the NDC in Environmental and ecological benefits from upgrading washrooms in UK headquarters France, maximising natural daylight was key to the building structure. An extension of 6,000m2 > Italy – Focus on the LED lighting system The need to replace sinks and counter-tops n Pre-temperature water set for ideal use. was made in 2012 at the Villaines NDC where in washrooms provided the opportunity n Less hot water required. the roof and walls have been constructed some to review water consumption in the UK transparent sections allowing natural light to n Huge Water & energy cost savings. headquarters. As a result, new mixer taps flood into the building during the day, which and waterless urinals were installed with n Reduces the need for harmful chemicals. is better for employees and the consumption added benefits as follows: of energy. The same principle will be applied n Hygienic “No Touch” Operation – Makes it SInCE ThE SET uP In auguST 2012, to the Digoin NDC (5,000 m2) in 2013. ideal to help avoid “cross contamination”. SavIngS havE bEEn In ThE OrDEr Annual savings for both NDC’s n Reliable – Suitable for high usage. OF 55% In WaTEr uSagE. are estimated at 22,500 kWh n Automatic water saving “Safety Shut-off” Annual saving will be over 1,600 m3, which (corresponding to 1,072 kg CO2). feature – Tap will turn itself off if left on is equivalent to water used for 8 UK families In the existing parts of the Villaines and Digoin for more than 60 seconds. a year. NDCs, LED lighting will replace existing lighting during the period 2013 to 2015. > France Focus on the natural lighting 25 SOCiAL ACTiONS In the delivery of its Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims to: n Develop equality and social inclusion principles throughout one organisation and supplier relationships. n Develop and care for our people thanks to a proper work environment in terms of health and Safety and human resources programmes (e.g. Lyreco university, Lyreco Campus, Internal Opinion barometer, and Training Plans). n Contribute to the progress of our community, carrying out Lyreco For Education, charity and supplier social audit actions. The following pages detail activity carried out in 2012 or scheduled to be carried out in 2013. 26 26 Sustainable Sustainable Development Development Report 2012/2013 Report 2012/2013 SOCiAL ACTiONS SOCiAL APPROACH Social actions across the whole business Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Social Actions LYRECO PEOPLE COMMUNITY n Lyreco University n Lyreco For Education n Lyreco Campus n Lyreco gives back to Montreal community n Health & Safety n Mangrove planting n HR worldwide brainstorming n Support local community n Training in sustainability n Donations to Food Banks n Collaboration with “Junior Achievement” foundation n Training support for the community p. 28-31 p. 32-37 27 LyRECO PEOPLE LyRECO uNivERSiTy The programme is managed locally by the HR intended for our biggest subsidiaries with department and provides the students with a more than 600 employees, but based on the The objectives of the series of training days delivered by members success of the first years of the program it’s Lyreco University of the Senior Management Team and external now mandatory for all subsidiaries employing a programme are to: presenters. Through the course minimum of 300 people. This of a year the students will the Lyreco university means that the Lyreco University n Identify the top potential individuals work on a business relevant progrAmme is Active in programme in 2012 was active in every country project presenting the results 10 of our 17 subsidiAries, in 10 of our 17 subsidiaries, to the SMT at the end of the trAining And deveLoping training and developing 60 of n Help them to grow to prepare their programme. 60 of our best tALents our best talents. Update 2012 / Plans for 2013 future and the future of Lyreco This training is designed to 2013 will see the start of a In 2009 Lyreco launched an internal talent deven Motivate them by granting them access develop the student’s global understanding of new Lyreco University programme, in which lopment programme called Lyreco University. to a dedicated programme how the Lyreco business operates across all our 4 Asian subsidiaries will join forces in order The aim of this programme is to implement a departments. The aim is to prepare them for to take part. process in each of our largest subsidiaries to n Use the skills of the students to review future manager roles and increase their ability The hope is to make Lyreco University as global as ensure the development of the best local talents. and improve our business to migrate into other areas of the company. possible in the near future, allowing all countries In the beginning, this programme was only to take part in this dynamic programme. 28 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 LYRECO PEOPLE LyRECO CAMPuS students through some of the best executive training available. It’s a very ambitious pro•The two weeks •Lyreco Campus was an gramme and all the students have to be at at the Campus in Lille extraordinary experience their very best to keep up in this high pace was a very intensive I will never forget. We had programme. During the programme they are time: Can a day have professional professors Update 2012 / Plans for 2013 put through a number of demanding activities more than 24h? Yes, who taught us about For the past 3 years as a supplement to Lyreco requiring them to muster both physical and it can! (at least it felt Strategy, Leadership, University, Lyreco launched an additional talent mental strength. All activities are designed like this…) Starting Marketing and Finance. development programme. This programme is to prepare them for potentially stepping into Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Social Actions with sports in the morning, having very We did sport every morning, which was aimed at the continued development of the a demanding management role in the future. best talents coming out of the local Lyreco intensive and interesting lectures, doing very refreshing and fun to do. We also had The Campus students are also required to a great group of energetic people who were Universities. work on a project defined and sponsored by project work in the evening and other activities. a lot of fun to be with and added a lot of the Group Senior Management Team. These value to the content of the programme. The objectives of projects are chosen for their high relevance It was a great experience, also because It was an honour to be part of this great to the business and potential contribution to of sharing knowledge and experiences Lyreco Campus are to: the development of the company. experience!” with the colleagues of the other countries. n Follow up on the Lyreco University The Campus programme also involves bringing Very challenging, but also quite fun Ekko Vermeulen programme for very high potential back the previous year’s Campus alumnae to thanks to the great team. Head of National Accounts Benelux individuals join the Group SMT and Campus students Thanks to everybody who helped to have n Help them grow to prepare their future in a full day of lectures and workshops on these great two weeks at the Campus!” and the future of Lyreco a specific business topic. In 2012 this topic was Change Management. •What an experience! n Provide international exposure Irina Janssen In 2012, 8 students completed the Campus Product Manager Germany A real challenge but an n Motivate and retain them by granting programme and for 2013 another 8 students opportunity to fully understhem access to a dedicated programme are enrolled. tand and learn. It was a n Use the skills of the students to review concentrated learning and improve our business and self development programme in a first class Lyreco Campus involves bringing the absolute environment that covered Strategic planning, best talents from each subsidiary to the EDHEC business modelling, finance, marketing , international business school in Lille, France, leadership, negotiation and behaviours and for a two week intensive training programme. how they can impact others. Eight people For 11 straight days the programme introduces from six Lyreco subsidiaries meant a real them to: opportunity to share experience and self n Strategy and Business models develop for the betterment of our Lyreco n Performance Management & Managerial careers. It engendered true camaraderie, innovation a tremendous team ethos and in summary n Financial Performance Management and an unforgettable experience.” n Demanding business games John Andrews All lectures are done by professors of the Head of International Account UK EDHEC business school and they put the 29 LyRECO PEOPLE HEALTH & SAFETy: ACTiONS TO PREvENT ACCiDENTS AT WORk Accidents at work can have significant What was Safety Umbrella? consequences for employees, employers and The aim of the Safety Umbrella programme DIPLOMA FOR LYRECO society at large, causing long term injuries; was to inspire employees in Poland to In 2012, Poland registered loss of income; higher insurances; damage to learn safety rules to help prevent acciproperty and involvement of outside bodies Safety Umbrella to the dents at work. During 2012 a number of Social Campaign “Accident such as police and fire brigade. presentations about health and safety Prevention” organised by In order to reduce the risks of accidents at regulation and best practices were given, the Central Institute for work, Poland introduced the “Safety Umbrella” then followed up with a monthly quiz. Labour Protection – National campaign in 2012. Areas covered were manual handling, Research Institute under the ergonomics, road safety, accidents at work, honorary patronage of the DecreaseD numbers of acciDents at work chemicals, safe holidays, active forms of Ministry of Labour and Social leisure and preparing for winter. Employees Policy in Poland. Numbers of accidents who completed the quizzes correctly were 16 entered into a monthly draw and received a 14 prize and at the end of the programme, the As a result, Lyreco was recognized with a diploma > 12 ten employees with the most correct answers 10 were awarded special prizes. 8 > Summary of programme participation with the 6 Results Managing Director (P. Ornatek with an umbrella) J. Wozniak (the creator), QSS Manager 4 The Safety Umbrella programme had extremely (R. Daniluk) and awarded. 2 positive consequences; raising awareness and 0 knowledge about risk and preventable accidents 2011 2012 in the work environment and outside. It had positive impact on the health of workers by DecreaseD absenteism reducing the number of accidents and injuries. Due to acciDents at work Participation in the quiz introduced an element of fun and positive competition between Absenteism (in working days) employees and 37 people were awarded. 450 The number of accidents in 2012, compared 400 to 2011, decreased by almost 43% and the 350 number of days of absence due to accidents 300 at work, measured in working days, decreased 250 by 82%. Reducing the number of accidents 200 also resulted in reduction of damage; reduction 150 100 in contribution for accident insurance to the 50 Social Insurance Fund; lower costs of lost 0 working time; lower cost of overtime and 2011 2012 replacement for injury employee. 30 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 LYRECO PEOPLE WorldWide brainstorming on Hr topics As concrete outcomes, dedicated guidelines have been issued and made available to all 1st annual International the countries in November 2012. HR Directors meeting Performance and Development Review guidelines: 2012 saw the start of the first annual intern to encourage open communication between national HR Directors meeting, which took the Managers and their employees Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Social Actions place in Brussels in September. n to document employee growth and deveIt was the occasion to bring together the lopment needs as well as achievements majority of our HR Directors and share on n to define and plan appropriate actions various projects such as Group KPIs, Internal and initiative to improve employee perstaff surveys, Succession Planning and the formance and develop skills Leadership Development Programme. n to identify and support specific talents The meeting proved to be a great success to secure and strengthen the internal and all participants were able to leave with succession plan a full set of documents to be able to apply the procedures locally. Internal Opinion Barometer guidelines to training in sustainability ensure that all subsidiaries regularly track In Benelux, whilst Lyreco employees results. The CSR super-users have so The meeting is already planned for this the general satisfaction level among their have become more and more aware of become the first point of contact for their year 2013 and will take place in Roskilde, employees, identify potential areas to improve the company’s Sustainability programme teams on sustainability related questions Denmark in June with the aim of continuing and put in place appropriate action plans. through Eco Future, the need to develop a and regularly put the subject onto team International HR project development and A part of those elements are used for Eco greater awareness of sustainable solutions meeting agendas – further embedding implementation. Future KPI. to assist customers to meet their own sustainability understanding across the agendas became apparent. As a result, sales force. HR Monthly KPI guidelines to provide: Lyreco provided intensive Corporate n a global Group view of the situation and Social Responsibility (CSR) training to Since the last Customer satisfaction activities within the HR community across its sales force. survey showed that a number of Field all subsidiaries Sales customers were also interested in Through the process, “CSR supersustainability, a number of Field Sales n a clear definition across all subsidiaries users” were appointed in each representatives will also be appointed to of Group HR KPI including tracking and measuring Corporate sales team and received attend to the annual “CSR super-user” their training from the Quality, trainings. n an important tool for the local HR Security and Sustainability manager managers to consistently track the Through continually putting sustainability most important HR KPI during summer of 2012. on the agenda of employees and providing n benchmark opportunity between Since the global start up training, the superproducts and services to fit that bill, Lyreco the subsidiaries to enable sharing users have also been regularly informed can genuinely help its customers achieve of best practices regarding new sustainability actions and their sustainable goals. 31 COMMuNiTy WHEN A CHiLD gOES TO SCHOOL, A NATiON gROWS! For 6 years now, Lyreco has been running a charity programme called “Lyreco For Education” and has supported the education of more 50,000 children in developing countries. The fundraising is possible thanks to the participation of customers, suppliers and employees. Throughout the subsidiaries, employees put LFE at the heart of the events they organise each year ranging from car washing to Christmas markets and the sale of cakes and second-hand books. Proceeds raised by employee events are matched by Lyreco. > LFE Italian market > LFE Christmas market in France > LFE Lantern drop in Slovakia Each year, we witness how important the actions we have achieved are, thanks to the incredible gratitude of the families we support. Since January 2011, in partnership with the NGO AEA, Lyreco has supported > LFE action during the sales convention in Thailand a 3-year education project in Togo located in two areas: SAVANA and KARA. 32 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 BURKINA FASO Dapaong Savana In october 2012 vs october 2009, 24% more children region Kara BENIN are enrolled in the schools within the LFE project GHANA NIGERIA Atakpamé Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Social Actions LAKE VOLTA LOME Gulf of Guinea In the Savana region we provide proper access to education for more than 47,000 children aged from 5 to 12, in collaboration with Overall result Overall result Overall target the AFD (French Agency of Key ACTIONS and FIGURES in 2011 in 2012 in 2013 Development) Number of schools built 16 schools 19 schools 19 schools Number of latrines built 48 latrines 57 latrines 57 latrines 47,000 children Number of parents learning how to read and write N/A 911 parents on-going 911 parents 206 projects 206 projects Number of Education Projects implemented on-going defined with 617 Number of key people (trainers, school directors, school teacher) trained in education project 628 people 1,520 people on-going management or educational tools 1,520 key people Number of awareness campaigns on girls schooling promotion N/A 39 villages 59 villages Number of schools getting N/A 9 schools 14 schools Morten Wiil, Group HR Director and Faustine Trémion, Group Internal Communication Manager with children of Togo support for lunch facilities 19 schools 33 COMMuNiTy BURKINA FASO Dapaong Key ACTIONS and FIGURES Overall result Overall result Overall target in 2011 in 2012 in 2013 Kara BENIN Number of early childhood centres built & equipped GHANA Kara with school supplies and N/A 4 centers 12 centers 15,000 region learning games children Number of educators trained N/A 50 educators 100 educators 900 NIGERIA parents Number of mothers trained in Atakpamé hygiene, health and nutrition N/A 872 mothers 1,772 mothers LAKE Number of parents educated to VOLTA fully understand the importance N/A 900 parents on-going LOME of early childhood education Gulf of Guinea With an over-achievement of our 2011 and 2012 collection, all actions have 100 been enhanced in order to reach our final objective which is to make as key people many villages as possible self sustainable after the project ends. In the Kara region we help 2011 2012 Target 2013 to give 15,000 children up to Amount collected 345,652 € 284,361 € on-going the age of 5 access to early 12 Achievement vs target 162% 120% on-going childhood education centres WHEN A CHiLD gOES TO SCHOOL, A NATiON gROWS! To learn more about the LFE projects, visit http://eco.lyreco.com, and then select the tab “Social Approach”. 34 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 COMMUNITY giviNg bACk TO THE MONTREAL COMMuNiTy During Canada’s 2013 sales convention over 150 employees competed in an “Amazing Race” challenge to raise funds to support local charities. Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Social Actions The event took the entire sales team through the streets of Old Montreal competing in various events. Though the temperature was freezing, the teams were smiling throughout. The winning team was proud to present a $6,000 donation to the “United Way”. Over the last three years Canada has made giving back a tradition at the Sales convenMANgROvE PLANTiNg tion. In 2011 Lyreco helped to renovate a Project Update youth centre and in 2012 ran a clothing and ACRES OF MANGROVE FOREST OVER THE YEARS food drive to help those in need within the > Lyreco in Canada Managing Director and from Thailand Winning Team presenting cheque Montreal Community. Employees in Thailand have been YEAR 1993 1996 2000 2011 involved in planting mangrove for the past two years, in a East 81,548 79,112 142,130 195,204 bid prevent land erosion and Central 33,519 34,056 75,335 67,964 the save the Samutprakarn province from being under the South 939,199 934,220 1,308,530 1,346,526 water within 20 years. Total 1,054,266 1,047,388 1,525,995 1,609,694 Suppliers have also taken part Sources: Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and witnessed first hand the values of Lyreco employees as they have given back to society and environment through this proJect inspired their hard work in reforesting Samutprakarn’s empLoyees At how coastline. The result is not only positive in the increased number of acres of mangrove simpLe An Action cAn forest as shown in the table, but also in having Achieve so much inspired employees at how simple an action can achieve so much positive impact positive impAct on the environment. on the environment > Sales Teams ready to start the RACE 35 COMMuNiTy SuPPORTiNg LOCAL DONATiONS TO FOOD bANkS COMMuNiTy The tough economic environment in Spain is no secret. Almost every day, Lyreco staff receive a telephone call or an e-mail asking for support on The Alovera “Puppet Festival” different social projects, but it is becoming more and When the Lyreco For Education (LFE) programme more common that the help is required at was set up, Spain decided it was appropriate local community level for issues as to align some of its support to local community basic and crucial as food. For this to the Iberian National Distribution Centre reason Lyreco in Iberia has decided to (NDC) in Alovera, and offered to sponsor the do its “bit”, to help food banks collect Puppet Festival during local festivities. food for those who need it the most Since Lyreco was established in the early 90s, in local communities in Barcelona it has had close links to the development of and in Guadalajara, where Iberian Alovera, first as one of the largest employers Headquarters and Distribution Centre in the area, but also due to sponsorship of are located. different childhood related activities organised jointly with the local council. At the end of 2012, Lyreco were able to donate more than 700 kg According to the Mayor of Alovera, in 2012, of food and drinks to excellent without the Lyreco’s contribution, activities local causes. could not have evolved. Thanks to Lyreco, more that 3,000 people enjoyed stories for children that encouraged them to read in their daily lives. > In December 2012, the Thanks to Lyreco, Food Bank of Guadalajara more that 3,000 collected milk from the Lyreco distribution centre people enjoyed in Alovera. stories for children that encouraged them to read in their daily lives. There are several “entry routes” for food: n Employees: after several years collecting toys for the Red Cross, employees also started to collect food at Christmas time. n Supplier gifts to the company. n Stocks about to expire that cannot be sold or returned to the suppliers. 36 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 COMMUNITY COLLAbORATiON WiTH “JuNiOR TRAiNiNg SuPPORT ACHiEvEMENT” FOuNDATiON FOR THE COMMuNiTy In 2013, Iberia will be collaborating with the Junior Achievement Traineeships through the organisation Foundation in its “Partners for a day” programme. Anna Stift Hannover (the Saint Ann's Junior Achievement is the largest educational non-profit organisation in the world, that each registered charity) year helps more than 10.5 million people. Lyreco and Junior Achievement share values such as Respect and Excellence which are Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Our Social Actions evident in projects focused on social, environmental and ethical matters. Since April 2012 a young handicapped man “Companies like Lyreco are a godsend’’ says has been working in the German National the professional educator at Saint Ann's, Distribution Centre (NDC) for the practical Kerstin Fennen. “The company (Lyreco) part of his apprenticeship in Logistics. The has a strong interest in the development of traineeship came about through cooperation students and takes care of him.” with a social institution know as “Annastift”, which amongst other activities, organises the education and training of handicapped “Lyreco hAs A people. It is part of a broader public initiative called “Trialnet” run by the ministry for work strong interest and social affairs to promote the education in the deveLopment of handicapped people. of students And Jörg B. our young trainee, is very happy and proud of the opportunity to work in such a big tAkes cAre of him.” warehouse even though his main activities are limited to waste disposal because of his particular handicap. As a result of this positive experience with In May 2013, Jörg is certain to pass his Jörg B, Germany intends to continue cooexams and will then if he wishes become peration with Saint Ann's and looks forward an employee of Lyreco. Not only is the work to receiving the next trainee. placement good for Jörg, but also good for Lyreco staff and all of his colleagues in the NDC, who are happy to work with him. The Iberian Senior Management Team has undertaken to collaborate with the Junior Achievement in its “Partners for a Day” Programme, through which a student will share a workday with an employee of Lyreco Iberia. The goal is to let them experience working life firsthand to help them decide on employment in their futures. In Spain, in 2012, 596 students used this programme, that has been supported by companies such as Repsol, ING Direct, Acciona, BBVA, Oracle. 37 ECONOMiC ACTiONS In the delivery of its Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims to: n Support and increase economic growth in all our countries, in a sustainable fashion. n Promote innovation and adopt a pragmatic approach to sustainability, targeting efforts on priority issues which have meaningful benefits for the environment, community and economy. n Work ethically with our suppliers and partners, and encourage them to apply a Sustainable Development strategy. n adopt a Sustainable Procurement & Product approach. The following pages detail activity carried out in 2012 or scheduled to be carried out in 2013. 38 38 Sustainable Sustainable Development Development Report 2012/2013 Report 2012/2013 ECONOMiC APPROACH Economic Actions across the whole business Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Economic Actions CUSTOMERS MARKETPLACE n Development of dematerialised documents n Sustainability from the Inside out n Sustainable tools for customers n Supplier audits Directly imported products n Recycling services for customers n Supplier audits Indirectly imported products n Cartridge recycling n Work with non profit organisations n Customer sustainability award n The Green Fair n Green forum for public sector n A new criteria to assess our suppliers n Supporting EU timber regulation n Corporate sustainable initiative membership p. 40-42 p. 43-47 39 CuSTOMERS DEvELOPMENT OF SuSTAiNAbLE TOOLS DEMATERiALiSED DOCuMENTS FOR CuSTOMERS > Example of Customer Environmental Balance The “Environmental ENV-305 V1.1 Lyreco started a Documents-on-Demand 28.12.2012 service for its customers in 2010, as part of its Balance” * commitment to protect the environment. The Released in Germany in 2010, Customer Environmental Balance purpose of this service is to move from printed the aim of the “Environmental Created by Lyreco Deutschland GmbH Germany documentation to electronic documentation Customer: Musterfirma Account: 47114712 Period: 2011 Balance” tool is to carry out anaContact: Max Mustermann Turnover: 543.250 € Country: DE in order to save paper, transportation and lysis of the environmental impact Current Customer Statistics the associated environmental costs. Order values # Orders % of Orders 600 500 of individual business processes < 25€ 500 28% 500 411 25 50€ 411 23% 400 354 299 17% Many standard documents from Price Lists with customers, such as order 50 75€ 299 300 75 100€ 354 20% 200 125 7% and Delivery Notes to Accounts Statements patterns and deliveries. It was 100 150€ 125 75 100 > 150€ 75 4% Total 1.764 and Invoice Lists have been introduced since designed to be easy to understand 100% < 25€ 25 50€ 50 75€ 75 100€ 100 150€ > 150€ Environmental Impact the launch of this initiative, either via on line The resultant savings for 50,000 invoices and professional to use based Average per Current Category Consumption order consumption CO2 Impact Fossil fuels (T CO2 equ.) 0,00045 0,801 request through the Webshop or via contact sent electronically are: on measurements and recording ENERGY SOURCES (Scope 2) Electricity (T CO2 equ.) Total (T CO2 equ.) 0,00059 1,044 1,845 with Lyreco Customer Services. The next in line with international ISO 14064 Nb of trees to reduce Co2 (equ.) 148 stage was to extend this service to legally standards the benefit of which FREIGHT Deliveries (T CO2 equ.) 0,00043 0,763 60 tonnes 750,000 (Scope 1) Total (T CO2 equ.) Nb of trees to reduce Co2 (equ.) 0,763 61 compliant dematerialised invoices. of carbon litres of is a consistent measure for any Car (T CO2 equ.) MOVEMENTS OF Public transport (T CO2 equ.) 0,00264 0,00001 4,659 0,020 each year waste water customer purchase from Lyreco. EMPLOYEES (Scope 3) Plane (T CO2 equ.) Total (T CO2 equ.) Nb of trees to reduce Co2 (equ.) 0,00007 0,121 4,801 384 Plastics and glue (T CO2 equ.) 0,00006 0,097 In 2011 Creation of the tool supports two CONSUMABLES Papers and cartons (T CO2 equ.) AND MATERIAL Consumables (T CO2 equ.) (Scope 3) Total (T CO2 equ.) 0,00053 0,00017 0,937 0,304 1,338 A full invoicing service was launched in key commitments of Lyreco’s “Eco Nb of trees to reduce Co2 (equ.) 107 240 7,800 kg of Common waste (T CO2 equ.) 0,00001 0,023 DIRECT WASTE six countries to Field Customers, from the Future” strategy which are to: Total (T CO2 equ.) 0,023 (Scope 3) Nb of trees to reduce Co2 (equ.) 2 trees solid waste Buildings (T CO2 equ.) 0,00036 0,631 sending of invoices to long term storage Informatics (T CO2 equ.) 0,00006 0,110 FIXED ASSETS Reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Vehicles (T CO2 equ.) 0,00007 0,127 (Scope 3) in a dedicated electronic safe. This covers Total (T CO2 equ.) 0,868 Nb of trees to reduce Co2 (equ.) 69 Emissions coming from our activities. all local financial and legal requirements in Savings This calculator takes into account the end-toScenario includes that all orders <XX€ are spread Current Afterwards n Develop sustainable innovations on other existing orders terms of document protection and signature. Current Afterwards Difference end cost of processing an invoice including 72% in products, services and busiNb Orders < 25,00 € 500 500 Average Order Value (AOV) 308 € 430 € 122 € print, delivery, approval, cash management 9,638 6,906 2,732 ness models. Tons CO2 impact Tons CO2 impact 771 Saving Nb of trees 552 219 50,000 invoices hAve so fAr and archiving. Industry experts estimate that 28% Additional Savings savings of between 1-2% of turnover can The number of customers requesting Additional Savings Figure Share 100% been sent through this new the tool has risen each year, from Current nb of EDI / Webshop-Orders 750 42,52% Potential to reduce CO2 impact be realistically achieved with e-invoicing. Planned nb of EDI / Webshop Orders 1764 100,00% 50% process, And At the sAme time, Achieved CO2 impacts Savings tons CO2 emission for comsumed paper 0,00537 57,48% 10 in 2010 to 40 in 2012. reducing Savings nb of equivalent trees to reduce CO2 0,43 -0,43 0% 9 miLLion invoices hAve been Source : Remarks ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? CO2-values = CO2 equivalent n Industry estimate of 1 invoice = 100g carbon footprint. eLectronicALLy Archived. The method of the Customer Environmental Balance had been verified by DEKRA referred to ISO 14064-1 and ISO 14040/44. n Euro Banking Association Report 2008 2010 2011 2012 Lyreco itself is a client of this solution with n Environmental Defense Fund About ISO 14064 100% of legal archiving being done every day. Nb of ISO 14064 series is expected to benefit orgaCustomer 15 25 40 In Italy the outlook is interesting as the process Env. balances nizations, governments, project proponents In 2013 should avoid 293,000 invoices being reprinted and stakeholders worldwide by providing clarity and It is planned that all subsidiaries will use consistency for quantifying, monitoring, reporting and and posted which will have significant envithis new process, except Asia. * live in all the countries validating or verifying GHG inventories or projects. ronmental savings. from March 2013 40 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 CUSTOMERS RECyCLiNg SERviCES CARTRiDgE RECyCLiNg FOR CuSTOMERS Recycling of inkjet and laser cartridges has been a corner-stone of the Lyreco recycling paigns, the number of cartridges collected and recycled has continued to increase, service to customers for many years. The with 2012 showing a 16% increase on 2011. It is inevitable that products distributed by todAy in frAnce, collection programme means that waste to Lyreco will become waste sooner or later. With the rise in environmental legislation and over 50% of printer landfill is reduced and natural resources are Evolution at Group level of inkjet cartridges the need to manage waste more responsibly preserved; also saving customers the time picked and recycled into compatibles cArtridges And cLose and expense of disposing of their waste. in order to reduce damage to the planet, Lyreco has implemented collection schemes to 30% of bAtteries Laser cartridges coLLected Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Economic Actions for a variety of waste products. & recycLed into compatibLes Knowing how to manage some wastes soLd find their wAy The process is simple: to An exempLAry 800,000 16% increase n Customer requests a free cartridge Collection schemes recycLing progrAmme. collection container and / or free pick-up 700,000 vary across the The market is asking for more. This is why, n Lyreco’s driver collects these cartridges 600,000 countries and may cover: in March 2013, France will collect Waste during a normal delivery (avoiding 500,000 637,678 743,000 Electrical & Electronic Equipment (WEEE) additional road miles and from customers and is currently studying emissions) 400,000 possibilities to collect printed papers and 300,000 n cartridges n Legal documenfurniture. 2011 2012** n batteries tation is supplied to customers (in (*) 50% laser toner and 75% inkjet, based upon n light bulbs Lyreco's objective is not to become a some countries, France subsidiary results n cardboard where necessary) (**) forecast based upon September figures major player in the waste industry, but to n paper offer our customers products and services n The consolidated n plastic bottles that are always more responsible. empty cartridges are returned to a cartridge remanufacturer Depending on the outcomes of the experience (especially those which are legislated or in France, the programme will be extended deemed to be hazardous) can make it difficult in other countries. Up to 75% of the carfor customers to know which company to turn to for support, leading to use of many tridges collected* are then companies. recycled into compatibles; Lyreco however, is often in the best position the rest being discarded to support customers due to relationships to ensure highest quality with the best recycling schemes and standards (discarded provision of correct documentation. With cartridges are recycled regular delivery routes, collection of wastes in different ways). < Cartridge collection containers can be facilitated simply giving customers Since implementation and confidence in their services. driven by local awareness cam41 CuSTOMERS CuSTOMER gREEN SuPPORTiNg Eu TiMbER SuSTAiNAbiLiTy FORuM FOR REguLATiON AWARD PubLiC SECTOR Lyreco is committed to driving forward sustainable timber sourcing In 2012, Lyreco set up a programme to identify Applicable from March 2013, the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) prohibits the placing of illegally 90% of public sector bodies in Spain and reward customers who excelled in their harvested timber on the EU market. This law lays down the obligations of “Operators” which make their purchases by category, which sustainability approach, with the first award place timber products on the internal EU market for the first time, and of “Traders” which buy means issuing a tender per category of ceremony taking place in Germany in 2013 and sell within the EU. A number of steps to achieve this aim were carried out during 2012 products, such as paper, IT and General The criteria behind the award is the ordering and early 2013: Office Products. This is a costly and timebehaviour of the customer based on several consuming process. n All product categories were screened to categories: Spain will therefore be holding a Public identify products which may be concerned Why is timber sourcing n Percentage of “Green Tree” products (made by the timber sourcing issue. Sector Forum in 2013 to attempt to change important?* available to the users where a ‘limited’ n External, expert advice was sought for the long-standing culture of buying by catalogue is in place) products which were difficult to categorise. n 20% of the imported wood in Europe category. The aim will be to advise on n Percentage of “Green Tree” products purthe various advantages of using a single comes from illegal sources. n The status of each product was reviewed chased (versus non-green tree products) source supplier: with the suppliers. n 15% of the CO2 emissions are linked n Evolution of “Green Tree” products (purto deforestation. n Single deliveries to optimise transport n A Group Management procedure was implechased quarterly) mented, which includes a “Due diligence n 40% of wood cut down in tropical forests costs, packaging, invoicing and reduce n Percentage of Webshop / EDI documents CO2 impact by more than 50% system” to minimise the risk of placing is illegal. (paperless order process versus other illegal timber on the market. n Since 2000, the primary forests have n Single tender, order point and invoice to ordering methods) n Lyreco was identified as a “Trader” for been reduced by 40 million of hectares. save time for public employees. n Evolution of Webshop / EDI documents almost all the products. n Forests shelter 80% of the land’s diversity n Savings in “economies of scale” with (quarterly) n Any product requiring evidences to prove (50% of the whole earth’s diversity). Lyreco able to provide better prices if n Delivery and order behaviour (such as average order values are higher and the origin and legality are assessed by the (*) WWF 2012 Wood Barometer consolidated delivery) range of products broader. external, independent body. During 2012, 29 customers have participated in It is expected that the Forum will be this award scheme which will continue in 2013, attended by four public sectors customers consolidating Lyreco’s Eco Future commitments and would explain the benefits associated to bring sustainability to stakeholders. to purchasing this way. The winners of the 2012 Award Gold bronZE sIlvEr trend Green tree product category 42 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 MARKETPLACE SuSTAiNAbiLiTy FROM THE iNSiDE OuT Broad communication in OPI magazine to promote Lyreco sustainability practices across our industry The involvement of external stakeholders is a key point of the ISO 26000 standard for (*) OPI Office Products International guidance on social responsibility. This was Office Products International (OPI) is recognised as the leading one of the areas where Lyreco was found to publication for the office products industry, with a readership of more have room for improvement when the Gap than 50,000 in over 110 countries. Analysis of performance versus the standard was carried out in 2011 and as such the Rather than being just a product magazine, OPI analyses and reports Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Economic Actions sharing of information and best practices, is on the key drivers for change in the industry including merger and a trend Lyreco would like to develop. acquisition activity, channel development, financial news and macroTo begin to address the gap, Lyreco’s Group economic trends. Quality, Security and Sustainability Director Apart from its monthly magazine, OPI also provides other services to was interviewed by OPI (*) about the ongoing the office products industry. These include a daily news service on development of sustainability strategy within the opi.net website, special supplements, contract publishing, and the company. conferences and awards dinners in Europe, North America and Asia. A wide range of topics were discussed covering: Extract of the OPI article. > n How Lyreco makes sure all the stakeholders are on board n The internal organisation to support the Green Thinking Lyreco sustainability programmes Lyreco Green Thinking n How Lyreco’s senior management team CSR from the NK: I think this is a very important even more so it is a requirement. point – inside out The new Eco Future strategy was defined in close connection with the senior management gets involved group, including our CEO, Zone Managing Directors and Group Functional Directors. Sustainability meetings are held with the senior management on a regular basis, once every three months, to analyse OPI speaks to Lyreco’s green champion and discuss n How Lyreco communicates to customers about the sustainability projects and results, and to reseller’s ongoing sustainable efforts make operating decisions. OPI: Looking outside the company, about sustainability how do you ensure that all your suppliers are OPI: How long term is the plan? thinking about sustainabilit y as much as NK: Our target is to make sure you are? that the Eco by Felicity Francis Future strategy is completed NK: I would say that there are by 2017. two points n How Lyreco supports the local community felicity.francis@opi.net here. The first is that we have a supplier It’s OPI: How do you make sure code of ethics, which provides easy to look green, much less all your a foundation easy stakeholders are on board? to build and maintain relationships to actually be green. However, based NK: The strategy is an official especially on sustainable business one of the reasons that Lyreco Lyreco policy practices. won the with a proper implementation European Office Products Awards plan to Typically, as a minimum, suppliers n The main challenges to being sustainable Corporate must ensure it is well understood and adhere to all applicable environmenta Social Responsibility (CSR) Award that our l rules in 2012 stakeholders subscribe to it. and regulations. is that the judges recognised This has already its dedication been achieved internally with to sustainability. According to our people, as Additionally, we implement specific the judges, well as with external parties such Lyreco is “living, working and as local and checking and auditing processes breathing CSR depending group buyers. Suppliers were n The Office Products industry in general and in everything it does”. introduced to on the area we would like to cover. For the strategy on a dedicated supplier example, for environmentally Nasser Kahil, Group Quality, day. preferable Security and Sustainability Director at Lyreco, products we check claims on believes an individual OPI: Is this the case across basis against ISO 14020. For the it is this holistic approach that all Lyreco’s social the most pressing environmental concerns makes the locations? reseller’s policies so effective. compliancy aspect we have built Here he goes a specific NK: Yes, the key point to keep supplier sustainability involvement into the details of Lyreco’s strategy in mind and is that all our countries are certified programme, which covers 120 current focuses. to criteria, environmental management 16 of which are focused only system ISO on the 14001. One of the requirements environment. This programme OPI: When did Lyreco first of this has been introduce standard is to ensure environmenta sustainability into its policies? l policies made using elements from SA 8000 (social are well established, understood accountability), ISO 14001 and Nasser Kahil: Sustainability and applied the ISO principles have across the whole company. been part of the Lyreco culture standard giving a frame and principles for many But more globally speaking, every years now. However, with our new for CSR. new mid-term employee joining the company sustainability strategy, Eco Future, completes we a dedicated induction programme OPI: And do you find that your would like to bring more consistency, that suppliers more includes a sustainable development are happy to work with you transparency and a longer-term briefing. on this? perspective This is a key first step. Additionally, to our sustainable development regular NK: I would say that at the first approach. contact they sustainability events are held are not always very pleased, across Lyreco but they quickly subsidiaries that enable us to see the advantages. get the correct involvement and support from all our people. OPI: Moving on, you have a really great OPI: Do you have an internal eco-website; how useful have team you found devoted to sustainability? it with customers? NK: Typically the Lyreco QQS NK: Yes, our eco-website is a (Quality, good support Security and Sustainability) department to explain what we do, providing concrete coordinates all sustainability examples and showing our customers actions. We also how have a dedicated person or team we could help them to achieve in every their own country, as it’s very important sustainability goals or requirements to act locally. . But Here and over the page: One of at the same time the first discussion OPI: How does Lyreco’s senior about Nasser Kahil the Lyreco for Education projects sustainability issues is always achieved management team get involved? focused on helping children in Togo through our people. If contact is established and the customer thinks we have To read the article, visit eco.lyreco.com an effective 8 Green Thinking 2012 w w w.opi.net | OPI Magazine 9 43 MARkETPLACE SuPPLiER AuDiTS DiRECTLy iMPORTED PRODuCTS DIRECTLY IMPORTED PRODUCTS The Lyreco “Sustainability Involvement Programme” is now applied across all factories from wich Lyreco brand products are sourced directly LyRECO SuPPLiERS FACTORiES The auditing of factories in emerging countries that manufacture products under the Lyreco own brand is necessary to ensure that sustainability principles are in place and adhered to. NUMBER OF CHECKS PER AREA The aim is to safeguard the wellbeing of 4 4 employees through the new “Sustainability Involvement Programme” that was launched 38 in 2011 and fully applied during 2012. Its key 24 objectives are to: 1. Implement Supplier Sustainability Principles. n LABOUR n HEALTH & SAFETY n ENVIRONMENT n MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS n ETHICS 16 n COMPLIANCE with the LAW Suppliers must review Lyreco Supplier Sustainability Involvement Programme and ensure 34 they have the necessary policies, processes n LABOUR and systems to meet these requirements. n HEALTH & SAFETY 2. Monitor compliance to Supplier Sustainability Principles. n ENVIRONMENT 3. Support Supplier Sustainability n MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS performance. 2010 2011 2012 TARGET 2013 n ETHICS The suppliers must ensure that they provide n COMPLIANCY with the LAW all relevant policies and associated evidence % of factories audited 100% 100% 100% 100% required to demonstrate their compliance, which % of factories audited on Environmental, NB: Some checks may not be applicable to some includes a visit to site, visual inspections and 0% 46% 100% 100% suppliers. The list and number are subject to change Management System and Ethical items. completion of a lengthy checklist. Following depending on the audit outcomes. the successful completion of the compliance % of Non Conformances identified during the audit Lyreco provides the supplier with feedback previous audit and that are completely closed N/A 80% 90% 100% on their sustainability performance. during the next surveillance audit. The “Sustainability Involvement Programme” Number of Non Conformances. 10 13 12 N/A enables customers to feel confident in the partners Lyreco has chosen to manufacture Number of Opportunities for Improvement. 7 15 9 N/A its quality, own brand goods. Scope: Lyreco Directly Imported Products manufactured in the developing countries 44 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 MARKETPLACE SuPPLiER AuDiTS iNDiRECTLy iMPORTED PRODuCTS INDIRECTLY IMPORTED PRODUCTS Lyreco steps towards more sustainable supply chains As supply chains are getting more and more n Initial audits and surveillance audits must LyRECO SuPPLiERS FACTORiES complex, Lyreco is increasingly scrutinizing be carried out within a three year cycle how its suppliers manage the risks related n As for the Directly Imported Products, to to the different tiers of providers. given, dependent on the issue. The factory be compliant with the Lyreco requirements must provide monthly updates on progress the last audit should not have revealed any and any failure to comply with this request major Non Conformance, and highlight a results in the factory being delisted. Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Economic Actions continuous improvement approach to deal LYRECO’S CONTINUOUS with the minor Non Conformances and/or * SA8000 = The Social Accountability 8000 is an IMPROVEMENT PROCESS : Observations international workplace-quality standard based on the n In case of doubt or higher risk, the Lyreco concept of social accountability, its major objective is n 2010: setting up of “Social Audits” for to ensure application of ethical practices in hiring and QSS (Quality, Security & Sustainability) treatment of employees and in production of goods the Directly Imported Products department may conduct an additional and services. n 2011: Move from “Social Audits” to on-site visit / audit. ** BSCI = The Business Social Compliance Initiative “Supplier Sustainability Involvement n The outcomes of the audits are reviewed at is a business-driven initiative committed to improving working conditions in the global supply chain. Programme” (see the previous page) a high organisational level since the “Social Compliancy Status” of each factory has to *** SEDEX = The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is n 2012: Setting up of dedicated Social be reviewed by the Group Marketing and a not for profit membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical Compliancy Assessment for all Indirectly QSS Directors. business practices in global supply chains. Imported Products. n In case of major Non Conformances, Lyreco is prepared to support the factory to fix them. A 6 months max lead time is Also, with wellbeing of employees such a high level priority, Lyreco took a clear comGreat efforts have been made to build up effective dialogue mechanism mitment in 2012: between the parties and at the end improve the working conditions. All factories producing Lyreco branded 2011 2012 TARGET 2013 products in developing countries have to be audited, whether they were producing 100% 40% directly imported goods or indirectly % of factories audited N/A (20 factories linked to (22 factories linked to Common Range products + 28 factories linked to local imported goods (though sub-suppliers). Common Range products) products – excluding Canada) The process for the Indirectly Imported Products: 10% % of factories delisted N/A (2 factories located N/A n The audit carried out using a major social in China and Malaysia) accountability standard (e.g. SA8000*, % of factories requiring 15% BSCI**, SEDEX***) by a well known and close follow-up and N/A (3 factories located N/A in China) established auditing third party company supported accordingly (e.g. SGS, Intertek). Scope: Lyreco Indirectly Imported Products manufactured in the developing countries. 45 MARkETPLACE WORk WiTH NON PROFiT THE gREEN FAiR The 2013 Sales Convention ORgANiSATiONS Sustainability at the sales convention Sustainable supplier selection The annual Italian Sales Convention continues In 2012, when Lyreco was looking for a new supplier to handle their postal services throughout to take a sustainable theme, showcasing Green Iberia, they took the opportunity to review the sustainability criteria of those tendering. Despite Tree products and using stands which are the competitive prices of the incumbent, a new partner was chosen: Foundation Juan XXIII and made of reusable cardboard. Known locally as their Employment Centre “Ibergrupo”. This is an organisation which provides the opportunity “The Green Fair”, the aim of using a recycled of social integration and employment for people with disabilities. and recyclable product for the stands is a very visual reminder of the benefits of doing things sustainably. Despite the fragile appearance of the cardboard stands, they are very durable, with a capacity of 50kg per shelf. Each stand is made advertising. So long as stored with the correct of the basic table and bookcase structure, protection and the use of these stands will plus cardboard totems on which to display continue for many years. A NEW CRiTERiA TO ASSESS OuR SuPPLiERS As part of the goal to deliver best in class customer service, Lyreco runs a continuous Supplier Performance Improvement Programme (SPIP) that assesses suppliers based upon several Marketing and Logistics criteria. In line with a sustainable development approach Lyreco has integrated new criteria to the SPIP. It is measured on the percentage of Green Tree product purchases made at Group Level. This new criteria will enable Lyreco to identify key actions for improvement on Sustainable Development they can work on with the supplier. Employee of sorting post Foundation Juan For over four decades, XXIII has a head“Foundation Juan quarters of 12,000m2 XXIII” has ensured a and a logistics better quality of life park of 22,000 m2 located in Madrid. They for people with all own Ibergrupo, a company dedicated to types of disabilities. Their work has been providing disabled people an opportunity to promote integration into society, with to enter the jobs market. 80% of their staff particular focus on achieving inclusion in has a disability. the labour market. 46 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 MARKETPLACE CORPORATE SuSTAiNAbLE iNiTiATivE MEMbERSHiP Lyreco joins the Responsible Business Forum Lyreco supports the “Pro Paper Recycling” initiative Set up in 2000, Responsible Pro Paper Recycling is an initiative in Germany that gives an annual award to the to the Business Forum (RBF) is the town administration with the best share of paper recycling in Germany. oldest and the largest Polish Lyreco joined the initiative in 2011 and supports two of their key projects: non-profit organization. It provides focus on the concept of n The “Papieratlas” – which details the n “CEOs Pro Paper Recycling” a programme Corporate Social Responsibility performance of all town administrations, of commitment from the Chief Executive and is a think-and-do-tank, Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Economic Actions regards paper recycling and the winner of Officers of several large German companies promoting responsible business the most “friendly” town each year. The such as Deutsche Lufthansa AG; Deutsche that considers its impact on report is endorsed by the Federal Minister Post DHL; Epson Deutschland; Jack Wolfskin society and environment. They for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Lyreco, stating why they support the set the standards of responsible and Nuclear Safety. paper recycling scheme. business and sustainable development in Poland and Pro Paper Recycling is a highly have close links with a variety visible scheme within business of respected organisations such Robert Daniluk (Lyreco) receives an official certificate of accession to and local government that Responsible Business Forum from the Vice President Irena Pichola (PwC) as World Business Council for aligns closely to Lyreco’s sustainable development, the Global Compact. It is a unique document, which summarizes commitments through companies involvement in execution of Eco Future. In order to become a strategic partner of RBF, responsible business principles and is an Lyreco had to fulfill a number of stringent overview of other initiatives in this area. criteria. They are now a member of a working group and have been closely involved with Through membership of RBF Lyreco has also “ecological future”, presenting among other been ranked in the sustainable Business things, an evaluation programme for green Ranking, which has enabled comparison product certification. with other companies in terms of sustainable development and is a valuable instrument to Lyreco’s work on sustainable development facilitate new ideas and partnerships from has been highlighted in the “Responsible government to Business in Poland Good Practices Report non-profit orga2012” nisations. n Green Tree Assesment (see page 14) n Lyreco for Education (see page 32) < Memberships of the Pro Recycling n LyrEco Innovators Paper initiative. n ECO-driving (see page 16) n Code of Ethics for the suppliers and employees < RBF Good n Safety Umbrella – H&S project (see page 30) practices report 2012 47 CuSTOMER TESTiMONiES AAFM Facility Management possesses aware of the positive impact of optimised Energy company Eneco, with 3,500 employees Providing insight in green products during specialist knowledge of and has experience delivery practices on our CO2 emissions. and part of Eneco Group, supplies the daily the regular review meetings and proposing in the provision of management solutions for energy needs of 2.2 million companies and alternatives thus remains an important aspect. n Regular analysis of the green products facility services, appropriate for both public households in The Netherlands and Belgium. Another objective is to achieve 50% lower turnover and proposal of green alternatives and private sector clients. The energy we produce, transport and supply CO2 emissions per employee in 2013 versus n Packaging material from cupboard deliveries is becoming more and more sustainable, AAFM has been a customer of Lyreco for 2007. In this respect, together we have looked are taken back by the driver because together with customers, compaseveral years, and translates facility manageat the optimisation of deliveries and Lyreco n During each review meeting, the Lyreco nies, government agencies, shareholders, now delivers only twice a week. By monitoring ment for customer Enexis via the operational account manager communicates about investors – we work towards the increased the deliveries and means of transport, we will execution and management of contracts. new actions taken in the field of corporate sustainability of energy supply. further reduce our CO2 emissions. Enexis is a network operator with a strong social responsibility. As pioneers in the development of sustainable focus on sustainability. Eneco applies a Supplier Code of Conduct which “Lyreco has inspired and supported the solutions, we also work hard on making our has been signed by Lyreco. The completion The vision of AAFM is to be the leading Manasustainable awareness of our employees. own operations more sustainable. To reduce of our ‘Sustainability scan’ has provided even gement Organisation in sustainable Facility During the past year, our fruitful collabothe CO2 emissions per employee, we are more insight in Lyreco’s sustainable actions. solutions within selected European markets, ration has led to the achievement of all of working on three themes: mobility, premises and for customer Enexis the programme of For the future, Eneco and Lyreco will continue sustainable objectives to be respected and the above sustainable objectives.” and paper. For this, the collaboration with to consult and communicate about corporate supported by Lyreco is defined as follows: Lyreco as supplier of sustainable work place For the future, it is important that Lyreco social responsibility which helps both companies solutions, has been essential and continues to continues to think with us by suggesting to further develop their sustainable strategy.” n Minimum 50% of the turnover via the be important for our future objectives. additional improvements, and by further online catalogue must contain products For the decoration and supplies of our new focusing on sustainable actions. It is the with a Green Tree premises in 2012, Lyreco has assisted in basis of a sustainable partnership. n Minimum 80% of the turnover in the achieving our objectives to integrate the ‘New cupboards to contain products with a way of working’ and supplying sustainable Leon Lamens Green Tree office solutions. We also looked at the Cradle Category Manager Hanna Schuinder to Cradle principle for this. n Lyreco is expected to take actions to Contract Manager Soft Services increase sustainable awareness by optiOn a regular basis, Lyreco analyses our mising delivery efficiency, reducing CO2 turnover of green products, where we were emissions, taking back packaging material at 63% in March 2012 and after a number of from cupboards deliveries; analysing adjustments we have currently reached an the green tree purchases and proposing excellent percentage of 85%. Customer Name: ENExIS alternatives where needed. “In our future collaboration, it is clear that Customer Name: ENECO Management energy Business Activity: networks in the Lyreco will continue to play an advisory Supplier of sustainable To date Lyreco has taken the following actions: Business Activity: Netherlands role to further develop our green products energy n Optimization of the delivery efficiency by turnover.” doing a centralised delivery once a week. Number of employees: 4,250 Number of employees: 2,800 It is important that our employees are Lyreco Customer since: 2011 Lyreco Customer since: 1995 48 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 CUSTOMER TESTiMOniES Together with Lyreco we went through the Thales Group is a global technology leader product catalogue identifying the items we For over ten years, La Poste, under the for the Defence, Security, Aerospace, considered to be green alternatives. If there leadership of President Jean-Paul Bailly, Transport and Space sectors, with 68,000 is an alternative green office product of has embarked on a policy of sustainable employees in 50 countries. With its 22,500 comparable quality and cost neutral or cost development. What seemed, at best, straengineers and researchers, Thales has a reduction, it is compulsory for our employees tegic thinking, has become a foundation of unique capability to design, develop and to purchase that item. the relationship between the Group and its deploy equipment, systems and services stakeholders. that meet the most complex safety and “We have worked with Lyreco on a number security requirements. of initiatives to support our own target and “Lyreco was quick to adopt a strategy For Thales, ethical conduct and corporate also support Lyreco in meeting theirs.” of sustainable development and their Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Conclusion actions have been far-reaching, from the responsibility are key assets in its strategic Initiatives include; reducing the number of management of procurement, introduction plan for success. They are the founding deliveries to sites each week and hence of Green Tree products, waste initiatives elements of a policy of controlled risk reduce emissions; increasing the green and carbon footprints.” management to protect Thales’s interest. product range whilst reducing non-enviBut even more importantly, we believe they ronmental items; producing a Thales green With Lyreco, we have accurate and detailed build long-term relationships and a level Lyreco catalogue; educating users across reporting on our consumption and a simplified and unique tool for making online ordering of trust that benefit all of our stakeholders Thales sites through green office workshops; easy for hundreds of assistants and managers – customers, shareholders, employees, regular meetings between Thales an Lyreco of general services. suppliers, the environment and society. and detailed environmental reporting. Ethics and corporate responsibility are crucial “Lyreco is perceived by our 270,000 postmen for the reputation and image of Thales and Having achieved the 2011 50% objective, as the significant force in responsible, provides the strong competitive advantage Thales UK and Lyreco are working during sustainable partnership.” to ensure its sustainability. 2013 to achieve a 60% spend on green Victoria Denner Our Thales UK Ethics and CR Committee office consumables increasing to 70% by UK HSE aim to meet quarterly and is comprised of end 2015. Sustainability Manager Ludovic PROVOST senior executives and chaired by our UK This may necessitate Thales viewing green Purchase Development Chief Executive. It is responsible for the products at slightly higher to within 10% Director implementation of the Thales UK Ethics & cost of non green products, but the aim is CR Programme and the UK’s CR Strategy. still for Thales to achieve the target on a cost neutral basis. We are working with Lyreco on Customer Name: THALES It is Thales UK’s policy to use environmentally friendly office consumables. With this in mind further initiatives to meet the target, such as we began a Greening the Office initiative in developing a compulsory core green list of Defense, Security, Customer Name: GOUPE LA POSTE Business Activity: Aerospace, Transport 2008, setting a target for half of the office stationery for Thales UK. Following on from Mail operator, banking a programme of green office workshops at and Space Business Activity: consumables we buy to be environmentally & insurance Thales sites in 2012, further site visits are friendly by end 2011. We have worked with 68,000 worldwide, Number of employees: 303,000 Lyreco, the office products supplier, to make planned throughout 2013 with Lyreco’s Number of employees: 7,200 in the UK sure that there are green product alternatives support as Thales undertakes many large Lyreco Customer since: 2005 Lyreco Customer since: 2008 available when ordering office consumables. site transformations during the year. 49 CuSTOMER TESTiMONiES “Since the beginning of our collaboration Uniting Communities has a strong focus on n 100% carbon offset for all products purchased CGI – Experience the Commitment in 2011 it has been our goal to apply the the environment and sustainability. Since from Lyreco. Logica is now part of CGI a global service tools and know-how of Lyreco to reduce 2010 we have been engaging proactively in various carbon emission reduction projects n Lyreco’s Canopy Program calculates the contractor for IT and business processes. our environmental impact.” across our organisation in an effort to reduce embodied CO2 in all products purchased and With 71,000 employees at 400 sites in 40 The reporting provided indicated that we our carbon footprint. offsets through native revegetation projects in countries CGI takes local responsibility for South Australia. should be able to increase the percentage the success of its customers and at the Uniting Communities’ Towards Carbon Neutral of Green Tree products purchased and the n E-Invoicing soft copy emailed invoice per order same time provides global delivery capacity. program has a number of key components environmental balance showed that further such as projects which focus on: energy thus reducing the paper trail Since foundation in 1976 CGI has a strict sustainability actions could be taken to improve reductions achieved from upgrading to more n Cost neutral quality alternative environmental discipline in delivery which is the reason performance. efficient lighting across two large facilities; products introduced. why its projects concerning constancy in time and budget are leading in the sector. Actions ongoing behaviour change initiatives such as n Transparent reporting on environmental products n Regular Business Reviews “Switch Off”, “Y-Print” and “Drive Green”; the purchased and tonnes of CO2 offset each quarter With business and IT consulting, system n Display of Green Tree Products during an purchase of more fuel efficient motor vehicles n 100% recycled cardboard boxes for packaging integration as well as outsourcing services such as hybrids; as well as purchasing offsets at the highest stage, CGI supports its in-house trade-fair where users were made n Pre-Determination – Lyreco’s SAP system aware of the need of sustainable purchasing. for annual emissions from our entire vehicle identifies which box to use to reduce the amount customers in a better use of their ongoing fleet. As a result Uniting Communites was n Reducing the daily delivery into a weekly of packaging materials used and saves resources investments and at the same time apply awarded the Fleet Environment Award by the new technology and business strategies delivery n Bak Pak Program – Lyreco collects and recycles Australasian Fleet Management Association with which optimal solutions for the entire on our behalf any excess cardboard packaging Results in 2010. supply chain can be achieved. n + 130% increase at the amount of “green n Toner Recycle Program – reducing the amount To help us reduce our emissions even further, of waste to landfill. The result of CGIs commitment is shown tree’’ products Uniting Communities has sought support from in the measured outcome of customer n 2 tonnes CO2 (equivalent) through changes our preferred suppliers to join with us and to their supply chain and marketplace and satisfaction which has been consistently in delivery terms develop a similar culture and initiative. deliver to us sustainable office products and over 9 out of 10 points in the last 10 years. “Lyreco’s commitment to working in consumables that meet with our internal partnership with Uniting Communities to policies and philosophy.” achieve similiar goals within the workplace environment has seen the implementation Lee Sauerwald of some key initiatives within our trading Group Manager Business Services Reduction based partnership.” We are absolutely committed to striking a 43.67% on changing the balance between the economic, social and Customer Name: LOGICA 19.00% 2,291 Customer Name: UNITING COMMUNITIES environmental aspects of what we do. We 2011 2012 delivery indicators Community Services Business Activity: IT services believe that considering all three elements is Business Activity: Green products n essential for a truly sustainable organisation. (not for profit) Number of employees: 71,000 worlwide, Co2 (tons) Others products n Number of employees: 1,500 staff and volunteers 2,200 Germany “We are excited to be working with suppliers like Lyreco who proactively review Lyreco Customer since: 2011 For more information, see www.de.cgi.com Lyreco Customer since: 2012 50 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 working sustainably with our partners TESA SCA SCA is a leading global hygiene and forest For many years tesa® has been a reliable company that develops and produces European Partner of Lyreco, regularly personal care products, tissue and forest achieving double digit growth together. products. Sales are conducted in some 100 Main sales drivers have been the innovative countries. SCA has many well-known brands, sustainable ecoLogo® line up of tesa®. including the global brands TENA and Tork. tesa® is the only brand which is in the Sales in 2012 amounted to SEK 85 billion position to offer a wide range of sustainable (EUR 9.8 billion). SCA has approximately products. tesa® range covers office films 37,000 employees. and packaging tapes, glue sticks, glue rollers Born in the Swedish forest more than 80 and dispensers as well as the new masking, years ago, sustainability is at our roots. We double sided and repairing tapes. All these care about people and nature and always Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Conclusion sustainable products fulfill very strict criteria consider the environmental and social impact tesa® Stick in terms of recycled materials and which of our operations. Efficiency, innovation and are partly solvent free and biobased. sustainable performance play a key role for SCA delivers sustainable solutions with added Lyreco offers a complete range of tesa value creation and growth. value for our customers from safe, resource sustainable products in the segment of We have a creative and innovative way of efficient and environmentally sound sourcing, office supply as well as facility management. thinking and working which makes a valuable production and development. “tesa® & Lyreco share the same sustaidifference and provides industry leadership SCA is one of the Lyreco supplier, providing nable visions and targets knowing that and inspiration for people, companies and Hygiene products for the International Comwe are conscious of our responsibility communities in more than 100 countries. We mon range for more than 20 years. Around towards the environment.” have committed to the promise and the role of 60 Tork products sold by all the Lyreco According to Nielsen 25 % of all end users a sustainable, innovative and caring partner. countries, out of which almost half of them prefer ecological products and appreciate tesa® Eco Fixation are granted the Lyreco “Green Tree”. Our the added value of sustainability. tesa® Recent third party accreditations for the common goal is now to go a step further by continues to support the efforts of SCA sustainability work include Dow providing complete and sustainable hygiene Lyreco to meet the needs Jones Sustainability Index 2011, the solutions to the Corporate and International of this target group. WWF Environmental Paper Company accounts. Index 2011, and Ethisphere – World’s “SCA and Lyreco are most ethical companies 2012. have the identical aim to always improve their sustainable development approach tesa® Desk Dispenser and are both issuing, almost at the same time, new sustainability targets and ambitions for the tesa® Eco Repair coming years.” 51 FiNANCiAL iNTEgRiTy FiNANCiAL iNTEgRiTy Redistributing values to stakeholders in 2012 2012 SALES € 2,086m: The chart below summarises the main financial flows between Lyreco and Stakeholders. EMPLOYEES BANKS SUPPLIERS STATE & LOCAL INVESTMENT COMMUNITIES e 418m e 0m e 1,591m e 37m e 41m (wages, social contribu(financial interests (goods purchases (corporate tax and (tangible assets tions and profit sharing) and borrowing other taxes) acquisitions) and overheads) 9,020 employees reimbursement) in Q1 2012 Financial Integrity Sales per region As a private group, Lyreco takes pride in Sales in million Euro providing the highest standard of financial transparency and reliability for its stakeholders. Its financial transparency is ensured by a 2,200 worldwide accounting and reporting tool 2,100 allowing access to all accounting entries in 2,000 the world from its head office. Financial reporting is performed in conformity 1,900 with IFRS standards. 1,800 The financial reliability is structured around 1,700 two controlling arms: 1,600 n Internal audit ensuring a strict application of our financial policies and procedures; 1,500 n A prime external audit firm certifying its 1,400 financial statements. Lyreco ensures the full 58% Europe Euro Zone 1,300 independence of its auditor by excluding it 34% Europe other countries from any consulting function in the Group. 4% North America 1,200 4% Asia Pacific 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 52 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 AWARDS COPA AWARD 2012 TOP JOb RESPONSibLE Lyreco wins the COPA 2012 Eco-Friendly Programme AWARD 2013 COMPANy Award of Excellence Lyreco took part again in the annual employer contest, TOP JOB, which rewards excellence AWARDS > QSS Manager (Darren Delaney) and Logistics Director (Chris Traikos) in the work place and was again awarded as In 2012, Italy took part in the Corporate Social TOP JOB company. Responsibility Awards of Milan Province Based on extensive academic HR management and received a special prize from one of the researches, German medium-sized companies Judges, Bureau Veritas. are evaluated. Each organization included in the evaluation is compared to its competitors – only the top 100 organizations receive the coveted award of TOP JOB. Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Conclusion The different categories in which Lyreco was viewed as a performer are: n Leadership & vision n Motivation & dynamism n Culture & communication n Talent management & perspectives n Family orientation & perspectives n Internal management The award ceremony took place in January 2013 and Lyreco received its award from former Industrial Minister, Secretary Wolfgang As the Judge said: “Bureau Veritas is pleased Clement. to reward Lyreco as part of the “Responsible Company” project launched by the Milan Province, for having made a complete and systematic effort on the issues of social responsibility. In particular, Lyreco’s strategy “Eco Future” shows the company’s ability to pursue the improvement of its social and environmental The COPA (Canadian Office Products Association) Awards Committee recognised Lyreco performance, communicating objectives and for implementing its Reusable Vendor Box Programme. (see page 19) measurable progress”. This is the fourth consecutive year that COPA has chosen to award Lyreco for sustainable development initiatives. Previously Lyreco has won the Community Leadership Award (2011, 2010) and the Green Program of the Year Award (2009). 53 AWARDS LyRECO SCOOPS EMPLOyERS AWARD 2012 ENviRONMENTAL AWARD Switzerland is the “Climber of the Year” Switzerland carried out its staff survey in an especially good performer on the Swiss In October 2012, Lyreco was awarded the June 2012, simultaneously taking part in the employment market in the following areas, prestigious BOSS Federation Environmental Swiss Employers Award. Contrary to many meaning that these points are notable strengths: Award in front of more than 500 guests in benchmarks judged by panels of experts, the n Collaboration within the company London from across the Stationery Industry. Swiss Employers Award is based on a single The British Office Supplies & Services Industry n Change processes questionnaire sent to the staff members of all Awards recognise and reward those in the participating firms. n Goal-setting system office supplies industry who can demonstrate n Work and leisure The question categories, which contained real excellence and successful performance individual point were: n Management of their business. n Organisation structures n Company strategy The award was received by Manel Roura Lyreco’s Quality, Security and Sustainability n Company culture n Attractiveness as an employer Manager. He commented “We are absolutely n Leadership behaviour n Structures and procedures delighted to win this award, Sustainability and n Goals and incentives Lyreco’s rating for Attractiveness as an employer the Environment have been an integral part was particularly good. The question“Would n Knowledge transfer of the Lyreco business for a number of years you recommend your employer to a friend and we continue to develop and evolve our In 2010, Lyreco took the 47th place but leapt or acquaintance?” received a clear yes from actions under our “Eco Future” strategy. into the 20th place in 2012 to become the 97% of respondents. “Climber of the Year”. Dave Walmsley, Lyreco Managing Director who also attended the awards ceremony An interdepartmental project team analysed commented “I am very proud and delighted the results in detail and noted that Lyreco is that we have been recognised within our industry as the leader in our approach to the HR Director (Fredy AMREIN) and the Environment. Over a number of years Lyreco Managing Director (Thomas ILLI) have developed what we believe to be industry leading initiatives and this award recognizes our actions and achievements.” The award has been received with great pride by all employees at Lyreco who contribute on a daily basis to ensure the company remains on target with their “Eco Future” commitments. 54 Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 AWARDS TOP EMPLOyER 2013 EuROPEAN OFFiCE For the second time in its history, France has been acknowledged as a TOP EMPLOYER PRODuCTS AWARDS This award given by the CRF institute is Lyreco scoops the Corporate Social Responsibility dedicated to only 44 companies in France. award at the European Office Products Awards 2013 It rewards the best HR policies in terms of training; professional development; comAt Paperworld, the main internapensation and benefit; talent and career tional office products exhibition management. held in 28th January 2013, Lyreco To support its business strategy, Lyreco has was able to scoop the award for launched more than 300 projects around the second year in a row. With more than 1,800 exhibitors and Sustainable Development Report 2012/2013 Conclusion the modernization of its tools; sustainable development; well-being at work and 50,000 visitors, this is the core attractiveness (developing our employer event of the year for the whole brand on social networks, development of office products industry. our well being policy, Internal survey with Through its press release, OPI our employees, development our career tool said “The panel felt that Lyreco and much more). has been taking its commitment to CSR a step further and is, in Lyreco is proud to receive this award which the judges’ words, a convincing enables the enhancement of the company as HR policy and to consolidate its attractiveness benchmark for the industry that an employer on the recruitment market and to candidates. is continually refined through its strengthens the employer branding strategy. This success is based on Lyreco’s values: policies and activities.” Furthermore, the award is a real opportunity respect, excellence, passion and profesAs in 2012, this award is a for Lyreco to communicate externally on its sionalism. source of pride for all the Lyreco employees who contribute on a daily basis to our Sustainability According to the review carried out, the following are Lyreco’s areas of excellence: scheme. n The salary scale which is the subject of a benchmark every year n Annual revaluation above inflation Steve LAW – Lyreco’s CEO > n Profit sharing is equivalent to 1.5 months' salary receiving the award. n Package benefits are notable (including nursery and restaurant) n The work environment is evolving under the guidance of employees n 70% of employees receive training each year n Mobility rate above 50% n The Succession plan for the replacement of managers anticipates and trains replacements n Lyreco University facilitates the rise of highly skills performers 55 Rue du 19 mars 1962 59770 Marly France Tel: +33 (0) 3 27 23 64 00 Fax: +33 (0) 3 27 45 17 97 eco.lyreco.com If printed, use of EU flower labelled paper is recommended.
