NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS for the year ended 31 December 2012 This document is intended to fulfil Nedbank Groups’ reporting obligation as part of its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), The format is closely aligned to the group’s 2012 Integrated Report. The 2012 Integrated Report adheres to best practice reporting guidelines in terms of both King III and GRI 3.1 (including the Financial Services Sector Guideline). On the understanding that the sustainability imperative forms the foundation of the UNGC Principles Nedbank Group’s activities as they relate to the Principles are comprehensively addressed in the Nedbank Group 2012 Integrated Report which is available on line www.nedbankgroup.co.za Please note that Nedbank Group has interpreted Principles 1 and 2 to have both an internal and external impact and as such has applied them to it is work in relation to cultural sustainability (ie staff) as well as social sustainability as it relates to its clients and the communities within which it operates. SUSTAINABILITY CREDENTIALS INDICES NEDBANK IS REPRESENTED ON/A SIGNATORY ¨¨ Dow Jones World Sustainability Index – This index is the TO: world’s premier performance benchmark for companies in ¨¨ The UNEP FI African Task Force; terms of corporate sustainability. Nedbank is included for the ¨¨ The UNEP FI Banking Commission; ¨¨ The UNEP FI Social Issues Advisory Group; eighth year and is one of only 25 banks worldwide and ﬁve ¨¨ The UNEP Biodiversity and Ecosystem Workstream; companies with primary listings in SA to be included on the ¨¨ The United Nations Global Compact Advisory Committee; index 2012: 82% (2011: 80%); ¨¨ The United Nations Global Compact – CEO Water Mandate; ¨¨ The JSE Socially Responsible Index – included since 2004; ¨¨ The National Business Initiative Advisory Committee on ¨¨ The Global 1 000 Sustainable Performance Leaders Index – Climate Change; ranked 284th (third highest SA company); ¨¨ The National Energy Efﬁciency Accord and Leadership ¨¨ The South African Carbon Disclosure Project; and Network Pledge; ¨¨ The Banking Association SA: Sustainable Finance Committee; ¨¨ The Nedbank Green Index. ¨¨ The Equator Principles; ¨¨ Association of Ethics Officers in Africa; and ¨¨ OECD Financial Sector Mapping Advisory Group. Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Contents Overview Group Profile 02 Letter from Chief Executive 03 Chief Executive’s Report 04 Chairman’s Report 08 2012 Recognition Received 12 2012 Highlights 14 Group Strategy 18 Investment Case 20 Stakeholder overview Stakeholder Overview 24 Staff 26 Clients 28 Shareholders 32 Regulators 34 Communities 36 Value-added Statement 41 Operational overview UNCG Principle: 2012 Activity 42 – GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement – GRI 3.1 Index 45 CONTACT DETAILS 52 01 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Total assets R683bn Group Profile Clients 6,1m (incl. Africa) Branches and alternate outlets 807 (incl. Africa) ATMs (incl. Africa) 3 145 People employed 28 748 Nedbank Group Ltd is a bank holding company and one of the four largest Our principal banking subsidiary is Nedbank Ltd. Our ordinary shares have been banking groups in SA measured by listed on JSE Ltd since 1969 and on the Namibian Stock Exchange since 2007 and we assets, with a strong deposit franchise have a market capitalisation of R95,4bn at 31 December 2012. Old Mutual plc is the and over six million clients. majority shareholder, owning 52% of the group. THE SERVICES AND PRODUCTS WE PROVIDE OUR FOCUS AND POSITIONING ¨¨ Southern Africa with selected African expansion. ¨¨ Positioned as a bank for all. ¨¨ Top two wholesale bank and strong market positioning ¨¨ Wholesale and retail in commercial property finance, business banking, banking services 1 vehicle finance, card acquiring, deposit taking, asset ¨¨ Insurance management and high-net-worth banking services. ¨¨ Pan-African banking alliance with Ecobank Transnational ¨¨ Asset management Inc for West and Central Africa, providing clients with ¨¨ Wealth management access to 36 countries across Africa. ¨¨ Leadership in sustainability, transformation and community involvement. HOW WE ARE STRUCTURED WHERE ¨¨ Headoffice in Sandown, Sandton, WE ARE Johannesburg, SA. ¨¨ Nedbank Capital ¨¨ Nedbank Corporate BASED ¨¨ Large operational centres in Durban and Cape Town. ¨¨ Nedbank Business Banking ¨¨ Regional branch network throughout SA – ¨¨ Nedbank Retail more than 750 staffed outlets. ¨¨ Nedbank Wealth ¨¨ Branches and representative ofﬁces ¨¨ Central management functions in support in other Southern African countries and of frontline businesses (incorporating certain key global ﬁnancial centres2. These meet the international banking Rest of Africa) requirements of our SA-based multinational and high-net-worth clients. 1 Including lending, deposit-taking, transactional banking and advisory services. 2 Refer to operational footprint and company structure on www.nedbankgroup.co.za for further details. 02 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Letter from Chief Executive 2nd April 2013 Attention: United Nations Global Compact Office Nedbank Group – continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact As Chief Executive of Nedbank Group, I reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles that underpin it. In addition, as a Group, we remain a signatory to the Equator Principles and the CEO Water mandate and we continue to actively support the UNEP FI African Task Force. These commitments form an important part of our overall sustainability journey as we aspire to a better future for all. We consider it a privilege to be a part of such a vital and valuable initiative. Yours sincerely Mike Brown Chief Executive, Nedbank Group Ltd Head Office 135 Rivonia Road Sandown 2196 PO Box 1144 Johannesburg 2000 Tel +27(0)11 294 999 Fax +27(0) 295 9999 mikeb@nedbank.co.za www.nedbankgroup.co.za Nedbank Group Limited Reg No 1966/010630/06, 135 Rivonia Road, Sandown, Sandton, 2196, South Africa Directors: Dr RJ Khoza (Chairman) MWT Brown (Chief Executive) TA Boardman JCP Chikane GW Dempster (Chief Operating Officer) MA Enus-Brey ID Gladman* DI Hope** PM Makwana NP Mnxasana RK Morathi (Chief Financial Officer) JK Netshitenzhe JVF Roberts* GT Serobe MI Wyman* (*British) (**New Zealand) Company Secretary: TSB Jati 05.11.2012 03 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Chief Executive’s Report Mike Brown Chief Executive Building Africa’s most admired bank Introduction It is pleasing to report to shareholders on the group’s 2012 Banking and economic environment performance across a broad front. The global economic slowdown continued for most of 2012, with Nedbank Group’s strong franchise and growth orientation recessionary conditions in many advanced economies negatively together with the momentum built in the first half of the affecting growth in leading emerging economies such as China, India year resulted in the group’s delivering headline earnings and Brazil. Signs of improvement in various geographies emerged in the growth of 21% to R7,5bn and the return on equity (ROE) fourth quarter of the year, giving rise to cautious optimism that global (excluding goodwill) increasing from 15,3% to 16,4%, economic conditions may stabilise and potentially start to improve underpinned by improvements in the return on assets. in 2013. All key performance indicators improved and all business SA’s gross domestic product (GDP) is expected to have grown at clusters showed growth in earnings. This performance around 2,5% in 2012 after expanding 3,5% in 2011. Concerns around was achieved through strong revenue growth, an improved the operating environment and infrastructure constraints, the credit loss ratio and responsible expense management widening current account deficit, rising national debt, higher inflation, while strengthening the balance sheet and investing for high levels of unemployment, declining trends in competitiveness and growth. wage settlements outpacing productivity were included in the rationale by international rating agencies Moody’s, Standard and We have continued to deliver on the four key strategic focus Poor’s and Fitch Ratings for the downgrade of SA’s sovereign-debt areas that we announced at the time of my appointment as rating, which in turn placed pressure on the rand. Domestic bond Chief Executive three years ago, which demonstrates that yields have, however, remained stable. disciplined execution of our strategy is producing sustainable growth. Households remained the primary driver of private sector credit demand, with the unexpected 50 basis points (bps) reduction in My report covers the key highlights for the year in the interest rates in July 2012 providing some relief for highly indebted context of the macro environment as well as progress made consumers against rising electricity, food and fuel costs. Growth rates in against our key strategic focus areas and our medium-tounsecured lending are slowing as expected. long-term financial targets. Corporate credit demand improved towards the end of the year as the The Chairman’s Report covers broader sociopolitical and recovery in public sector infrastructure spending supported industries sustainability issues, while the report of the Chief Financial producing capital goods and other inputs for local projects, although Officer provides a detailed analysis of our financial corporates on the whole remained cautious, constrained by a weak performance in 2012 and provides guidance for 2013. Eurozone and a relatively sluggish domestic economic environment. 04 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Staff Building Africa’s most admired bank by We created over 450 new permanent jobs delivering sustainably to all our in SA as we expanded our reach at a time stakeholders that many businesses locally and During the year we developed a strategic framework that will enable internationally were looking at large-scale delivery of our vision of building Africa’s most admired bank by all our retrenchments. We invested R352m in the development of stakeholders and assist in creating a vibrant and flourishing SA through our staff and more than 1 300 managers attended our appropriate alignment of our activities with the National Development personal mastery and team effectiveness Leading for Deep Plan. This is underpinned by a firm belief that our long-term success is Green Programme in the period under review. Our multiyear inextricably linked to our ability to fulfil our social purpose. focus on values-based behaviour has led to higher levels of staff morale and an ongoing positive shift in corporate In 2012 we continued to deliver to all our stakeholders and a few of our culture, which now are at worldclass levels as measured by achievements are listed below to highlight our progress in realising our Barrett Survey. We continued to focus on diversity at all our vision: levels in the organisation and in the review period 8 500 staffmembers participated in our Batho Pele Diversity Programme. Clients More people in SA chose to bank with Nedbank as we Shareholders gained new clients across Nedbank Retail, Nedbank In 2012 the Nedbank Group share was the Wealth and our wholesale businesses, taking overall second best performer among the shares of client numbers above 6m for the first time. We paid the big four banks, having generated a out R144bn in new loans, an increase of 24,1% on the previous year. 34,3% total shareholder return and a total We launched a number of market-leading innovations such as the dividend of 752 cents, which is up 24,3%. We have the Nedbank App SuiteTM, MyFinancialLifeTM and Small Business FridayTM exciting opportunity for shareholders to participate in the in association with the National Small Business Chamber. With Africa growth story through our rights to acquire 20% in pricing uppermost in the minds of our clients, we strive to provide Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), with our great-value banking and have saved clients R163m through promoting combined operations creating the largest Pan-African the use of bundled products. We continued to increase our footprint banking footprint. and added 80 new staffed outlets and 476 new ATMs, making banking more convenient for our clients. Client satisfaction metrics measured by Net Promoter Scores across the group are at multiyear highs. It was therefore pleasing to see Nedbank being externally Communities recognised by Euromoney as the best bank in SA in 2012, following on We continue to make banking more from our winning the prestigious FT/The Banker award as Bank of the accessible and affordable for the entryYear in SA for 2011. level market and rural communities, having identified numerous growth nodes in nonurban areas for expansion. We have invested R1,4bn to increase our staffed outlets and ATMs by over 44% and 75% respectively since 2009. From inception we have Regulators donated more than R200m to charities through our We remain aware of the importance of all regulators to innovative card affinity programmes and in 2012 we our industry, especially in view of the regulatory issues contributed R116m to socioeconomic development. On many global banks are still dealing with. To be admired the transformation side we achieved a Department of by our regulators has now been part of our vision for Trade and Industry (dti) code level 2 for the fourth nearly a decade, and we continue to work well with all of them. We consecutive year and were ranked first overall out of the are glad to report that our capital levels are robust and that we were top 50 JSE-listed companies in the Financial Mail/ well positioned for the implementation of Basel III on 1 January 2013, Empowerdex Top Empowered Companies survey. Our with a pro forma common equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 11,6% under leadership role in environmental sustainability was Basel III. We are also on track for the Solvency Assessment and demonstrated by initiatives such as the funding of a large Management regime on 1 January 2015. Cash taxation contributions percentage of SA’s renewable-energy programme and the of R6,2bn relating to direct, indirect and other taxation, including introduction of the Nedbank Green Savings Bond. We PAYE on behalf of staff, were made. The strength of our balance sheet maintained our carbon-neutral status and received the and franchise was recognised, with Fitch upgrading our credit rating Financial Times 2012 Sustainable Bank of the Year for Africa in July 2012, although the five largest SA banks were downgraded in and the Middle East as well as African Business Environmental January 2013 following the downgrade of the SA sovereign rating. Sustainability in Africa 2012 award. 05 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Chief Executive’s Report (CONTINUED) Group strategic focus In 2011 we highlighted that early warning signals indicated a decline in the health of consumer credit. Our observations revealed an Our strategic focus areas remain relevant and outward-looking, increased consumer demand for larger and longer unsecured loans, with a focus on growing the franchise and delivering on its key a deterioration in the number of clients in good credit standing and strategic initiatives of repositioning Nedbank Retail, growing nona steady increase in debt counselling applications. Through our risk interest revenue (NIR), implementing the portfolio tilt strategy and management practices and wish to see increased consumer expanding into the rest of Africa. financial fitness, we continue to monitor these macro and micro indicators. We are of the view that the high industry growth rates in Nedbank Retail is allocated 39,1% of the group’s capital and its personal loans are masking the underlying level of distress in this strategic repositioning will contribute significantly to the ongoing market, as clients close to default can be ‘cured’ through debt improvements in the group’s performance. While endeavouring to consolidation mechanisms provided by the many players offering leverage the early turnaround gains to achieve an ROE at or above larger loan sizes and longer tenors. For this reason we have not the cost of equity (COE) of 13% by the end of 2013, a year ahead of changed the loan size and tenor maxima since 2009 and have the original 2014 target, the deteriorating credit health of increased conservatism in our impairment policies. We remain consumers noted in the last quarter of 2012 could make this vigilant in respect of our risk appetite, ensuring quality granting of challenging to deliver. Continued excellent progress was made in credit in line with a client’s overall affordability and as part of a positioning Nedbank Retail as a more client-centred and integrated holistic value proposition that aims to improve overall financial business while maintaining growth momentum in the underlying fitness. The Nedbank Ke Yona banking offering is a good example businesses, growing the number and quality of clients, embedding of this. effective risk management practices and strengthening balance sheet impairments. In that spirit Nedbank launched the Ke Yona TV advert in mid-2011 that was broadcast in three languages and warned consumers ‘not Our NIR-to-expenses ratio target of > 85% is a key focus area as to take expensive loans that take forever to pay back’. We have we continue to deliver good-quality annuity income through formulated and implemented various initiatives to improve our debt commission and fee growth from primary-client gains, volume review processes and practices. This forms part of our commitment growth, new innovative products and cross-sell. This should reduce to working with all our regulators, including the National Credit the volatility of future earnings. We are also focused on disciplined Regulator (NCR), to ensure a stable and sustainable credit industry expense management and resource optimisation, and in our in SA. We continue to support debt review dispute resolution Technology Division we enabled greater efficiencies, including the forums such as the National Debt Mediation Association (NDMA) and Credit Ombud. As referred to in the Chairman’s Report, rationalisation of 20 banking systems and the reduction of our Nedbank and other banks reached an agreement with various servers from 3 500 to 1 139 since 2009. industry bodies to improve responsible lending and prevent households from being caught in a debt spiral. Together with The portfolio tilt strategy continued to gain traction, enabling members of The Banking Association SA (BASA), we are actively economic profit (EP) growth from R57m in 2009 to R1 511m in engaged in workstreams covering six key initiatives to refine lending 2012. Excellent growth in commission and fee income of 13,7%, practices and formulate appropriate debt relief measures for insurance income of 24,9%, assets under management of 34,1%, distressed borrowers. and deposits of 5,1%, while emphasising profitable secured lending, demonstrates the benefit of focusing on these strategically Basel III important EP-rich, lower-capital and liquidity-consuming activities. Unlike delays experienced in Europe and the USA, Basel III has been successfully implemented in SA from 1 January 2013, and In the short to medium term the group’s primary focus on SA and the Nedbank is extremely well positioned, particularly with regard to Southern African Development Community (SADC) area continues the key capital, liquidity and leverage components. Our group CET1 to benefit the group, as this region has the largest EP pool for financial capital adequacy ratio strengthened in 2012 under Basel II.5 from services in sub-Saharan Africa. The rights to acquire a shareholding 10,5% to 11,4% and to 11,6% on a pro forma Basel III basis. of up to 20% in ETI in less than two years create a path to provide a significant benefit for Nedbank clients in the rest of Africa and the We reset our target capital adequacy ratio (CAR) range for CET1 opportunity for shareholders to gain access to the higher economic under Basel III to 10,5% – 12,5% (Basel II: 7,5% – 9,0%) based on growth in the rest of Africa in a prudent yet substantive manner. the final, fully phased-in 2019 Basel III set of minimum regulatory requirements, which constitutes a full through-the-cycle target Strategic developments range and includes a conservative management buffer and The consolidation of the high-net-worth offerings of BoE Private allowance for any potential Pillar 2B bank-specific South African Clients and Fairbairn Private Bank under the new brand of Nedbank Reserve Bank (SARB) add-on. Under Basel III we are already in the Private Wealth was completed and the newly constituted Nedbank middle of our new target range, and approximately at the planned Private Wealth launched in 2012. This signifies a step change in operating level, excluding any countercyclical capital buffer (CCB) strategic direction for the high-net-worth segment through the add-on that may be introduced from 2016. The CCB is unlikely to consolidation of the various value propositions and brands into a be required in the foreseeable future, as we do not anticipate single distinctive international high-net-worth business. This move excess aggregate credit growth over the medium term. eliminates previous confusion linked to multiple brands and enables Nedbank Private Wealth to leverage Nedbank’s strong In May 2012 the SARB announced that banks would be able to brand equity. Nedbank Private Wealth’s existing and prospective include cash reserves in the calculation of the liquidity coverage clients, both in SA and internationally, now have access to an ratio (LCR) and that it would make available a committed liquidity integrated wealth management solution that includes investments, facility (CLF) of up to 40% of the LCR requirements – on this basis banking, fiduciary services, insurance and philanthropy. we would be compliant with the Basel III LCR on a pro forma 06 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 basis at 31 December 2012. Amendments to the LCR announced by Appreciation the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on 6 January 2013 In this challenging operating environment from both are likely to be adopted by the SA regulator. The revisions to the a macroeconomic and regulatory perspective the leadership and LCR will be beneficial for banks, with associated cost savings and more time to implement the LCR. guidance afforded to me by our Chairman, Reuel Khoza, are highly valued. I would like to thank him and my board colleagues for the The Basel Committee also announced that work to revise the net guidance, oversight and governance provided. Your commitment stable funding ratio (NSFR) will commence in 2013 and span 12 to and active participation in the group are invaluable. 24 months. The impact of NSFR compliance by SA and most banking industries worldwide would be punitive if the NSFR is It is a privilege to work with a high-performing and talented implemented as currently set out in the draft requirements, executive team that is aligned behind the vision and values of significantly impacting both global and domestic economic growth Nedbank. Together we have achieved a significant amount in the and job creation. Structural constraints within SA financial markets past three years and I thank you for your support and commitment will add further challenges to domestic compliance with the NSFR. in ensuring that the group continues to deliver across the social, The SARB and National Treasury, in conjunction with the financial economic, environmental and cultural pillars of sustainability as services industry, are engaging proactively during the observation we build Africa’s most admired bank. period prior to implementation in order to address any unintended consequences for SA and we expect that a fundamental revision Finally, thank you to all our clients for choosing to bank with and a pragmatic approach will be applied to the NSFR well in Nedbank and to all our 28 000 people across the group in and advance of its proposed implementation in 2018. outside SA for your hard work and loyalty. I look forward to your continued support in 2013 and beyond. SA’s banking system as a whole is less risky than many banking sectors elsewhere and has much lower leverage, and deleveraging is not a factor in SA. Macroeconomic outlook Mike Brown Despite a more promising start to many financial markets in 2013, Chief Executive there appears to be downside risk in most developed and many emerging-market economies, and forward visibility is limited. SA’s GDP is forecast to grow by 2,6% in 2013. Interest rates are likely to remain lower for longer and are expected to be unchanged through most of 2013. Consumer indebtedness is anticipated to ease gradually, but still remains high in comparison with historical levels, particularly with 39-year-low interest rates and the changing mix, with the proportion of unsecured lending increasing. Combined with uncertainties around job security, this is expected to limit the growth in demand for housing and other secured loans. Industry growth rates in unsecured lending are unsustainable and are expected to continue to moderate. General uncertainty is likely to continue to affect the level of business confidence and contain capital expenditure and growth in wholesale assets in the private sector. Government and public corporations are forecast to escalate their infrastructure spending, which should contribute to improved wholesale advances growth. Making progress towards our medium-to-long-term targets The group’s medium-to-long-term targets remain unchanged. Refer to regulators section on www.nedbankgroup.co.za with the exception of revised targets relating to capital adequacy and dividend cover following finalisation of the SARB guidelines on Basel III capital levels and the new dividend tax regime in SA announced during the year. We have strongly growing and diverse annuity income streams, a long-term record of disciplined expense management, a sound funding base, improving asset quality trends, strong capital levels and stable management teams. These attributes, together with a multiyear focus on the importance of culture and values, position us well to continue to deliver to all our stakeholders in 2013 and to adapt to a volatile and challenging economic environment. 07 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Chairman’s Report Dr Reuel J Khoza Non-executive Chairman Creating an enabling environment for our country to thrive SA is a young As a country we have progressed in many areas since 1994. Gross domestic product per vibrant democracy capita (in constant prices) has increased 31% to R36 908 and domestic fixed-capital formation from 16% to 19,3% of GDP, after reaching 24,5% just before the advent of the global economic recession. Access to services has improved, with 75,8% (1994: 58,2%) of the population having access to electricity, 94,5% (1994: 62%) to water and 82% (1994: 51%) to sanitation, while 11m people have been accommodated in formal housing. We are blessed with a wealth of natural resources and have the most developed infrastructure and economy in the whole of Africa. SA has good prospects for strong economic growth. It is important to have an environment enabling large and small business to flourish, to leverage our positioning in Africa to the full and to benefit further from a global economic upturn given our positioning in the agriculture, mining and manufacturing spheres. Across the world 2012 was yet another difficult year for the global economy. Eurozone woes continued well into the year, with the region slipping back into recession, China’s economy slowing and the US’s fiscal problems hitting the headlines once again with the approaching ‘fiscal cliff’. However, the year ended on a better note as some calm returned to bond markets in peripheral Europe, the US housing and labour markets showed promising signs of recovery and Chinese indicators started improving. The SA economy grew slowly partly due to the subdued climate for exports but also due to various domestic constraints, including the infrastructure deficit, worsening labour relations, policy uncertainty and weak business confidence. The recent sovereign bond rating downgrade by three of the international rating agencies – attributed to deteriorating global and local economic growth prospects and sociopolitical 08 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 stresses leading to a weaker business and investment climate – is a stark reminder of the importance of sound, consistent policies to address the challenges within our economy and society. It is in this context that we welcome the formal endorsement of the National Development Plan (NDP) as the key platform from which to tackle unemployment, eradicate poverty and reduce inequality, and to provide the policy certainty that is so important. The NDP provides a powerful beckoning vision and a compelling blueprint for national action. In the NDP the nation has a rallying point, an impeccable forward driving force around which to align. We fully embrace the NDP and encourage all stakeholders, and particularly business and labour, to work constructively with government in support of the NDP’s objectives in our collective drive to deliver a better life for all, especially for the poor, youth and working class in our country. The NDP must be undergirded by the public and private sector driving implementation in a manner that is imbued with compunction and probity and with an unrelenting bias for action and dedication to serve the national interest. I strongly believe that, if leadership in the public and private sectors work together constructively, it can make a positive contribution towards creating a better life for all. The role of The significant impact of unsound banking practices on the economic health of many countries around banks in the world is a salutary reminder of the profound responsibilities banks have as custodians of nations’ society savings and as enablers of the efficient deployment of capital to lay the foundation for economic growth and job creation. Our group has been growing the strength of its banking franchise by investing significantly in our own infrastructure, and by increasing the number of people we employ and the amounts we lend to our clients to better their lives at a personal and business level. Since 2009, the pinnacle of the global crisis, we have increased the number of our staffed outlets by 48% to 1 071 and ATMs by 74% to 3 048, creating 1 700 new jobs in the process. We disbursed R144bn in additional loans in 2012 and the entry-level banking and youth markets gained 1,1m net new clients in the past three years, most of them new to formal banking. We assist our clients in growing their businesses and create jobs through initiatives such as Small Business FridayTM, in association with the National Small Business Chamber, through which we promote doing business with SMEs, while sponsoring entrepreneur market days and learner materials at schools, which in 2012 involved 29 000 learners in 44 junior schools. Our commitment to substantive transformation is inextricably linked to our desire to be a bank for all, serving all communities, as demonstrated by our having been acknowledged independently as the third most transformed company on the JSE and the most transformed large company measured on all seven elements of the dti scorecard. We continued to invest in our people through our management development programmes, skills training, mentoring and coaching. Since 2009 close to 6 500 staff have enhanced their leadership and business skills by participating in our various development programmes. We are advocates of responsible banking and lending practices in the unsecured lending market, where our focus is on ensuring that credit is made available to enable people to improve their circumstances. In November 2012 the banking industry developed a policy framework, together with the National Treasury, The Banking Association SA (BASA), the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) and the Financial Services Board (FSB), to ensure responsible lending practices and prevent households from being caught in a debt spiral. We call on all participants in the financial services sector to join the banking industry in adopting these practices. We have been reducing our own carbon footprint consistently over time and we were Africa’s first and only carbon-neutral bank – we had to walk the road ourselves, at the same time helping our clients to fund a large share of SA’s renewable-energy programme. Nedbank is committed to contributing proactively to shaping a sustainable future for SA for the benefit of all its citizens through our growth strategies, and we have adopted a concept called the Fair Share 2030 initiatives. These initiatives align closely with the NDP, which describes a prosperous SA that has successfully addressed a series of critical socioeconomic challenges by 2030, having attained an optimal level of employment and savings and investment rates sufficient to meet its development objectives and having met a range of vitally important social and environmental objectives. 09 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Chairman’s Report (CONTINUED) Strong The World Economic Forum 2012/13 Competitiveness Report has once again confirmed the high standards foundations that SA firms demonstrate in the efficacy of corporate boards and the strength of auditing and reporting in place standards (rated first in the world) as well as the protection of minority shareholders’ interests and the soundness of banks (rated second). The SA banking industry has further enhanced its historically strong reputation by weathering the global credit crisis, which can be attributed to the long-established sound and traditional banking practices adopted within a well-managed and well-regulated environment. Strong governance and ethics are at the heart of our organisation and whose ‘Vision led Values based’ approach is fundamental to our strategy, as reflected in our vision to build Africa’s most admired bank by our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and communities. A commitment to sound governance and ethical behaviour behove our strategy and our business’s leadership actions to be predicated on principles of morality. It is incumbent on leadership to behave in a manner that is beyond reproach and to hold itself accountable to stakeholders. Our Nedbank Group Ethics and Corporate Accountability Framework shapes our board’s and management’s approach to business in line with best-practice levels of governance. I refer you to our Governance and Ethics Review on page 140 of the 2012 Nedbank Group Integrated Report. Board Alan Knott-Craig resigned as a non-executive director with effect from 24 February 2012. Professor Brian changes Figaji retired as a non-executive director of Nedbank Group and Nedbank Ltd during May 2012, following many years of playing a valuable role on the board and its various subcommittees. Wendy Lucas-Bull resigned as a non-executive director with effect from 5 November 2012. I wish to express my and the board of directors’ appreciation for the dedication, passion and expertise of Alan, Brian and Wendy in their directorship roles. Ian Gladman, Strategy Director at our parent company Old Mutual plc, was appointed a non-executive director of Nedbank Group and Nedbank Ltd with effect from June 2012. Gawie Nienaber retired as Group Company Secretary on 30 June 2012 on reaching the mandatory retirement age in terms of our normal retirement policy after a very distinguished career in the group. We wish Gawie well in the future and thank him for his outstanding contribution in this important role in the organisation. Thabani Jali was appointed to succeed Gawie as Group Company Secretary and Jackie Katzin was appointed Deputy Group Company Secretary of Nedbank Group and Nedbank Ltd. Following these changes, the board comprises 15 directors – 12 of them non-executive and five of these classified as independent in terms of King lll. We have a rigorous succession process in place for boardmember appointments to ensure that the group is well positioned as regards the capacity of the board to be equipped with the necessary range of leadership and technical skills that are essential for them to lead our organisation. Old Mutual Nedbank Group is a material part of the Old Mutual Group and works constructively with all parts of the relationship group to create value and unlock synergies. An attractive The year 2012 has been a rewarding one for shareholders, with Nedbank Group delivering a total shareholder investment return of 34,3%. In a challenging environment we continue to offer qualities that we believe are attractive to case investors and should support continued earnings growth. Key considerations include: ¨¨ continued delivery of our long-term growth-oriented strategy by expanding our footprint, growing our client base, launching innovative products and exploring growth opportunities in the rest of Africa; ¨¨ competitive franchises creating value and enhancing brand value: –– a strong wholesale banking franchise generating high returns on equity –– strong differentiated and decentralised business banking –– innovative client-centred retail banking –– a fast-growing wealth business with high returns on equity; 10 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 ¨¨ a longer-term, risk-mitigated, capital-efficient strategy in the rest of Africa, with an unmatched PanAfrican geographic footprint; ¨¨ a growth investment with protection on the downside, given the stable, sound banking sector in SA, the sustained cost-management culture, the sound risk management practices, a strong, wellcapitalised balance sheet with a prudent funding structure, sound liquidity and well-diversified income streams; ¨¨ leadership in integrated sustainability, as companies that have integrated sustainability built into their strategies and operations have been proved to yield superior returns over the longer term; ¨¨ a stable and experienced management team; and ¨¨ high levels of staff morale and a values-based culture. Appreciation Thank you to my fellow directors for their contributions, insights and commitment to the affairs of the group. I am extremely pleased that we delivered strongly to all stakeholders in 2012 and congratulate Mike Brown and the Group Executive Committee. We thank our staff for their contribution towards making 2012 a year of record earnings for Nedbank Group as they continually strive to exceed the expectations of our stakeholders. To our clients who have chosen Nedbank as their bank of choice, we thank you for your support on our journey towards making Nedbank a great place to bank. Dr Reuel J Khoza Chairman 11 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 2012 Recognition Received Best Bank in SA 2012 Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2012 CMATTM Assessment 2012 second HIGHEST CMATTM SCORE OUT OF 900 COMPANIES GLOBALLY Nedbank Business Banking Sustainable Bank of the Year for Middle East and Africa 2011 Financial Times and International Finance Corporation Awards 2012 Mail & Guardian and Southern African Nkonki and Financial Mail 2012 Trust Investing in the Civil Society Award Integrated Reporting Awards Future and Drivers of Nedbank-backed programme, Change Awards 2012 enke: Make Your Mark Best Integrated Report 2010 in the Financial SECTOR Sake24 Chief Economist of the Economist, Year 2011 Dennis Dykes 12 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 BEST CUSTODIAN IN AFRICA Nedbank Corporate Best South African Trade Bank Global Finance Award 2012 Nedbank Capital Trade Finance Magazine’s Global/EMEA Awards for Excellence 2012 African Business Awards 2012 Environmental Sustainability in Africa 2011 third overall in the domestic fund manager category Nedgroup Investments Plexcrown Fund Ratings 2012 Chartered Secretaries and JSE Awards 2012 MERIT AWARD Best Integrated Report 2011 nominated among 2012 Morningstar the top 3 Large Fund SA Fund Awards Houses in sa Nedgroup Investments Best International Professional Adviser Wealth Provider in the International Fund and offshore financial Product Awards 2012 services industry Nedbank Private Wealth 13 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 2012 Highlights Making things happen for all stakeholders in a challenging economic environment. Financial highlights Rm Diluted headline earnings per share Cents Return on equity (excluding goodwill) % Headline earnings Diluted headline earnings Return on equity Rm 7 510 per share (excluding goodwill) cents % 6 184 1 595 16,4 15,3 4 900 1 340 13,4 13,4 4 277 1 069 983 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Rm Non-interest revenue Return on assets % Ordinary dividents per share Cents Non-interest revenue Return on assets Ordinary dividend per Rm % 1,13 share 752 17 324 cents 0,99 15 412 605 13 215 0,82 11 906 0,76 480 440 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 14 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Non-financial highlights Regulators Staff Cultural entropy % Appointed 452 additional % Common equity tier 1 ratio (Basel 2.5) permanent employees Cultural entropy level of 10% at worldclass levels Common equity tier 1 ratio Cultural entropy Continued high levels of (Basel II.5) % staff morale % 11,0 11,4 13 13 9,9 10,1 609 managers through business 11 education and executive 10 P education training programmes 1 312 employees through Leading for Deep Green training programme 8 500 staff through diversity 2009 2010 2011 2012 training programme 2009 2010 2011 2012 11,6% pro forma Basel III common equity ratio Clients (CER) (or 11,4% Basel II.5) million Number of total clients Grew total retail individual and small Contributing to working business clients by 655 841 groups on new regulation R144bn new loans extended Worldclass Internal 80 new staffed outlets Number of clients Capital Adequacy Millions Assessment Process 476 more ATMs and Internal Liquidity 6,1 Adequacy Assessment Client satisfaction scores at multiyear highs 5,1 5,5 Process maintained Exciting innovations launched such 4,4 as Nedbank App SuiteTM, Approve-itTM, Nedbank debt rating MyFinancialLifeTM, Small Business Friday upgraded in July in line and the home loan online application with peers by Fitch process R6,2bn total tax paid to Euromoney’s best bank in SA in 2012 SA government in direct, 2009 2010 2011 2012 indirect and payroll taxes Shareholders Communities 34,3% total shareholder return Delivered R1 511m economic profit Most transformed JSE Top 50 company under dti Codes Participate in Africa growth opportunity Achieved dti Code level 2 for fourth consecutive year through rights to acquire 20% in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated Contributed R116m to socioeconomic development Total % shareholder return 73% local procurement spend Continued recognition for leadership in transparent reporting Maintained position asRm Socioeconomic spend Africa’s only carbon-neutral bank Operational water consumption addressed through support of Total shareholder return the WWF-SA Water Balance % Programme Socioeconomic spend 35,3 Financial Times 2012 Rm 34,3 Sustainable Bank of the Year 116 Middle East and Africa Official sponsor of the WWF 89 80 15,3 Sustainable Agriculture 73 8,6 Programme 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 15 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Performance highlights % change 2011 – 2012 2012 ECONOMIC Headline earnings Rm 21,4 7 510 Income attributable to shareholders Rm 20,8 7 476 Diluted earnings per share: – Headline cents 19,0 1 595 – Basic cents 18,4 1 588 Dividend declared per share cents 24,3 752 Dividend cover times 2,19 Net asset value Rm 9,6 57 730 Tangible net asset value per share cents 11,3 10 065 Net interest income (NII) to average interest-earning banking assets % 3,53 Credit loss ratio – banking advances % 1,05 Non-interest revenue (NIR) to total income % 46,8 NIR to total operating expenses % 84,4 Efﬁciency ratio % 55,5 Group capital adequacy ratios: – Common Equity Tier 1 % 11,4* – Tier 1 % 12,9* – Total % 14,9* Total assets under administration Rm 9,6 833 474 Total assets Rm 5,4 682 979 Assets under management Rm 34,1 150 495 % Return on total assets 1,13 Return on ordinary shareholders’ equity (ROE) (excluding goodwill) % 16,4 ROE % 14,8 Headline earnings Rm 7 510 * Basel II.5 ** Basel II ENVIRONMENTAL Green star rated buildings 3 Carbon footprint per full-time employee tCO2e1 1,8 7,89 Offset through carbon emission reduction projects allowing buffer tCO2e1 240 000 Carbon status tCO2e1 neutral SOCIAL Socioeconomic development spend2 Rm 33,7 116 CULTURAL BEE credentials (dti) level 2P Barrett entropy % 10P 1 tCO2e = tonnes of CO2 equivalent. 2 Includes community trust. 16 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 6 184 4 900 4 277 5 765 6 190 4 811 4 826 6 410 1 340 1 069 983 1 401 1 341 1 050 1 109 1 558 605 480 440 620 Economic 2,26 2,30 2,30 2,29 52 685 47 814 44 984 40 073 9 044 8 160 7 398 7 179 3,48 3,36* 3,39 3,66 1,13 1,36 1,52 1,17 46,1 44,3 42,2 39,9 81,5 79,6 78,8 78,1 56,6 55,7 53,5 51,1 R7 510m Headline 11,0** 10,1** 9,9** 8,2** earnings 12,6 11,7 11,5 9,6 15,3 15,0 14,9 12,4 760 358 711 288 657 907 651 404 648 127 608 718 570 703 567 023 112 231 102 570 87 204 84 381 Environmental Social 0,99 0,82 0,76 1,09 15,3 13,4 13,4 17,7 13,6 11,8 11,8 20,1 6 184 4 900 4 277 5 765 neutral R116m Carbon Socioeconomic status development spend 2 1 – – 7,74 8,25 8,77 – 240 000 220 000 220 000 – neutral neutral neutral – 89 80 73 67 Cultural level 2 level 2 level 2 level 3 10%P 11 13 13 14 Barrett entropy 17 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Nedbank Group’s vision of building Africa’s most admired Group bank by our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and Strategy communities continues to be supported by its long-term objectives, which are referred to internally as Deep Green aspirations. Building Africa’s most admired bank Our vision by our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and communities Great place to work Great place to bank Deep Green Most respected and Great place Great at Leading aspirations aspirational brand to invest collaboration transformation Highly involved in Worldclass at Community Living the community and managing risk of leaders our values environment What makes us different Great at listening, and guides understanding our clients’ needs and delivering long-term strategy? Our brand expression Our eight Client-centred Manage for value Primary client and Risk as an enabler strategic cross-sell focus Productivity and Unique and innovative areas execution culture Transformation Green and caring bank A member of the Banking Southern Africa Our scope Old Mutual and selected Bank for all focus with of the game Group financial services selected African expansion Our values Integrity, respect, accountability, pushing beyond boundaries, people-centred 18 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Our strategic focus areas Grow non-interest revenue ¨¨ Delivery across all clusters. We continued to make good progress in delivering on ¨¨ Focus on quality annuity income through commission and our strategic focus areas, supported by strong capital fee growth. and liquidity. The 2012 annual results were again driven ¨¨ Sustained non-interest revenue (NIR) growth at over 10% for four by the strength of the Nedbank franchise together with years and strong cost management producing a positive jaws. the momentum built in implementing our strategy. ¨¨ Consistent progress toward > 85% NIR:expenses target ratio. Repositioning Retail ¨¨ Distinctive client-insight-led value propositions. Reposition Grow NIR ¨¨ Capturing the virtuous circle of household Nedbank and business. Retail ¨¨ Integrated channels strategy, including digital innovation, to Building accelerate growth across more micro markets, while optimising Africa’s presence, systems and processes to cover costs. most ¨¨ Effective risk management for quality asset portfolios admired bank and liabilities. ¨¨ Client-centred innovation. ¨¨ Collaborative, networked culture of trust. Portfolio Rest of tilt Africa Portfolio tilt Client-centred approach ¨¨ Manage towards strategically Sustainability embedded in group strategy important higher economic profit pools, optimising scarce resources, including capital and liquidity. Rest of Africa ¨¨ Strategically positioning for Basel III. ¨¨ Risk-mitigated, capital-efficient, long-term strategy. ¨¨ Grow faster: transactional banking/ ¨¨ Building Nedbank’s presence in the Southern African Development Community and clients, deposits, wealth and asset, East Africa. management, insurance, investment ¨¨ Partnership approach with Ecobank in West and Central Africa, with rights to acquire banking. up to 20% from November 2013. ¨¨ Selective growth: unsecured lending, ¨¨ Creating a banking network with geographic diversification. home loans, commercial property ¨¨ One-bank client experience across 36 countries. finance. ¨¨ Continually evaluating investment opportunities to enter new markets within SADC. Client-centred approach We have developed business-specific strategic initiatives aimed at delivering a choice of distinctive client-centred banking experiences consistently and seamlessly across and within clients’ channels of choice (physical and digital). Our integrated-channels strategy, leveraging digital innovation, is a key enabler to delivering this experience at an optimal cost and mix of presence within each micro market. We expect the overall client experience to be evidenced by improved Net Promoter scores across the various businesses and continued increases in our digitally enabled client base. Fulfilling our social purpose relating to job creation, access to energy services, water and Sustainable revenues depend on sustainable communities. As sanitation, savings and investment levels, education and health as highlighted in our Chairman’s Statement last year, ‘Changing well as managing our carbon and water risk exposure. We contribute business practices both locally and internationally lead us to believe to these goals through four levers: core business, own operations, corporate social investment and advocacy. The goals are externally that the age of accountability has dawned as business starts to face referenced, informed by science and by widely accepted societal its responsibilities to society and the environment.’ In considering aspirations as reflected in the SA government’s National our role in the future of SA, we have realised that we need to get Development Plan 2030. more involved in protecting the society, which provides the basis for our performance, and that we need to get involved through doing This framework is currently being embedded in the group, with each what we do best and most efficiently, which is lending capital to business cluster identifying new products, services and systems drive economic activity. Given the immense influence that banks aligned with meeting the eight goals. We see the long-term vision have in directing flows of capital, we have considered deeply our and our response thereto, namely Fair Share 2030, as critical to ability to leverage change. becoming Africa’s most admired bank. The initiative is underpinned by a firm belief that our long-term success is inextricably linked to our During 2012 we adopted a board-approved long-term vision that ability to fulfil our social purpose by delivering better outcomes for takes a position on SA attaining good economic, social and society. We will be engaging with our stakeholders as we progress environmental outcomes. This is expressed in terms of eight goals our thinking. 19 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 The Nedbank investment proposition remains Investment compelling. We offer an attractive growth strategy, Case supported by a strong balance sheet, and competitive valuecreating franchises. Our longer-term risk-mitigated strategy in the rest of Africa is supported by an unmatched Pan-African footprint. SOUND BANKING SYSTEM in SA Through economic cycles SA banks have delivered sustainable returns on equity (ROEs) well above the much larger international banks in the US and EU, with growth driven by continued increases in banking penetration in the retail market, business investment in the SA infrastructure programmes and expansion into the rest of Africa. SA banks are well capitalised, operate in a predominantly closed funding system, are very well regulated as evidenced by being rated second globally in soundness of banks by the World Economic Forum, and currently delivering dividend yields above the JSE all-share index benchmarks. OPTIMISING RETURNS Our objective of building an organisation that optimises returns to all TO ALL stakeholders and creates a sustainable future is enabled by an integrated approach to the economics of the business, environmental STAKEHOLDERS preservation, involvement in society and organisational culture. Incorporating this approach, the investment case for Nedbank Group is built around: 1 competitive franchises creating value and enhancing brand value; 2 continued delivery on the growth-oriented strategy; 3 being well positioned for a cyclical economic upturn, underpinned by operational and ﬁnancial gearing; 4 defensive investment given the stable banking sector in SA; and 5 leadership in integrated sustainability. 20 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Competitive franchises creating value and enhancing brand value 1 Our historical strength in wholesale banking is evident in the underlying businesses consistently delivering ROEs above 20%, which is a key driver of value creation, while the high-ROE Nedbank Wealth business is growing faster than industry trends and Nedbank Retail is building a sustainable retail banking business targeting returns ahead of the cost of equity in 2013. Leader in corporate banking and commercial property finance –– Excellent client relationship and ratings. –– Strong market shares, particularly in commercial property finance as well as public sector loans. –– Opportunity to increase transactional banking market share. Integrated, lower-risk-taking, investment banking –– Leadership and expertise in mining and resources, infrastructure, energy, telecommunications and oil and gas sectors, providing good growth opportunities in SA and rest of Africa. –– Integrated full-service investment banking model, combined with an ability to leverage client relationships in collaboration with other wholesale clusters. Strong differentiated and decentralised business banking –– Globally best-in-class customer management practices. –– Excellent client-centred risk management capabilities. –– Strong deposit-generating franchise. –– Sustainably good returns despite low interest rates. Innovative client-centred retail banking –– Strong growth drivers in place – evident in significant new-client gains, investment in new outlets, ATMs, new products leading to strong MR gains. –– Building a more client-centred integrated business with strong product lines, eg vehicle finance and card acquiring. –– Effective risk management practices embedded, removing excessive credit loss ratio volatility of past cycles. Fast-growing wealth business with high ROEs –– Significant insurance opportunity in penetrating the Nedbank client base and benefiting from various new-product launches. –– Unique Best of Breed™ asset manager generating strong growth in assets under management. –– Newly launched Nedbank Private Wealth brand, supporting a leading high-networth franchise. –– Providing clients with access to 36 countries across Africa. Longer-term risk-mitigated capital-efficient strategy in –– Rights to acquire up to 20% in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated. rest of Africa, with –– Exploring expansion into the Southern African Development Community and East Africa, unmatched Pan-African where gross domestic product is expected to grow much faster than in SA, even though geographic footprint economic returns in financial services are still below cost of capital in the medium term. 21 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Investment case (CONTINUED) 2 Continued delivery on the growth-oriented strategy Our key strategic initiatives of repositioning Nedbank Retail, growing non-interest revenue (NIR), implementing the portfolio tilt strategy and expanding into the rest of Africa will continue to drive growth. 3 Positioned for a cyclical economic upturn on the back of operational and financial gearing ¨¨ Operational and ﬁnancial gearing beneﬁts should enable us to deliver improved proﬁtability ratios. ¨¨ Endowment income upside will be unlocked when interest rates increase (a 1% parallel change in interest rates increases pretax earnings through endowment by approximately R813m). 4 Defensive investment environment; given the stable banking sector in SA ¨¨ We have a strong, sustained cost management culture, with the existing strategy favouring an investment-for-growth focus while we remain cautious in the current uncertain economic ¨¨ Risk and capital management are embedded in our culture, aimed at creating a strong, stable and economically sustainable organisation. Credit impairment coverage ratios are among the highest in the industry; ¨¨ We have a strong common equity tier 1 capital adequacy ratio at 11,6% on a Basel III basis, with sound funding and liquidity ratios that are in line with those of domestic peers; ¨¨ Earnings streams are well diversified, with no cluster contributing more than 34% for headline earnings to the group; and ¨¨ Attractive revised lower dividend cover range of 1,75 – 2,25 times. 22 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 5 Leadership in integrated sustainability Companies that have integrated sustainability into their strategies and operations have been proven to yield superior returns over the longer term. With this in mind, we focus on entrenching and integrating economic, environmental, social and cultural sustainability across the group to enhance our long-term investment appeal. Economic Growth is expected to continue in 2013, despite a challenging macro environment, building on the earnings momentum created in 2012 and the focus and success of the delivery on our strategic growth initiatives. Environmental We remain committed to reducing our direct and indirect impact on the environment, and assisting our clients, suppliers and business partners to do the same, while simultaneously delivering economic beneﬁts in the form of long-term cost savings. Cultural In 2012 we demonstrated a proven organisational capability to succeed in challenging economic times. A culture of governance, compliance and sustainability is evident in the comprehensive controls and processes integrated throughout the business. Since 2004 positive shifts in staff morale as well as a strong positive move towards a resilient high-performance culture have been evident. Our stable and skilled management team remains among the most experienced and transformed in the SA banking sector. Group Executive Committee members have an average tenure of 13 years with Nedbank Group and on average more than 22 years’ industry and functional experience. The average tenure for the cluster executive members is 11,75 years for the 110 members. Social Our continued contribution to socioeconomic growth and development remains a key focus for the group. This includes skills development; responsible access to finance and financial literacy; lending to enable healthcare, housing and education, enterprise development; community upliftment; economic empowerment and preferential procurement. 23 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Building Africa’s most admired bank by delivering sustainably Stakeholder to all stakeholders. Overview Great place to work Staff Reasons for engagement Types of engagement To ensure that we remain an employer of choice by A robust combination of face-to-face, written and providing a safe and inspiring working environment. broadcast communications. These included culture and engagement surveys, roadshows, emails, intranet To understand and respond to the needs and concerns communications, data casting, magazines and of our staffmembers. relevant training. To provide all staff with strategic direction and pertinent information regarding group activities. Feedback received Seeing the results ‘There are so many positives in terms of Nedbank being a great ¨¨ Created 452 additional jobs in SA place to work. The ethics, respect and the deep green aspirations are ¨¨ R352m development spend publicly expressed and self-development is up to each individual – ¨¨ Positive shift in corporate culture the opportunities are there for the taking!’ to worldclass levels Nedbank staffmember ¨¨ Continued high levels of staff moral Great place to bank Clients Reasons for engagement Types of engagement To gain a better understanding of the financial Interactions through branch outlets, relationship services needs of our clients and their perceptions, managers and call centres, complaint lines, client behaviour, attitudes and mindsets. seminars, social media, surveys and marketing and To provide appropriate advice and solutions to meet advertising activities. our clients’ identified financial needs. To ensure that the high service level expectancies of all our clients are met. To ensure accuracy of personal information. Seeing the results ¨¨ Grew total retail individual and small business Feedback received clients by 655 841 ‘Nedbank staffmembers have been attending to our request to ¨¨ Payout of R144bn new loans move our business over to Nedbank. Our requests are handled ¨¨ 80 new outlets and 476 ATMs timeously, with interest shown in our business and its needs. The ¨¨ Strong client gains – now above 6,1m solutions they are building will not only favour our business, but ¨¨ Market-leading innovations also the personal accounts of the directors and staff.’ ¨¨ Majority of Net Promoter Scores at multiyear highs Business Banking client ¨¨ Euromoney’s best bank in SA for 2012 24 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Great place to invest Shareholders Reasons for engagement Types of engagement To provide relevant and timeous information to Local and international roadshows. current and future shareholders. Ad hoc communications and answering investor and analyst questions. Annual general meeting and other investor meetings. Conferences and presentations. Feedback received Securities Exchange News Service (SENS) ‘Nedbank is delivering on its strategic focus areas – Retail announcements. repositioning, NIR growth and portfolio tilt.’ Media releases. Investment analyst brieﬁngs. Feedback via broker reports and the corporate website. Seeing the results Detailed information on all published documents to ¨¨ Economic profit up 63,5% ensure full disclosure of relevant information. ¨¨ Total shareholder return of 34,3% In addition to the above, Nedbank Group regularly ¨¨ Dividend of 752 cents, up 24,3% engages with its holding company, Old Mutual Group, ¨¨ Rights to 20% in Ecobank Transnational to ensure alignment of policies and methodologies, Incorporated in Rest of Africa the effective capturing of synergies and leveraging of opportunities. Worldclass at managing risk Regulators Reasons for engagement Types of engagement To maintain open, honest and transparent These include various forums, from trilateral meetings relationships with regulators and ensure compliance with the board and management including one-on-one with their legal and regulatory requirements, thereby discussions with various executive officials at retaining our various operating licences and prudential meetings and onsite meetings. minimising our operational risk. Feedback received ‘Other than normal housekeeping issues, no major concerns were Seeing the results raised by the SARB Banking Supervision Department (BSD) ¨¨ Strong capital and liquidity ratios during 2012. ¨¨ Commitment to responsible banking practices ‘No issues of significance were raised by regulators in the ¨¨ One of SA’s largest taxpayers: R6,2bn in direct, countries in which Nedbank foreign subsidiaries operate.’ indirect and payroll taxes Highly involved in the community and environment Communities Reasons for engagement Types of engagement To create partnerships that will best facilitate our Nedbank Foundation – ongoing support of projects integrated sustainability activities. and interaction with a wide variety of non-proﬁt and governmental organisations. To obtain input from communities and representative non-governmental organisations (NGOs) regarding Environmental/Sustainability partnerships with key focus areas. the World Wide Fund for Nature SA, Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Leadership, To obtain input from environmental experts to ensure Sustainability Institute and the United Nations that our operations are environmentally responsible. Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). To create awareness of our integrated sustainability commitment and initiatives. Seeing the results ¨¨ M  ore affordable and accessible banking ¨¨ Most transformed JSE Top 50 company ¨¨ Level 2 dti contributor for fourth year ¨¨ R116m spent on socioeconomic development ¨¨ Africa’s only carbon-neutral bank Feedback received ¨¨ FT sustainable Bank of the Year: Africa and ‘I’m happy to see Nedbank T-shirts here, because they are doing a Middle East lot of positive stuff in education.’ ¨¨ Local procurement amounted to 73% of total Enver Surty, Deputy Minister of Education spend in 2012 25 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 REVIEW OF 2012 In 2012 we improved our cultural sustainability performance as measured by non-ﬁnancial key performance indicators. This was a direct result of our cultural sustainability focus of delivering on our strategic objectives. The performance scorecard Staff below reﬂects the most signiﬁcant performance indicators for the period under review. 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Client-centred culture The entropy results of the Nedbank culture (Barrett) survey in 2012 improved, with the overall entropy (extent of dissonance in an organisation) score decreasing from 11% in 2011 to 10%P. This indicates that Nedbank is within the range of a worldclass organisational culture, which is 10% and lower in terms of this measure. The number of aligned values is also important as it illustrates the degree to which employees believe the organisation is on the right track. In 2012 there were fiveP matches. While this is a decline on the six achieved in 2011, it remains within the four-to-six range indicating that staff have a strong level of confidence in the current direction of the organisation. The year 2012 saw a significant improvement in the Nedbank Staff Survey result, from 74,4% in 2011 to 76,2%P. Statistically significant improvements were attained on eight of the 12 dimensions. The Hewitt Engagement score improved to 71%P (2011: 63%). This saw the Nedbank Group returning to the ‘high performance’ range. This indicates that employees are highly engaged. In 2012 the Net Promoter Score (NPS) was introduced to measure employee advocacy levels of Nedbank as a great place to work and bank. Scores indicated that Nedbank Group has a high percentage of employees who are promoters of Nedbank being a great place to work and bank. Personal and team The LFDG programme gained further momentum in 2012. During 2012 altogether leadership 1 312 (2011: 656) managers attended the programme, surpassing the target of effectiveness through 1 000 managers set for 2012. the LFDG programme Integrated Talent An integrated talent framework was developed to provide line managers with an Framework – ie end-to-end view of the talent management process. Aligned to this, a series of succession planning, tools have been developed to guide managers in managing talent effectively. talent acquisition, Employees’ views on the Nedbank employee value proposition (EVP) were workforce planning obtained through three workshops. This feedback will form the basis of a and employee value revitalisation of the EVP. In addition, key integration points of the EVP and the proposition client value proposition (CVP) have been identified. Functional expertise in During 2012 the Nedbank Academies gained significant momentum within the prioritised job roles Human Resources, Risk and Leader/Manager Academy pilots. We reached 12,59 points on the skills development pillar of the dti scorecard out Exceeded of a maximum of 15 points. This places Nedbank in a leading position based on the 2012 Financial Mail Most Empowered Companies Survey. Achieved Accelerate Overachieved on the target with 3,43% of Nedbank employees declaring transformation their disabilities. Attained a score of 10,71 points in employment equity against the increased Not achieved adjusted targets effective from 2012. 26 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 TARGETS FOR 2013 ¨¨ People with disabilities target: 3,02%, with 1,65% being black ¨¨ EE black senior management target: 35,64% ¨¨ EE black middle management target: 56,00% ¨¨ EE black junior management target: 81,38% ¨¨ LFDG workshops target: 110 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Nedbank Group A review of the group’s reward strategy commenced in 2012. The aim is to ensure reward strategy that the strategy remains fit for purpose, is commercially sensible and enables the attraction and retention of key talent for the organisation. Additional areas of focus included: ¨¨ Remaining compliant with the evolving financial services remuneration governance requirements. ¨¨ Maintaining appropriate interaction between the Group Remuneration Committee and the Group Risk and Capital Management Committee. ¨¨ Reviewing our approach to variable remuneration in the context of prudent risk-taking and evolving best practice. ¨¨ Balancing the demand for remuneration adjustments, while maintaining job security in challenging economic conditions. ¨¨ Concluding an independent review of the implementation of our reward policy. OBJECTIVES FOR 2013 AND BEYOND ¨¨ Driving transformation to create a diverse workforce in an inclusive environment. ¨¨ Development and retention of key black talent to create bench strength for senior black managers through recruitment, retention and accelerated development. ¨¨ Continued enabling of a unique, innovative and client-centred culture through the development of a long-term employee engagement strategy with the aim of activating Nedbank brand ambassadors to enhance the client experience. ¨¨ Ongoing building of personal and team leadership effectiveness through the Leading for Deep Green (LFDG) programme. ¨¨ Embedding the Integrated Talent Framework – including succession planning and talent acquisition, together with revitalising the EVP. ¨¨ Reviewing and enhancing the Nedbank reward, performance and benefits strategies in support of a differentiated employee proposition. ¨¨ Creating a learning organisation to support employee development and the achievement of business objectives. ¨¨ Building functional expertise in prioritised job roles through job-family-related learning academies. HOT TOPICS RESULTING DEVELOPMENTS Strength of personal Transformation dialogues, diversity training and the LFDG programme have all aided in relationships across the addressing this concern. group to leverage growth opportunities Growth and In addition to the Nedbank Graduate Programme and learnerships, the Coaching for Growth development, including Programme was rolled out further and Nedbank academies were implemented. mentoring for young A total of 14 new internal coaches are being accredited through the International Coaching employees Federation (ICF) to assist with the further development of staff. Gender advancement We remain focused on gender equity and advancement of women in the workplace. Numerous initiatives, including sessions with our female senior managers and some high-potential middle managers were held so that we can better understand the challenges facing women wishing to advance into more senior roles. Work/home life balance We have seen an increase in the uptake in flexiwork practices, Wellness Days were implemented to raise awareness of the importance of a healthy lifestyle and work/life balance. Focus on Innovation A formal idea generation platform incorporating social media principles was introduced for Exceeded staff. In 2012 almost 1 400 ideas relating to innovation were logged and are now part of a formal innovation pipeline. Strategic A staff website was launched for our Chief Executive, Mike Brown, in order to increase Achieved communication strategic communication with employees. Face-to-face sessions with the group executive were also held and roadshows in the regions. Retirement Planning Retirement Planning Programme was implemented to address this important lifestage. Not achieved Assistance 27 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 REVIEW OF 2012 Nedbank’s Deep Green aspiration to become a great place to bank continued to drive a ‘client first’ mindset across all areas of the bank. Delivering distinctive client-centred banking experiences and the ability to delight clients in every interaction with the brand remain fundamental to our growth and sustainability. Clients Over time all of the client-facing clusters have developed a deep understanding of their clients’ needs and life stages and are delivering a choice of distinctive, client-centred offerings. The year 2012 saw the development of a number of new and refined value propositions (namely the Nedbank 4me youth offering, Personal Relationship Banking and SimplyBiz), the launch of new products (eg the Nedbank Green Savings Bond, MyFinancialLife™, MoneyTrader and JustSave), channel innovation (eg the Nedbank App Suite™ branch-of-the future concept and enhanced self-service capabilities) and refinement of processes (eg Approve-it™ and account opening in branch). All of these contributed towards enhanced client-satisfaction metrics, increased brand strength and growth in the client base. 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Reposition Nedbank In line with its strategy to provide a choice of distinctive, client-centred Retail banking experiences for all in SA, Nedbank Retail continued to develop segment-specific solutions, successfully launching the Nedbank 4me youth offering and revitalising the SimplyBiz platform for small business in 2012. Developing and consistently investing in distinctive CVPs such as Nedbank Savvy (for middle-market banking), Nedbank Ke Yona (for entry-level banking) and Retail Relationship Banking (for the ‘I know you’ client experience) – all of which are changing perceptions of Nedbank as well as improving the actual client experience and underlying product usage. The aspirational Nedbank brand is increasingly more accessible and relevant to all in SA, with a 74% increase in new entry-level banking clients including youths, from 67%. The global Customer Management Assessment Tool (CMAT™) score of 58% in 2012 was above the industry average for retail businesses, up from 44% in 2008. This increase maintains the momentum generated in the previous year and confirms a real step change when compared with the period 2008 to 2010. Further details are included under Nedbank Retail’s review of 2012 in the ‘Business Overview’ section. Ramp up Nedbank In Nedbank Wealth the consolidation of the high-net-worth offerings of BoE Wealth Private Clients and Fairbairn Private Bank under the new brand of Nedbank Private Wealth was completed and launched in 2012. The introduction of Nedbank Private Wealth signifies a step change in the strategic direction for the high-net-worth segment by consolidating the various value propositions and brands into a single distinctive international high-net-worth business. Asset Management delivered excellent fund performance across all ranges and continued to attract strong net inflows both locally and internationally. Insurance delivered good growth across traditional and new products, Exceeded including credit life, single-premium investments, funeral and simple savings solutions as well as the niche motor vehicle value-added range. Significant progress has been made on initiatives to align distribution and marketing Achieved efforts of the life and short-term insurance offerings so as to create a single, client-centred Nedbank insurance experience. Not achieved 28 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 TARGETS FOR 2013 ¨¨ Retaining and growing primary-banked clients and increase share of wallet, emphasising portfolio tilt ¨¨ Ongoing repositioning of Nedbank Retail ¨¨ Becoming the leader in business banking for SA ¨¨ Becoming the public sector bank of choice ¨¨ Continuing as one of the top two wholesale banks ¨¨ Ramping up the wealth management, asset management and insurance businesses 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Retain the group’s We maintained the largest property ﬁnance market share among banks in leadership position in SA at 30,4%, while ensuring a high-quality portfolio. wholesale banking Nedbank Corporate maintained strong market share of 12,8% of private sector other loans (excluding foreign currency loans) and 30,2% of public sector loans. Leader in business Nedbank Business Banking continued to invest in its client management banking for SA capabilities, and significantly increased its CMAT™ score in 2012, making it the second highest CMAT™ score ever from any sector out of 900 companies assessed globally. Client satisfaction metrics have increased significantly in 2012 and are at a long-time high, following consistent investments in strengthening the service culture, enhancing people effectiveness and delivering through the localised client service teams. Grow primary-client Nedbank Retail grew its total clients by 655 841 and its number of primary status and clients by 150 720P, and improved the quality of revenue per client. transactional income Nedbank Business Banking delivered strong net primary-banked client gains streams of 775P, with the rate of gain having increased by over 70% since 2009. Nedbank Corporate grew primary clients, continuing the momentum gained over the past three years. Expand the Group’s Signiﬁcant investment was made to expand our distribution footprint with distribution footprint an additional 80 staffed points of presence and 476 ATMs. We implemented an integrated-channel strategy to deliver a seamless client experience leveraging digital innovations, and to support high-growth-potential micro markets and area collaboration. Improve the Group’s Nedbank Group participated in the majority of public sector business positioning in the tenders during 2012 and was once again appointed primary banker to the Exceeded public sector Western Cape Government for a further five years until 2017. The business retained its share of public sector liabilities. Feedback from various levels of government has indicated that we are well recognised as a reliable partner Achieved to the public sector. Not achieved 29 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Clients (CONTINUED) 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Improve service levels Besides participating in a number of annual industry surveys, Nedbank to worldclass Group commissions its own ongoing client research. The main metric standards common to the majority of the bank is the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is used both as a measure of the overall health of client relationships and as a behavioural driver seeking to enhance client loyalty and organic growth. All businesses in Nedbank Group for which NPS is tracked have seen further improvements in their scores in 2012. Nedbank Retail and Nedbank Business Banking commission other benchmarking studies to measure customer management capabilities and resulting customer satisfaction. On this basis Nedbank’s NPS in 2012 compares favourablyP with local banks and the CMAT™ scores demonstrate significant progress across all elements of customer management. Nedbank Corporate’s NPS score has increased in excess of 10%P over the past two years. This research, complemented by relevant focus group discussions and one-on-one client interviews, serves to deepen understanding of the customer experience and inform required actions. We are supporting the newly introduced consumer protection programme – Treating Customers Fairly. It was introduced by the National Treasury and is being driven by the Financial Services Board. The programme aims to improved customer confidence through the supply of appropriate products and services and to enhance transparency and discipline in the industry. The programme aligns with our current client-centric ethos and code of conduct. We anticipate that the additional focus this programme brings to client imperatives will further enhance client trust and service levels. For further detail please refer to 2012 Nedbank Group Integrated Report. In the spirit of ensuring accurate and relevant client advice, our 2012 FAIS pass rate is 91%P. This compares favourably with the October 2012 industry average of 84%. The Hackett Group benchmark of Nedbank Group’s information technology (IT) capability against peer group and worldclass organisations was last conducted at the end of 2011. A strong set of results positioned Nedbank Group IT within the ﬁrst quartileP (deemed ‘worldclass’ by Hackett) in terms of effectiveness and in the upper second quartile (just below ‘worldclass’) in terms of efﬁciency. Overall, 2012 was a pleasing year from a systems availability perspective. The group measures the overall uptime of its major infrastructural platforms as well as its most critical application systems, and the blended uptime score for both infrastructure and applications was 99,88%P versus a target of 99,70%. It is important to note that this was achieved against a record number of complex changes deployed in the IT environment. While we are fully committed to meeting our client’s needs, they are able to approach the Ombudsman for Banking Services in cases where we are unable to resolve an issue to their satisfaction. The number of cases opened against us dropped again in 2012 and 648P (2011: 683) Nedbank Grouprelated cases were opened and 659P closed (2011: 663). Some 30%P of cases opened relate to ATM disputes and in the main these have to do with some form of cloning. Selectively expand The group continued to build on the initial foundations of the Ecobank– into Africa and Nedbank Alliance, with a number of major achievements during 2012. leverage the Various banking initiatives were implemented that align with the vision of Ecobank–Nedbank providing clients with a one-bank experience across the African continent. Alliance These included the enabling of Ecobank regional cards on Nedbank ATMs in SA. Revenue is being generated as a result of an effective client engagement approach supported by streamlined operational processing. Exceeded Client activity in sub-Saharan Africa increased signiﬁcantly during 2012 and is reﬂected in the increased pipeline, transactional revenue and account openings that have been recorded across the business clusters. Achieved Nedbank Corporate made strides into Africa by leveraging the Ecobank alliance to provide Africa-destined clients with banking on the ground and participated in lending opportunities in Ghana, Nigeria and Zambia. Not achieved 30 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND Data protection and privacy OBJECTIVES FOR 2013 AND Nedbank Group subscribes to the Code of Banking Practice BEYOND of The Banking Association SA and complies with the ¨¨ Retaining and growing primary-banked clients Consumer Protection Act and the Protection of Information and increasing share of wallet, emphasising Act, all of which require that all personal client information portfolio tilt. be treated as private and conﬁdential. The group is further ¨¨ Ongoing repositioning of Nedbank Retail. committed to complying with the Electronic Communications ¨¨ Becoming the leader in business banking and Transactions Act regarding client privacy as well as the for SA. Financial Intelligence Centre Act (FICA) and Financial ¨¨ Becoming the public sector bank of choice. Advisory and Intermediary Services (FAIS) Act. ¨¨ Continuing as one of the top two wholesale Formal policies and processes are in place to manage client banks. privacy and conﬁdentiality. For more details on cybercrime ¨¨ Ramping up the wealth management, asset issues, such as online fraud, fraud prevention and anti-money management and insurance businesses. laundering, please see the ‘Operational risk’ section online. ¨¨ Delivering on the creation of a single Nedbank Group high-net-worth proposition. Responsible product/information ¨¨ Continuing to focus on client needs and the labelling provision of customised and innovative Detailed product brochures that comply with all relevant solutions. legislation, such as the National Credit Act, are available to ¨¨ Continuing to leverage the existing brand the group’s clients. However, relationship managers are also position in green products and solutions. responsible for explaining the characteristics, beneﬁts and ¨¨ Exploring new growth opportunities within implications of products to clients in accordance with the SA and across the continent and further FAIS Act. Product policies and procedures and product leveraging the alliance with Ecobank. review committees are also in place. HOT TOPICS RESULTING DEVELOPMENTS Holistic understanding of We actively match the skills of our bankers to client needs. clients’ businesses We ensure that our clients have access to specialists when needed. Significant investment is made in training of our people. This is executive oversight of client relationships. Multiple brands in the The high-net-worth brands have been consolidated into a single distinctive high-net-worth segment international proposition: Nedbank Private Wealth. Seamless wealth Nedbank Private Wealth clients, both in SA and internationally, now have access to management solutions enhanced and integrated wealth management solutions. Turn-around times on We have significantly streamlined our credit processes to make decisions faster lending decisions while maintaining the integrity and diligence of the process. Onboarding process and take We have simplified the client onboarding process including the prepopulation of up of new products forms, and where required we ensure regional coordination. We undertook biometrics, Paperless Signature pad and Verifone functionality has been deployed and rolled out to all branches in 2012. Contact centre rationalisation of more than 513 numbers for clients to access our contact centre services and have simplified the call routing process. Access to working capital We launched a new client value proposition including preassessed credit facilities. requirements for small to medium enterprises Banking fees We strive to provide great-value banking and have saved clients R163m through promoting the use of bundled products. Exceeded Achieved Not achieved 31 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 REVIEW OF 2012 ¨¨ During 2012 Nedbank Group delivered to shareholders in multiple ways: –– Total shareholder return of 34,3%. –– Increase in price to tangible book value for the year from 1,6 times to 2,0 times. Shareholders –– Second-best-performing large bank on the JSE Ltd. –– Economic profit up 63,5% to R1 511m underpinned by good revenue growth, an improving credit loss ratio and responsible expense management while investing for growth. –– Total dividend of 752 cents, up 24,3%. ¨¨ Leadership in transparent stakeholder reporting was maintained. STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS FOR 2013 ¨¨ Further progressing towards meeting the medium-to-long-term ﬁnancial targets. ¨¨ Delivering on our strategic focus areas (refer to client section on www.nedbankgroup.co.za). –– Reposition Nedbank Retail. –– Grow NIR. –– Portfolio tilt. –– Rest of Africa. Medium-to-long-term Metric 2012 2013 Outlook vs 2012 target ROE1 (excluding Improving, remaining 16,4% 5% above COE2 goodwill) below target. Diluted HEPS3 growth 19,0% ≥ CPIX4 + GDP5 growth + 5% Meeting target. Improving into upper end Credit loss ratio 1,05% 0,60% – 1,00% of target. Improving to meet the NIR6: expenses 84,4% > 85% target. Improving, remaining Efﬁciency ratio 55,5% < 50% above target. Basel III Basel III basis (new): Strengthening, remaining Core Tier 1 CAR7 11,6% 10,5% – 12,5% around mid-point of new Tier 1 CAR7 13,1% 11,5% – 13,0% target. Total CAR7 15,1% 14,0% – 15,0% Economic capital ICAAP8 A debt rating (including 10% capital buffer) 2,19 Dividend cover 1,75 to 2,25 times (new) times 1 Return on equity. 4 Consumer price index excluding mortgage bond interest cost. 7 Capital adequacy ratio. 2 Cost of equity. 5 Gross domestic product. 8 Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. 3 Headline earnings per share. 6 Non-interest revenue. Challenges in delivering on ¨¨ Muted advances growth: objectives in 2012 –– consumer debt to disposable income remains ¨¨ Weak global economic environment resulting in high at 75%; and SA’s low GDP growth of 2,5% for 2012 compared –– lack of business confidence reflected in with 3,1% in 2011. purchasing managers’ index of ¨¨ A 50 basis point interest rate cut in July 2012 led 47,4 (2011: December 50,3). to endowment income pressure. We believe that, based on our current economic Achieved outlook, we will continue to make progressing in Not delivering on these medium-to-long-term ﬁnancial achieved targets in 2013. 32 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Total shareholders’ return 54,39% 35,34% 34,34% 29,92% 23,95% 25,41% 21,33% 17,32% 14,04% 9,23% 12,41% 10,58% 15,33% 8,64% (4,59%) 4,44% 2009 2010 2011 2012 Nedbank Standard Bank Absa FirstRand Share price to total net asset value 2,8 2,0 2,0 2,1 2,0 1,9 1,9 1,7 2009 2010 2011 2012 Nedbank Standard Bank Absa FirstRand 2012 Share price relative 149 130 120 116 Jan Mar Jun Sep Dec Nedbank Standard Bank Absa FirstRand HOT TOPICS RESULTING DEVELOPMENTS Unsecured lending Personal loan book growth slowed down in H2 2012. The portfolio impairment charge strengthened. Selective risk-based origination enabled our client’s financial fitness. Bank fees We kept increases below inflation. We provided bundled benefits for clients (R163m in 2012). We simplified pricing and communication. Impact of deteriorating environment We managed our expenses well, with growth at 8,5% (2011: 14%). Increased portfolio impairment charge and strengthened coverage. Capital ratios and liquidity positioning strengthened. Progress on Nedbank Retail Refer to http://www.nedbankgroup.co.za/divisionNedbankRetailBusiness.asp We gained a significant amount of new clients, achieved higher cross-sell ratios, continued investment in the footprint, introduced new innovative CVPs and products, and continued proactive risk management. Potential for further return on equity Improvements were experienced across all key performance indicators. A sustainable approach was maintained by continuing to invest for future growth and strengthening the balance sheet. 33 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 REVIEW OF 2012 Included in Nedbank Group’s vision is to be highly regarded by its regulators. Nedbank Group’s primary regulator is the Bank Supervision Department of the SARB. The SARB is highly rated internationally as a regulator, especially following SA’s successful navigation through the global ﬁnancial crisis. The World Economic Forum’s competitiveness Regulators report of 2012 ranked SA as number two in the category ‘Soundness of Banks’ and number one in the category ‘Strength of Auditing and Reporting Standards’. Other important regulators with whom Nedbank Group interacts frequently include JSE Ltd (the JSE), the Financial Services Board (FSB), the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC), the National Credit Regulator (NCR), the Consumer Protection Regulator (CPA), regulators in the countries in which our subsidiaries operate, the Financial Surveillance Department of the SARB and the Department of Labour. Regular and open communication with regulators ensures that Nedbank Group is seen to be transparent in its dealings with regulators, thereby instilling trust in risk management in the group and in the Nedbank brand. 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Manage risk as Sound regulatory relationships, with good feedback from regulators and an enabler government stakeholders. Following approval of the Advanced Management Approach (AMA) for operational risk and the Internal Measurement Approach (IMA) for market risk by the South African Reserve Bank (SARB), ensure these are embedded in risk and business processes, with positive regulatory feedback following their ongoing onsite reviews. No signiﬁcant matters/outcomes from the SARB onsite visits around governance and embedding of Basel II principles. Make signiﬁcant progress towards the successful implementation of Basel III and Solvency 2 (SAM) in insurance businesses. Internalise and operationalise new regulation/legislation efﬁciently and effectively. Engage proactively with the South African Police Services and other crime prevention initiatives to aid reductions in robberies, ATM bombings and cyber-related crimes. Improved physical security and bolstering of forensic skills. Exceeded Achieved Not achieved 34 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 TARGETS FOR 2013 ¨¨ Continue with proactive regulator engagement ¨¨ Respond timeously to regulators’ concerns and queries ¨¨ Remain totally transparent to regulators ¨¨ Maintain good relationships with all regulators KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES FOR 2013 ¨¨ Maintain good, regular and transparent AND BEYOND relationships with all regulators. International and local regulatory reform (in particular ¨¨ Ensure compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements. Basel III and Twin Peaks) has materially increased capital levels and liquidity costs, and internationally is changing A comprehensive risk strategy is in place and forms an business models. Regulatory risk remains high, but there integrated component of the group’s business plan. The is now less uncertainty due to Basel III being substantially salient features include continuing to evolve the strong risk finalised by BIS and SARB, while Twin Peaks is expected culture, the Enterprisewide Risk Management Framework to be finalised in 2013 with an ongoing emphasis on (ERMF), risk and balance sheet management and building consumer protection. To meet the stringent requirements of worldclass risk management, with particular emphasis on of all regulators fully Nedbank Group will: maintaining strong relationships with regulators. HOT TOPICS RESULTING DEVELOPMENTS Implementation and impact of Basel III Regulations relating We achieved compliance for Basel III on 1 January 2013 and we are well to Banks in 2013 placed to comply with the impact on increased capital requirements and liquidity. Increased focus on consumer protection such as Twin We are well on track with our preparation for the new regulatory regime of Peaks regulation, Consumer Protection Act and Protection Twin Peaks. of Private Information Solvency Assessment and Management (SAM) regime for Nedgroup Insurance remains well capitalised and is on track to the South African Insurance Sector implement SAM. Unsecured lending We continued to work with the SARB and the National Treasury to give effect to a policy of responsible lending. African strategy We are adopting a risk mitigated, capital efficient, longer-term strategic approach. Resolution and recovery planning As part of our commitment to sustainable operations at every level, Nedbank operates a clearly defined enterprise risk management framework. This includes a comprehensive ICAAP that includes an ILAAP that facilitates the measure of capital and liquidity adequacy, based on our risk profile, financial, liquidity and capital positions. There is also a comprehensive stress and scenario testing framework. 35 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 REVIEW OF 2012 Continue to lead as a corporate citizen to ensure that we remain SA’s leading ‘green and caring’ bank, thereby building a sustainable and highly relevant business in the communities we serve. Communities 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Lead as a ‘caring bank’ Deliver on Ranked third in the 2012 Financial Mail Top Empowerment Companies Survey transformation done in partnership with Association of BEE Verification Agencies (ABVA) for commitment the third consecutive year, and first of the top 50 JSE-listed companies. Maintained our level 2 rating in respect of the broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) Codes of Good Practice of the dti. A total of 53% black representation on the board and 27% representation by black women. Be a truly SA bank: Altogether 85% of the total cost of external bursaries awarded went to 203 black students, of which 120 (59%) were women. Socioeconomic development (including Exceeded the requirement of the dti Codes to direct at least 1% of net proﬁt external skills after tax (NPAT) towards socioeconomic development. We spent 1,60% of development) our 2011 SA NPAT, or R95m (2011: R78m) in support of 584 socioeconomic development or social sustainability initiatives in all nine SA provinces. Access to ﬁnance R36m of black agriculture financing went to SA 87 beneficiaries, of which Lending to enable 30 are new clients during 2012. healthcare, housing and education, R1 199m of loans to black-owned, small and medium enterprises was granted enterprise development to 2 989 beneficiaries, of which 1 122 were new clients. (ED) and community upliftment Successfully completed a further eight black economic empowerment financing transactions totalling R906m. Economic Black-women-owned supplier spend was up 37% year-on-year, compared empowerment with 2011. Preferential At the end of 2012 our national point-of-presence footprint was 1 071 procurement (2011: 1 080), comprising 480 full-service branches, 190 in retailer outlets, 88 Personal Loans branches and 313 Personal Loans kiosks, as well as various non-traditional banking outlets. In 2012, 73% of our procurement spend was sourced locally. Exceeded Achieved Not achieved 36 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 TARGETS FOR 2013 ¨¨ Continued integration of sustainability into long-term strategy through the implementation of Fair Share 2030 ¨¨ Accelerated development of sustainable products and services ¨¨ Maintaining our carbon neutrality despite increases in the scope of our carbon measurements ¨¨ Intensified focus on water stewardship with a particular focus on access, quality and quantity ¨¨ Maintain level 2 B-BBEE rating and continue to improve scores ¨¨ Enhance the impact of our corporate social investment spend and strengthen partnerships 2012 Objective Making things happen in 2012 2012 Scorecard Lead as a ‘green bank’ Integrated sustainability step change: Impacts of lending Continued reﬁnement of our Social and Environmental Management System. Altogether 15P Nedbank Capital transactions that comply with the Equator Principles (per risk category) had their ﬁrst drawdowns in 2012, compared with two in 2011. Product and service Continued successful involvement in SA’s Renewable-energy Independent development Power Producer Programme, securing a 39% share of the allocated megawatt capacity for funding of approved preferred suppliers for the second phase, on the back of a 33% share from the first phase. Raising awareness of the Nedbank Green Index as a benchmark for environmentally conscious investors – as confirmed by the Responsible Investment for Carbon Change and Water Study conducted by the World Wide Fund for Nature SA (WWF-SA), which showed the index to have a combined carbon footprint that is 15% smaller than that of the FTSE/JSE Top 100 companies and highlighted it as one of the ‘few sources of credible, publicly available data for passive investors to use in developing sophisticated investment strategies’. Ongoing growth in investment in the BGreen Exchange-traded Fund, with total funds under management having reached R119m at 4 December 2012. Successful launch of SA’s first Green Savings Bond, which offers individuals and institutions access to a long-term savings mechanism while allowing them to contribute to renewable-energy projects at no cost to them. On 31 December 2012 investments in the Green Savings Bond reached almost R1bn. Growth in Nedbank Afﬁnity donations from R18,7m in 2011 to R20,9m in 2012 with support given to nearly 2000 social and environmental projects across SA. Since inception donations of more than R200m to the respective trusts by the four Nedbank Afﬁnities. Management of Included in the South African Carbon Disclosure Project index,with a score carbon emissions of 92%. This was lower than the score achieved in 2011 and meant that we were not included in the Leadership Index. The drop in score was, however, due to a technical error in the disclosure submission rather than to any decline in our actual performance. We remained a constituent on the Nedbank Green Index and are committed to continued improvements in this area while maintaining our carbonneutral status. Nedbank has the highest number of Green Star rated buildings in SA. Reduce our Maintained our carbon-neutral status for fourth consecutive year. resource intensity Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased by 1,84% per fulltime employee (FTE). This was due to organic growth and ongoing efforts to expand our Contribute to GHG report boundary and scope. Emissions per m2 of office space were Exceeded resource conservation reduced by 3,84%. Continued investment in water security through the WWF Water Balance Programme. Water consumption on campus sites was reduced. Achieved (partly) Electricity usage declined by 0,67% per FTE and by 6,21% based on total floor space. Not Built on our growing portfolio of food security commitments with an achieved R8,3m investment in the WWF-SA Sustainable Agriculture Programme. 37 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Communities (CONTINUED) 2012 Summarised annual dti Codes scorecard: LEVEL 2P Voting rights Economic interest Employee schemes/ BroadNet Black Black Black Black Designated based equity Total Ownership people women people women groups schemes, etc value score Weighting 34,61% 14,62% 32,03% 12,85% 18,81% 29,28% 32,03% 23,00 20% Black Bonus: executive Senior top Other independent Total Management Board directors management top management directors score Weighting 51,67% 41,67% 28,13% n/a 80,00% 9,19 10% Employment Disabled as Total equity Senior management Middle management Junior management % of total score Weighting 29,11% 55,41% 80,86% 1,97% 10,71 15% Skills Category B, C and D Total development Skills spend % Disabled skills spend % programmes score Weighting 3,03% 0,06% 5,56% 12,59 15% % blackPreferential % spend on QSEs1 % spend womenTotal procurement % spend and EMEs2 black-owned owned score Weighting 103,57% 32,46% 13,90% 5,50% 19,38 20% Enterprise Total development % contributions score Weighting 5,62% 15,00 15% Socioeconomic Total development % contributions score Weighting 1,60% 5,00 5% Non-scoring performanceP Targeted BEE5 FSC3 Black Black Affordable investtransaction Consumer Product/Area Mzansi branches SMMEs4 agriculture housing ments financing education Weighting Achieved 245 899 7 R5 003m R186m R5 527m R13 553m R6 061m 0,23% 0% Growth vs 2010 (15,48%) (12,50%) 27,74% 13,77% 69,92% 27,97% (17,52%) (59,98%) Total B-BBEE Audited and verified by SizweNtsalubaGobodo 94,87 100% score B-BBEE level 2 1 Qualifying small entity. 2 Exempt microenterprises. 3 Financial sector charter. 4 Small, medium and microenterprises. 5 Black ecnonomic empowerment. We played an active part in the negotiation of the dedicated Financial Sector Code (FS Code) for the financial sector that was promulgated in November 2012. This is a major step for the sector as it will contribute to its transformation. The FS Code includes Empowerment Financing and Access to Financial Services previously not recognised by the dti Codes. Measurement according to the FS Code will officially be done during 2013 and with scoring only happening in 2014, but we will submit our first report to the FS Code Council in 2013 based on 2009-to-2012 performance. We remain committed to building on our solid empowerment credentials by aligning with the FS Code and ensuring that existing and new initiatives build on our current successes to advance its transformation journey further and will continue to contribute to B-BBEE. 38 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS FOR 2013 Maintain and enhance our position as SA’s ‘green and caring’ bank Our positioning as a ‘green and caring’ bank is more than a strategic or reputational issue – it reflects our continued commitment to embedding sustainability in all its forms across every area and function of our business. KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FOR 2013 AND BEYOND Objective Target Maintain our step change focus on more holistically Continued integration of sustainability into a long-term strategy through integrating sustainability initiatives and considerations into the implementation of Fair Share 2030. all business activities Accelerated development of sustainable products and services. Enhancement and expansion of responsible lending and investment practices. Continue to pursue carbon awareness, measurement and Focused minimisation of our carbon footprint through the pursuit of reduction and maintain our carbon-neutral status as a key clearly defined electricity, paper, waste and business travel reduction component of our climate change journey targets and ongoing recycling initiatives. Maintaining our carbon neutrality despite increases in the scope of our carbon measurements. Further reduce resource consumption Intensified focus on water stewardship with a particular focus on access, quality and quantity. Consistently deliver on transformation as a vital component Maintaining our level 2 B-BBEE rating and containing to improve scores. of becoming a truly SA bank Continued focus on enhancing and extending access to all ﬁnancial services. Growing our involvement in empowerment ﬁnancing. Enhancing the impact of our corporate social investment spend and strengthening partnerships. HOT TOPICS RESULTING DEVELOPMENTS Support for the National Development Plan We are committed to contributing proactively to shaping a sustainable future for SA that benefits all of its citizens. Our Vision 2030 aligns with the National Development Plan (NDP) and sees a prosperous SA that has successfully addressed its critical socioeconomic challenges by 2030. Our strategic response, Fair Share 2030, will see us contribute towards this transition to prosperity and sustainability. Funding of transformation imperatives To be a truly sustainable business, we recognise that we should make a lasting and valuable contribution to the socioeconomic transformation of our country. We continue our efforts to accelerate transformation both within our organisation and in the greater SA context. Allocation of socioeconomic spend In 2012 we allocated R95m (2011: R78m) in support of 584 socioeconomic development or social sustainability initiatives in all nine SA provinces. This was mainly in the areas of education (> 50%), welfare, community development and the environment. Funding of coal-related projects We play an intermediary role in this issue, which demands a delicate balance between meeting current energy needs and ensuring a sustainable future as it relates to energy security. A carbon-constrained future will demand that many industries radically transform, but the transition must be orderly and logical. We are committed to doing our part to help meet the energy demands of SA today, while moving the country towards a renewable-energy future. Funding of green innovations/companies Collaboration is one of the cornerstones of our sustainability approach and we proactively look for opportunities to work with, or fund, companies involved in green development or innovation. We do, however, have to balance our attraction for environmental partnerships with a realistic consideration of these companies’ economic sustainability realities. 39 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Communities (CONTINUED) HOT TOPICS RESULTING DEVELOPMENTS Driving awareness/Encouraging behaviour change: Given our extensive reach through stakeholders such as clients and suppliers, we act as a catalyst for behavioural change and sensitisation in terms of social ¨¨ financial education and advice and environmental issues. ¨¨ sustainability education Our reputation for holistic consumer education is well established. At a ¨¨ paper usage/wastage business level advice and education are at the heart of our enterprise development approach and we achieve this through a variety of business guidance programmes, incubators and business development initiatives designed to transfer essential skills. Our Greening Your Business Programme continues to be well supported by organisations of all sizes seeking to undertake or enhance their sustainability journeys. Please see the environment section for more information. At a local community level we conduct extensive consumer financial and banking education programmes. We continue to extend our Caring for Communities Programme, which helps impoverished communities understand the value of sustainability initiatives, and implement such initiatives for the benefit of individuals and families. While paper is only 2% of our total footprint, we understand that it is a visible part of banking with us. As such we have: –– stepped up efforts to reduce the amount of paper used in our application and product process and more than 9 600 boxes of paper have been saved through this work alone; –– encouraged clients to switch to electronic statements; and –– worked, and are continuing to work, on our client data to eradicate duplication and ensure client data is up to date. We remain committed to reaching our target of a 10% reduction in paper usage despite an increase of 4,3% in 2012. CASE STUDY Green Savings Bond helps South Africans save … and save the planet The launch of the Nedbank Green Savings Bond in July 2012 was I t is an innovative way for the ‘green bank’ to extend its integrated greeted favourably by the targeted investment audience. The sustainability philosophy to a greater number of South Africans positive response was understandable, given that this unique from all sectors of society. This product can also be linked to the product offers individuals access to an exceptional long-term Nedbank Green Affinity Programme, where the more a client savings mechanism, while at the same time allowing them to invests, the more money is donated to the WWF Nedbank Green contribute to renewable-energy projects – at no cost to them. Trust for the funding of various environmental projects. T  he savings vehicle, which carries a low minimum investment of In the six months since it was launched the Nedbank Green R1 000, a competitive interest rate of up to 6,90% and a capital Savings Bond has attracted investment inflows of close to R1bn guarantee, has been designed to align perfectly with our – proof of the appetite that exists in SA for banking and investment commitment to integrated sustainability. While it encourages products that help people save for, and contribute to, a better people to develop a much-needed savings habit, capital raised future. through the Nedbank Green Savings Bond is earmarked for investment in the various renewable-energy projects financed by Nedbank Capital. 40 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Value-added Statement Other banking income Includes non-interest revenue, non-trading and capital items and share of associates and joint ventures. R17 295m 54% 2011: R15 398m 55% R31 776mP 2011: R28 101m Value added is the wealth 46% created from providing quality services to clients 62% (16%) Net interest Impairment Income from income losses on loans lending activities R14 481m and advances R19 680m (R5 199m) 2011: R18 034m 2011: (R5 331m) 2011: R12 703m 64% (19%) 45% Value allocated Socioeconomic development spend Employees R95m R11 390m 2011: R78m 2011: R10 243m 36% Other expenditure  Includes expenses relating to computer processing, communication and travel, occupation and accommodation, marketing Shareholders 36% and public relations and fees and insurances. 24% Value is allocated to shareholders in respect of cash dividends (does not include the underlying value of capitalisation shares awarded) and income R31 776mP R7 574m attributable to non-controlling shareholders. 2011: R7 200m 2011: 26% R3 584m 2011: R2 921m R28 101m 11% 11% 18% 10% Government (taxes) 13% 5% Includes direct and indirect taxation. Retained income Depreciation and Retentions for growth R3 436m 2011: R2 679m R5 697m amortisation R4 228m R1 469m 10% 2011: R3 582m 2011: R1 398m 2011: R4 980m 13% 5% 18% 41 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Global Reporting Initiative FSSS1 GRI2 Topic Description UNGC FSSS1 principles FS1 Description of policies with speciﬁc Sustainability development performance review: environmental and social components ¨¨ Sustainability governance structures and policy applied to business lines framework. Social and Environmental Risk Management: 1, 2 ¨¨ Responsible lending for sustainable success. ¨¨ Responsible investment for sustainable success. Risk and balance sheet management review Governance and ethics review: 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 ¨¨ Code of Ethics. ¨¨ Code of Conduct. ¨¨ Human rights. FS2 Description of procedures for assessing and Sustainability development performance review: 7–9 screening environmental and social risks in ¨¨ Social and environmental risk management. business lines Responsible lending for sustainable success. 7–9 Responsible investment for sustainable success. 7–9 Risk and balance sheet management review. Governance and ethics review: 1, 2 ¨¨ Human rights. FS3 Description of processes for monitoring Sustainability development performance review: 1, 2, 7 – 9 clients’ implementation of and compliance ¨¨ Social and environmental risk management. with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Description of processes for improving staff Sustainability development performance review: 7–9 competency to implement the environmental ¨¨ Sustainability awareness and policy acknowledgements. and social policies and procedures as applied Environmental sustainability: 7–9 to business lines ¨¨ Carbon emissions. Risk and balance sheet management review: 10 ¨¨ Money-laundering, terrorist-ﬁnancing and sanctions risk management, and fraud risk management. Governance and ethics review: 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 ¨¨ Ethics training and awareness. 1 Financial Services Sector Supplement. 2 Global Reporting Initiative. 42 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 GRI2 Topic Description UNGC FSSS1 principles FS5 Interactions with clients/investors/business Stakeholder overview partners regarding environmental and social Sustainability development performance review: 1, 2, 3, 7 – 9 risk and opportunities ¨¨ Stakeholder engagement. Environmental sustainability: 1, 2, 7 – 9 ¨¨ Carbon neutrality. ¨¨ Leading through collaboration. Social sustainability: 1, 2, 7 – 9, 10 ¨¨ Consumer education. ¨¨ Sustainability education. FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines Group proﬁle by speciﬁc region, size and sector Company structure Operational footprint Business proﬁle Nedbank Group Ltd nine-year review – statistics and ratios FS7 Monetary value of products and services Environmental sustainability: designed to deliver a specific social beneﬁt ¨¨ Enabling environmental sustainability through products for each business and services. 1, 2, 7 – 9 Social sustainability: ¨¨ Targeted investment. 8, 9 ¨¨ Enterprise Development ¨¨ Nedbank Affinities 1, 2, 7 – 9 2012 Transformation Report 1–6 FS8 Monetary value of products and services Environmental sustainability: designed to deliver a specific environmental ¨¨ Enabling environmental sustainability through products beneﬁt for each business line, broken down and services. 7–9 by purpose ¨¨ The Nedbank Green Afﬁnity 7–9 FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Assurance statement in the 2012 Nedbank Group Integrated implementation of environmental and social Report 1 – 10 policies and risk assessment procedures FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in Company structure the institution’s portfolio with which the Operational footprint reporting organisation has interacted on environmental and social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and Sustainability development performance review: negative environmental and social screening ¨¨ Enabling environmental sustainability through products and services. 7–9 Environmental sustainability: ¨¨ Carbon neutrality. 7–9 ¨¨ Greening our supply chain. 7–9 Social sustainability: ¨¨ Preferential procurement. 1, 2, 8 FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental and No organisations over which Nedbank holds the right to vote social issues for shares over which the shares or advises on voting. reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting FS13 Access points in the low-populated or Stakeholder overview: Clients: economically disadvantaged areas by type ¨¨ Responsible product/information labelling. 1, 2 Business proﬁle: Nedbank Retail Social sustainability: ¨¨ Access to financial services. 1, 2 2012 Transformation Report 1, 6 43 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 GRI2 Topic Description UNGC FSSS1 principles FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial Stakeholder overview: Clients: services for disadvantaged people ¨¨ Responsible product/information labelling. 1, 2 Environment sustainability: ¨¨ Enabling environmental sustainability through products and services. 7–9 Leading through collaboration: ¨¨ Carbon neutrality. 7–9 Social sustainability: ¨¨ Access to financial services. 1, 2 ¨¨ Targeted investment. 1 – 6, 7 – 9 ¨¨ Enterprise Development. 1 – 6, 7 – 9 2012 Transformation Report 1–6 FS15 Policies for the fair design and the sale of Stakeholder overview: Clients: ﬁnancial products and services ¨¨ Responsible product/information labelling. 1, 2 Risk and balance sheet management review: ¨¨ Information and technology risk. 1, 2 ¨¨ People risk. 1–6 ¨¨ Financial crime. 10 ¨¨ Money-laundering, terrorist-ﬁnancing and sanctions risk management. 10 ¨¨ Compliance risk management. 1 – 10 Governance and ethics review ¨¨ Code of Ethics. 1 – 6, 10 ¨¨ Code of Conduct. ¨¨ Human rights. FS16 Initiatives to enhance ﬁnancial literacy by Social sustainability: type of beneficiary ¨¨ Consumer education. 1, 2, 10 2012 Transformation Report 1–6 44 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Global Reporting Initiative GRI1 INDEX Our response to GRI 3.1 is aligned with application level A+. This is with reference to the information disclosed in the printed Integrated Report as well as the supplementary information available online at www.nedbankgroup.co.za. No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC2 Principles 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Chairman’s Report organisation. Chief Executive’s Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Introduction: Material matters Group strategy 1 – 10 Investment case Stakeholder overview Economic review Sustainability governance structures and policies 1 – 10 framework Social and environmental risk management 7–9 Risk and balance sheet management review 2 Organisational proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organisation. Nedbank Group Ltd 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. Group proﬁle Business proﬁle Operational reviews Environmental sustainability 7–9 Social sustainability 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main Operational footprint 7–9 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. Company structure 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Group proﬁle 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and Group profile 7–9 names of countries with either major operations or that are Company structure speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability issues covered Operational footprint in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Group profile Company structure 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors Company structure served and types of Operational footprint client/beneﬁciary). Business proﬁle 1 Global Reporting Initiative. 2 United Nations Global Compact. 45 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Operational footprint Financial Report Nedbank Group Ltd nine-year review Cultural sustainability: Employee proﬁle 3–6 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding No significant changes during the reporting period. size, structure or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Recognition received 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (eg ﬁscal/calendar year) for information Introduction provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Introduction 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc). Introduction 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Contacts contents. 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content. Introduction 3.6 Boundary of the report (eg countries, divisions, Introduction subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of N/a the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Introduction facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that Company structure can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to period Financial notes 53 and 54 and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Introduction calculations, including assumptions and techniques Basis of preparation available at underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the www.nedbankgroup.co.za indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of A reclassification was made to the Group’s information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for Statement of Financial Position, as well as such restatement. reclassifications and a restatement in the notes to the financial statements, none of which were material. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the None scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures GRI FSSS in the report. Full GRI G3.1 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Introduction assurance for the report. Assurance statement 1 – 10 4 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including Board of directors 1, 2, 7 – 10 committees under the highest governance body Sustainability governance structures and policy responsible for speciﬁc tasks, such as setting strategy or framework organisational oversight. Governance and ethics review 1, 2, 7 – 10 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body Governance and ethics review 1, 2, 7 – 10 is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state Board of directors the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonGovernance and ethics review 1, 2, 7 – 10 executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Stakeholder overview: Staff 3–6 recommendations or direction to the highest governance Stakeholder engagement: Staff body. Notice of annual general meeting 3–6 Form of proxy 46 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Cultural sustainability: Reward 1, 2, 3 – 6 highest governance body, senior managers and executives Remuneration Report 3–6 (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Governance and ethics review 3–6 ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualiﬁcations Sustainable development performance review 1, 2, 7 – 10 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, Governance and ethics review environmental and social topics, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Sustainable development performance review 3–6 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Governance and ethics review 1, 2 environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing Sustainable development performance review 7–9 the organisation’s identiﬁcation and management of Environmental sustainability 7–9 economic, environmental and social performance, Social sustainability 1, 2 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence Cultural sustainability 3–6 or compliance with internationally agreed standards, Governance and ethics review codes of conduct and principles. 1 – 10 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Sustainable development performance review 1, 2, 7 – 10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Governance and ethics review environmental and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Sustainable development performance review: 7–9 approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. Social and environmental risk management Governance and ethics review: Ethics and corporate accountability 1 – 10 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Sustainable development performance review 7–9 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Sustainability credentials and indices associations) and/or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation has positions in governance bodies. Participates in projects or committees. Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Sustainable development performance review: 1 – 10 Stakeholder engagement 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders Sustainable development performance review: 1 – 10 with whom to engage. Stakeholder engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Sustainable development performance review: 1 – 10 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Stakeholder engagement group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Sustainable development performance review: stakeholder engagement,and how the organisation has Stakeholder engagement responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 47 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Environmental – Management approach No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Nedbank Group Ltd nine-year review 7–9 Environmental sustainability: Carbon footprint measurement EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Based on our materiality review process, this 7–9 materials. indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Nedbank Group Ltd nine-year review 7–9 Environmental sustainability: Carbon footprint measurement EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Nedbank Group Ltd nine-year review Environmental sustainability: Carbon footprint measurement EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Nedbank’s participation in the WWF Water Balance 7–9 Programme addresses water consumption regardless of source EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or No land owned, leased or managed or adjacent to a 7–9 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity protected area/area of high biodiversity value value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, No land owned, leased or managed or adjacent to a 7–9 and services on performance biodiversity in protected protected area/area of high biodiversity value areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Environmental sustainability: 7–9 mass. Carbon footprint measurement EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by mass. Environmental sustainability: 7–9 Carbon footprint measurement EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by mass. Environmental sustainability: 7–9 Carbon footprint measurement EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and Not a material emission. If emitted and a 7–9 mass. Greenhouse Gas, then is included in the carbon footprint. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Based on our materiality review process, this indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it EN22 Total mass of waste by type and disposal method. Environmental sustainability 7–9 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Based on our materiality review process, this 7–9 indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Sustainable development performance review: and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Social and environmental risk management Environmental sustainability: Managing our impact EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Based on our materiality review process, this that are reclaimed by category. indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it EN28 Monetary value of significant ﬁnes and total number of No significant ﬁnes were received during the period 7–9 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 48 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Human rights – Management approach No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Sustainable development performance review: 1, 2, 7 – 9 agreements and contracts that include human rights Social and environmental risk management clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Governance and Ethics review: Human rights 1, 2 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors and Governance and Ethics review: 1, 2 other business partners that have undergone screening on Human rights human rights and actions taken. 2012 Transformation Report HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Governance and Ethics review: 1, 2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Human rights operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2012 Transformation Report HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective Governance and Ethics review: 1, 2 actions taken. Human rights HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identiﬁed in which the No significant risk identiﬁed for the reporting period right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identiﬁed as having No significant risk identiﬁed for the reporting period significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identiﬁed as having No significant risk identiﬁed for the reporting period significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been Governance and Ethics review: 1, 2 subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Human rights assessments. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights ﬁled, Governance and Ethics review: addressed and resolved through formal grievance Human rights mechanisms. Labour practices and decent work – Management approach No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Cultural sustainability: Employee proﬁle 3–6 and region broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires, employee Cultural sustainability: Employee proﬁle 3–6 turnover by age group, gender and region. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Cultural sustainability: Collective bargaining 3–6 agreements. LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational Cultural sustainability: Employee relations 3–6 changes, including whether it is speciﬁed in collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Cultural sustainability: 3–6 management-worker health and safety committees that help Occupational health and safety monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Cultural sustainability: 3–6 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Occupational health and safety region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control Cultural sustainability: 3–6 programmes in place to assist members, their families or Promoting employee wellness community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender Cultural sustainability: Developing employees 3–6 and employee category. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Cultural sustainability: 3–6 career development reviews. Performance management LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Cultural sustainability: Driving transformation 3–6 employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Cultural sustainability: Reward 6 category by significant locations of operation. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Cultural sustainability: Employee wellbeing 6 gender. 49 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Society – Management approach No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Social sustainability: 3–6 community engagement, impact assessments, and The Nedbank Foundation development programmes. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed Risk and balance sheet management review: 10 for risks related to corruption. Operational risk SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Risk and balance sheet management review: 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Operational risk SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Risk and balance sheet management review: 10 Operational risk SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Sustainable development performance review: 1 – 10 development and lobbying. Responsiveness to changing regulation Risk and balance sheet management review: Operational risk SO6 Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions to Nedbank’s policy does not allow for contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by individual political parties. country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive None for the reporting period behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant ﬁnes and total number of No material ﬁnes received in the reporting period non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative No significant or potential negative impacts for the 7–9 impacts on local communities. reporting period SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Based on our materiality review process, this 7–9 operations with significant potential or actual negative indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and impacts on local communities. therefore we do not attempt to report on it Product responsibility – Management approach No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Based on our materiality review process, this products and services are assessed for improvement, and indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and percentage of significant products and services categories therefore we do not attempt to report on it subject to such procedures. PR3 Type of product and service information required by Stakeholder overview: Client data protection and 1, 2 procedures and percentage of significant products and privacy Responsible product/labelling services subject to such information requirements. Risk and balance sheet management review: Operational risk PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction, including results of Stakeholder overview: surveys measuring client satisfaction. Client PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and Stakeholder overview: 1, 2 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Client data protection and privacy including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Responsible product/labelling Risk and balance sheet management review: Operational risk PR9 Monetary value of significant ﬁnes for non-compliance No significant ﬁnes received for non-compliance in 1, 2 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and this regard in the reporting period use of products and services. Economic – Management approach 50 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC Principles EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 2012 highlights 1 – 10 including revenues, operating costs, employee Performance highlights compensation, donations and other community Value-added statement investments, retained earnings and payments to capital Sustainable development performance review providers and governments. Financial Report Nedbank Group Ltd nine-year review Risk and balance sheet management review EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Investment case 7–9 the organisation’s activities due to climate change. Economic review Business proﬁle Operational reviews Environmental sustainability Risk and balance sheet management review EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned-beneﬁt plan Remuneration Report 1–6 obligations. EC4 Significant ﬁnancial assistance received from government. No ﬁnancial assistance received from government. EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally Sustainable development performance review: 1 – 10 based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Suppliers 1,2 Social sustainability: Preferential procurement EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Cultural sustainability: Employee profile 1, 2, 3 – 6 management hired from the local community at significant 2012 Transformation Report locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Social sustainability: Empowerment ﬁnancing and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through 2012 Transformation Report commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement. 51 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 Contact Details Kerri Savin Stakeholder Engagement Manager Tel: +27 11 295 5672 Email: kerris@nedbank.co.za Drieke Havanga Ethics Officer Tel: +27 11 295 6944 Email: driekieh@nedbank.co.za 52 Nedbank Group | United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2012 NET#WORK BBDO NET#WORK 8014197 BBDO 8014197 Nedbank is recognised again in 2012. NET#WORK BBDO 8014197 Nedbank is recognised again in 2012. Nedbank is Best South African Bank 2012: Euromoney magazine The South African Bank of the Year 2011 (The Banker magazine), and Sustainable Bank of the Year for Middle East and Africa 2012 (Financial Times & International Finance Corporation), is proud to be named BestBest SouthBank South African African for 2012 Bank 2012: (Euromoney Euromoney international magazine finance magazine). These accolades are made possible because of our personal commitment to your success & our commitment to make things happen for our stakeholders. The South African Bank of the Year 2011 (The Banker magazine), and Sustainable Bank of the Year for ForMiddle more information visit2012 East and Africa (Financial Times www.nedbank.co.za The South African Bank of the Year 2011 (T & International Finance Corporation), is proud to be named Best South African Bank for 2012 (Euromoney international finance magazine). These & International Finance Corporation), is pro accolades are made possible because of our personal commitment to your success & our commitment to make things happen for our stakeholders. accolades are made possible because of our For more information visit www.nedbank.co.za Nedbank Limited Reg No 1951/000009/06, VAT Reg No 4320116074, 135 Rivonia Road, Sandown, Sandton, 2196, South Africa. We subscribe to the Code of Banking Practice of The Banking Association South Africa and, for unresolved disputes, support resolution through the Ombudsman for Banking Services. We are an authorised financial services provider. We are a registered credit provider in terms of the National Credit Act (NCR Reg No NCRCP16). Nedbank Limited Reg No 1951/000009/06, VAT Reg No 4320116074, 135 Rivonia Road, Sandown, Sandton, 2196, South Africa. We subscribe to the Code of Banking Practice of The Banking Association South Africa and, for unresolved disputes, support resolution through the Ombudsman for Banking Services. We are an authorised financial services provider. We are a registered credit provider in terms of the National Credit Act (NCR Reg NoNedbank NCRCP16). Limited Reg No 1951/000009/06, VAT Reg No 4320116074 for unresolved disputes, support resolution through the Ombudsman for Banking
