GLOBAL COMPACT Good practices 2013 (Financial Year 2012) Dassault Aviation is one of the major players in the global civil and military aircraft industry. A reasonably sized and financially secure private international group, with a presence in more than 70 countries across 5 continents, Dassault Aviation has been profitable ever since its creation in 1936. Structured to adapt its production to market cycles, Dassault Aviation encompasses a rich industrial network of high-tech companies in France, Europe, and many countries worldwide. In order to achieve its objectives in a highly competitive and increasingly global economy, Dassault Aviation builds on strong values, a clear identity and strict ethical standards. Its values are customer spirit, human qualities, technological excellence and innovation, economic performance, openness to the world, environmental protection measures. Commitment In 2003, Dassault Aviation, whose Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is Mr Eric Trappier, joined the UN Global Compact initiative. The Group supports the ten principles relating to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. It is through this commitment that Dassault Aviation has progressively incorporated the Global Compact principles into its strategy, culture and daily operations. The following ‘Godd Practices’ document illustrates a few actions undertaken by the company as a commitment to the Global Compact. Dassault Aviation renews its commitment to the Global Compact for 2013. The CEO , Mr Eric Trappier : 1 Human rights (principles 1 &2) Dassault Aviation is committed to the respect of Human Rights as stated in Principle 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, whether in France where Dassault Aviation designs and manufactures aircraft or in the United States where the company makes the completion of some of its business jets. Dassault Aviation is also watchful regarding its suppliers which are mostly located in industrialised countries. Labour (principles 3-6) A number of measures taken in 2012 are illustrative of a strong and steady orientation in favour of social progress and equality at work (principles 3 and 6). They also belong to Principle 1 (human rights) of the Global Compact. As an integral part of its equal opportunity policy, Dassault has contracted a specialized human resources consultancy to train all its managers in “management and diversity”. This training improves the managers’ awareness towards promoting diversity, non-discrimination and gender equality in recruitment, the working environment and professional career. In 2012, 475 managers have been following this training which is continuing in 2013. Each of Dassault Aviation employees has been mailed two brochures highlighting the company’s equal opportunity policy: “Living gender equality, equal opportunity employment is an asset for Dassault Aviation” and “Living parenthood: what the parents need to know”. These brochures are also available on the company’s Intranet. Dassault Aviation has promoted women undertaking aerospace training and graduating as aerospace engineers through enhanced links with technical and scientific schools or universities. In France, there are 17% of femal engineers. Dassault Aviation has encouraged its female employees to join two major in-house management and leadership training programs (“Dassault Management” and “Dassault Leader”) to increase the number of female employees in the management pool. Dassault has implemented the October 7, 2010, agreement on handicapped employees and raised the share of handicapped employees from 7.5% to 9.3% in 2012 (8.4% in 2011). In France, the share of handicapped employees has been fixed by law at 6% but the effective rate is closer to 4% which make Dassault Aviation among the most dedicated to the employment of handicapped persons. 2 In addition, Dassault Aviation is a founding member of HANVOL, a non-profit organisation helping the training and employment of handicapped persons in the aircraft industry. For further information, please follow these links http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/finance/publications http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/group/employee-mater http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/careers The September 9, 2010, agreement on specific resources and career opportunities for employee representatives has led to opening a dedicated website accessible to the employees on the company’s Intranet. The management and the unions have agreed on a chart of use of this website by the unions on October 11, 2011. Environment (principles 7-9) In 2012, Dassault Aviation has taken several environmental steps related to Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. For several years, Dassault Aviation has gradually developed an environmental policy and an organizational structure that helped reinforce environmental considerations at all its sites. In 2005, Dassault Aviation production sites obtained the ISO certification. In 2007, the whole company processes were certified. An in 2009, Dassault Aviation obtained integrated quality and environmental management ISO certification. Ence Dassault Aviation has already achieved major actions in favour of the environment, as illustrated in its 2012 Environmental Report, and keeps a highly responsible environmental policy. Improving the higher level is now the order of the day, with the following actions undertaken in 2012: setting up a central management to enhance energy consumption and identify axis of progress; launching a innovative process of pre-diagnosis and mapping of energy efficiency in all its sites; plans for “greening” industrial processes to substitute the most environmentally impacting processes energy efficiency by friendlier ones such as chemical machining or surface treatments; wooden and plastics packaging are now disposed off compacted; trials of a company employee transportation planning promoting car sharing and collective transports; acquisition of utility electric vehicles and bicycles. 3 In its General terms of purchase, the company recommends to its suppliers to respect the 10 principles of the Global Compact and to obtain ISO 14000 certification. Compliance with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) European Union Regulation has again been a priority in 2011. Based on transparency and precaution, REACH is to improve the protection of human health and the environment through the better and earlier identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical substances. It also calls for the progressive substitution of the most dangerous chemicals when suitable alternatives have been identified. In 2012, actions for substituting substances of concern (substitution plans for chromates, cadmium and lead) and for reducing chemical risks were reinforced, particularly with regard to the processes using hexavalent chromium-based mixtures. Dassault Aviation’s industrial environmental approach is complemented by the definition and launch of an eco-design plan for 2021 aimed at reducing the environmental impact of future products. Dassault Aviation is one of the founder members of the IAEG (International Aerospace Environmental Group) created in 2011. IAEG is a non-profit corporation comprised of a global group of aerospace companies, established to facilitate harmonization of compliance amongst aerospace companies and their supply chains with the existing and emerging laws and regulations protecting human health and the environment. IAEG will achieve that by promoting the development of voluntary consensus standards published by an independent standards organization harmonizing environmental requirements applicable to aerospace companies. IAEG aims to address such issues as chemical material declarations and reporting requirements, greenhouse gas reporting and management, and to create a forum for dialog and information exchange on industry optional approaches for implementation of environmental requirements. For further information, please follow these links http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/finance/publications http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/group/environment Anti-corruption (principles10) Dassault Aviation follows a proactive policy against corruption. This is in compliance with the French law which, ever since 2000, has enacted and applied stringently numerous international conventions under the OECD, the UN and the European Union against foreign corruption practices. 4 The Dassault Aviation policy is stated in its Chart of Ethics and is in accordance with Principle 10 of the Global Compact. In order to promote business ethics, Dassault Aviation has initiated within the AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe, ASD, a committee in charge of elaborating European business ethics standards. These” Common Industry Standards” have been approved by the Council of the ASD then chaired by Dassault Aviation CEO Charles Edelstenne and signed by Dassault Aviation. Within GIFAS, the French aerospace industries association, Dassault Aviation contributes to good governance standards through several committees. In 2012, Dassault Aviation joined the international Forum of Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). It is now a member of the IFBEC Steering Committee. The purpose of IFBEC is to: promote and forster through “the Global Principles“, the development of global, industry-wide ethical standards for the companies that are active in the aerospace and defense business sector. organize opportunities for industry and relevant stakeholders to exchange information and best practices concerning ethical business challenges, practices and opportunities worldwide. The IFBEC organized its third international conference in Madrid (13-14 September 2012) in association with the Aerospace and Defense Industries Association of Europe (ASD) and the Aerospace Industries of America (AIA). The purpose of this conference was to promote global cooperation to increase integrity in public procurements and bolster the public’s trust. The IFBEC has published in 2012 a “Public Accountability Report”. This Report provides both members and non-members with data on IFBEC members compliance with “the Global Principles” and best practices that align with “The Global Principles “. For more information, please click here: www.ifbec.info Dassault Aviation participated in building up the Global Principles or shared ethics principles between European and American industry professionals, which is under ratification. For the Dassault Aviation values, ethics, reports, please click: http://www.dassault-aviation.com Attached documents : -2012 annual report 5 -Dassault Aviation Ethical Charter 6 2012 ANNUAL REPORT CONTENTS 3 Message from the Chairman 4 Management committee 5 Profile 6 Strategy 9 Highlights 10 Innovation 13 Dynamism 14 Industrial influence 17 Values 18 Employee matters 21 Developping skills 22 Environment 24 Products 30 Aircraft and sites worldwide 32 Sites and main subsidiaries 33 2012 annual financial report 165 Ordinary annual general meeting, May 15, 2013 DASSAULT AVIATION VISION “Higher together”: every day, this desire is becoming a reality. With each of our aircraft, we demonstrate our mastery of advanced technology, dedicated to the service of our customers. In so doing, we help our customers to maintain their independence and manage their own time, their own space, their decisions and their actions, worldwide. Our vision and our long-term viability are built upon bold yet realistic technical and industrial choices, in compliance with ethical, social and environmental imperatives. As a pivotal component of a high value-added strategic industry, we contribute to the development of a wide range of high-flying companies, laboratories and educational establishments. Thanks to the skills and experience of our teams, we are able to develop a degree of know-how that is unique in Europe, and which we are keen to share with a host of French and international partners. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN VALUES BUILT TO LAST On January 9, 2013, Éric Trappier succeeded Charles Edelstenne as Chairman – CEO of Dassault Aviation. 2 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation SALES OF FALCONS AND RAFALES, PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE 2012 began with some good news: the selection of the Rafale for sale to India. The MMRCA contract still needs to be finalized, but the decision from New Delhi, taken on the basis of technical, operational and financial criteria, confirms the superiority of our jet. Alongside the success of the Rafale there have been the highly successful maiden flights of the nEUROn stealth combat drone. Only the United States had previously flown devices of this type. As far as Falcon sales are concerned, the current situation is akin to a slow convalescence: orders were negative by minus 163 in 2009, minus 9 in 2010, and positive by 36 in 2011 and 58 in 2012, on the back of a more dynamic final quarter. The uncertain development of the global economy does not do our activities any favors. The main problem resides in the United States and Western Europe. With large fleets of business jets, these two zones are particularly sensitive to vicissitudes on the used aircraft market, and this has yet to see any real upturn. What is more, the weakness of the dollar remains a serious constraint, and over which we are powerless to act. In this context, Dassault Aviation’s 2012 consolidated figures were as follows: • orders: €3,32 billion, of which 76% for Falcons; • consolidated net sales: €3,94 billion, of which 71% for Falcons and 75% for export; • operating income: €547 million, for an operational margin of 13,9%; • adjusted net income: €524 million (€366 million, excluding Thales). Our company is built upon French foundations, in the shape of the French armed forces and the DGA (French Defense Procurement Agency); upon the Falcon community; and upon our military export clients. Taking this established base as a starting point, we have an immediate priority for implementation in 2013: selling Falcons and Rafales, with the constant concern of guaranteeing the provision of reliable and lasting after-sales support, without which there can be no customer satisfaction. To increase our civil sales, we count on the quality of our aircraft. The Falcon range has developed in leaps and bounds in recent years, with the 900LX, 2000LXS and 2000S models; the EASy II flight deck; and, of course, the 7X and its fly-by-wire control systems. We also count on the progress that we have made in terms of support. Major investments have been plowed into extending the coverage of our service center network, improving the distribution and reducing the cost of spare parts, proposing new remote maintenance monitoring tools, and offering personalized assistance to the operators or to the teams of our customers. For the Rafale, the objective is clear: we need to conclude the Indian contract while pursuing our efforts in the other prospective countries. Success will involve striking up strategic, technological and industrial partnerships. All calls for tenders insist on this notion of partnership, with the bid that we put in for India being a prime example of this. Over the longer term, we remain mobilized in preparing for the future, in particular with regard to maintaining our skills levels. Despite the crisis, we continue to hire in the critical professions, the R&D budgets are the highest they have ever been in the history of the Company, and several ambitious programs are underway: SMS (to be unveiled in a few months), nEUROn and UCAS research in collaboration with the United Kingdom, improvements to the Falcon range, upgrading the Rafale. Not to be forgotten is all the upstream work that we are carrying out with the DGAC (French Civil Aviation Authority) and the DGA, and the work done in the framework of Clean Sky and Investment in the Future. Within these activities, everything pertaining to the civil domain depends primarily on us, since the costs are within our scope and the potential clients, many. The opposite applies to the military domain, where the financing always comes down from State level, even in the USA. Nowadays, in a Europe that earmarks less and less of its budgets for defense, we need to propose innovative solutions, where efficiency and collaboration are the bywords. This is precisely what we have done with the nEUROn: the expertise that we demonstrate, the digital tools that we share, the new forms of program management that we have instituted – all of this goes to show that we are key players. People change, but the values of our company remain steadfast: independence, long-term vision, culture of excellence, technological innovation, a human dimension and a passion for fine aircraft. Éric Trappier Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 3 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Jean Sass Loïk Segalen Éric Trappier Benoît Berger Didier Gondoin Executive Vice-President, Chief Operating Chairman and CEO Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Information Systems Officer Industrial Operations, Engineering Procurement and Purchasing Alain Bonny Benoît Dussaugey Olivier Villa Gérald Maria Claude Defawe Senior Vice-President, Executive Senior Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Military Customer Vice-President, Civil Aircraft Vice-President, National and Support Division International Total Quality Cooperative Military Sales HUMAN RESOURCES & COMMUNICATION Jean-Jacques Cara Stéphane Fort Vice-President, Vice-President, External Relations Human Resources & Corporate Communication 4 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation PROFILE GLOBAL AND STILL ON A HUMAN SCALE Key player in the aerospace industry, both in Europe and internationally, courtesy of the initiatives and skills developed within our Group. Only group in the world to design, manufacture and support both combat aircraft (instruments of political independence) and business jets (work and economic development tools). Strategic player for the policy of national independence. Group at the vanguard of the technical and industrial revolution of the digital enterprise. Last aviation group in the world still owned by its founding family and bearing its name. Some Trademarks: Rafale, Falcon, nEUROn, Mirage. Since 1999, our main activity has been the export of business jets. 11,600 employees, 9,000 of whom Revenue in 2012: 71% business jets, 75% are based in France for export. More than Over the past 10 years, exports have accounted on average for 74% of sales. Over the past 10 years, Falcon business jets have accounted on average for 64% of sales. 8,000 aircraft delivered since 1945 In 83 countries worldwide Over 28 million flying hours Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 5 STRATEGY HIGHER TOGETHER As a designer of complex airborne systems, an industrial driving force and a catalyst for the keenest of strategic technologies, Dassault Aviation can draw on almost a century of experience and on its ambitious lines of development. The satisfaction of our customers is our company), projects and technologies (whatever number one priority. We can offer our customers, the location), employees, programs and products. from design through to operation, a huge wealth Configured to match production to the market of know-how informed by the cross-fertilization cycles, this allows us to underpin the versatility of of our civil and military activities, and invested our business lines and the flexibility of our industrial with a solid set of values that provide a powerful facilities. We offer our partners the benefits of illustration of our enterprise culture. all this through pragmatic and innovative cooperation scenarios. In both the civil and military domains, we maintain our excellent skills levels through We contribute to the dynamism of the French our self-financing capacity and the launch economy and, through our equity stake in Thales, of new programs such as: we are building a hub of global dimensions in the fields of strategic, aerospace, defense • the development of a new business jet and security technologies. (the SMS); • preliminary projects on greener, high-performance At the same time, we are aware that protecting Falcon aircraft; the environment is a global issue, requiring • projects for combat/surveillance UAVs. collective endeavor. We are convinced that the major We also ensure that the Rafale remains efficient aerospace developments will be measured against in the face of the challenge of future operational the yardstick of the initiatives launched in this scenarios. domain. We are continuing to work toward this end, in particular via the European Clean Sky We are bringing to maturity our unmanned stealth research projects. Thanks to our progress combat aircraft concepts through extending our in matters of eco-design, the reduction of noise work on the nEUROn. nuisance and reduced fuel consumption, our products contribute to the objectives of preserving Thanks to our close ties with Dassault Systèmes, our planet's resources. we constitute a model digital enterprise. The progressive rollout of the sixth version of the product lifecycle management (PLM V6) solutions and of its “Systems” component has generated new collaborative tools and methods. PLM V6 offers unparalleled prospects for collaboration and synergy through the coordination of participants (both inside and outside the 6 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation Falcon 7X and Falcon 900 fuselage assembly line, Biarritz (France) Since 1963, some 2,000 Falcons have been delivered to 80 countries. Higher together Éric Trappier, Chairman and CEO of Dassault Aviation, Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer, aboard a Falcon 7X. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 7 Maiden flight of the nEUROn, December 1st, 2012 The European combat drone technology demonstrator takes off from the Dassault Aviation flight testing center in Istres (France). New executive management for Dassault Aviation Charles Edelstenne, company director of the Marcel Dassault Industrial Group, with Éric Trappier, Chairman and CEO, and Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer of Dassault Aviation, following their appointments by the Board of Directors on December 18, 2012. 8 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Orders (in units) 58 Falcons Deliveries (in units) 66 Falcons 1 1 Rafales Operating margin 13.9% Adjusted net income* €524 million (€366 million, excluding Thales) FALCON UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES (UAV) • Final assembly of the 200th Falcon 7X at Mérignac, • Presentation of the nEUROn by Charles Edelstenne, France (July). Chairman and CEO of Dassault Aviation until January 8, 2013, to the official services of the various • Launch of the Falcon broadcast service for the transmission governments participating in the program and to of remote maintenance data (September). our industrial partners (Saab, Sweden Alenia Aermacchi, • Launch of the Falcon 2000LXS at the NBAA in Orlando, Italy EADS-CASA, Spain HAI, Greece and RUAG, Florida (October). Switzerland) (January). RAFALE • Successful maiden flight for the nEUROn, European stealth UCAV (Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle) • The Rafale is selected to equip the Indian Air Force technology demonstrator from the test base (January). of Dassault Aviation, in Istres, in collaboration with the flight test teams of the DGA (December). • Successful firing of the Meteor new-generation beyondvisual-range air-air missile (BVRAAM) on the Rafale SPACE B301 out of the DGA flight testing center in Cazaux, France (October). • Successful maiden launch of the new Vega rocket from the space center in French Guiana. Dassault Aviation • Delivery to the DGA (French Defense Procurement is involved in the program in the fields of pyrotechnics Agency) of the first Rafale equipped as standard with and telemetry (February). the RBE2 active-antenna radar. The Rafale is the first European combat aircraft in service to benefit from CORPORATE AESA (Active Electronically Scanned Array) technology, which significantly improves its detection range • Éric Trappier is appointed successor to Charles Edelstenne (October). as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to take effect from January 9, 2013 (December). • Orders from the French government for retrofitting the Rafale to the F3-R standard (December). *neutralization of THALES Purchase Price Allocation amortization and of the change in fair value of derivative exchange instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 9 INNOVATION AT THE CUTTING EDGE OF TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT An aircraft is a set of highly complex systems which has to meet customer needs. Our technological excellence is expressed through the engineering of these systems. ENGINE DRIVER OF APPLIED FOR INNOVATION RESEARCH The synergy of Dassault Aviation activities, Our research work, carried out in partnership across the civil and military domains, is a powerful with major organizations such as ONERA, the engine for innovation. CEA, the CNRS, the CNES, and some of the leading higher education establishments, feeds directly The research and development studies that into the latest innovations, for the benefit of we conduct are designed to lead to the maturing our products and, beyond that, of the industry of new technologies that will be applied both as a whole. This research, in particular on to current programs and to future systems. nanotechnologies, has applications in the fields Particular attention is paid to work on reducing of stealth, infrared and aircraft anti-icing, for example. program cycles and costs, and on improving aircraft performance and safety. The research We cooperate internationally with over one hundred and study work that the Group carries out relates universities, institutes and research centers to both self-financed projects and contracts with on scientific work of particular relevance to our the French government or with European institutions. lines of activity. The Group actively participates in common European framework programs Dassault Aviation is a powerhouse of technological (FPx) on research and development. We support, developments in a wide variety of fields, extending in association with other manufacturers beyond the aerospace sector. By participating in and the DGA, a chair of teaching and research the development of CAD (computer-aided design) on the engineering of complex systems. tools developed by Dassault Systèmes, Dassault Aviation plays its part in providing the entire industry with advanced and high-performance IT tools. 10 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation Research partnership with ONERA Wind-chamber testing of the nEUROn mock-up at ONERA. Friction-stir welding This green and silent technology enables the delicate welding – hitherto unrealizable – of high-resistance aluminum alloys. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 11 Solar Impulse in flight As consultant aircraft manufacturer for the solar-powered aircraft from day one of the project, we set the excellence of our engineering design departments to work on some major technological challenges. Dassault Aviation as sole prime contractor of the nEUROn program With six European countries, we have been testing some management and organizational innovations. The success of the maiden flight demonstrates our capacity to manage multinational cooperative ventures. 12 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation DYNAMISM KEEPING THE ECONOMY MOVING Throughout France and at various levels, the Group helps to boost the local economy. At the regional level, our company is a stakeholder in several French competitive clusters. It is a driving force in the Research & Technology networks and is involved in many innovative projects. PARTNERING COMPETITIVE CONTRIBUTING TO THE DYNAMISM CLUSTERS IN FRANCE OF EUROPEAN AEROSPACE Dassault Aviation participates actively in the following Thanks to our experience and that of our partners, clusters: we implement a cooperative, pragmatic and efficient approach to European aerospace in the • Astech, on the topics of the all-electric aircraft framework of the nEUROn program. This first and eco-design; European stealth UCAV (unmanned combat air • System@tic, on systems design and vehicle) successfully underwent its maiden flight development tools; on December 1st 2012, so demonstrating our • Aerospace Valley, on the materials and channels unique skills in the field of strategic technologies of production; and the mastery of multinational cooperation • Pegase, on test facilities. programs. Competitive clusters make it possible to consolidate The nEUROn is the most advanced experimental the actions of various innovation stakeholders program existing to date in the European aerospace (research centers, SMEs, corporations, regional industry. It underpins the development of technologies administrations, etc.). These kinds of thematic of prime importance, such as integration of a tail-less, technological platforms benefit from an international stealth configuration in an independent, unmanned profile as well as enhanced economic appeal. and secure combat system. The Franco-British political agreements should help us, over the coming years, to build on most of the upstream defense research that is open to cooperation. In the civil domain, Dassault Aviation is established as a major partner for a series of European initiatives, in particular Clean Sky. These partnerships constitute a key part of the Research & Technology activities of our company. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 13 INDUSTRIAL INFLUENCE A SHOWCASE OF FRENCH KNOW-HOW Our military aircraft are produced in France. The same applies for the structure and assembly of our business jets. Our industrial organization concerns all the branches of the aerospace industry and involves a great many stakeholders. TERRITORIAL Our investments enable us to anticipate the production INFLUENCE of the aircraft of tomorrow, to maintain our competitive edge, and to generate pertinent With ten establishments in France and a high technological breakthroughs. proportion of local suppliers, our company exerts a significant territorial influence: We have expertise in cutting-edge technologies such as: • 500 SMEs and major corporations benefit from the activities of Dassault Aviation; • manufacturing structures out of composite • The production of the Rafale accounts for materials; 7,000 direct and indirect jobs, 30% of which • resin transfer molding; involve small companies; • hot forming, thermoplastic injection molding, • The annual production of the Falcon accounts • carbon fiber placement; for 7,600 direct and indirect jobs; • friction-stir welding; • Over one hundred suppliers and partners • etc. are associated with the systems; all testifying to the levels of quality and finishing • Our sites help to keep the economy moving in of our products. the large conurbations in which they are located. Our workshops apply high-speed machining We are involved in local affairs and have seats techniques and have broken new ground in robotics. on territorial bodies: competitive clusters, We conceive and implement the commercial Chambers of Commerce & Industry, Territorial development of our Falcons using product lifecycle Economic & Social Councils, Environment management (PLM) digital tools. Committees, etc. We are also acknowledged experts in flight AT THE CUTTING EDGE control, stealth and pyrotechnical technologies, OF INDUSTRIAL KNOW-HOW from the design phase through to mass production. High technology is at work here in its most fertile By being the first to succeed in passing directly field of expression. from computer screen to runway with no paper blueprints or prototypes, we have driven forward In our factories, we deploy “Improving the aerospace sector and, beyond that, industry Responsiveness in Production” (IRP) projects as a whole. We are both the vanguard and with a dual objective: optimizing both working the showcase of French know-how in this regard. conditions and production quality. The skilled workers benefit from improved workstation Our pioneer spirit is still at work today, both ergonomics, while the company reduces its in the development of the digital factory manufacturing cycles and costs. and in our capacity to identify new sources of competitiveness. The application of PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) and of our production processes carries along our partners in its wake, with the consequential improvement of their own productivity and quality. PLM has also an impact on other industrial sectors. 14 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation Improving Responsiveness in Production (IRP) IRP develops team spirit in order to ensure better working conditions and greater production quality. Potez Group, one of our many local suppliers From working on the first programs (Falcon 10 and 50) through to producing the passenger door for the future SMS, collaboration with the Potez Group has been a long-term affair. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 15 500 people providing AOG (Aircraft on ground) services Perfect traceability, work standardization, justification of technical operations: our customers appreciate our capacity to mobilize in order to guarantee exemplary availability of their aircraft. 3D fine-tunes the response to customer needs The quality of the virtual images of the Falcon configurator allows customers to select their interior fittings on a true-to-life scale. 16 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation VALUES SHARED VALUES In a context of economic globalization and strong international competition, we build on a strong identity and a strict set of values. Our code of ethics expresses the essential values that guide our actions. CUSTOMER TECHNOLOGICAL EXCELLENCE SPIRIT AND INNOVATION Satisfying the customer is both our philosophy Technological excellence and innovation are the and our guiding principle. Listening to customers, foundation stones of our philosophy, our passion understanding their needs, being at their and our history. disposal, keeping our word: these are the priority We guarantee the quality, reliability, and safety for everyone working at Dassault Aviation. of our aircraft through a strategy of constant We offer our customers excellent technical innovation, our project management capability, performance, confidentiality and customized and our mastery of complex systems. follow-up, while optimizing cost control We are concerned about managing and reducing and response times. the impact of our activities and products on the environment. STRICT ETHICAL BUSINESS STANDARDS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE We respect our contractual commitments (costs, deadlines, performance). We regard value creation as an essential goal We act in accordance with the anti-corruption in terms of ensuring our profitability, financial and export control laws. Ethics and integrity stability and long-term future. are values that we practice daily in our procedures In a context of intense international competition, and in our behavior. we drive home the need to be more flexible, Dassault Aviation, as a signatory to European and adaptable and responsive in dealings with our international commitments on loyal practices in customers, suppliers and partners. international trade (“Common Industry Standards” and “Global Principles”) is a member of the OPENNESS Aerospace and Defense Industries Association TO THE WORLD of Europe (ASD) business ethics committee and of the strategic committee of the International In a spirit of partnership, we are engaged Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). in sustained programs of scientific, technological, technical, and industrial cooperation HUMAN in France and abroad. We are active within QUALITIES national and international air, space and defense organizations. People are the heart of the Group. Our internal and external reporting is open We develop team spirit, the sharing of knowledge and transparent. and know-how, creative initiative, and a sense of morality. We promote united action at all levels, mutual respect, the quest for professional self-fulfillment, SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL and the sense of belonging to a group that COMPACT INITIATIVE is still human in scope. Following on from the values expressed in the code of ethics, Dassault Aviation signed up in 2003 to the Global Compact established by the UN, and supports its ten principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 17 EMPLOYEE MATTERS FACING THE NEW CHALLENGES TOGETHER A Group that is still human in scope, Dassault Aviation bases its labor relations policy on the quest for professional self-realization and team spirit. We promote mutual respect and diversity, key factors for creativity and harmonious labor relations. ATTRACTIVE PAY POLICY French Aeronautical and Space Industries, and other aerospace companies. This association promotes The Dassault Aviation Group pursues a pay policy the training and integration of disabled people, through whose objectives are to reward, motivate and work-study training. inspire loyalty among its employees, while all the time adapting to the situation of the Company and Dassault Aviation is also committed to the employment its economic environment, in order to maintain of seniors, through the retention of employees its competitiveness on a highly competitive market. aged 55 and over, the transmission and development of know-how and skills, and the possibility of working The pay policy for each individual is supplemented part-time under attractive conditions. by recompense for collective effort. The Company has implemented a profit-sharing agreement A new agreement on equal job opportunities, signed which involves distributing a significant proportion in 2011 by our company, confirms that diversity of the net income to the employees. This runs is considered to be a key issue and a factor underlying alongside an incentive scheme. performance. In concrete terms, actions carried out in favor of professional equality and diversity aim We also encourage employee savings: Locked-in to promote career development for women, prevent Current Account (CCB Compte Courant Bloqué ); stereotyping and provide a better work-life balance. Enterprise Savings Plan (PEE Plan d’Épargne Entreprise ) with a wide range of investment IINTEGRATING AND possibilities; Collective Retirement Savings Plan DEVELOPING TALENT (PERCO Plan d’épargne pour la retraite collectif ), with the company matching the employee's 2012 was marked by the signing of a new contributions. agreement on jobs and skills forecast management (GPEC Gestion Prévisionnelle des Emplois Furthermore, 5% of the aggregate payroll is et des Compétences ). Collectively, this involves channeled, every year, into the work's committees a more dynamic approach to jobs and skills to fund social and cultural activities, to which may forecasting management, in order to coordinate be added the social overheads covered directly more effectively and better anticipate developments, by the company (transportation, accommodation, and ensure that skills are maintained and transferred. catering). Individually, it involves making available to all employees, throughout their time in the company, ENCOURAGING additional resources to help them to construct DIVERSITY their career path. To promote diversity within the company, Dassault We are also pursuing the implementation Aviation set up a “Management and diversity” training of several long-term mechanisms for maintaining scheme in 2012. Around 370 managers have been and enhancing the skills of our employees: trained in the principles of non-discrimination. Skills Conservatory, Dassault Management Institute, integration & mobility initiatives, work-study training. In support of the integration of disabled people, we implement a policy for the recruitment, retention, training and career development of disabled employees. Our actions also include working with the protected sector (i.e.: for the employment of disabled people). In 2012, the company renewed its partnership with the HANVOL Association, created in 2010 with the support of GIFAS, the Association of 18 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation Team diversity, a performance factor In 2011, we signed a new agreement on equal job opportunities. A constant rise in the employment of women In 2012, Dassault Aviation pursued its initiatives with regard to professional equality with a proportion of 26% female executive recruitments against an objective of 23%, and 41% of female non-executive appointments against an objective of 17%. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 19 Passing on know-how A young apprentice accompanied by her tutor, an experienced skilled worker, carries out a new task on an internal air intake panel of the Rafale. Preparing for our recruitment needs We take part in numerous forums and we organize business gatherings with a dual objective: to present the specific characteristics of our company and to help students to construct their career plan. 20 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation DEVELOPPING SKILLS COOPERATION WITH THE EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENT The high degree of technicality of our products and activities require training programs upstream that turn out the kinds of profiles which are suited to the needs of the aerospace industry in general, and Dassault Aviation in particular. DEVELOPING THE PROMOTING THE TECHNICAL TECHNICAL CULTURE AND SCIENTIFIC PROFESSIONS We are particularly active in providing input, at the To prepare for our recruitment needs, we organize behest of the occupational training and higher business gatherings (professional forums, educational establishment, for adapting academic exhibitions, etc.) or visits to our various sites. courses to the identified needs. We offer young trainees and apprentices the This responsibility translates into the involvement chance to gain first-hand experience at of Dassault Aviation personnel within institutional Dassault Aviation, in order to help them map out organizations and governing bodies of the educational their professional future and to support their establishments that provide the grounding in our integration into the world of industry, either with particular disciplines. Partnership agreements are us or in another company. systematically signed with these kinds of institutions. These agreements commit us to the joint development To develop diversity within our teams, we have of year-on-year actions in the fields of research, a two-stage approach. We carry out upstream teaching, diversity, association activities, etc. communication campaigns with the educational establishments in order to promote and encourage Our employees work alongside teachers mass access to courses offering preparation in the and researchers. They transmit their know-how technical and scientific trades. We then promote and their technical culture to pupils and students, our own company within these particular channels. in particular via the supervision of practical work, the coordination of cross-functional projects We look to find this diversity reflected in our recruitment, or participation on examination juries. and subsequently in the career development of our employees, with the support of our internal We deploy efficient and innovative tools for interaction code of ethics. with students via our collaborative web platform, PISTE (Plateforme Interactive de Soutien Technique à l'Enseignement Interactive Platform for Technical Teaching Support). Our course media and our teaching are assessed with the objective of attaining a level of professionalism equivalent to that achieved internally by our Skills Conservatory and its teaching staff. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 21 ENVIRONMENT EVER GREENER AIRCRAFT While taking into account the growth forecasts for air traffic, the aeronautical sector plays its part in the collective effort to protect the environment. Since 2003, we have been taking concrete measures to reduce the environmental impact of our products. We are committed to enhancing our environmental credentials, as defined by the Grenelle de l'Environnement conference and sought by all the players in the French aviation sector. ECO-DESIGN AND MODELING, We are also co-responsible for the Eco-design SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN ACTION platform dedicated, on the one hand, to reducing the environmental impact of the aircraft manufacturing Eco-design is the challenge for the years to come. and withdrawal-from-service phases and, on The Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of aircraft leads the other, to “clean” onboard energy systems leading us to propose new solutions: use of renewable to the development of “more-electric” aircraft. materials, increased service life of structures, In the framework of the SESAR air traffic greener production. Nowadays, the performance modernization program, we represent the European criteria of a program take into account both Business Aviation Association (EBAA). We support ecology and economy. Using the LCA, we can technological proposals that minimize the impact model an aircraft and its entire production process. of aircraft on the environment: optimizing cruising speed in order to reduce consumption; continuous From as early as the initial design phase of a new descent and specific approach procedures leading product, the environmental performance objectives to reduced perceived noise nuisance. Here are included in the technical specifications. Tools we should like to underline the steep approach for assessing the potential environmental impacts capacity of the Falcon, an integral component are used to explore the best solutions. The use of its performance which makes it more fuel-efficient of the latest-generation supercomputers makes and more agile than its competitors. it possible to generate the most suitable models for reducing the noise and carbon footprints Our involvement in the Alfa-BIRD program ties of our aircraft. in with research into alternative fuels (biofuels, synthetic fuels). A consortium of research organizations, fuel producers (Shell, SASOL), PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT: aircraft manufacturers and aircraft engine A CHALLENGE FOR INNOVATION manufacturers (Snecma, Rolls-Royce) address We are a partner in European R&D programs a wide variety of topics, such as the chemical in the aeronautical sector in our capacity analysis of the “best” fuel, improving the formulation as both aircraft manufacturer and representative of biofuels, the new injection systems, and of business aviation. injection and combustion modeling. Our field of study primarily involves the compatibility of these We have been involved, since 2008, in the Clean new jet fuels with the aircraft fuel systems. Sky research project and, more specifically, in two of the six technological platforms. The first is the Smart Fixed Wing Aircraft (SFWA) platform. Alongside Airbus, we are working on a wing of the future and on reducing the noise nuisance of engines on the ground. 22 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation Falcon 7X in the skies over Dubai (United Arab Emirates) Falcons are the most fuel-efficient aircraft in their category. The fuel savings, on a like-for-like comfort and performance basis, are in the order of 30%. This reduced consumption means less pollution. Fiber placement robot Capable of juxtaposing prepreg carbon strips on highly curved surfaces, it reduces offcuts by half. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 23 DASSAULT AVIATION PRODUCTS 24 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 25 Falcon 2000LXS CIVIL PRODUCTS FALCON FAMILY Appreciated for their performance, their comfort and their low fuel consumption, some 2,000 Falcons are today in operation worldwide, for the benefit of companies, major economic magnates and governments. FALCON 7X FALCON 900LX The world's first business aircraft to be equipped with Equipped with three Honeywell TFE731-60 engines a fully digital flight control system, the Falcon 7X is a trijet (5,000 lb of thrust each), the Falcon 900LX can cover (Pratt & Whitney Canada PW 307A engines delivering 4,750 nm (8,800 km) at Mach 0.75. It can fly from 6,400 lb of thrust) with a substantial flight range. London to Miami, New York to São Paulo, and Mumbai Equipped with a new aero-elastic wing design that to London. The aerodynamic optimization of its wings improves aerodynamic performance by 30%, it attains reduces drag by almost 7% compared to the Falcon a maximum speed of Mach 0.9 and can cover a range 900EX, its predecessor. Its climbing performance has of 5,950 nm (11,000 km) with eight passengers and been improved by 10%, enabling it to reach the 370 flight three crew members. The size of its cabin, and the quality level (37,000 ft) in only 17 minutes. The aircraft of its soundproofing and of its pressurization system, received its certification in 2010. offer passengers outstanding levels of comfort. Since coming into service in 2007, the aircraft marks the arrival of a new generation of Falcons equipped with the latest technological innovations, inherited from the military domain. The Falcon 7X Fleet today accounts for almost 200,000 flying hours. 26 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation FALCON 2000LXS Launched in October 2012, the Falcon 2000LXS will replace the 2000LX in 2014. It offers improved low-speed performance, enabling it to operate out of a greater number of airports. Its quieter cabin proposes as standard the new FalconCabin HD+ entertainment system and the EASy II flight deck. Equipped with the new version of the Pratt & Whitney Canada 308C engines, its NOx emission levels are 40% less than the legal requirement. It has a flight range of 4,000 nm (7,410 km) with six passengers, at a speed of Mach 0.8. The plane can fly Falcon 2000LXS cabin from New York to Berlin, Dubai to London City airport or from Beijing to Mumbai. FALCON 2000LX FALCON 2000S The Falcon 2000LX is equipped with Pratt & Whitney The Falcon 2000S constitutes the new entry-level Canada PW 308C engines, each delivering 7,000 business jet. The aircraft is distinguished by its competitive pounds of thrust, and the EASy flight deck. This new selling price and its low operating costs. It benefits version of the Falcon 2000, certified in April 2009, from all the assets that have made the Falcon 2000 has winglets at the end of its wings which help optimize such a hit over the past twenty years. The size of its the wing aerodynamics and considerably improve its cabin and its performance characteristics are the best fuel performance. Its flight range extends to 4,000 nm in its category. The introduction of inboard forward slats (7,410 km) with eight passengers. Its performance and gives the aircraft unparalleled takeoff and landing low operating costs make this twin-engine jet the most capability. The 2000S is equipped with a new version popular in its category. of the Pratt & Whitney Canada PW 308C engines, with 20% fewer NOx emissions. It has a flight range of 3,350 nm (6,200 km) with six passengers, at a speed of Mach 0.8. It provides a direct link between Paris and Dubai, Shannon and New York, Moscow and Beijing, and Tokyo and Singapore. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 27 Rafale in flight MILITARY PRODUCTS COMBAT AIRCRAFT As instruments of political independence, Dassault Aviation aircraft are used by more than twenty countries worldwide for their national defense. RAFALE MIRAGE 2000 Able to fulfill all the roles required of a combat aircraft on one In service with nine air forces worldwide, the Mirage 2000 and the same mission, the Rafale is the world's only existing fleet has logged over 1.8 million flying hours. omnirole fighter. The Rafale is the first aircraft with a “delta-canard ” It is in use all around the world. Deployed in the framework configuration, designed for aircraft carrier landing, and can also of many international exercises and seeing action in various simultaneously perform air superiority, air defense, reconnaissance, theaters of operation, the Mirage 2000 serves as a global land attack and anti-ship attack missions during a single flight. benchmark in terms of availability and maintenance. In France, it also performs nuclear mission duties.The first French Its interoperability with other NATO aircraft and its performance Navy squadron was declared operational in 2004. The first have been proven in genuine combat situations. French Air Force squadron was rolled out at Saint-Dizier in 2006. The 470 Mirage 2000 jets currently in service benefit from the The Rafale was successfully deployed in Afghanistan in 2007, support of Dassault Aviation. Its recent deployments in Libya only eight months after being declared operational. In 2011, and Mali, along with the retrofitting contract signed with India in during operations in Libya, the Rafale carried out the opening-day 2011, demonstrate that the Mirage 2000 still has a long career attack and air superiority missions, and remained the spearhead ahead of it. of the coalition throughout the duration of operations. The Rafale has proven itself in combat in a wide variety of missions and has demonstrated its interoperability and connectivity capabilities with the allied forces, in particular thanks to its Link 16 equipment. By December 31, 2012, 115 Rafales had been delivered out of the 180 ordered to date by the French government. 28 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation nEUROn and Rafale The Rafale accompanied the maiden flight of the nEUROn on December 1st, 2012. nEUROn MALE nEUROn, the European UCAV (Unmanned Combat Air Looking toward the future, and taking account Vehicle) technological demonstrator program, for which of its particular competences, Dassault Aviation has Dassault Aviation is the prime contractor, is preparing for confirmed its interest in the development of a future based on the federation of European know-how Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance (MALE) UAV systems. (involving Italy, Sweden, Spain, Greece and Switzerland). Its purpose is to validate complex technologies that represent every aspect of mission systems: high-level piloting and stealth, real air-to-ground weapon firing from an internal bay, integration in a C4I environment, innovative processes in terms of industrial partnerships, etc. The maiden flight of the demonstrator took place on December 1, 2012 and will be followed by a two-year test campaign. Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 29 DASSAULT AVIATION AIRCRAFT AND SITES WORLDWIDE COUNTRIES WITH DASSAULT AVIATION AIRCRAFT COUNTRIES WITH DASSAULT AVIATION AIRCRAFT, SITES OR OFFICES ANGOLA COLOMBIA HUNGARY MALAWI PHILIPPINES ARGENTINA CYPRUS INDIA MALTA PORTUGAL AUSTRALIA DENMARK IRAQ MONACO PUERTO RICO AUSTRIA DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IRELAND MOROCCO QATAR BANGLADESH ECUADOR ITALY MEXICO REP. OF MOLDAVIA BELGIUM EGYPT IVORY COAST NAMIBIA ROMANIA BERMUDA FINLAND JAPAN NIGERIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION BOLIVIA FRANCE JORDAN NETHERLANDS SAUDI ARABIA BRAZIL GABON KENYA NEW ZEALAND SERBIA BULGARIA GERMANY LEBANON NORWAY SLOVAKIA CAMEROON GHANA LIBYA PAKISTAN SLOVENIA CANADA GREECE LIECHTENSTEIN PANAMA SPAIN CHILE GUATEMALA LUXEMBOURG PAPUA NEW GUINEA SOUTH AFRICA CHINA HONG KONG MALAYSIA PERU SUDAN 30 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation SITES INTERNATIONAL DASSAULT FALCON JET CHINA WILMINGTON CORP. IN FRANCE OFFICES PO Box 10367 DASSAULT FALCON BUSINESS Wilmington, DE 19850-0367 SERVICES (BEIJING) CO. LTD Toll free: + 1 800 441 9390 Suite 8-D-2 of n° 1 building ARGENTEUIL EUROPE n°28 Tianzhu Road Tel.: + 1 302 322 7000 1, avenue du Parc Tianzhu Airport Economic GREECE Fax: + 1 302 322 7283 Z.A. des bords de Seine Development Zone BP 40050 BUREAU RAFALE MIDWAY AIRCRAFT Shunyi District 95101 Argenteuil Cedex 100 INTERNATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORP. Beijing Tel.: + 33 (0)1 34 11 85 85 80-88 Syngrou Ave Teterboro Airport Tel.: +86 10 8042 7902 11741 Athens 100 Riser Road Fax: +86 10 8042 7912 ARGONAY Tel.: + 30 210 92 22 660 Little Ferry, NJ 07643 2105, avenue Marcel-Dassault SOUTH AMERICA Fax: + 30 210 92 22 669 Tel.: + 1 201 440 4800 BP 32 Fax: + 1 201 440 9371 BRAZIL 74371 Pringy Cedex SWITZERLAND www.midwayaircraft.com Tel.: + 33 (0)4 50 09 10 00 DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL BUREAU RAFALE AERO PRECISION REPAIR & BIARRITZ DO BRASIL LTDA INTERNATIONAL OVERHAUL COMPANY, INC. BP 208 Setor Commercial Schwanengasse 9 580 South Military Trail 64205 Biarritz Cedex Quadra 1 n° 30 Bloco H CH 3011 Bern Deerfield Beach, FL 33442 Tel.: + 33 (0)5 59 31 22 22 Edificio Morro Vermelho Tel.: + 41 31 312 16 30 Tel.: + 1 954 428 9500 16 Andar ISTRES Fax: + 41 31 312 16 31 Fax: + 1 954 428 2502 CEP 70397-900 Essais en vol www.aero-precision.com Brasilia Distrito Federal ASIA 13804 Istres Cedex Tel.: + 55 61 33 21 94 37 DASSAULT PROCUREMENT Tel.: + 33 (0)4 42 56 77 77 TAIWAN + 55 61 32 23 71 80 SERVICES INC. 53 W. Century Road Fax: + 55 61 33 21 54 45 MARTIGNAS DASSAULT AVIATION Paramus, NJ 07652 E-mail: dibr@superig.com.br Avenue des 12F-E Hung Kuo Building Martyrs-de-la-Résistance 167 Tun Hua North Road Tel.: + 1 201 261 4130 DASSAULT FALCON JET DO BP 38 Taipei Fax: + 1 201 261 3138 BRASIL LTDA 33127 Martignas-sur-Jalle Tel.: + 886 2 2718 54 37 Av. Santos Dumont, n° 1275 EUROPE Tel.: + 33 (0)5 57 97 85 00 Fax: + 886 2 2712 37 74 Box 1, 2 and 3 FRANCE Aeroporto de Sorocaba MÉRIGNAC MIDDLE EAST Jardim Ana Maria BP 24 DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Sorocaba 54, avenue Marcel-Dassault Zone d’aviation d’affaires SP Brasil 18065-290 33701 Mérignac Cedex Aéroport du Bourget DASSAULT AVIATION Tel.: +55 15 3223 3605 Tel.: + 33 (0)5 56 13 90 00 BP n° 10 PO Box 70356 Fax: +55 15 3418 3033 Abu Dhabi 93352 Le Bourget POITIERS Tel.: + 971 2 444 42 10 Tel.: + 33 (0)1 49 34 20 20 24, avenue Marcel-Dassault Fax: + 971 2 444 39 44 Fax: + 33 (0)1 49 34 20 90 Zone industrielle de Larnay BUREAUX 86580 Biard SOGITEC INDUSTRIES Tel.: + 33 (0)5 49 37 62 00 4, rue Marcel-Monge FALCON SAINT-CLOUD MAIN Immeuble Nobel 92158 Suresnes Cedex 78, quai Marcel-Dassault SUBSIDIARIES Tel.: + 33 (0)1 41 18 57 00 EUROPE Cedex 300 RUSSIA Fax: + 33 (0)1 41 18 59 09 92552 Saint-Cloud Cedex UNITED STATES www.sogitec.com Tel.: + 33 (0)1 47 11 40 00 RADISSON SLAVYANSKAYA DASSAULT FALCON JET ASIA BUSINESS CENTER SECLIN Office 424 Zone industrielle CORP. INDIA Teterboro Airport Europe square 2 Rue Marcel-Dassault 121059 Moscou BP 289 Box 2000 DASSAULT AIRCRAFT South Hackensack, NJ 07606 Mob.: + 7 495 76 10 414 59472 Seclin Cedex SERVICES INDIA PRIVATE Tel.: + 33 (0)3 20 16 12 00 Tel.: + 1 201 440 6700 LIMITED ASIA Fax: + 1 201 541 4700 Dassault House www.dassaultfalcon.com A-280 Defence Colony MALAYSIA New Delhi 110 024 DASSAULT FALCON JET Tel.: + 91 112 465 24 65 DASSAULT FALCON JET CORP. Fax: + 91 112 465 24 64 REGIONAL OFFICE Adams Field UBN Tower, 17th Floor PO Box 967 10 Jalan P. Ramlee Little Rock, AR 72203 50250 Kuala Lumpur Toll free: + 1 800 643 9511 Tel.: + 60 3 2031 8252 Tel.: + 1 501 372 5254 Fax: + 1 501 372 5850 MIDDLE EAST www.dassaultfalcon.com UNITED ARAB EMIRATES SWEDEN DASSAULT FALCON SWITZERLAND MIDDLE EAST SYRIA Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZ) TAIWAN Building 5W Block A Office 315 THAILAND PO Box 293884 TOGO Dubai Tel.: + 971 4 299 39 50 TUNISIA Fax: + 971 4 299 37 97 TURKEY UKRAINE UNITED KINGDOM UNITED ARAB EMIRATES USA VENEZUELA Dassault Aviation | 2012 Annual report | 31 DASSAULT AVIATION SITES AND MAIN SUBSIDIARIES DASSAULT AVIATION MAIN SUBSIDIARIES ARGENTEUIL MARTIGNAS DASSAULT FALCON JET DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE Aircraft sub-unit assembly and Wing assembly; Teterboro Le Bourget military aircraft fuselage fitting; industrial robotics. Dassault Falcon Jet head office; Rental of business jets; primary parts; small and coordination of worldwide sales maintenance center. medium machined sheet metal, MÉRIGNAC activities and customer support. piping; pyrotechnics; development Final aircraft assembly; Little Rock DASSAULT PROCUREMENT center for industrial processes. production aircraft tests/acceptance; customization of Falcons: SERVICES Falcon interior fittings; Falcon interior fittings and livery. Paramus ARGONAY Multirole fuselage fittings; Procurement of aviation Mechanical, hydraulic, electric revisions; retrofitting. DASSAULT FALCON JET equipment for Falcon jets. and electronic equipment for WILMINGTON flight controls. POITIERS Aviation maintenance and MIDWAY AIRCRAFT Canopies; pyrotechnics; aircraft services. INSTRUMENTS COMPANY BIARRITZ parts and subassemblies. Teterboro Falcon fuselage splicing and DASSAULT AIRCRAFT Repair and overhaul of aircraft sub-unit assembly; composite SAINT-CLOUD SERVICES instruments and accessories. parts; airframe component and General headquarters; research; (Le Bourget, Little Rock, Luton, equipment repairs/revisions. systems development; quality; Moscow, Nice, Reno, Roma, SOGITEC INDUSTRIES space division. Saint-Louis, São Paulo, Suresnes, Mérignac, Bruz ISTRES West Palm Beach, Wilmington) Simulation, instruction and Systems integration SECLIN Promotion of aviation documentation systems. and validation; flight tests. Large machined parts. maintenance and service sales. DASSAULT FALCON AERO PRECISION REPAIR BUSINESS SERVICES AND OVERHAUL INC. (BEIJING) CO.LTD Deerfield Beach Sales promotion, Falcon Repair and overhaul of all Falcon technical assistance in China. equipment. DASSAULT FALCON JET DO BRASIL LTDA Aircraft sales and customer support in Brazil. FRANCE SECLIN UNITED-STATES ARGENTEUIL SURESNES LE BOURGET SAINT-CLOUD BRUZ PARAMUS TETERBORO POITIERS WILMINGTON ARGONAY LITTLE ROCK MARTIGNAS MERIGNAC DEERFIELD BEACH BIARRITZ ISTRES DASSAULT AVIATION MAIN SUBSIDIARIES 32 | 2012 Annual report | Dassault Aviation dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. REPORT 2012 ANNUAL FINANCIAL dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Contents Declaration of the person responsible for the report................................. page 36 Group structure .................................................................................... page 37 Board of Directors / Management Committee .......................................... page 38 Directors’ report .................................................................................... page 39 Chairman's report ................................................................................. page 77 Consolidated financial statements........................................................... page 87 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Company financial statements................................................................ page 131 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 35 Declaration of the person responsible for the report I certify that, to my knowledge, the financial consolidation, and that the management report statements have been prepared in accordance with includes a fair review of the development of the the applicable accounting standards and give a true business, performance and position of the company and fair view of the assets and liabilities, financial and all the other companies included in the scope of position and income or loss of the company and all consolidation, together with a description of the the other companies included in the scope of principal risks and uncertainties that they face. Paris, March 13, 2013 Éric TRAPPIER Chairman and Chief Executive Officer RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 36 Group structure The Dassault Aviation group is an international group that encompasses most of the aviation activities of GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT. DASSAULT AVIATION – Parent Company Consolidated companies 100 % 26 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Dassault Dassault Dassault Dassault Sogitec Dassault Sogitec Falcon Jet Dassault Falcon Jet Thales Thales Procurement Procurement Falcon Falcon Industries Industries (USA) (France) Services Service Service (France) (USA) (France) Services (USA) (USA) (France) (France) (France) Falcon Falcon Training Training 100 % Dassault Center Center (France) (France) Dassault Aircraft Aircraft 50 % Services Services (USA) (USA) 75 % 100 % Dassault Falcon Dassault Falcon Jet Jet Midway Midway Wilmington Wilmington (USA) (USA) (USA) (USA) 25 % 50 % Aero Aero Precision Precision Inc. Inc. (USA) (USA) Non-consolidated companies Dassault Assurances Dassault Dassault RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Courtage International SECBAT Réassurance (France) (France) (France) (France) 100 % 100 % 100 % 36 % Corse Composites Eurotradia International SOFEMA ODAS Embraer Aéronautiques (France) (France) (Brazil) (France) (France) 25 % 16 % 6.7 % 6% 0.9 % DASSAULT AVIATION SHAREHOLDERS: 50.55 % GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT 46.32 % EADS France 3.13 % PUBLIC dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 37 Board of Directors Honorary Chairmen Serge DASSAULT Charles EDELSTENNE Chairman of the Board of Directors Éric TRAPPIER Directors Pierre de BAUSSET Serge DASSAULT Nicole DASSAULT Olivier DASSAULT Charles EDELSTENNE Alain GARCIA Denis KESSLER Henri PROGLIO Executive Management Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Éric TRAPPIER Loïk SEGALEN Management committee Chairman of the Committee Éric TRAPPIER Chairman and Chief Executive Officer RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Loïk SEGALEN Chief Operating Officer Benoit BERGER Executive Vice-President, Industrial Operations, Procurement and Purchasing Alain BONNY Senior Vice-President, Military Customer Support Division Claude DEFAWE Vice-President, National and Cooperative Military Sales Benoît DUSSAUGEY Executive Vice-President, International Didier GONDOIN Executive Vice-President, Engineering Gérald MARIA Executive Vice-President, Total Quality Jean SASS Executive Vice-President, Information Systems Olivier VILLA Senior Vice-President, Civil Aircraft Government Commissioner Mr. Marc GATIN, French Armed Forces General Inspector dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Statutory Auditors Mazars S.A., represented by Mrs Manuela BAUDOIN-REVERT, partner Deloitte & Associés S.A., represented by Mr. Dominique JUMAUCOURT, partner 38 Directors’ report Ladies and Gentlemen, but wait and see policy still applies. Before submitting the annual and consolidated DEFENSE programs: financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 for your approval and deciding the Defense orders amounted to EUR 793 million in proposed appropriation of net income for the 2012 compared to EUR 931 million in 2011 and year, we would like to take this opportunity to corresponded to support and development. They present the consolidated key figures, the activities decreased by 15% compared to 2011 which of DASSAULT AVIATION Group, the activities and included, in particular, the contract for the financial statements of the Parent Company, upgrade of the Indian Air Force’s MIRAGE 2000 during the past year, their future prospects and fleet. other information required by law. 1.1.2 Net sales 1. DASSAULT AVIATION Group Consolidated 2012 net sales came to EUR 3,941 million compared to 1.1 CONSOLIDATED KEY FIGURES EUR 3,305 million in 2011, up by 19%. Consolidated sales trends over the last five years 1.1.1 Orders are as follows, in EUR millions: 2012 orders amounted to EUR 3,325 million Defense % Year Falcon Total compared to EUR 2,863 millions in 2011(*). France Export Export 2008 1,166 269 2,313 3,748 66% Export represented 78 % of the total order intake. 2009 739 242 2,440 3,421 74% 2010 723 236 3,228 4,187 80% Orders booked by the Group over the last five years are as follows, in EUR millions: 2011 714 176 2,415 3,305 74% RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 2012 936 208 2,797 3,941 75% Defense % Year Falcon Total France Export Export FALCON programs: 2008 956 241 4,625 5,822 81% FALCON net sales were up by 16% compared to 2009 2,276 253 3,851 1,322 N/A 2011. 66 new aircraft were delivered in 2012 2010 606 186 474 1,266 43% (compared to 63 in 2011). 2011 424 507 1,932 2,863 83% DEFENSE programs: 2012 634 159 2,532 3,325 78% (*) DEFENSE net sales increased by From now on, the Group is in line with other listed 29% compared to 2011. 11 RAFALE were Groups practice as it no longer posts on order intake delivered to the French Air Force and Navy in the annual variation of the Euro/$ exchange rate on the backlog. 2012, the same figure as the previous year. The rise in net sales can be explained principally by FALCON programs: the growth in RAFALE development activity. New orders, net of cancellations, stood at 58 1.1.3 Backlog FALCON in 2012 compared to 36 FALCON in 2011. As of December 31st, 2012 consolidated backlog dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Commercial activity increased compared to 2011, amounted to EUR 7,991 million compared to in particular at the end of the year. Asia remained EUR 8,751 million as of December 31st, 2011, very active, as well as South America. North down by 9%. America market showed some encouraging signs, 39 Directors’ report 1.2 COMMENTS ON THE 2012 PERFORMANCE IN ADJUSTED DATA 1.2.1 Preamble From 2012 and on, in order to enable a better monitoring and benchmarking of its economic performance, DASSAULT AVIATION presents an adjusted net income. The Group consolidated net income is adjusted with : neutralizing amortization of THALES purchase price allocation (PPA), neutralizing change in fair value of derivative exchange instruments not eligible to hedge accounting. DASSAULT AVIATION will therefore communicate henceforth with respect to an adjusted net income. 1.2.2 The key 2012 data as adjusted data The following table presents the key 2011 and 2012 data by detailing the adjusted aggregates: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Net sales 3,941,234 3,305,342 Operating Income 546,986 376,501 Adjusted financial income 15,743 32,404 Adjusted share of income of equity affiliates 158,403 124,922 Adjusted income tax -197,155 -115,223 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Adjusted net income 523,977 418,604 Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 523,933 418,567 Attributable to non controlling interests 44 37 1.2.3 Reconciliation of consolidated income with adjusted income In 2012, the impact of the change in fair value of derivative exchange instruments adjustment and the THALES PPA amortization adjustment on income statement is detailed below: Change in fair 2012 THALES PPA value of 2012 (EUR thousands) Consolidated amortization derivative Adjusted data data (1) exchange instruments (2) Financial income 97,897 -82,154 15,743 Share of income of equity affiliates 90,436 67,967 158,403 Income tax -225,441 28,286 -197,155 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Net income 509,878 67,967 -53,868 523,977 (1) neutralization of THALES Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) amortization, net of income tax. (2) neutralization of the change in fair value, net of income tax, of derivative exchange instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific rules of IAS 39 «Financial Instruments». 40 DASSAULT AVIATION In 2011, the impact of the change in fair value of derivative exchange instruments adjustment and the THALES PPA amortization adjustment on income statement is detailed below: Change in fair 2011 THALES PPA value of 2011 (EUR thousands) Consolidated amortization derivative Adjusted data data (1) exchange instruments (2) Financial income 13,979 18,425 32,404 Share of income of equity affiliates 41,064 83,858 124,922 Income tax -108,879 -6,344 -115,223 Net income 322,665 83,858 12,081 418,604 (1) neutralization of THALES Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) amortization, net of income tax. (2) neutralization of the change in fair value, net of income tax, of derivative exchange instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific rules of IAS 39 «Financial Instruments». Readers are reminded that only the consolidated financial statements are audited by the Group’s statutory auditors. Adjusted financial data are subject to the verification procedures applicable to all of the information provided in this press release. 1.2.4 Operating Income 1.2.6 Adjusted net income Adjusted net income stood at EUR 524 million 2012 operating income reached EUR 547 compared to EUR 419 million in 2011, up by 25%. million compared to EUR 377 million in 2011, up Adjusted net margin reached 13.3%, versus by 45%. 12.7% in 2011. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Operating margin improved to 13.9% from 11.4% THALES contribution to the Group net income, in 2011. before amortization of Purchase Price Allocation amounted to EUR 158 million in 2012 compared to This improvement is due to the increase of net EUR 125 million in 2011. sales and a better currency hedging. 2012 consolidated net income amounted to EUR 510 million compared to EUR 323 million in 2011. 1.2.5 Adjusted financial income In 2012, adjusted financial income amounted 1.2.7 Financial reporting to EUR 16 million, compared to EUR 32 million in 2011. This fall-off results mainly from the following The IFRS 8 operational sectors standard requires factors : the presentation of information per segment the Group made a profit of EUR 12 million on according to internal management criteria. the sale of some available-for-sale marketable The entire activity of the DASSAULT AVIATION securities compared to a profit of EUR 38 Group relates to the aviation and aerospace field. million in 2011, The internal reporting made to the Chairman and CEO, as used for the strategy and decisionborrowing costs are EUR 2 million compared to making, includes no performance analysis, under dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 EUR 13 million in 2011. the terms of IFRS 8, at a level subsidiary to this field. 41 Directors’ report 1.3 FINANCIAL STRUCTURE 1.4.2 Credit risks 1.3.1 Cash The Group performs its cash and foreign exchange transactions with recognized financial institutions The Group has defined a specific indicator, and places its investments and has bank accounts Available cash , which reflects the Group’s total with these various institutions. The Group had no liquidities net of borrowings. It covers the following investments or accounts with financial institutions balance sheet headings: that went bankrupt in 2012.  cash and cash equivalents, The Group limits counterparty risk by performing most of its sales in cash and ensuring that the  available-for-sale marketable securities (at granted loans are secured by export insurance market value), guarantees (COFACE) or collateral. Guarantees are  borrowings. also underwritten with export insurance firms for the manufacturing risk relating to major military Consolidated available cash amounted to export contracts. EUR 3,760 million on December 31, 2012 compared to EUR 3,274 million on December 31, The Group has identified no risk with regard to the 2011, up by EUR 486 million. percentage of outstanding receivables. This increase is notably due to consolidated net cash from operating activities (+ EUR 500 million) 1.4.3 Market risks and to a decrease in working capital (+ EUR 109 million), partially offset by investments (EUR 66 million) and distributed dividends  Foreign exchange risks: (EUR 86 million). Hedging portfolio: 1.3.2 Balance sheet The Group is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through the parent company with regard to RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Apart from working capital, the balance sheet FALCON sales that are virtually all denominated in structure is impacted by the repayment of the EUR US dollars. 400 million loan subscribed in the framework of the acquisition of THALES shares. The Parent Company partially hedges this risk by using foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange options. 1.4 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT It partially hedges its cash flows that are The Group is exposed to the following main risks considered highly probable. The Parent Company and uncertainties. ensures that the initial future cash flows will be sufficient to use the foreign exchange hedges in place. The hedged amount may be adjusted 1.4.1 Cash and liquidity risks according to the variability in the timing of expected net cash flows. The Group investment portfolio mainly comprises money market investments with no significant risk of impairment. Most of the fixed-income and diversified investments (according to the AMF reference) of the Group were backed by guarantees on dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 December 31, 2012. The Group can therefore meet its commitments without any liquidity risk due to its cash resources and its portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities. 42 DASSAULT AVIATION EMBRAER shares: 1.6 GROUP ACTIVITIES The Group’s parent company owns EMBRAER 1.6.1 Program developments shares. EMBRAER is listed on the Brazilian stock market. It is stated in the Group’s financial statements, based on market value at the balance  FALCON programs: sheet closing date, in Brazilian reals converted into Highlights of fiscal year 2012 were as follows: euros. The value of the shares may therefore fluctuate according to the exchange rate of these commercial activity up compared to 2011, in two currencies. particular toward the end of the year. Asia remained highly active, along with South America. The North American market  Other market risk: showed some encouraging signs, but the The Group is exposed to a pricing risk relating to wait-and-see attitude continued to prevail. price fluctuations of the EMBRAER shares. the delivery of 66 FALCON, the launch at the NBAA of the FALCON 1.4.4 Other 2000LXS, the new version of the FALCON 2000, In late 2002, a group of French manufacturers, progress with the flight testing of the including Dassault Aviation, was collectively issued FALCON 2000S with, in particular, the with a request for arbitration from a common client demonstration of better low speed claiming a sum which, according to the plaintiff, performance than expected, would amount to no less than USD 260 million, continued development of the SMS and for which the group of manufacturers may undergoing the detailed definition phase; have joint obligation with regard to the plaintiff. This request related to the execution of old conthe steep gradients certification of the tracts implemented by these manufacturers. In the FALCON 900LX, framework of an agreement signed between the RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. parties in June 2003, the plaintiff withdrew its the production and delivery of the first action. FALCON 7X equipped with a shower. In November 2012, the latter gave notification of a new request for arbitration based on similar  DEFENSE programs: grounds to the 2002 action, for a total now Concerning the RAFALE, 2012 was marked by: amounting to EUR 226 million. The parties strongly contest this request and, to date, it has not been the selection of the RAFALE by India as the possible to evaluate the potential financial risk. winner of the Medium Multi-Role Combat Consequently, Dassault Aviation has not recogAircraft (MMRCA) call for tender and nized any reserve. entering into exclusive negotiations with the Indian Air Force; the contract remains to be finalized, 1.5 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS the delivery of 11 RAFALE to the French government, including the RAFALE C137, The 2012 related parties are identical to those the first European aircraft equipped as identified in 2011. Certain subsidiaries are related standard with an active-antenna radar with the Parent Company via development and (AESA), hardware supply, along with software and qualification of the F3-O4T standard which, dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 associated support contracts. along with the AESA radar, features the new 2012 transactions are specified under Note 27 in optronic sensors (OSF IT) and the Newthe appendix to the consolidated financial Generation Missile Warning System (DDM statements. NG) along with upgrades to the 4th production series, 43 Directors’ report the first separation firing from the RAFALE expanded its FALCON certified service center of the new-generation METEOR beyondnetwork, visual-range air-air missile. obtained certification for the Electronic Flight Bag and iPad® solutions, freeing Other programs included: pilots of the need to take onboard with them the technical documentation manuals, maiden flight of the nEUROn Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle at Istres on December deployed the Falcon Broadcast System for 1st, 2012; this program, under the project the inflight transmission of maintenance management of DASSAULT AVIATION, also information for FALCON. involves five other European industrial partners,  concerning military support: continued upgrading work on the Indian retrofitted to F3 standard the RAFALE (CSR) MIRAGE 2000, simulation center at St. Dizier, addition as an operational emergency of answered a call for tender for the training of high-performance infrared cameras on two the fighter pilots of the French Air Force, ATLANTIQUE 2's and finalization of the preparatory work on the renovation of the submitted an outsourced maintenance bid to combat system for this aircraft, the United Arab Emirates for their fleet of Mirage 2000-9s, continued transformation work on two FALCON 50s into maritime surveillance restored to flight condition six aircraft in the aircraft and confirmation of two additional framework of the revision contract for the aircraft for modification, Peruvian MIRAGE 2000, notification from the DGA (Direction concluded with HINDUSTAN AERONAUTICS Générale de l’Armement French Defense Ltd (India) a spare parts resupply contract Procurement Agency), in association with for the major servicing of the MIRAGE 2000 of the Indian Air Force. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. the British Ministry of Defence, of the preparatory study for the launch of an FCAS (Future Combat Air System) combat drone 1.7.2 Subsidiary activities demonstrator in cooperation with BAE Systems,  DASSAULT FALCON JET (USA) markets our participation in the EUROPE 2012 UAV FALCON and is responsible for their interior SHOW at which we exhibited the UAV MALE fittings. (Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance) systems The company is headquartered in Teterboro, solutions proposed by the Company. The New Jersey, while industrial activities are Government policy directions with regard to located in Little Rock, Arkansas. MALE drones are not yet defined. Its subsidiaries are: 1.7 CUSTOMER SUPPORT AND DASSAULT FALCON JET SERVICES WILMINGTON, an aviation maintenance and service company, located in Wilmington 1.7.1 Customer support and services (Delaware), In 2012, the Group: DASSAULT AIRCRAFT SERVICES, dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13  with regard to FALCON support: responsible for promoting aviation continued to pursue the development of the maintenance and service sales in the United FALCONCARE program by using new States, also located in Wilmington assistance options in order to better meet (Delaware), the needs of our customers, 44 DASSAULT AVIATION APRO (50/50 joint venture with MESSIER1.7.3 Affiliates SERVICES INC.), responsible for the repair and maintenance of FALCON and ATR landing gear and flight controls. The  THALES (France), operates on the aviation and company’s facility is located in Deerfield aerospace, defense and security markets. Its Beach (Florida). activities are described in its reference document. In 2012, DFJ created a subsidiary in Beijing,  CORSE COMPOSITES AÉRONAUTIQUES called DASSAULT FALCON BUSINESS (France), is specialized in the production of SERVICES (BEIJING) Co. Ltd, responsible aviation parts made from composite materials, for the promotion and technical support of the in particular for its corporate shareholders FALCON in the People's Republic of China. (EADS AIRBUS, LATECOERE, SNECMA and DASSAULT AVIATION).  DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE (France) based at Paris Le Bourget airport, contributes to FALCON support activities in the following  EMBRAER (Brazil), a major player in the two areas: aviation industry, enables the Group to maintain its presence in South America, and service center dedicated to FALCON aircraft particularly in Brazil. for maintenance operations, leasing and management of FALCON aircraft  BOOSTAEROSPACE (France), company as part of civil transport activities. responsible for: facilitating exchanges between contracting  DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES clients and their suppliers, (USA) is the central purchasing hub in the promoting among the businesses in the United States for FALCON aviation equipment. Aerospace and Defense sectors collaborative services with service providers in the fields RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository.  MIDWAY (USA) ensures the overhaul and of Product Lifecycle Management (PLM), repair of civil aviation equipment for French Supply Chain Management and generic OEMs, suppliers of FALCON or of other aircraft. collaboration. DASSAULT AVIATION owns 20% of the equity  SOGITEC INDUSTRIES (France) operates in in this company alongside AIRBUS, EADS the fields of simulation and documentation. FRANCE, SAFRAN and THALES. In 2012, it clinched a major simulation contract for the supply of training facilities for the NH90 1.8 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT helicopter (and the associated support) for the French Army and Navy. Upstream of the programs, our future preparatory activities focus on research into aircraft concepts, The Group is also present in India via DASSAULT technological developments and the improvement AIRCRAFT SERVICES INDIA PRIVATE Ltd, the of our production line processes. company responsible for the promotion and technical support of our products in India. The cross-functional plan, Futur FALCON à Technologies Innovantes ( FALCON Future with Innovative Technologies ), self-financed and run as part of the work that is supported by the French Civil Aviation Authority and via the European Clean dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Sky partnership, is continuing according to plan: 45 Directors’ report progress with the definition of ground Committee for Civil Aerospace Research) program. demonstrators that will be subject to testing carried out in the framework of Clean Sky, In the field of metallic materials, we are developing the friction-stir welding process and consolidation of pre-project configurations for continuing to automate machined panel forming. ecological and cost-effective business jets, The robotization of assemblies is being pursued exploitation of horizontal-plane flight testing on both for wings and for fuselages. the FALCON for updating the laminarity criteria. We are developing and qualifying new surface We have prepared our response to the sixth call treatment processes in order to satisfy the for tenders of the research program of the requirements of European REACh regulations. European Union, closed in November 2012, in particular through participation in four major In all our production establishments, we are projects. deploying IRP (Improving Responsiveness in Production) projects, which aim to improve Taking part in the campaign “Investissement working conditions as well as quality and flexibility, d’Avenir” (Investment in the Future), the while significantly reducing our work cycles and preparatory work for demonstrating a composite costs. wing box is continuing and we are awaiting notification in the months to come of the first We are pursuing the generalization of the support agreements for the demonstration work extended digital enterprise and of Product Lifecycle concerning extended modular avionics and energy Management (PLM), thereby keeping us management. technologically ahead of the game and offering ourselves a significant competitive edge. It is in In early 2012, the Direction General de l’Armement this context that we are industrializing the SMS (DGA) notified us of the conditional tranche of an with the new version PLM V6 from DASSAULT Upstream Research Plan on the consolidation of SYSTЀMES. UCAV concepts and Upstream Research Plans laying the groundwork for the future operational New collaborative processes enabling the RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. capabilities of the RAFALE. coordination of all program stakeholders (both inside and outside the company) have been put in For these future systems, special effort is place. dedicated to the development of open and modular mission software in the framework of the To improve the efficiency of our supply chain, we European Common Operating System (ECOS) are enhancing the quality and robustness of study. A ground demonstration of the operation of exchanges with our suppliers by extending the a functional chain based on ECOS components is rollout of our supplier portal while improving our planned for 2013. production management system. A design resources repository for the Company has been created in order to underpin coordination of the development of these resources. 1.10 PRODUCTION FACILITIES The deployment of new production resources, and 1.9 NEW TECHNIQUES OF the permanent adaptation and operational maintenance of our industrial facilities were MANUFACTURING AND manifested in 2012 by: INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT  the commissioning: dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 We are pursuing the development of the use of of NC flat cutting facilities composites by industrializing the first parts (digital enterprise sheet metal workshop), incorporating fiber placement. We are studying a composite wing box demonstrator for business jets in the framework of the CORAC (COnseil pour la Recherche Aéronautique Civile Strategic 46 DASSAULT AVIATION of a multi-function robotized milling-turning 2. DASSAULT AVIATION, Parent cell (for flight controls), of the renovation of the automated layup Company facilities (composite parts), 2.1 ACTIVITIES  the ordering: of robotized cells for the SMS (wing The activities of the parent company, DASSAULT assembly fuselage stitching), AVIATION, in particular as regards program of an NC machining center for hard metals, developments, R&D and production, are presented of a second robotized skin panels assembly together with the activities of the Group. cell. Furthermore, the extension work on the Seclin 2.2 KEY FIGURES factory and the construction of a hangar at Le Bourget were completed. 2.2.1 Orders 1.11 TOTAL QUALITY The total orders booked by the parent company in 2012 amounted to The Total Quality policy continues to be pursued, EUR 2,688 million compared to EUR 2,324 based on four major strategies: million in 2011 (*).  prioritize customer satisfaction, Orders booked by the Group over the last five years are as follows, in EUR millions:  stay one step ahead of competitors in terms of cost and quality, Defense  promote human development, Year Falcon Total France Export  respect the environment. 2008 939 222 4,033 5,194 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. The latter two strategic orientations reflect our 2009 2,271 230 3,524 1,023 commitment to supporting fundamental values, in 2010 599 181 199 979 accordance with the UN Global Compact initiative. 2011 420 502 1,402 2,324 In 2012, DASSAULT AVIATION renewed for a three-year period its EN 9100 certification, a 2012 473 152 2,063 2,688 standard specific to the aerospace sector, along (*) DASSAULT AVIATION complies since 2011 with the with its ISO 14001 certification, a standard specific practice of other listed groups in no longer taking to the environment. account of the effect on order intake of the annual Since 2009, these certifications have been variation of the euro/dollar exchange rate in the achieved in the framework of an Integrated backlog. Management System. FALCON programs: We also ensure pursuance of our certifications for the design, production and maintenance of civil Orders for new aircraft, minus cancellations, aircraft, along with the official acknowledgment of amounted to 59 FALCON in 2012. This compares our capability to design military aircraft. to 36 FALCON in 2011. Lastly, we continue to implement our program, product, process, environment and health & safety Commercial activity was up compared to 2011, in risk management measures in all Group entities, particular toward the end of the year. Asia dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 departments and sites. remained highly active, along with South America. The North American market showed some encouraging signs, but the wait-and-see attitude continued to prevail. 47 Directors’ report DEFENSE programs: EUR 3,031,649,474.12 , be divided up as follows: DEFENSE orders amounted to EUR 625 million  dividend distribution of: in 2012 compared to EUR 922 million in 2011. In EUR 94,170,842.10 2012, these orders corresponded to support and  with the remaining balance to retained development. They are down by 32% compared to earnings: 2011, when the retrofitting of the MIRAGE 2000 EUR 2,937,478,632.02 was ordered from the Indian Armed Forces. If you accept this proposal, a dividend per share of EUR 9.30 will be distributed in respect of fiscal 2.2.2 Net sales year 2012. For individuals taxable in France, this dividend Parent company 2012 net sales amounted to shall be liable for a flat-rate withholding of 21% EUR 3,342 million, up by 15% compared to upon payment, and the following year for a 2011. progressive scale after the 40% allowance. This dividend shall also give rise to social security Sales for the last five years are as follows, in EUR contributions deducted at source. millions: Dividends paid in respect of the last three years Defense are as follows: Year Falcon Total France Export Net dividend Fiscal year Allowances (*) 2008 1,159 264 2,117 3,540 distributed (in euros) 2009 722 219 1,807 2,748 2009 8.80 40% 2010 707 226 2,619 3,552 2010 10.70 40% 2011 707 167 2,040 2,914 2011 8.50 40% 2012 929 165 2,248 3,342 (*) allowance for individuals RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 2.2.3 Net income 2.2.5 Five year results summary 2012 net income amounted to The DASSAULT AVIATION five-year summary is EUR 283 million, compared to EUR 259 million in shown in Note 34 to the financial statements. 2011, up by 9%. 2.2.6 Tax consolidation Group personnel will receive a total of EUR 108 million under the profit-sharing and incentive schemes, divided up as follows: The Company elected for tax consolidation in 1999. As from January 1st, 2012, the tax  Profit-sharing: EUR 94 million consolidation scope of the Group is reduced to  Incentive: EUR 14 million DASSAULT AÉRO SERVICE and DASSAULT AVIATION PARTICIPATIONS. A tax consolidation These sums represent 25.7% of the payroll in agreement, tacitly renewable for 5-year periods, 2012, compared to the legal minimum of 5.6%. was signed with each of these subsidiaries. 2.2.4 Dividends (appropriation of net income) dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Subject to your approval of the 2012 financial statements, we propose that the net income for the year of EUR 282,657,751.55 plus retained earnings of EUR 2,748,991,722.57, giving a total of 48 DASSAULT AVIATION 2.3 RISK MANAGEMENT are listed on the regulated Euronext Paris market of NYSE Euronext Compartment A International The risks and uncertainties which the Company has Securities Identification Numbers (ISIN Code): to face are the same as those outlined in this Group FR0000121725. They are not eligible for deferred management report, since the Parent Company plays settlement. a predominant role within the Group. The principal DASSAULT AVIATION shareholders as of December 31, 2012 are as follows: 2.4 PURCHASES AND Number % interest and Shareholders SUBCONTRACTING of shares voting rights GIMD 5,118,240 50.55 % In fiscal year 2012, purchases totaled EADS France 4,690,307 46.32 % EUR 2.1 billion, representing 63% of sales. These Private were distributed as follows: equipment and 317,350 3.13 % investors support (36%); semi-finished products, accessories, industrial subcontracting and special TOTAL 10,125,897 100.00 % process subcontracting (42%); general purchases (22%). 2.6.2 Information about Shareholders Defense market suppliers are primarily located in and voting rights France while FALCON suppliers are mainly located in Europe and North America. As of December 31, 2012, 6,395 shares (i.e.: 0.06% of the share capital) were held by a corporate investment fund, whose members 2.5 TERMS OF PAYMENT consist of current and former Company employees. Pursuant to French law, DASSAULT AVIATION has The Company’s bylaws do not include any introduced procedures required to ensure that its restrictions on the exercise of voting rights or the RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. suppliers are paid 45 days from the end of the transfer of shares. month when the invoice was issued. GIMD and EADS France are not linked by a The breakdown of trade payables by due date as shareholders’ agreement. of December 31 is as follows (in EUR millions): The direct or indirect investments in the Due-date 2011 2012 Company’s share capital, of which it is aware Due as of balance sheet 10.8 5.6 pursuant to Articles L 233-7 and L 233-12 of the date French Commercial Code, are those mentioned in As of mid-January 68.7 70.8 the table above. The Company does not hold any As of end of January 2.7 treasury shares. As of mid-February 3.3 4.7 No shareholder has special control rights. In As of end of February 0.1 particular, there is no shareholding system offering Other (fixed assets) 3.6 4.7 employees specific control. Total 89.2 85.8 2.6.3 Board of Directors 2.6 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Rules governing appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors and dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 2.6.1 Equity structure amendments to the bylaws are based on applicable legislation. The share capital of the Company totaled EUR 81,007,176. This is divided into 10,125,897 shares, each with a par value of EUR 8. The shares 49 Directors’ report The powers of the Board of Directors are based on 2.7 OPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE applicable legislation. The Board is not authorized MANAGEMENT to issue new shares or buy back Company shares. The Ordinary and Extraordinary Annual General 2.6.4 Agreements entered into by the Meeting of April 25, 2002 brought the bylaws of Company the Company into conformity with the Act of May 15, 2001 concerning the New Economic The Company did not enter into any major Regulations. The Board of Directors, which met agreement that would be amended or after this meeting, decided that the Chairman of automatically terminated in the event of a change the Board of Directors would be responsible for the in control of the Company. Company’s Executive Management. However, in such a case, the National Defense contracts entered into with the French State would be re-examined by the French Ministry of Defense, 2.8 OTHER OFFICES HELD AND which may require that all or some of these DUTIES PERFORMED BY contracts be transferred to another French DASSAULT AVIATION EXECUTIVE company for reasons of national interest. OFFICERS DURING FISCAL YEAR There is no agreement offering compensation for: 2012  members of the Board of Directors or 2.8.1 Honorary Chairman and Director employees, should they resign or be dismissed,  employees, should they resign or be dismissed Serge DASSAULT unjustifiably and without proper cause or Term of office beginning and end: 2009 AGM should their employment contract be 2015 AGM terminated due to a takeover, over and above DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement. Other corporate offices and duties: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository.  Chairman: 2.6.5 Miscellaneous information Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Groupe Figaro SAS Rond-Point Holding SAS In 2012 the Company did not carry out any Rond-Point Immobilier SAS transactions in its own shares under the share Société du Figaro SA buyback program.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: It has not established any stock option scheme or DASSAULT MEDIAS SA any bonus share scheme. The Shareholders Meeting has not agreed to  Chairman of the Board of Directors: delegate any authority or powers to the Board of Dassault Belgique Aviation SA Directors as regards capital increases. (since 09/10/2012) In 2012, no operation involving the shares of the  Chief Executive Officer: Company was declared to the AMF or to the CHATEAU DASSAULT SAS Company by the Directors, the top managers or those close to them, in accordance with the  Director: provisions of Article L 621-18-2 of the French Dassault Systèmes SA Monetary and Financial Code and Articles 223-22 Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 et seq. of the General Regulations of the AMF. Dow Kokam LLC (USA)  Member of the Strategy Committee: Dassault Développement SAS 50 DASSAULT AVIATION  General Manager:  Director: Rond-Point Investissements SARL Groupe Figaro SAS Société Civile Immobilière de Maison Rouge DASSAULT MEDIAS SA SCI des Hautes Bruyères DASSAULT SYSTEMES Artcurial SA 2.8.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Olivier DASSAULT Officer Term of office beginning and end: 2009 AGM Charles EDELSTENNE 2015 AGM Start and end of Director term: 2009 AGM 2015 DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 AGM / Start and end of Chairman-CEO term: Other corporate offices and duties: 2009 AGM – 08/01/2013 DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25  Vice-Chairman: VALMONDE & Co. SA Other corporate offices and duties:  Director:  Chairman of the Board of Directors: DASSAULT MEDIAS SA DASSAULT SYSTEMES SA Groupe Figaro SAS VALMONDE & Co. SA  Member of the Supervisory Board: RASEC INTERNATIONAL SAS Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS  Chairman of the Supervisory Board:  Director: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS THALES SA Particulier et Finances Editions SA CARREFOUR SA SOGITEC INDUSTRIES SA  Member of the Supervisory Board: SABCA (Belgium) RUBIS SA  Chairman:  General Manager: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) HR Finance SAS SCI Rod Spontini  President: Dassault International Inc. (USA) Alain GARCIA  General Manager: Term of office beginning and end: 2010 AGM Sociétés Civiles ARIE, ARIE 2 2016 AGM Sociétés Civiles NILI, NILI 2 DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 Other corporate offices and duties: 2.8.3 Directors  General Manager: Nicole DASSAULT Novation Aero Consulting SARL Term of office beginning and end: 2010 AGM 2016 AGM Philippe HUSTACHE DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 Term of office beginning and end: 2009 AGM – Other corporate offices and duties: 19/10/2012 (resignation) DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 50  Member of the Supervisory Board: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Other corporate offices and duties: dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13  Vice-Chairman and Member of the Supervisory  Adviser to the Chairman : Board: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Immobilière Dassault SA  Member of the Supervisory Board:  Managing Director: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Rond-Point Immobilier SAS 51 Directors’ report Denis KESSLER SOUTH STREAM TRANSPORT AG (Switzerland) Term of office beginning and end: 2009 AGM (since 12/04/2012) 2015 AGM DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25  Member of the Supervisory Board: VEOLIA EAU Cie Générale des Eaux SCA (until Other corporate offices and duties: 12/12/2012)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Pierre de BAUSSET SCOR SE Term of office beginning and end: 2010 AGM 2016 AGM  Director: DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 BNP Paribas SA BOLLORE SA Other corporate offices and duties: INVESCO Ltd (US) Fonds Stratégique d'Investissement (France)  Director: EADS France SAS  Chairman: VIGEO SA SCOR Global Life SE SCOR Global P&C SE Éric TRAPPIER  Chairman of the Supervisory Board: Term of office beginning and end: 18/12/2012 SCOR Global Investments SE (cooptation) 2015 AGM DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25  Member of the Supervisory Board: YAM INVEST N.V. (Netherlands) Other corporate offices and duties:  General Partner:  Director-General Manager: ACOFI SCA GIE RAFALE INTERNATIONAL Henri PROGLIO  General Manager: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Term of office beginning and end: 2008 AGM DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL SARL 2014 AGM DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25  Director: THALES SA Other corporate offices and duties:  Permanent representative of DASSAULT  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: AVIATION (until January 14, 2013) on the EDF SA Board of Directors of: SOFRESA SA  Chairman of the Board of Directors: ODAS SA Transalpina di Energia Spa (Italy) (until SOFEMA SA 24/05/2012) EUROTRADIA INTERNATIONAL SA Edison SpA (Italy) (since 20/04/2012)  Director: CNP Assurances SA VEOLIA Propreté SA (until 03/05/2012) VEOLIA Environnement SA (until 22/10/2012) EDF ENERGIES NOUVELLES SA EDF Energy Holdings Ltd (UK) EDF International SAS dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 NATIXIS SA EDISON Spa (Italy) FCC SA (Spain) SOUTH STREAM TRANSPORT BV (Netherlands) (since 13/11/2012) 52 DASSAULT AVIATION 2.9 EXECUTIVE OFFICER He had the use of a chauffeur-driven company COMPENSATION IN 2012 car and all expenses incurred in the course of his duties were reimbursed on an actual-cost basis. 2.9.1 Compensation of the Honorary Chairman In addition, he received directors’ fees of EUR 44,000 (double the standard amount).  In respect of GIMD, which controls DASSAULT Consequences of the end of term of office AVIATION: as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Charles EDELSTENNE Serge DASSAULT received a gross annual compensation of EUR 600,000 and directors’ Supplementary pension: fees of EUR 23,333. He had the use of a DASSAULT AVIATION has undertaken to pay a company car. supplementary pension to Mr. EDELSTENNE.  In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: This represents a sum of EUR 308,660 per annum. DASSAULT AVIATION has provisioned Serge DASSAULT, Director, received this sum in its accounts, for payment beginning EUR 22,000 in directors' fees from the Board of in 2013. Directors and EUR 9,148 gross annual compensation for advisory services. At the end of his term of office as Chairman He had the use of a chauffeur when performing and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT these advisory services. AVIATION, Mr. EDELSTENNE has not ceased his professional activity on account of his terms of Expenses incurred by him when carrying out office with DASSAULT SYSTÈMES and GIMD. He such activities and in the interests of the cannot therefore draw on his statutory pension. Company were also reimbursed. Consequently, DASSAULT AVIATION, despite its  In respect of French and foreign companies commitment, must defer the payment of this controlled by DASSAULT AVIATION as defined RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. pension. by Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code (i.e.: consolidated companies): Retirement allowance: DASSAULT AVIATION must pay a retirement Serge DASSAULT received USD 38,572 in allowance to Mr. EDELSTENNE. This represents directors' fees from the Board of Directors of a sum of EUR 460,833. DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT FALCON JET. has provisioned this sum in its accounts. 2.9.2 Compensation of the Chairman In 2009, in application of AFEP/MEDEF and CEO recommendations, the employment contract of Mr. EDELSTENNE was terminated at the initiative of DASSAULT AVIATION on account of  In respect of GIMD, which controls DASSAULT his retirement. AVIATION: Since Mr. EDELSTENNE was pursuing at the Charles EDELSTENNE received directors’ fees of time the exercise of his term of office as EUR 23,333. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION, the Board had linked the  In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: payment of this allowance to the end of his last Charles EDELSTENNE received gross annual term of office. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 compensation of EUR 753,840 in his capacity as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Insofar as: his term of office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION has now come to an end, 53 Directors’ report he no longer exercises within DASSAULT in his capacity as Chairman of said Committee). AVIATION any activity giving rise to the payment of salaried compensation or  In respect of the French and foreign companies considered equivalent, in the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: the payment of this allowance is not subject to the condition that its beneficiary The aforementioned Directors did not receive effectively draw on his retirement benefits, any compensation, directors’ fees or benefits in kind. the Board has decided to pay, in 2013, to Mr. EDELSTENNE, his contractual retirement Éric TRAPPIER received directors’ fees of allowance. EUR 31,950 from the Board of Directors of THALES.  In respect of other French and foreign companies in the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: 2.9.4 Compensation paid to the Charles EDELSTENNE received USD 38,572 in Chairman and CEO by the directors' fees from the Board of Directors of Company DASSAULT FALCON JET and EUR 30,700 in directors' fees from the THALES Board of Table 1 Directors. Summary of compensation, stock options and shares (in EUR) paid to Charles EDELSTENNE, 2.9.3 Compensation paid to other Chairman and Chief Executive Officer directors 2011 2012 Compensation payable during the fiscal year 784,108 806,870  In respect of GIMD, which controls DASSAULT (breakdown in table 2) AVIATION: Stock options granted Olivier DASSAULT received a gross annual during the year compensation of EUR 180,000 in his capacity as Performance shares RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. granted during the year Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and a gross annual salary of EUR 146,376. He had the use TOTAL 784,108 806,870 of a company car and received directors' fees of EUR 23,333. Table 2 Nicole DASSAULT and Philippe HUSTACHE each received directors’ fees of EUR 23,333. Detail of compensation (in EUR) for Charles EDELSTENNE,  In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer For For Nicole DASSAULT, Olivier DASSAULT, Pierre de 2011 2012 BAUSSET, Alain GARCIA, Philippe HUSTACHE, Fixed compensation 733,250 753,840 Denis KESSLER and Henri PROGLIO each received EUR 22,000 in directors' fees from the Variable compensation Board of Directors. Exceptional compensation Éric TRAPPIER, appointed Director on Directors’ fees 44,000 44,000 18/12/2012, received a gross compensation of EUR 10,018 between December 18 and 31, Benefits in kind 6,858 9,030 2012. TOTAL 784,108 806,870 He did not receive any directors' fees from the dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Board of Directors in 2012. In respect of the Audit Committee, Philippe HUSTACHE and Denis KESSLER each received EUR 6,000 in additional directors' fees and Henri PROGLIO received EUR 10,000 in additional directors' fees (including EUR 4,000 54 DASSAULT AVIATION 2.9.5 Directors' fees allocated by the Those exercised by Loïk SEGALEN are as follows: Company  Director: THALES SA Directors’ fees DASSAULT FALCON JET CORPORATION (USA), (in EUR) DASSAULT BELGIQUE AVIATION SA Paid in Paid in 2012 SABCA and SABCA Limburg Board members 2011 MIDWAY AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENT Serge DASSAULT 22,000 22,000 CORPORATION (USA) Charles EDELSTENNE 44,000 44,000 DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES (USA) GIFAS Olivier DASSAULT 22,000 22,000 Nicole DASSAULT 22,000 22,000  Vice-President and Treasurer: DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL (USA) INC. Pierre de BAUSSET 22,000 22,000 Alain GARCIA 22,000 22,000 (1) (1) Philippe HUSTACHE 28,000 28,000 3. SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL (1) (1) Denis KESSLER 28,000 28,000 (2) (2) Henri PROGLIO 32,000 32,000 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Éric TRAPPIER INFORMATION TOTAL 242,000 242,000 (1) including EUR 6,000 in respect of the Audit Most of the new indicators take account of the Committee regulatory requirements and of the principles of (2) including EUR 10,000 in respect of the Audit the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) . A correCommittee spondence table between our indicators and these principles is included in appendix 2. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 2.10 CHANGES TO THE EXECUTIVE Quality instructions formalize the reporting rules, MANAGEMENT EFFECTIVE FROM and periodic checks are now carried out by our independent third-party auditor. THE START OF 2013 The following information relates to the DASSAULT Charles EDELSTENNE, having reached the AVIATION Group, comprising the Parent Company statutory age limit, quit his functions as Chairman and its subsidiaries. Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION with effect from January 8, 2013. However, as detailed in the methodological note included in appendix 1 to this report, certain indiFollowing the proposal from and agreement of cators cannot be consolidated on account of reguSerge DASSAULT and the Board of Directors, he latory differences between countries. was replaced by Éric TRAPPIER who became, as from January 9, 2013, Chairman Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION, assisted by Loïk SEGALEN, who was appointed Chief Operating Officer (non-director). Charles EDELSTENNE remains a Director of the Company and joins the Audit Committee. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 The offices and functions exercised by Éric TRAPPIER in other companies are presented under point 2.8.3 above. 55 Directors’ report 3.1 SOCIAL INFORMATION 3.1.2 Recruitment 3.1.1 Staff Policy On December 31, 2012, the workforce of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group totaled 11,584. The principles governing the staff policy of the Workforce on DASSAULT AVIATION Group are based on the Entity following fundamentals: December 31, 2012 DASSAULT AVIATION  attentive job management, designed to pre8,080 Parent Company serve our skills in a continually evolving environment, Dassault Falcon Service 579 (DFS)  an attractive pay policy, Sogitec Industries 417  a permanent staff dialog, manifested via: Dassault Falcon Jet (DFJ) 2,481 the search for collective agreement, Dassault Procurement 27 the smooth functioning of the staff repreServices (DPS) sentative institutions, Total: 11,584  combating all forms of discrimination by: This comprises 9,646 men and 1,938 women, the implementation of corporate agreements whose breakdown per age category is as follows: or action plans, in particular with regard to job equality between men and women, and Percentage on the employment and retention in Age category December 31, 2012 employment of disabled people and older employees, 35 and under 24% informing and training employees and man36 to 50 39% agers on these topics, 51 and over 37% RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository.  the professional and career development of each employee, based in particular on: jobs and skills forecast management, makThe headcount of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group ing tools available to all employees of the is distributed in France and the USA as follows: Parent Company for managing their career paths, Geographical Percentage as of training, in particular via the DASSAULT Indistribution December 31, 2012 stitute for the development of our managers France 78% and the Skills Conservatory for the preservaUSA 22% tion of our skills and know-how, internal mobility: all employees of the Parent On December 31, 2012, 391 employees of the Company have access to internal vacancies, DASSAULT AVIATION Group had part-time con preventive health & safety actions carried out in tracts. coordination with the medical network and the health & safety and working conditions netIn 2012, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group pursued work, in order to ensure the well-being of emits recruitment policy with the appointment of 691 ployees, both physically and psychologically. new employees. To prepare for its future recruitment needs, the dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Parent Company is pursuing its cooperation with educational institutions and establishments. In order to promote our company and help students to construct their career plans, company employees are officially assigned as ambassadors for passing on their skills and taking part in actions 56 DASSAULT AVIATION run at company level, or at local level by our es staff representative bodies: tablishments. Works' Committees, These upstream recruitment efforts are backed by Health & Safety and Working Conditions an internship policy designed to facilitate entry into Committees, working life. In this way, in 2012, the Parent Company was able to receive 417 interns. Staff Delegates, Specialized committees (training, employIn 2012, the number of employees quitting the ment, prevention of psychosocial risks, DASSAULT AVIATION Group totaled 596, of whom etc.), 16% were individual dismissals. Central Works Council,  Union organizations: 3.1.3 Pay policy union delegates and central union deleThe DASSAULT AVIATION Group pursues a pay gates, policy whose objectives are to reward, motivate Representative of the union sections, and inspire loyalty among its employees, while adapting to its situation and its economic environ the Board of Directors: ment. the Central Works Council designates four of its members to represent it on the Board of DirecThe average annual salary of Parent Company tors. employees in 2012 amounted to EUR 63,338, including profit-sharing and incentive payments. An agreement with the Parent Company on the Salary growth, excluding profit-sharing and incenrole, resources and career planning of the staff tive payments, is in compliance with the policy representatives, signed in 2010, facilitates the defined for 2012. operation of the union organizations and of the staff representative institutions by making availaThe Parent Company also encourages employee ble to them numerous resources in addition to those stipulated by law: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. savings. Company employees can use the Enterprise Savings Plan (PEE Plan d’Epargne delegation time, Entreprise), with a wide range of investment possibilities, along with the Collective Retirement Savbudgetary allocations for the union organizaings Plan (PERCO Plan d’Epargne pour la Retraite tions, COllectif), with the company matching the employmaterial resources, ee's contributions. career supervision mechanism for staff repreFurthermore, the Parent Company channeled sentatives. EUR 21.1 million into the Works' Committees to fund social and cultural activities, representing 5% 3.1.5 Diversity of the payroll. The DASSAULT AVIATION Group adheres to the 3.1.4 Employee relations principles of non-discrimination and promotes its desire to encourage diversity, considered a key The DASSAULT AVIATION Group implements an factor in its Human Resources policy. This desire is active employee relations policy. Regular negotiamanifested in the signing of corporate agreements tions take place with the staff representatives, and the implementation of action plans in the aregiving rise to a staff dialog based on the quest for as of job equality between men and women, the employment of disabled people and the employdassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 collective agreement. ment and retention of older workers. This regular staff dialog helps to maintain a climate propitious to the smooth running of the company. In order to raise the awareness of all managers It operates at several levels, involving: about the issues of diversity, and to integrate these more efficiently into the job of management, the Parent Company organized training in 2012 on 57 Directors’ report the theme: Management and diversity , to be The Parent Company also works upstream on continued in 2013. The recruitment network of the training disabled people in the aerospace profesParent Company has also received awarenesssions. For example, the company has renewed its training in the 18 criteria of non-discrimination. partnership with the Hanvol Association, created in 2010 with the support of GIFAS, the Association of In 2012, the Parent Company confirmed its policy French Aeronautical and Space Industries, and with regard to job equality for men and women other aerospace companies, to promote the trainthrough the implementation of an agreement ing and integration of disabled people through the signed in late 2011, reinforcing the provisions of establishment of work-study training. the previous agreement dating from 2007. The commitments of the Parent Company with In this way, the Parent Company underscores its regard to the employment of disabled people have desire to develop diversity within the company, been manifested through a hiring rate greater than and in particular in the technical and industrial the legal minimum of 6%. trades. By the end of 2012, the DASSAULT AVIATION This desire to encourage the employment of womGroup employed 633 disabled workers. To this en is manifested through female recruitment tarmay be added initiatives in favor of the protected gets and through the deployment of communicasector (i.e.: for the employment of disabled peotion campaigns in educational establishments in ple) and the induction of disabled interns. order to get women students to learn more about the technical professions. Particular attention is Lastly, by way of an agreement signed in 2010, paid to training and career development, notably the Parent Company is committed to the employthrough encouraging access for women to the ment of seniors, and in particular to retaining emmanagement training of the DASSAULT Institute. ployees aged 55 and over, the transmission and With the desire to make its employees better indevelopment of know-how and skills, and the posformed and better aware of this matter, the Parent sibility of working part-time with attractive condiCompany has distributed to all personnel a brotions. chure on the theme: Living diversity ( Vivons la RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. mixité ). The purpose of this brochure is to remind Officers have been designated for organizing and employees of the Company's values and commitmonitoring the actions planned in the framework ments in this area, to prevent stereotyping and to of these agreements. ensure better understanding of the measures put in place in order to support parenthood and ensure a good work-life balance. 3.1.6 Human Resources development Through encouraging the employment of disabled Actions undertaken in 2012 underpinned the people, the Parent Company has for many years maintenance and development of employee skills implemented a policy encouraging the recruitment, levels, taking into account both individual and colretention, training and career development of disalective aspirations, on the one hand, and the social bled employees. In the framework of a 2010 and economic climate of the Company, on the agreement relating to the employment of disabled other. people, the Parent Company wished to increase the Undertaken over the long-term within the Parent awareness of staff on this topic through the estabCompany, several mechanisms continue to bear lishment of local actions at the initiative of the CAP fruit. These include: AVENIR ( Pointing to the Future ) committees, and the integration of new recruits: so-called through the distribution of a brochure on the acENVOL days , bringing together newly-hired knowledgment of disabled worker status. The Parexecutive staff to meet with managers and ent Company in this way underlines its commitment dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 discuss the issues and challenges facing the to support and help employees who wish to embark company. They benefit from visits to French on a disability acknowledgment procedure (specific military air bases (Mont de Marsan, Orange, monitoring, adapting the work conditions to the Nancy, Saint-Dizier), allowing them to discover constraints linked to the disability). our products in an operational context and talk with our customers, 58 DASSAULT AVIATION professional mobility, a crucial tool for assuring tors. Furthermore, the training initiatives for organizational vitality, allows the company to the management teams, initiated in 2008, consatisfy its human resources needs while catertinued to be pursued in 2012. In the frameing to the aspirations of employees, work of our agreement on the prevention of the transfer of operational know-how through psychosocial risks, a joint committee is conthe Skills Conservatory (the range of training vened twice annually for monitoring the action courses continues to develop) is deployed on plans, all facilities, the deployment on all facilities of an addictive an overhaul of the DASSAULT Institute manbehaviors prevention campaign aimed at the agement programs is laying the groundwork management and the health & safety and for the future by developing the skills of manworking conditions committees, agers and improving the performance of our organization within an ever-changing environthe establishment of actions targeting the subment, stitution of chemical substances, our investments in professional training meet the consolidation of company organization in the operational needs of the company and its order to increase our performance in terms of employees. This represents 206,154 hours of regulations monitoring and conformity. training for the DASSAULT AVIATION Group, our work-study policy continues to be develThe commitment of the Parent Company to the oped. reduction of occupational risks is illustrated by concrete, operational actions: 2012 was also marked by the signing of an agreea proactive approach to reducing workplace ment enabling the establishment of a new jobs exposure to chromates through the coordinaand skills forecast management approach, divided tion of substitution plans for substances and up along professional specialty and business area the launch of a study on improving our prolines, and more suited to the needs of the compacesses and our means of protection, ny. This approach also enables each employee to the deployment of strategies for measuring RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. take charge of their career paths through better exposure to dangerous chemical agents in orunderstanding of professional skills groups, their der to improve the efficiency of our chemical developments and the bridges that exist between risk prevention actions, them. the integration of health & safety aspects in the Improving Responsiveness in Production (IRP) projects in order to organize work3.1.7 Health and Safety at Work stations so as to minimize the workstation discomfort and handling risks. Health & safety at work are strong values of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group, which continues to For the DASSAULT AVIATION Group, absenteeism pursue its actions relating to the prevention of as of December 31, 2012 amounted to 86,398 occupational risks. days of absence, all causes combined, except for maternity and paternity leave. Launched in 2010, the three-year health & safety The number of work-related accidents resulting in in the workplace policy of the Parent Company was work stoppages amounted to 189 in 2012 for a manifested in 2012 by: total of 7,852 days of absence, corresponding to a the establishment of action plans at site level frequency rate of 10.21 and a severity rate of aiming to reduce exposure to nuisance factors 0.42. (these primarily being noise, chemical products dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 and uncomfortable work postures), the reinforcement of our psychosocial risks prevention procedure, in particular through the development of improvement action plans based on prevention and exposure level indica59 Directors’ report Lastly, 23 occupational illnesses were recognized gration of environmental concerns in the world by the various competent authorities throughout aerospace supply chain. the Group in 2012. For the Parent Company, this mainly involved repetitive strain injuries. DASSAULT FALCON JET and DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES signed up to the IAEG in 2012. 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 3.2.3 Ambitious objectives 3.2.1 General framework Over the past 40 years, technological progress For 10 years, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group has with regard to engine efficiency, aerodynamics and been engaged in an environmental improvement weight saving have made it possible to reduce policy backed up by a progressively-deployed considerably the fuel consumption, CO2 emissions management system: and noise nuisance from our aircraft. ISO 14001 certification of the Little Rock site of DASSAULT FALCON JET in the United States DASSAULT AVIATION intends to pursue this path (DFJ) (2002), and has therefore subscribed to the objectives ISO 14001 certification of the industrial facilities defined by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics of the Parent Company (2002-2006), Research in Europe (ACARE): global certification of the Parent Company from design through to support (2007), 50% reduction of noise levels on the ground, integration of Quality and Environment certifi40% reduction of CO2 emissions, cations for the Parent Company (2009). reducing the environmental impact created by the production and withdrawal from service of This approach has significantly contributed at the aircraft. industrial level to: the significant reduction of the environmental In the industrial context, our objectives are to impacts of our activities (see Section 3.2.5), RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. reduce significantly the environmental impact of the reduction and improved management of our production facilities. Thus, over the past 10 our environmental risks (see Section 3.2.7), years, we have reduced by: improved responsiveness to regulatory devel60% our water consumption, opments. 50% our VOC emissions, For its part, DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE has initi100% our consumption of heavy fuel oil. ated work on convergence towards the ISO 14001 standard on its Le Bourget site. In 2011, a 2021 eco-approach plan was launched along two lines: eco-design and eco-production. 3.2.2 Environmental commitment 3.2.4 Employee awareness Since 2008, the Parent Company has been a member of the Council for civil aerospace research Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is (CORAC) set up following the Grenelle de based on: l’Environnement conference for defining and imlocal Environment departments, plementing technological research and innovation networks of associated Environment correactions. Its purpose is to achieve the environmenspondents. tal objectives set at European level for 2020 and to reinforce the competitiveness of the sector. Personnel are made aware of best environmental dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 practices, in particular gestures relating to the The Parent Company is also one of the founder saving of resources and the sorting of waste. members of the IAEG (International Aerospace Environmental Group), created in 2011, whose For activities that have a significant impact on the objectives are to promote and facilitate the inteenvironment, there is specific training available: 60 DASSAULT AVIATION REACh, chemical risks, asbestos, explosive atmos Energy consumption pheres (ATEX). Energy is in the main consumed in the framework Workers from outside companies are made aware of the industrial activity of our production facilities, of these issues by means of prevention plans and and our aviation activity. other site-specific documents. Parent Consolidat2012 in Gigajoules Company ed Energy excluding kero3.2.5 Environmental performance 612,854 895,618 sene (ENE001)  Administrative regimes Kerosene 234,093 498,889 (ENE002) The French industrial facilities are subject to ICPE Total 846,947 1,394,507 (Environment Protection Classified Installations) legislation, and as such possess all the recent adWith the exception of the kerosene consumed by ministrative authorizations. the aircraft, the main sources of energy are electricity and gas. The Poitiers site is the only site of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group classified as Seveso low threshParent old on account of its activities involving the chem2012 in Gigajoules Consolidated Company ical milling of titanium, which is to be phased out Electricity 343,374 512,268 in favor of an ecological mechanical process. (ENE001-a) The Martignas and Saint-Cloud sites are subject to Natural gas 266,397 378,218 (ENE001-b) the Declaration regime, while the other estabLPG 178 178 lishments of the Parent Company and the (ENE001-c) DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE site at Le Bourget Domestic fuel oil 2,904 4,953 are subject to the Authorization regime. (ENE001-d) Heavy fuel oil 0 0 (ENE001-e) The SOGITEC INDUSTRIES facilities are not classiRELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Total 612,853 895,617 fied. (ENE001) Energy is used for certain industrial processes  Environment dashboard (heat treatment, composites manufacturing, surface treatment, paint shop), and for the lighting, The environmental reporting dashboard estabair conditioning and heating of installations. lished in 2003 was revised in 2011 and extended to include the subsidiaries. Electricity consumption remained stable in 2012 despite the increased size of working premises. The new indicators take account of the regulatory Gas consumption by the Parent Company was up, requirements and of the recommendations of the as a consequence of the cold weather in the first Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Version 3. A corquarter. respondence table between our indicators and these recommendations is included in appendix 2 Changing the old boilers made it possible to elimiof the present report. nate heavy fuel oil consumption in favor of gas. The annual check of the dashboard is now carried A new action plan for improving energy perforout by one of the Statutory Auditors of the Parent mance was launched in 2012, including the impleCompany. mentation of centralized energy management and the insulation of buildings. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 61 Directors’ report  Water consumption  Atmospheric discharges The water used on the facilities of the DASSAULT DASSAULT AVIATION is committed to improving AVIATION Group comes from the public water the energy efficiency of its aircraft through particisupply and from pumped groundwater. pation in research programs initiated by the European Commission. Parent Consolidat2012 in cubic meters Company ed Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Mains water 112,875 160,583 (EAU001-a) Parent ConsolidatGroundwater 2012 in tonnes of VOC 35,839 35,839 Company ed (EAU001-b) Total quantity Total 148,714 196,422 (AIR004) 61 151 (EAU001) Over the past 10 years, the VOC emissions have The significant reduction in water consumption, in been reduced by approximately 50%, following: the order of 60% over 10 years, is the result of changes to the chemical milling process, actions carried out on: supply network renovation, the almost total elimination of trichloroethylene, the elimination of open-circuit installations, replacement, wherever possible, with the less changes to production processes, volatile methyl ethyl ketone. the recycling of industrial wastewater, At the same time, VOC emissions from aircraft restricting the watering of green spaces. have been reduced by 74% on the DASSAULT FALCON JET site at Little Rock.  Raw materials and other products The use of halogenated solvents has also been The aircraft structures mainly consist of aluminum, considerably reduced (by more than 90%) and 80% of which comes from recycled raw materials. should practically disappear for the Parent Company with the stoppage of the titanium milling proRELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Parent Consolidat2012 in tonnes cess. Company ed Aluminum 4,214 4,235 Greenhouse gas emissions (MAT001) Titanium The inventory of our GHG (greenhouse gas) emis101 101 (MAT002) sions has been deployed for direct emissions Composites 106 145 (scope 1) and indirect emissions linked to electrici(MAT003) ty consumption (scope 2). Steel 161 ND (MAT005) Parent ConsolidatAfter machining, almost 80% of the aluminum 2012 in tonnes of CO2 Company ed consumed is reinjected into the metals recycling Scope 1 circuit (R4 channel). 33.890 (*)60,016 (AIR001-S1) Scope 2 5,722 28,045 The modernization of the machines pool and the (AIR001-S2) process changes have enabled significant reducTotal 1 + 2 39,612 88,061 tions in the consumption of the chemical products (AIR001) used, such as solvents, cleaning products and cut(*) excluding emissions linked to refrigeration proting fluids. cesses in the US subsidiaries. In 2012, actions for substituting substances of GHG emissions derive essentially from combustion dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 concern (substitution plans for chromates, cadmiinstallations (boilers and backup generators) and um and lead) and for reducing chemical risks were aviation activity (scope 1). reinforced, particularly with regard to the processes using hexavalent chromium-based mixtures. With the prospect of the deployment of scope 3 (indirect emissions), the Parent Company has undertaken actions to reduce GHG emissions. Note in 62 DASSAULT AVIATION particular the setting up of platforms for the distri Waste bution of chemical products or raw materials which reduce significantly the emissions linked to road The generated waste is divided into non-hazardous transport. waste (paper, card, metals, etc.) and hazardous waste (soiled packaging, oils, metallic hydroxide The first GHG inventories of the Parent Company sludge, solvents, etc.). and of DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE were published in 2012 for reference year 2011, in accordParent Consolidat2012 in tonnes ance with Article 75 of the Grenelle 2 Act. Company ed Non-hazardous 6,325 7,896 As it does every year, the Parent Company pro(DEC001-a) duced a CO2 declaration for its aviation activity in Hazardous 1,554 2,086 (DEC001-b) the framework of the Emissions Trading Scheme Total 7,879 9,982 regulations. (DEC001) Recycling % 80.4 NA Other atmospheric discharges (DEC002) The elimination of the boilers running on heavy Three main channels are used for the recycling fuel oil restricted SO2 emissions exclusively to the and reuse of our waste: discharges due to the aviation activity (kerosene). recycling of metals,  Wastewater energy recovery, recycling of non-metallic materials. The production facilities likely to generate industrial wastewater are equipped with detoxification Significant investments have been made in each stations or wastewater treatment installations of establishment for creating specific collection zones, the zero liquid discharge type. organized so as to avoid accidental pollution. This allows us to achieve heavy metal discharge  Conditions of ground use RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. rates lower than the value limits set by the regulations. Excluding the historic Saint-Cloud and Argenteuil sites, which are located in urban zones, the faciliThe DASSAULT AVIATION sites at Argenteuil, Biarties of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group have been ritz and Mérignac and the DASSAULT FALCON laid out with a view to preserving as far as possible SERVICE site at Le Bourget are concerned by reguthe green spaces. latory actions for researching into and reducing water pollution from the discharge of certain danThe average proportion of sealed surfaces (develgerous substances. Currently, no site is in susoped land and roads) amounted to 48% in 2012 tained surveillance phase. for the Parent Company (SOL001 indicator), and was in the order of 66% for the subsidiaries. In order to prevent accidental pollution, our establishments are equipped with hydrocarbon separa Noise and vibrations tors, stripping areas and containment basins for fire-extinguishing water. With regard to production activities, noisy equipment is isolated geographically or physically, and Facilities situated over water tables have instituted devices likely to generate vibrations are set up on monitoring of the water quality (piezometer) when anti-vibration mountings. their activities so require. Noise level measurements have not revealed any dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 significant noise pollution. The aircraft flight and ground testing activities are carried out so as to minimize the noise nuisance for personnel and local residents, and in accordance with the regulations in force. 63 Directors’ report testify to our commitment to reduce the carbon No local neighborhood complaints were recorded footprint of our activities. in 2012. The Parent Company has also earmarked specific investments for, in particular:  Road and air traffic the replacement of air-conditioning units runThe industrial streamlining carried out in recent ning off R22 (refrigerant fluid with high globalyears within the Parent Company has provided the warming potential), opportunity to optimize inter-site transport for renovating the wastewater facilities and creatpersons and goods. ing an infiltration tank on the Seclin site, developing the holding apron on the Istres Employee travel has been minimized on account of site, the development of collaborative tools and videoconferencing. replacing the parts cleaning machines on the Argonay site, The arrangements for ferrying personnel by bus constructing a storage tank for the carbonated have been optimized in terms of circuits and cawaters on the Martignas site, pacity in order to match actual needs. installing a baler on the Mérignac site for compacting plastic waste. Two of the sites (Saint-Cloud and Istres) are engaged in the drafting of a Company Travel Plan, designed in particular to reduce the number of 3.2.7 Environmental risk management journeys made in private vehicles that generate pollution.  Risk management procedure Concerning the transport of goods, the setting up In terms of environmental risk management, in of a platform for the distribution of chemical prodrecent years our industrial facilities have made ucts and of a raw materials distribution platform significant progress, by putting into place: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. contributes to the streamlining of transport flows. risks analysis with modeling,  Biodiversity plans to reduce risks at source , measures and means of prevention and protecMost of our facilities are situated within dedicated tion, industrial or airport zones. emergency response plans, Only the DASSAULT AVIATION sites at Istres and periodic accident simulation exercises. Biarritz are close to outstanding natural areas (BIO001 indicator). Furthermore, as is stipulated in the contractual All prevention or protection measures taken on the environmental clauses, suppliers who may have a sites help preserve local biodiversity. significant impact are subject to Environment audits. 3.2.6 Resources deployed to prevent adverse consequences of our activity on the environment dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Every year, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group makes investments linked to the protection and preservation of the environment. The investments plowed into studies of centralized technical energy management, energy performance contracts and studies and electric vehicles 64 DASSAULT AVIATION  Damage caused to the environment 3.3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION No court has ever sanctioned the DASSAULT AVIATION Group for pollution or ordered it to pay 3.3.1 Company commitments in favor of compensation to repair damage caused to the environment. sustainable development The Biarritz site was subject to a prefectural order  A policy of sustainability in 2006 calling for an impact analysis and a treatment study for past groundwater pollution (chrome On account of the specific characteristics of its and halogenated solvents). The treatment facility sector of activity, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group was installed in accordance with the management has always been committed to sustainable develplan. Studies in response to the supplemental preopment, whether in its choice of partners, its purfectural order of July 2012, asking us to study the chasing policies or its desire to ensure the excelimprovement of our facility, were carried out. lence and quality of its manufacturing.  Provisions and financial guarantees From as early as the design phase, the aircraft need to integrate all constraints linked to their life Subsequent to Decree No. 2012-633 of May 3, cycle. To achieve this, the DASSAULT AVIATION 2012 which imposes the establishment of financial Group uses innovative digital industrial processes guarantees on sites that are subject to ICPE (Enviin order to be able to respect these requirements ronment Protection Classified Installations) legislaand involving all of its suppliers. tion, the Parent Company is subject to the obligation of financial guarantees for five of its facilities. The markets on which our Group operates are These financial guarantees shall be established in highly competitive. In order to satisfy our clients accordance with the regulatory deadlines. and meet the expectations with regard to high technology, performance, safety and innovation, In addition to its General Operations Civil Liability we ensure that the definition of our aircraft, the insurance policy (EUR 1.5 million for environmental services supplied on board and the associated RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. damage risks), the Parent Company has subscribed ground services are permanently optimized. to Environmental Impairment Liability insurance for EUR 11 million, EUR 3 million of which cover natuAircraft operations and maintenance are strictly ral protected species and habitats. Since January governed by specific regulations, forcing the oper1st, 2012, this environmental damages guarantee, ators to remain in permanent control of the navias defined by European Directive 2004/35/CE, has gability of their aircraft. The reactivity required by been extended to include damage caused to wildthis has led us, via our DASSAULT FALCON SERlife and ecological damage. VICE (DFS) and DASSAULT FALCONJET (DFJ) subsidiaries, to develop close links with local industry. Lastly, in the framework of the said insurance contract and as part of a constant risk prevention Lastly, our Group's approach, with its commitment approach, the insurers carry out regular risk reto Ecology (via eco-design), the use of new mateviews of the sites and draft analysis reports that rials and the definition of new clean processes, serve as the basis for the implementation of action makes a strong contribution to the optimization of plans. our products and stands us in good stead in the face of future regulations. The Parent Company did not need to recognize any environmental liabilities.  Corporate commitment for industrial and purchasing activities dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 In the framework of its industrial and purchasing activities, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: procures, purchases, manufactures and integrates all the elements making up its aircraft, then carries out the internal fittings according 65 Directors’ report to the requirements of its customers. When airThe purchases made by DASSAULT FALCON craft are in service, it disassembles, repairs and JET for executing its missions (distribution of reinstalls these same elements, aircraft and spare parts, completion, maintenance) represent EUR 300 million. handles the coordination of the supply chain, either directly or via its DASSAULT PROCUREThe purchases made by DASSAULT FALCON MENT SERVICE (DPS) subsidiary for the North SERVICE for executing its services represent American suppliers, approximately EUR 50 million per annum. 91% of these are made in Western Europe, informs of any procurement instabilities in order 92% of which in France. French suppliers are to ensure long-term respect of its commitments therefore responsible for 84% of these puron the production of aircraft and throughout chases. the aircraft service cycle. Purchases made by SOGITEC INDUSTRIES represent approximately EUR 30 million, and re Importance of purchasing late principally to aeronautical equipment, software, hardware components, data packages, In terms of purchasing, the commitments of the and electrical & IT equipment. DASSAULT AVIATION Group to ensure the production of its aircraft and the associated services represent approximately EUR 2 billion per annum.  Our purchasing policy and the securing of our Supply Chain In 2012, purchases broke down as follows: Excluding aerostructures and services: 60% of The guiding principles of our purchasing policy purchases take place in Western Europe, almost lead us to integrate, as far as possible, our suppli90% of which in France, and 40% in North ers in the industrial and logistical processes, in the America. French suppliers therefore contribute quest for reactivity and cost optimization. to over half of our purchases. Aerostructures purchases (structural elements This enables us to optimize the consumption of of the aircraft) represent approximately resources and keep stocks down. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. EUR 350 million per year, involving over 250 suppliers (those with strategic partner staOur corporate approach is passed on to our supplitus contribute three-quarters of these sales in ers by way of our technical and industrial specificaterms of value). Over half of our aerostructures tions, our purchasing clauses and our contractual suppliers are managed locally by the establishrequirements. We demand that they demonstrate ments of the DASSAULT AVIATION Parent the same commitment. Company. We permanently carry out actions to assess our The following tables give the breakdown in valsuppliers, taking into account compliance with ue and in number of aerostructure supplier Quality and Environment requirements. We ask panels for the Parent Company. them to improve by means of progress plans that we monitor through to successful completion. Value breakdown Strategic partners 73% This policy also requires management of the risks Production subcontractors manof our suppliers. 24% aged locally For non-aerostructure purchases, over 1,200 supProduction support 3% pliers have been subject to specific assessment leading to their certification. Of these, around 100 Number breakdown account for approximately 80% of our purchases, dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Strategic partners 19% and they are subject to specific monitoring. Production subcontractors man62% aged locally Production support 19% 66 DASSAULT AVIATION For aerostructure purchases, 200 suppliers have  Relations with the world of Education been certified, and 50 of them are subject to specific monitoring. The high degree of technicality of our activities leads us to develop locally special relations with We also carry out training initiatives with our buythe world of education, thereby helping to ensure ers, and with our suppliers for the establishment of the suitability and quality of the training of our best practices. future recruits. Lastly, we make sure that these initiatives do not We provide input, at the behest of the educational constitute an inordinate burden for our suppliers organizations and establishments (schools of engiby pooling our requests with the other contracting neering, universes, vocational colleges, etc.), for clients in the aeronautical sector. To this end, we adapting courses to the identified medium to longparticipate actively in the QUALIFAS and SPACE term needs of the aerospace industries. (Supply Chain Progress towards Aerospace Community Excellence) initiatives run by the profesWe encourage our personnel to: sion. supervise technical projects, teach classes, participate on examination juries.  Territorial influence We take part in business gatherings (forums, comThe DASSAULT AVIATION Group has an extensive pany presentations, etc.) and organize visits to our territorial spread: establishments for pupils, students and their opinDASSAULT AVIATION possesses nine estabion formers (teachers, career advisors, headmaslishments in France and manages locally a ters, etc.). We also provide these various populalarge number of suppliers, tions with the opportunity to get to know better our technologies, our professions, our values and DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE is situated on the our products through internships, VIEs and workairport platform at Paris-Le Bourget, study periods. SOGITEC INDUSTRIES is based on three sites RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. in France, In this way we put a great deal of effort into the training of the future generations of specialists DASSAULT FALCON JET has six sites in the within our Group. The number of apprentices that USA. we take on is greater than the minimum required by law. We participate actively on territorial bodies: Chambers of Commerce & Industry, Territorial Economic & Social Councils, Environment Committees and  Raising employee awareness about rethe Franco-American Chamber of Commerce. sponsible behavior We also participate actively in competitive clusters The DASSAULT AVIATION Group recommends to and professional regional organizations, in particuits personnel responsible behavior by way of camlar Aerospace Valley (Midi-Pyrénées & Aquitaine), paigns conducted at the initiative of each entity, or Pegase (Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur), BAAS (Borlocally at the initiative of establishment bosses. deaux Aquitaine Aéronautique et Spatial), Sustainable Development Partners Club at Le Bourget We have, for example, encouraged personnel to Airport. pool their means of transport; organized road accident prevention days; installed remote comWe are a member of the Conservatoire de munication tools (such as videoconferencing sysl’Aéronautique et de l’Espace. tems), made available to employees in order to dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 keep their travel to a minimum. We have organized conferences on the themes of Health & Safety in the workplace, addiction prevention, stress, etc. 67 Directors’ report  Charitable actions: and the ILO relating to Human Rights. The Ethical Charter reflects this commitment. The DASSAULT AVIATION Group is actively involved in many charities. DASSAULT AVIATION, which subscribed in 2003 to the UN Global Compact, adopted the latter's 10 For example, we support the Course du Cœur principles including the principle dedicated to re( Race for the Heart ) initiative in aid of organ specting human rights, as featuring in its general donation; Rêves de Gosse ( A Child's Dream ), purchasing conditions (see also, above, the social offering disabled children the opportunity to fly in information for details of the commitments relating a plane for the first time; Technowest , for the to employee rights, and the website: integration of young people into the world of emwww.dassault-aviation.com, Ethics section). ployment; Humaquitaine , for the renovation of state schools in Senegal, etc. We have developed a partnership with the Mercure Association (gifts of materials for the restoration of aircraft by the members, all aviation enthusiasts) and events for 4. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS the Les Vieilles Racines ( Old Roots ) Association (former employees of aerospace companies). The resolutions presented to you for adoption are of an ordinary character and relate to the following points: 3.3.2 Loyal practices  Approval of the annual and consolidated financial statements: The DASSAULT AVIATION Group asserts, via its Ethical Charter, the values serving as the basis of You are asked to approve the annual the action of all its employees. statements of the Parent Company (resolution #1) and the consolidated statements This Charter sets out a code of conduct covering (resolution #2) for the year ended December day-to-day activities with customers, partners and 31, 2012. suppliers. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on March 13, 2013 after Conforming to strict ethical business standards, we prior examination by the Audit Committee, and act in compliance with the OECD Convention, the were the subject of the reports of the Statutory United Nations Convention and national antiAuditors, featuring in the 2012 Annual Financial corruption laws. Report. DASSAULT AVIATION conducts an active policy for the prevention of corruption, in particular by way  Auditors’ report on related party of strict internal procedures and the training of its transactions and commitments: employees. DASSAULT AVIATION is, moreover, The special report of the Statutory Auditors signatory to numerous international undertakings featuring in the 2012 Annual Financial Report on the prevention of corruption: Global Compact, does not report of any new related-party Common Industry Standards, Global Principles (see transactions and commitments. It mentions the website: www.dassault-aviation.com, Ethics sectransactions and commitments approved in tion). previous years and which continued to be executed in 2012. You are asked to take note of this report (resolution #3). 3.3.3 Human Rights The DASSAULT AVIATION Group, whose main dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 facilities are located in France and the USA, complies with all the national and international laws and regulations relating to Human Rights protection. It acts in conformity with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the texts of the OECD 68 DASSAULT AVIATION  Discharge of Directors from any liability around 70 FALCON and 11 RAFALE in 2013. 2013 arising from their management of the net sales should be higher than 2012 net sales. Company: We propose that you discharge the Directors from any liability in the execution of their terms 6. CONCLUSION of office during 2012 (resolution #4).  Appropriation and distribution of the net The year 2012 started well with the RAFALE selecincome of the Parent Company: tion by India. This choice based on technical, operational and financial criteria confirms our aircraft We propose to you that the net income for the superiority. year, plus retained earnings of previous years, for a total attributable of EUR 3,031,649,474.12 The technical success of the nEUROn was added to for the year 2012, be subject to a distribution this RAFALE selection. We marked the history of of a dividend per share of EUR 9.30, falling due aeronautics with the flight of the first European for payment on May 23, 2013, with the furtive aircraft. With the nEUROn, we show at the remaining balance to retained earnings same time our technical skills and our know-how (resolution #5). as prime contractor in a multinational partnership.  Ratification of the appointment of a new Director: These skills and this know-how are also implemented in the manner we currently develop our Éric TRAPPIER was coopted as new Director by SMS. Technologically and commercially very ambithe Board of Directors on December 18, 2012 tious, this new business jet will be released within to replace Philippe HUSTACHE, who resigned. a few months. You are asked to ratified this cooptation (resolution #6). In France, an important Defense budget cut is  Powers to execute formalities: announced, due to the national debt crisis. This reduction of the military budgets, which is obThis resolution (#7) is designed to determine served in many other countries, reinforces the RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. the customary powers for the legal formalities aggressiveness of our competitors, especially to be carried out after the Annual General Americans. Meeting. Concerning business jets, the uncertain evolution of the world economy and in particular of our his5. OUTLOOK FOR THE FUTURE torical markets, United States and Western Europe, encourages us to remain vigilant. Business jets market remains convalescent but we Finally, the dollar weakness remains a strong and hope for a recovery, especially in the United not easily controllable constraint because of the States. spasms of the international financial system Regarding military aircraft, we have to capitalize In this context, our main objectives for 2013 are as on export opportunities related to the RAFALE. follows: With the signature of the French-British UCAS growing the sales of business jets, agreement, the Group aims at preparing the future pursuing the development and industrialization with drones. of the SMS, Since the Indian authorities announced, at the end finalizing the Indian RAFALE contract, of January 2012, the RAFALE final selection in the dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 frame of the MMRCA program in order to equip the continuing canvassing the RAFALE in other Indian Air Force with 126 new aircraft, DASSAULT countries, AVIATION keep mobilized into finalizing the supporting the French RAFALE, MIRAGEs and contract. ATL2, spearhead of overseas operations conducted by the French Armed Forces, DASSAULT AVIATION Group expects to deliver 69 Directors’ report pursuing the retrofitting of the Indian MIRAGE pursuing cost reductions in order to face up to 2000, the aggressive sales approach of our civil and military competitors, pursuing the testing and test flights campaign planned for the nEUROn, maintaining our skills levels through developments on the RAFALE the other military propursuing, with BAE Systems, preliminary studies grams (MIRAGE 2000, ATL2, etc.), the export on the FCAS combat drones system, markets and UAVs, tracking the development of French choices for constructing a French hub of global dimensions the MALE drones. in the field of strategic technologies, aerospace, defense and security, through our equity stake Finally, we need to prepare for the future by: in THALES. making the extended digital enterprise and Product LifeCycle Management (PLM) into a The Board would like to take this opportunity to shared daily reality, and continuing to think in thank all DASSAULT employees for the efficiency terms of systems integration , and skill they have demonstrated in helping the Company carry through its projects. The Board of Directors RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 70 DASSAULT AVIATION Appendix 1 to the Directors’ the differences in regulations between the countries. report In the framework of ISO 14001 certification, reporting procedures for environmental indicators are applied by the Parent Company. Reporting methodology for Social and Human Resources data indicators The reporting mechanism for social and human In application of article L.225-102-1 of the French resources data for 2012 has been enhanced by the Commercial Code, amended by article 225 of Act introduction of new indicators. The generation of No. 2010-788 of December 12, 2010 ( Grenelle 2 social data in this report is based on descriptive Act) and Decree No. 2012-557 of April 24, 2012, and methodological data sheets, which constitute we publish in the Directors' report: the basis of the Grenelle 2 social data reporting social information, repository of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group, in force in 2012. The defined indicators are in comenvironmental information, pliance with national regulations. corporate governance information. The following details are given for the following indicators: The published social and environmental information reflect for the most part the 3rd generation ‐ absenteeism: the causes of absences taken guidelines relating to management and reporting into account for the absenteeism indicator are in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This consickness, stoppages for work-related accidents cerns an initiative co-managed by the United Naand accidents when traveling to/from work, tions Environment Program, designed to harmoand unpaid absences. The indicated number of nize the consolidation of data on sustainable dedays are normal working days, velopment. The guidelines propose principles to be followed in order to help organizations to provide a ‐ accident rate: for the DFS subsidiary, the RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. balanced and reasonable presentation of their number of days lost on account of a workeconomic, environmental and labor-relations perrelated accident (estimated by multiplying the formance. number of stoppage days expressed in normal working days by 7/5) has the consequence of The published indicators that follow the principles overestimating the severity rate, of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) are stated in the correspondence table below. ‐ departures and dismissals: the number of dismissals includes the number of contractual Scope of consolidation terminations, For 2012, the scope of the report comprises ‐ pay: the average annual salary is a gross salaDASSAULT AVIATION Parent Company (including ry taking into account the last basic salary, the all of its facilities) and its 100% subsidiaries. 13th month and the seniority bonus, excluding other bonuses, plus profit-sharing and incenControl and consolidation tive payments. Each published indicator is subject to a reporting Environmental data protocol detailing the definition of the indicator, the scope and the calculation methodology. The The environmental reporting mechanism for 2012 indicators are calculated on the basis of a calendar has been perfected and enhanced through the dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 year (from January 1st to December 31st). introduction of new indicators, linked in particular to the greenhouse gas emissions inventory. Taking into account the mode of data gathering The environmental indicators and the associated and the locations of the subsidiaries, the reporting generation methods are subject to descriptive scope may very according to the indicators. Certain methodological procedures both for the Parent indicators cannot be consolidated on account of 71 Directors’ report Company and for its French and American subsidiThe raw materials taken into account are excluaries. sively the raw materials per se and not the manufactured items. These procedures are included in the documentation repository of the Parent Company and distribThe environmental expenditure is no longer quanuted to the various entities contributing to the tified, instead there is a summary description of generation of these indicators. the main resources deployed in the year. The balances are produced per calendar year and Corporate governance data consolidated, when the data so allows, against invoices and meter readings for the period from The corporate governance information meets the January to December. Information relating to the requirements of the French Government Decree of last months of the year which is not available is April 24, 2012. The statistical data featuring in the estimated by analogy with the equivalent months Industrial and Purchasing section are qualitative, of the previous year, or based on the average for and provided for illustrative purposes only. the preceding months of the same year. External checking The consumption of kerosene for maintenance activities is calculated on the basis of the purThe reporting procedures have been subject to chased, non-reinvoiced fuel. external checking by Deloitte & Associés, one of the Company's Statutory Auditors, for a selection The consumption of kerosene for production activiof the indicators presented in the above ties includes both civil and military aircraft. correspondence table. The corporate governance information has also been checked on a qualitative The US entities are excluded from the scope of basis. consolidation for refrigerant fluids consumption for this year. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 72 DASSAULT AVIATION Appendix 2 to the Directors’ report Table of correspondence between the Dassault Aviation indicators and the GRI Link with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators Themes DASSAULT AVIATION Indicators & protocols: Social (version 3.1) EMP01: Total workforce LA1: Total workforce per type of emEMP02: Employee distribution by ployment, work contract and geographgender ical zone LA13: Composition of management bodies and distribution of employees by EMP03: Employee distribution by age gender, age group, appurtenance to a minority group and other diversity indicators LA1: Total workforce per type of emEMP04: Employee distribution by geployment, work contract and geographographical zone ical zone Employment EMP05: Hiring LA2: Staff turnover in number of employees and percentage per age group, EMP06: Departures and dismissals gender and geographical zone EC1: Direct economic value created and distributed, including revenues, operational costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investEMP07: Pay ments, retained earning, and payments RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. to capital providers and governments EC5: Range of ratios of standard entry level salary compared to local minimum on the main operating sites LA1: Total workforce per type of emORG01: Working time organization ployment, work contract and geographWork organizaical zone tion LA7: Rate (…) of absenteeism(…) per ORG02: Absenteeism geographical zone REL01: Organization of the labor relations dialog, procedures for informing LA4: Percentage of employees covered and consulting personnel and for neby a collective bargaining agreement gotiations Social relations LA5: Minimum notice period(s) regardREL02: Collective bargaining agreeing significant organizational changes, ments including whether it is specified in a collective bargaining agreement dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 73 Directors’ report Link with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators Themes DASSAULT AVIATION Indicators & protocols: Social (version 3.1) LA6: Percentage of the total workforce represented on formal joint management-worker health & safety committees, for monitoring and issuing statements on the health & safety in the workplace programs S&S01: Conditions of health & safety in the workplace LA 8: Programs for risk education, training, consulting, prevention and management put in place in order to help employees, their families or the members of their local communities in the event of serious illness Health & Safety S&S02: Agreements signed with the LA9: Questions of health & safety covUnion Organizations or staff repreered by formal agreements with the sentatives with regard to health & unions safety in the workplace S&S03: Work-related accidents S&S04: Frequency rate of workLA7: Rate of work-related accidents, RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. related accidents occupational illnesses, (...) number of S&S05: Severity rate of work-related days lost and total number of fatal workaccidents related accidents, per geographical zone S&S06: Occupational illnesses LA11: Lifelong skills and training develFOR01: Policies implemented with opment programs, designed to guaranregard to training tee employability Training LA10: Average number of training hours FOR02: Total number of training per year, per employee and per profeshours sional category EGA01: Measures taken in favor of LA14: Basic pay ratio between men and gender equality women per professional category EGA02: Measures taken in favor of LA13: Composition of management bodEquality of the employment and integration of ies and distribution of employees by treatment disabled people gender, age group, appurtenance to a minority group and other diversity indidassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 EGA03: Anti-discrimination policy cators 74 DASSAULT AVIATION Link with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators Themes DASSAULT AVIATION Indicators & protocols: Social (version 3.1) HR5: Identified activities in the course of which the right to union freedom and collective bargaining risks being threatened; measures taken to ensure this OIT01: Respect for freedom of assoright is maintained ciation and the right to collective LA4: Percentage of employees covered bargaining by a collective bargaining agreement LA5: Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant organizational changes, including whether it is specified in a collective bargaining agreement HR4: Total number of discrimination incidents and measures taken Promoting LA13: Composition of management bodrespect for the ies and distribution of employees by stipulations of OIT02: Eliminating employment and gender, age group, appurtenance to a the basic professional discrimination minority group and other diversity indiconventions of cators the InternationLA14: Basic pay ratio between men and al Labor Organiwomen per professional category zation HR6: Activities identified as presenting a serious risk of incidents involving child RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. labor; measures taken to contribute to OIT03: Elimination of forced or comthe prohibition of this type of labor pulsory labor HR7: Activities identified as presenting a serious risk of incidents involving child labor; measures taken to contribute to the prohibition of this type of labor HR6: Activities identified as presenting a OIT04: Effective abolition of child serious risk of incidents involving child labor labor; measures taken to contribute to the prohibition of this type of labor MAT001: aluminum consumption EN1: materials consumption in weight or MAT002: titanium consumption in volume Consumption of raw materials MAT002: composites consumption EN2: percentage of consumed materials derived from recycled materials ENE001: energy consumption excludEN3: direct energy consumption distribing kerosene and mobile sources uted according to primary energy source Energy EN4: indirect energy consumption disENE002: kerosene consumption tributed according to primary energy dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 source Water EAU001: global water consumption EN8: total volume of water used per consumption (per source) source Biodiversity BIO001: number and location of outEN11: location and surface area of land 75 Directors’ report Link with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators Themes DASSAULT AVIATION Indicators & protocols: Social (version 3.1) standing natural areas present within owned, rented or managed in or within a 500 m radius of the sites the vicinity of protected areas and in zones rich in biodiversity outside of these protected areas Conditions of SOL001: proportion of sealed surfacground use es EN16: total (direct or indirect) greenAtmospheric AIR001: greenhouse gas emissions house gas emissions, by weight (teq discharges (scope 1 and scope 2) CO2) AIR002: SO2 emissions excluding combustion of kerosene and mobile sources EN20: NOx, SOx and other significant Atmospheric AIR003: NOx emissions excluding atmospheric emissions, per type and per discharges combustion of kerosene and mobile weight sources AIR004: emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) DEC001: global waste production EN22: total mass of waste, per type and Waste DEC002: proportion of recycled waste per treatment mode Expenditure on preventing the adverse conseDEP001: expenditure on environmenEN30: total expenditure and investment RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. quences of our tal protection on environmental protection, per type activity on the environment dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 76 Chairman's report Ladies and Gentlemen, approve the half-yearly financial statements determines the Board’s meeting schedule for the The terms and conditions governing the following year. composition of the Board of Directors, the preparation and organization of the Board’s work The notices of Board meetings specifying the and the internal control and risk management agenda are sent to the Directors, the Statutory procedures set up by the Company are presented Auditors and the Government Commissioner at below. least one week in advance. Prior to each Board meeting, I, as Chairman, 1. Corporate governance: ensure that the relevant documents are addressed to each Director in good time. 1.1 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF The Statutory Auditors and the Government DIRECTORS Commissioner receive the same documents as the Directors. The Board of Directors has 9 members with the experience and expertise required to hold office. 1.2.2 Board’s work in 2012 Éric TRAPPIER was coopted as new Director on December 18, 2012 to replace Philippe HUSTACHE, In 2012, the Board of Directors met on March 21, who resigned. July 25 and December 18. The average attendance rate was 78%. The Board of Directors therefore currently comprises Charles EDELSTENNE, Serge DASSAULT, The Board of Directors supervised the Nicole DASSAULT, Olivier DASSAULT, Pierre de implementation of the Company’s business RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. BAUSSET, Alain GARCIA, Denis KESSLER, Henri strategy and inspected its general operations. In PROGLIO, and Éric TRAPPIER. particular, the Board of Directors: Three Directors: Alain GARCIA, Denis KESSLER and analyzed order entry, the order book and Henri PROGLIO, are considered to be independent sales, according to the criteria of the AFEP/MEDEF (French corporate associations) corporate reviewed the internally-financed technology governance code. budget and the capital expenditure budget, Concerning the presence of women on the Board, analyzed the current and forecast workload it should be noted that the Annual General Meeting compared to manufacturing capacity, the of May 19, 2010 appointed Nicole DASSAULT as a progress of the civil and military programs and member. implementation of the staff policy. In addition, the Board of Directors: 1.2 PREPARATION AND ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD’S approved the fiscal year 2011 company and WORK consolidated financial statements, dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 called the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 1.2.1 Director information 2012 To ensure the attendance of Directors at Board approved the financial statements for the halfmeetings, the Board of Directors’ meeting held to year ended June 30, 2012, 77 Chairman's report reviewed forecast management documents in Executive Management. All three are nonMarch and July 2012, executive directors. renewed the annual authorization conferred on These members satisfy the requirements of the the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to aforementioned decree. The Board of Directors grant guarantees and deposits, considered that Messrs KESSLER and PROGLIO fulfilled the recommended independence criteria of approved the Internal Regulations of the Board the AFEP/MEDEF (French corporate associations) of Directors, corporate governance code. re-elected the members of the Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring: Committee, procedures for preparing financial information, ruled on the professional and pay-scale equality policy, the quality of the risk management and internal control systems, approved the contents of financial press releases, the audit of the company and consolidated financial statements by the Statutory Auditors, coopted Éric TRAPPIER as Director and appointed him as new Chairman Chief the independence of the Statutory Auditors. Executive Officer with effect from January 9, 2013 to replace Charles EDELSTENNE, It convened on March 16, 2012 for the financial statements of 2011 and on July 24, 2012 for those appointed Loïk SEGALEN as Chief Operating of the first halfyear of 2012. Officer with effect from January 9, 2013. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. In the course of these meetings, the Audit 1.2.3 Audit Committee Committee, in particular: Pursuant to the December 8, 2008 decree, which examined the consolidated financial transposed Directive 2006/43/EC dated May 17, statements and those of the Parent Company, 2006 on statutory audits of company and the main events of the year or half-year consolidated financial statements, on July 22, 2009 concerned, and the draft financial reports, the Board of Directors established an Audit Committee. took note of the management report of the Board of Directors and of the half-yearly DASSAULT AVIATION draws on the working group business report, report on the Audit Committee of June 14, 2010, in accordance with the recommendations of the AMF reviewed the Chairman's report on internal (French Financial Markets Authority). control and risk management, This Committee was composed in 2012 of Philippe took note of the work of the risks committee, HUSTACHE, Denis KESSLER and Henri PROGLIO. met the Statutory Auditors without the dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Since January 9, 2013, it has been composed of Executive Management being present, after Charles EDELSTENNE, Denis KESSLER and Henri examining the conclusions of their work and PROGLIO, appointed on account of their skills their declaration of independence, resulting from their academic training, their experience in the financial and accounting fields with listed companies and their functions in 78 DASSAULT AVIATION reported back on its work to the Board of features. The decision was therefore made not to Directors. separate the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officer. 1.2.4 Internal Regulations Shareholders and third parties are fully informed of The Board meeting of July 25, 2012 approved the this decision in the director’s report. Regulations of the Board of Directors which allows Directors to take part in meetings (debate and The Chairman-Chief Executive Officer has been vote) by means of telecommunications that are in assisted since January 9, 2013 by a Chief compliance with the regulations in force. Operating Officer. 1.2.5 Preventing insider dealing 1.4 POWERS OF THE CHAIRMAN AND In accordance with the recommendations CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER formulated in the AMF guide of November 3, 2010, the company has put in place a closed seasons The powers of the Chairman and Chief Executive mechanism (periods during which dealings in the Officer are not limited by the Company’s bylaws or shares issued by the company are prohibited) and which begin at least 30 days prior to the the Board of Directors. He therefore exercises his publication of the annual and half-yearly financial powers with no other limits than those stipulated statements, and 15 days prior to the publication of by the current regulations concerning the powers the quarterly statements (1st and 3rd quarters). attributed expressly by law to the Annual General Since the financial statements are in general Meeting and to the Board of Directors. published by the company before the opening of the stock market, the date of publication is included in the prohibited period. 1.5 POWERS OF THE CHIEF The Directors are informed by letter in December OPERATING OFFICER RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. of the calendar of closed seasons for the following year. The Chief Operating Officer assists the ChairmanChief Executive Officer. Vis-à-vis third parties, he The financial calendar is put online on the website has the same powers as the Chairman-Chief of the company at the start of each year. Executive Officer. 1.3 OPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE 1.6 PRINCIPLES AND RULES TO MANAGEMENT DETERMINE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND GRANTED TO In accordance with the provisions of the New CORPORATE OFFICERS Economic Regulations Act, the possibility of separating the duties of the Chairman of the Board In conjunction with the October 2008 of Directors and those of the Chief Executive recommendations of the AFEP and MEDEF Officer was introduced into the Company’s bylaws concerning directors’ compensation, on renewal of during the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. the Chairman and CEO’s office and duties in May 2009, the Company took the actions specified in On April 25, 2002, the Board of Directors decided the directors' report under the heading dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 that the Chairman of the Board of Directors would Compensation of the Chairman and Chief be responsible for the Executive Management of Executive Officer . the Company. This was because the Board of Directors had chosen the Executive Management option that it deemed best suited to the Company’s specific 79 Chairman's report Concerning the new Chairman-Chief Executive o for holders of bearer shares, registration in Officer and the Chief Operating Officer, their the bearer shareholder accounts held by compensation and benefits in kind have been the authorized intermediary (i.e.: a bank, determined by the Board of Directors in financial institution or investment service accordance with the recommendations of the provider) and production of a participation AFEP/MEDEF code, revised in April 2010, and the certificate issued by the intermediary, 2012 report from the AMF on corporate governance and the compensation of senior the period during which these formalities must executives of listed companies. be completed expires three working days preceding the date of the Annual General The overall annual amount of directors’ fees was Meeting, determined by the Annual General Meeting. the Board of Directors retains the right to The Board of Directors distributed this overall accept the participation certificate after the amount equally among the directors, who above deadline, therefore received EUR 22,000 per year and per director apart from the Chairman who received shareholders may be represented by proxy double this standard amount. according to the legal and regulatory conditions. The Board of Directors granted additional directors’ fees of EUR 6,000 per year to each member of the The notification of the designation and revocation Audit Committee, and a further EUR 4,000 for the of the representative agent may be made either on Committee chairman. paper or by electronic means. In the latter case, the shareholder's signature may constitute in practice a reliable process of identification 1.7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING guaranteeing his/her link to the associated act, RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. and may in particular consist of a login and password. 1.7.1 Specific conditions governing shareholders’ attendance at the These conditions are reiterated in the preliminary AGM notice and the final notice of the Annual General Meeting that are published in the BALO (French official announcements bulletin) and online at the 1.7.1.1 Admission Company’s website. The conditions governing shareholders’ attendance at Annual General Meetings are set forth in Articles 1.7.1.2 Voting rights 29 and 31 of the bylaws. Subject to special circumstances provided for by These conditions are as follows: law, all members present at the meeting have as many votes, without limitation, as the number of the right to attend Annual General Meetings is fully paid-up shares they own or represent. subject to the following: Voting is performed by the raising of hands and/or o for holders of registered shares, voting slips. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 registration in the registered shareholder accounts held by the Company, 80 DASSAULT AVIATION A secret ballot may be requested by either the Directors and to the Annual General Meetings Board of Directors, or shareholders representing at are reliable and give a true and fair view of the least one quarter of the share capital, subject to Company’s activity. the submission of written notification to the Board of Directors or the authority convening the One of the main purposes of the internal control meeting, no later than three days prior to the date system is to anticipate and control risks resulting of the Annual General Meeting. from the Company’s activity and risks of error or fraud, particularly with respect to finance and Shareholders may also legally vote by accounting. However, as with any control system, correspondence. it cannot provide absolute assurance that these have been totally eliminated. 1.7.2 Convening of Annual General DASSAULT AVIATION draws on the reference Meetings framework of the AMF of July 22, 2010. Annual General Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors according to the legal and regulatory provisions. All shareholders, however 2.2 GENERAL INTERNAL CONTROL many shares they possess, may take part. The ORGANIZATION AND date of the Annual General Meeting is communicated on the Company website ENVIRONMENT approximately 6 months in advance.  Internal control reference documents No later than 21 days before the Annual General The Company’s internal control is based on the Meeting, the documentation may be consulted on the aforementioned site (www.Dassaultfollowing reference documents: aviation.com) section Finance / General Meetings. the Ethical Charter, which defines our values RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. The results of the voting for the resolutions and and code of conduct, the minutes of the Annual General Meeting are also placed online within 15 days of the meeting the Quality Manual, which describes the taking place. Company processes, the Organization Manual, which describes the tasks and organization of each department, 2. Internal control and risk management procedures for financial or accounting activities, the economic and financial data management 2.1 INTERNAL CONTROL OBJECTIVES procedure defined in the Quality Manual. The Company’s internal control procedures are  Internal control bodies: intended to: The main internal control bodies in DASSAULT AVIATION are as follows: ensure that operations and acts of management, along with staff conduct, fall Executive Committee within the framework defined by the Senior This comprises the persons in charge of the dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Management, the applicable laws and regulations, and the Company’s internal values Company’s various departments (cf. annual and rules, financial report). This Committee covers all subjects concerning the running and the verify that the information provided and various aspects of the Company’s operations. It communications addressed to the Board of meets once a week. Each Committee member 81 Chairman's report is responsible for the internal control of his or Economic and Social Affairs General her department. Management Department (DGAES) until January 8, 2013 and then the Financial Affairs The actions and recommendations decided Department by way of Management Control upon by the Committee are assigned to one or more of its members, and a manager is Management control, with respect to both designated to ensure coordination. At each structure and programs , involves the meeting, the Committee secretary monitors the management of the budgetary process. progress of these actions until their effective completion. It comprises a network of financial controllers in all Company departments. Monthly and quarterly Total Quality Management Department budget reviews are produced, particularly for the (TQMD): purpose of reporting to Senior Management. o through the Risk Management Department:  Control of subsidiaries This Department ensures the smooth running The DASSAULT AVIATION strategy is to exercise of the process to manage risks related to majority control over its subsidiaries or significant aircraft programs and products. It identifies the influence as in the case of THALES. critical risks and notifies Executive Management (in the person of the Chairman-Chief Executive The Company maintains an effective presence in Officer and, as from January 9, 2013, the Chief the Board of Directors and management bodies of Operating Officer also). its subsidiaries. o through the Quality Management System The Company is also represented on the Executive (QMS): Committee of DASSAULT FALCON JET. The QMS is coordinated by the Total Quality RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Management Department and draws on the Periodic management reports are prepared by plants’ Quality Control managers and the each subsidiary for the Parent Company, which Quality Representatives of the functional decides on the appropriate measures to be taken. departments.  Internal auditing The system uses a structured documentary The Internal Auditing Department, which reports database, comprising process descriptions, and back to Senior Management, is assigned to quality procedures and instructions. evaluate the risk management and internal control processes. The QMS is monitored through a program of internal audits, quality assessments and The Internal Audit Director reports to Senior management reviews. Management on the results of the audits and the recommendations implemented. He or she also Program Departments through Program submits for approval from Senior Management the Management internal audit plan prior to its implementation. Program Management is coordinated by each Program Director, reporting back to Senior The Audit Committee meets with the Internal Audit dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Management. The Program Directors work with Director and takes note of the audit plan and of the help of the Program Managers of the the conclusions of the audits. functional departments. 82 DASSAULT AVIATION  External control factors procedures for treating major risks are also recorded in this mapping. The Company operates in a particular external More particularly, risk management at DASSAULT control environment on account of its French AVIATION is based on the following approach: government markets and aviation activity: identifying critical risks per program, the calculation of our cost factors (i.e.: hourly risk analysis (assessment and prioritization), rates, procurement and non-production treatment of risks. expenses) and the costs of activities relating to French government markets are controlled by Risks are primarily identified through regular the French Defense Procurement Agency critical risk reviews held in conjunction with (DGA), program management, operational management and site management. the DGA monitors our products and grants us our design organization approval in the military Each critical risk is covered in a file prepared by aviation field, the Total Quality Management Department program manager. the Company, in the field of civil aviation, possesses design, production and maintenance Risks are monitored at the various stages in a certifications. These certifications are subject to product’s life cycle based on various reviews, as permanent monitoring by the airworthiness follows: authorities that have issued them: Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile program launch review, (DGAC), bid review, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), contract review. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The purpose of these reviews is to identify new RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. In the framework of our proactive approach, the critical risks and monitor and reduce existing risks. Company is certified EN 9100, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Its Quality Management System (QMS) and The Risk Management Department notifies Senior its Environment Management System (EMS) were Management by transmitting the list of critical risks subject in March 2012 to a joint audit of renewal identified. by an outside body (Bureau Veritas Certification). This audit confirmed that our QMS and our EMS Environmental risk management: were compliant with the requirements of the standards. covers compliance and control of the environmental impact of the sites and products, 2.3 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES is performed based on the Group’s Environmental Management System (cf. The risk management mechanism is based on risks management report). mapping that is updated by each of the major company departments for the activities concerning them. Financial risks management is also specified in the dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 management report. The risks identified in this mapping, whatever their nature, have been assessed according to their seriousness and their frequency of occurrence. The 83 Chairman's report The mission of the Risks Committee, based on the risks mapping and any other necessary elements, accounting standards applicable to French is to: companies: o the decree of June 22, 1999 approving validate the identified risks, their prioritization French Accounting Standards Committee and the risk-reduction actions carried out, Regulations 99-03 of April 29, 1999, and subsequent applicable regulations, ensure that the new risks are identified, taken into account and their financial impacts o subsequent notices and recommendations measured. of the French National Accounting Board (CNC). To this end, the Committee conducts interviews with the managers of the Company processes, international valuation and presentation responsible for updating the risks map. standards for IFRS financial reporting in force as of December 31, 2012, as adopted by the It also ensures that the risk management European Union and mandatorily applicable for mechanism is taken into account in the fiscal years open as from January 1st, 2012, for subsidiaries. the consolidated accounts, It reports back to Senior Management. operating and control procedures described in the economic and financial data management process, completed by the specific procedures 2.4 INTERNAL CONTROL for the approval of the Parent Company and PROCEDURES FOR FINANCIAL Group consolidated half-yearly and annual financial statements. These procedures and the AND ACCOUNTING PURPOSES IT applications used by the finance and RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. accounting department are regularly reviewed  Organization of the financial and by the statutory auditors in connection with accounting function: their annual certification of the financial statements. This function, described in the Quality Manual, is managed by the DGAES until January 8, 2013, and  Financial and accounting information subsequently by the Financial Department, for process: both the Parent Company and Group consolidation. This function consists in: In 2012, within the DGAES, the Economic Affairs Department centralized the accounting data and approving and controlling the Company's produced the financial statements for the Parent centralized financial and accounting information Company and the Group. system, implemented by the Information Systems Management Department, It distributed a schedule with the tasks and controls to be performed at each period-end to the updating the consolidation software used by the relevant persons in the Parent Company and parent company, its subsidiaries or subsidiary subsidiaries. This schedule indicated the start date sub-groups. for the Statutory Auditors’ certification procedures dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 at approximately four weeks prior to the Board meeting to be held to approve the financial  General references: statements. The financial statements are prepared in Since January 9, 2013, this process has been accordance with: handled by the Financial Department. 84 DASSAULT AVIATION In parallel, the financial reports and statements 2.6 2013 ACTION PLAN are reviewed by a review committee independent of the teams participating in the drafting of these For 2013, I have entrusted the Internal Auditing documents. Department and the Total Quality Management Department with the task of conducting audits in order to monitor the internal control and risks 2.5 ACTIONS 2012 management mechanism and verify the proper application of the procedures. The Internal Auditing Department and the Total Quality Management Department continued to monitor the internal control procedures for all 3. Information mentioned in relevant persons by using the risk mapping updated during the year. Article L. 225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code The aforementioned departments conferred in order to decide on the breakdown of the audits. The information set forth in this Article is mentioned in the accompanying directors' report, They performed audits in order to verify the proper which is appended to this report, bearing in mind application of the internal control procedures. that both these reports are included in the 2012 Annual Financial Report that will be transmitted electronically and filed with the AMF by our distributor, HUGIN, and published online at our Company website in the section: Finances/Publications. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Chairman of the Board of Directors dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 85 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 86 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 87 Consolidated financial statements ASSETS (EUR 000) NOTE 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Goodwill 3 14,366 14,366 Intangible assets 4 38,612 44,181 Property, plant and equipment 4 405,563 426,105 Equity affiliates 5 1,641,590 1,680,039 Available-for-sale securities 5 3,262,814 3,185,517 Other financial assets 5 34,359 32,325 Deferred tax assets 20 197,896 203,345 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,595,200 5,585,878 Inventories and work-in-progress 6 2,916,905 2,799,090 Trade and other receivables 7 489,955 535,800 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 184,868 154,447 Hedging instruments 23 247,894 179,129 Cash and cash equivalents 8 950,416 921,808 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 4,790,038 4,590,274 TOTAL ASSETS 10,385,238 10,176,152 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (EUR 000) NOTE 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Share capital 9 81,007 81,007 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Reserves 3,756,951 3,519,164 Foreign exchange differences -48,107 -38,475 Other income and expense recognized directly through equity 441,411 577,403 Income for the year attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 509,834 322,628 TOTAL ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE OWNERS OF THE PARENT 4,741,096 4,461,727 COMPANY Minority interests 308 264 TOTAL EQUITY 4,741,404 4,461,991 Long-term borrowings 11 263,539 276,915 Deferred tax liabilities 20 0 0 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 263,539 276,915 Trade and other payables 13 768,168 729,061 Tax and employee-related liabilities 13 242,492 208,937 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 14 3,043,088 2,897,612 Short-term borrowings 11 58,240 437,094 Current provisions 12 1,268,307 1,164,542 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 5,380,295 5,437,246 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,385,238 10,176,152 88 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP INCOME STATEMENT (EUR 000) NOTE 2012 2011 NET SALES 15 3,941,234 3,305,342 Other revenue 16 43,470 60,916 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress -30,101 55,385 External purchases -2,221,606 -1,935,458 Payroll and related charges (1) -1,077,350 -994,336 Taxes and social security contributions -65,059 -61,240 Depreciation and amortization 4 -72,250 -82,222 Charges to provisions 12 -726,489 -692,251 Reversals of provisions 12 749,681 730,546 Other operating income and expenses 17 5,456 -10,181 OPERATING INCOME 546,986 376,501 Income from cash and cash equivalents 8,690 7,389 Cost of gross financial debt -12,437 -23,728 Financial income and expenses 101,644 30,318 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 19 97,897 13,979 Share of income/loss of equity affiliates 5 90,436 41,064 Income tax 20 -225,441 -108,879 NET INCOME 509,878 322,665 Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 509,834 322,628 Attributable to non-controlling interests 44 37 Basic earnings per share (in EUR) 21 50.3 31.9 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Diluted earnings per share (in EUR) 21 50.3 31.9 (1) Employee costs include incentive schemes and profit-sharing (EUR 112,330 thousand in 2012 and EUR 102,499 thousand in 2011) along with the contributions paid into state plans, comparable to the defined contribution plans (EUR 77,953 thousand in 2012 and EUR 76,106 thousand in 2011). dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 89 Consolidated financial statements STATEMENT OF RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE (EUR 000) NOTE 2012 2011 NET INCOME 509,878 322,665 Net change in fair value measurement of financial instruments:  Available-for-sale financial assets 5 27,135 -5,848  Hedging instruments (1) 23 -13,253 -87,561 Actuarial adjustments on defined benefit obligations 12 -69,137 -31,643 Deferred taxes 20 9,903 21,725 Foreign exchange differences -11,133 15,260 Fully consolidated companies -56,485 -88,067 Equity affiliates 5 -89,139 -78,095 INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY THROUGH -145,624 -166,162 EQUITY TOTALLY RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE 364,254 156,503 Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 364,210 156,466 Attributable to non-controlling interests 44 37 (1) The amounts stated represent the change in the portfolio’s market value for the period. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 90 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Changes in equity are detailed in the table below, where: the heading Share Capital represents the share capital of the parent company, DASSAULT AVIATION, the heading Reserves and consolidated retained earnings includes capital reserves (i.e.: additional paid-in capital), net income for the year and legal reserves, the heading Foreign exchange differences records the exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries outside the euro zone, the heading Other income and expense recognized directly through equity , as specified in the statement of recognized income and expense, covers post-tax changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, hedging instruments and actuarial adjustments on defined benefit obligations. Other income Total Reserves and expense attributable and Foreign NonShare recognized to the (EUR 000) consolidated exchange controlling Total capital directly owners of the retained differences interests through Parent earnings (1) equity Company As of 31.12.2010 81,007 3,624,301 -61,927 767,017 4,410,398 227 4,410,625 Net income for the year 322,628 322,628 37 322,665 Total income and expense recognized directly through 23,452 -189,614 -166,162 -166,162 equity Total recognized income and 322,628 23,452 -189,614 156,466 37 156,503 expense Dividends paid -108,347 -108,347 -108,347 Other movements (2) 3,210 3,210 3,210 As of 31.12.2011 81,007 3,841,792 -38,475 577,403 4,461,727 264 4,461,991 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Net income for the year 509,834 509,834 44 509,878 Total income and expense recognized directly through -9,632 -135,992 -145,624 -145,624 equity Total recognized income and 509,834 -9,632 -135,992 364,210 44 364,254 expense Dividends paid -86,070 -86,070 -86,070 Other movements (2) 1,229 1,229 1,229 As of 31.12.2012 81,007 4,266,785 -48,107 441,411 4,741,096 308 4,741,404 (1) This includes capital reserves (i.e. additional paid-in capital) EUR 19,579 thousand. (2) This largely consists of changes in treasury shares and THALES stock options. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 91 Consolidated financial statements CASH FLOW STATEMENT (EUR 000) NOTE 2012 2011 I NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES NET INCOME 509,878 322,665 Elimination of net income of equity affiliates, net of dividends received 5.1 -49,461 -2,161 Elimination of gains and losses from disposals of non-current assets 190 116 Changes in the fair value of hedging instruments 23.3 -82,018 18,428 Income tax (including deferred taxes) 20 225,441 108,879 Net charges to and reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions 4, 12.1 100,287 45,488 (excluding those relating to working capital) Net cash from operating activities before working capital changes 704,317 493,415 and taxes Income taxes paid 20.1 -204,501 -152,530 Change in inventories and work-in-progress (net) 6 -117,815 -6,976 Change in advances and progress payments to suppliers -30,421 -2,126 Change in trade and other receivables (net) 7 45,845 -16,021 Change in customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 14 145,476 121,524 Change in trade and other payables 13 39,107 -22,654 Change in tax and employee-related liabilities 13 33,555 -26,059 Consolidation reclassifications and restatements -6,849 2,172 Increase (-) or decrease (+) in working capital 108,898 49,860 Total I 608,714 390,745 II NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 4 -60,462 -51,343 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Purchases of investments 5 -5,892 -752 Disposals of or reductions in fixed assets 20,692 2,883 Net cash from acquisitions and sales of subsidiaries 5.1 0 -25,770 Total II -45,662 -74,982 III NET CASH FLOW USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net change in available-for-sale marketable securities (at cost) 5.2 -45,653 754,424 Capital increase 0 0 Change in equity items 0 0 Increase in borrowings 11 94,846 515,971 Repayments of borrowings 11 -487,076 -1,450,478 Dividends paid 22 -86,070 -108,347 Total III -523,953 -288,430 IV Exchange rate fluctuations Total IV -10,491 7,803 CHANGE IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (I+II+III+IV) 28,608 35,136 Opening net cash and cash equivalents 8 921,808 886,672 Closing net cash and cash equivalents 8 950,416 921,808 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 92 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GENERAL INCOME STATEMENT 1 Accounting policies 15 Net sales 2 Scope of consolidation 16 Other revenue ASSETS 17 Other operating income and expenses 3 Goodwill 18 Research and development costs 4 Intangible assets and property, 19 Net financial income/(expense) plant and equipment 4.1 Geographical breakdown 20 Tax position 4.2 Intangible assets 20.1 Net effect of taxes on net income 4.3 Property, plant and equipment 20.2 Net effect of taxes on other income and expense recognized directly through equity, fully 5 Non-current financial assets consolidated companies 5.1 Equity affiliates 20.3 Reconciliation of the theoretical and actual tax 5.2 Available-for-sale securities charge 20.4 Deferred tax sources 5.3 Other financial assets 20.5 Tax losses carried forward 6 Inventories and work-in-progress 21 Earnings per share 7 Trade and other receivables ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Details RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 7.2 Maturity of trade and other receivables gross value 22 Dividends paid and proposed 8 Cash and cash equivalents 23 Financial instruments 8.1 Net cash 8.2 Available cash 24 Financial risk management LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 25 Off-balance sheet commitments 9 Share capital and capital management 26 Contingent liabilities 10 Identity of the consolidating parent 27 Related-party transactions company 28 Average number of employees 11 Borrowings 29 Environmental information 12 Current provisions 12.1 Provisions for contingencies and losses and for 30 Statutory auditors' fees impairment 12.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses 31 Subsequent events dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 12.3 Provisions for retirement severance payments 13 Operating payables 14 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 93 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies The texts applicable to DASSAULT AVIATION as from January 1st, 2014: IFRS 10 standard Consolidated financial A/ GENERAL PRINCIPLES statements , IFRS 11 standard Partnerships , On March 13, 2013, the Board of Directors IFRS 12 standard Disclosure of interests in approved and authorized the consolidated financial other entities , statements of DASSAULT AVIATION as of revised IFRS 27 standard Individual financial December 31, 2012. These consolidated financial statements , statements shall be submitted for approval from revised IAS 28 standard Investment in the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on associates and joint ventures May 15, 2013. The Group does not anticipate any significant  A1 Reference standards impact of these texts on the consolidated financial statements. A1-1 Basis for the preparation of the financial reporting The standards, amendments or interpretations published by the IASB and not yet adopted by the The consolidated financial statements of the European Union have not been applied in advance DASSAULT AVIATION Group are prepared in by the Group for the preparation of its accordance with the international (IAS/IFRS) consolidated financial statements when this standards and interpretations as adopted by the possibility was available. These texts mainly European Union and applicable as of the balance concern IFRS 9 standard Financial instruments . sheet date. The impacts of this standard on the financial A1-2 Developments in 2012 to the accounting situation of the Group are currently being standards applicable to Dassault Aviation assessed. Standards, amendments and interpretations  A2 Accounting choices and management RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. for mandatory application in 2012 estimates The amendment of the IFRS 7 standard relating to To prepare the Group financial statements, the information to be communicated when transferring Management is required to make estimates and financial assets had no impact on the financial issue assumptions that are likely to have an impact statements of the Group. on the amounts entered in the balance sheet and the income statement. Standards, amendments and interpretations for mandatory application post-2012 These estimates concern, in particular, the results of contracts in progress and provisions. The standards, amendments and interpretations that were not mandatory on January 1st, 2012 are These estimates are calculated by taking into not applied in advance by the Group. account past experience, elements known at the balance sheet date and reasonable change The texts applicable to DASSAULT AVIATION as assumptions. from January 1st, 2013: the amendments to IAS 1 on the presentation Subsequent results may therefore differ from such of income and expense recognized directly estimates. through equity, the amendments to IAS 19 on employee benefits, dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 the IFRS 13 standard relating to fair value measurement. The Group does not anticipate any significant impact of these texts on the consolidated financial statements. 94 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP  A3 Presentation of the consolidated financial B1-3 Investments in joint ventures statements Companies in which DASSAULT AVIATION Consolidated balance sheet items are presented as exercises joint control and which are considered Current/Non-current. Assets and liabilities directly material are proportionately consolidated. related to the operating cycle are considered as In 2011 and 2012, the Group did not have any current, with the exception of the long-term material investments of this kind. amount of borrowings, classified as non-current liabilities. B1-4 Consolidation thresholds for companies over which the Group exercises control or significant Consolidated income statement items are influence presented by nature. To apply the concept of relative importance, Net operating income includes all the income and companies are included in the scope of expenses not arising from financial activities, consolidation when all the following conditions are equity-accounted companies, discontinued satisfied: operations or operations in the process of being total assets and liabilities exceed 2% of the sold, and taxes. equivalent Group totals, total revenue exceeds 2% of the equivalent  A4 Segment reporting Group total, equity exceeds 3% of the equivalent Group IFRS 8, Operating Segments , requires the total. presentation of information according to internal management criteria. The activity of the B1-5 Elimination of inter-company transactions DASSAULT AVIATION Group relates entirely to the aerospace field. The internal reporting made to the All material inter-company transactions, and Chairman and CEO, as used for the strategy and unrealized internal gains and losses included in decision-making, presents no performance analysis non-current assets, are eliminated in the RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (in the IFRS 8 sense) at a level beneath this field. inventories and work-in-progress of consolidated companies. B/ CONSOLIDATION POLICIES  B2 Closure dates  B1 Consolidation scope and methods All the companies included in the consolidation have a December 31 year-end. B1-1 Investments in subsidiaries  B3 Translation of the financial statements of Companies over which DASSAULT AVIATION exercises exclusive control, directly or indirectly, non-euro zone subsidiaries and which are considered material are fully The currency used in the preparation of the consolidated. consolidated financial statements is the euro. B1-2 Investments in equity affiliates The financial statements of non-euro zone Companies over which DASSAULT AVIATION subsidiaries are translated as follows: exercises significant influence, directly or indirectly, balance sheet items are translated in euros at and which are considered material are accounted the year-end rate, for under the equity method. income statement items are translated at the average rate. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Foreign exchange differences are recognized directly in equity and therefore do not impact the income statement. 95 Consolidated financial statements C/ MEASUREMENT METHODS  C2 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment  C1 Goodwill and business combinations C2-1 Principles for recognition and appreciation or C1-1 Business combinations since January 1 , st amortization 2010 Intangible assets and property, plant and There have been no business combinations since equipment are recognized at acquisition or January 1st, 2010. production cost, less any accumulated depreciation or amortization and any accumulated impairment C1-2 Business combinations prior to January 1st, losses. 2010 Each identified component of an intangible asset st Business combinations prior to January 1 , 2010 or item of property, plant and equipment is are recognized according to the acquisition method recognized and depreciated or amortized as defined in standard IFRS 3. separately. Depreciation and amortization are calculated using The identified assets and liabilities are recognized the straight-line method. No residual value is taken at their fair value on the date of acquisition. into account, except for aircraft. The difference between the acquisition cost of the Property, plant and equipment and intangible shares and the Group's share in the restated net assets are depreciated and amortized over their assets constitutes the goodwill. estimated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at Accounting for goodwill: each year-end for material non-current assets. if negative, goodwill is recognized in net The initial useful life of an asset is extended or income, reduced depending on the conditions in which the if positive, goodwill is recognized in balance asset is used. sheet assets under the following headings: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository.  goodwill if the purchased company is In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible assets fully or proportionately consolidated, concerning development costs, the Group  equity affiliates if the purchased determines the development phase of its programs company is consolidated under the that satisfies the criteria for capitalization. equity method. Development costs are capitalized to the extent that they satisfy the following three decisive Goodwill can be adjusted within the twelve months criteria: following the acquisition date to take account of The technical criterion is satisfied when the the final fair value estimates of the purchased period for the validation of results after the assets and liabilities. maiden flight has elapsed without the project being called into question. In accordance with IFRS 3 standard, goodwill is no The economic and commercial criterion is longer amortized. It is subject to an impairment validated by the orders or options obtained on test at each year-end, or if an indication of the date when the technical criterion is impairment has been detected (see C3 Loss in deemed to be satisfied value and recoverable value). The financial information reliability criterion is satisfied for significant programs as the C1-3 Reminder of first adoption rules for IFRS information system is designed to differentiate DASSAULT AVIATION has elected not to restate between research and development phases. If goodwill recognized prior to January 1st, 2004. such a distinction cannot be made, as may be dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Goodwill is recognized as of this date, net of any the case for minor developments (e.g.: previously recognized amortization. modification, improvement, etc.), the expenditure is not capitalized. The asset should be likely to generate clearly identifiable future economic benefits attributable to a specific product. 96 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP The impairment tests consist in ensuring that the The capitalized development costs are measured recoverable values of the tangible assets, at production cost. Capitalized development costs intangible assets and cash-generating units to are amortized according to the number of aircraft which the goodwill is assigned are at least equal to delivered during the year, divided by an estimated their net book value. Otherwise, impairment is number of aircraft to be delivered under the recognized in net income and the net book value program (including those for the year). of the asset is written down to its recoverable value. C2-2 Useful lives The recoverable value of a tangible or intangible Useful lives are as follows: asset is the highest value between its fair value, Software 3-4 years less the costs of disposal, and its value in use. Development costs according to the number The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit of units to be produced corresponds to its value in use. Each consolidated Industrial buildings 25-30 years company represents a cash-generating unit, i.e.: Office buildings 25-35 years the smallest identifiable group of assets that Fixtures and fittings 7-15 years generates cash inflows and outflows. Plant, equipment and machinery 3-15 years The value in use is calculated using the discounted Aircraft 4-10 years future cash flow method, with a post-tax discount Rolling stock 3-4 years rate of 8.7% (compared to 8% as of 31.12.2011) Other property, plant and equipment 3-8 ans and a 2% growth rate (same as of 31.12.2011). Second-hand goods on a case-by-case basis The discount rate includes the rates prevailing in C2-3 Derecognition the aviation industry and was calculated using the Any gain or loss arising from the derecognition of same method as in 2011. Post-tax cash flows are an item of property, plant and equipment or projected over a period not exceeding 5 years and the method takes into account a terminal value. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. intangible asset (difference between the net disposal gain and the net carrying amount) is These future cash flows result from the economic included in the income statement in the year of its assumptions and forecast operating conditions derecognition. adopted by the Group's Executive Management. As far as the interest of DASSAULT AVIATION in  C3 Loss in value and recoverable value of THALES is concerned, these cash flows are consistent with the forecast data as provided by intangible assets, plant, property and the THALES Management. equipment, and goodwill When a cash-generating unit needs to be In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets , impaired, the impairment is first of all applied to all long-term assets (tangible and intangible) and the goodwill then, if appropriate, to the other goodwill undergo an impairment test upon assets of the cash-generating unit proportionate to detection of an indication of impairment and at their net book value. Impairments may be least once a year, on December 31, for goodwill reversed except those relating to goodwill. and for intangible assets with an indefinite service life. Indications of impairment derive from significant adverse changes of a permanent nature, affecting the economic environment or the assumptions or dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 objectives adopted by the Group. 97 Consolidated financial statements  C4 Securities and other non-current financial In the event of a partial disposal of securities, the assets first-in, first-out method is used to determine the disposal gain or loss transferred from equity. These fall into three categories. C4-3 Other financial assets C4-1 Investments in equity affiliates Other financial assets mainly comprise guarantee Investments in equity affiliates undergo an and loan deposits granted to employees with impairment test once there are objective respect to housing loans. indications of long-term and systematic loss of value at year-end. Loans are recognized at cost less repayments. Other assets are stated at cost. Impairment is recognized if the recoverable value is lower than the carrying amount, with the  C5 Inventories and work-in-progress recoverable value being equivalent to the value in Incoming raw material, semi-finished and finished use or the fair value net of transaction costs, goods inventories are measured at acquisition cost whichever is the higher. for items purchased and production cost for items Impairment may be reversed if the recoverable produced. Outgoing inventories are measured at value once again exceeds the carrying amount. weighted average cost, except for used aircraft which are stated at acquisition cost. Work-inC4-2 Available-for-sale securities progress is stated at production cost. These mainly comprise short-term investments in Inventories and work-in-progress are impaired the form of marketable securities and nonwhen their net realizable value is lower than their consolidated investments that the Group does not carrying amount. intend to sell in the short term. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in They are recognized at their fair value. the ordinary course of business less the estimated For listed assets (marketable securities and noncosts of completion and the estimated costs consolidated investments), fair value corresponds necessary to make the sale. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. to the market price prevailing at the balance sheet  C6 Receivables date. Foreign currency receivables, translated by each For non-listed investments, in the absence of any subsidiary into their local currency at the day's external valuation elements, fair value represents rate, are reevaluated at each year-end on the the Group’s share of net assets plus any unrealized basis of the year-end rate. The observed capital gains. Fair value is calculated based on the reevaluation differential is recognized in operating most recent financial statements available at the income. year-end. A provision for impairment is recorded when the Capital gains or losses net of applicable deferred recoverable value is lower than the carrying tax are posted to Other income and expense amount. recognized directly through equity with the exception of capital gains that are considered The recoverable amount of a receivable is definitive. estimated by taking into account the type of customer and the history of settlements. Once such assets are sold or their value is permanently impaired, any cumulative gains or In the event of a risk of default, the receivable is losses brought forward from prior years under written-down up to the amount of the estimated equity are posted to financial income or expense in risk for the portion not hedged by credit insurance respect of marketable securities, or to operating (export insurance guarantees (COFACE) or dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 income in respect of non-consolidated collateral). investments. Non written-down receivables are recent receivables with no material credit risk. 98 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP  C7 Cash and cash equivalents  C9 Borrowings and payables Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank Foreign currency borrowings and payables, and in hand, demand deposits and cash translated by each subsidiary into their local equivalents. currency at the day's rate, are reevaluated at each year-end on the basis of the year-end rate. The The cash equivalents satisfy the criteria set forth in observed reevaluation differential is recognized in IAS 7 Statement of cash flows : short-term, operating income. highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which Loans taken out by the Group are initially recorded are not subject to a material risk of changes in at the amount received net of transaction costs, value. and subsequently at cost less repayments, calculated using the effective interest rate. They are initially recognized at acquisition cost, and subsequently at fair value, corresponding, for  C10 Discounting of receivables, payables these listed securities, to the market rate and provisions prevailing at the year-end. Since the Group does not have any material The changes in fair value and the net disposal receivables or payables with a considerable gains or losses are posted to income from cash interest-free deferral period, there is no reason to and cash equivalents under net financial income. discount these headings. The provision for retirement severance payments  C8 Provisions for contingencies and losses and similar benefits is discounted in accordance C8-1 Retirement severance payments with IAS 19 Employee benefits . Other provisions are stated at present value. Retirement severance payments are accrued in full. Provisions cover all employees and are In accordance with IFRS standards, deferred tax estimated based on vested rights and a projection assets and liabilities are not discounted. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. of current salaries, after taking into account mortality rates, employee turnover, and a  C11 Derivative financial instruments discounting assumption. The rates have been determined based on the yield for top-ranking The Group uses derivatives to hedge against corporate long-term bonds. foreign exchange risks relating to its operations and against interest rate risks. The Group recognizes all actuarial adjustments as other income and expense recognized directly These risks mainly arise from US dollar through equity. denominated sales. The corresponding future cash flows are partially hedged by firm or optional C8-2 Other provisions for contingencies and losses forward transactions. In the course of its business, the Group grants its On initial recognition, derivatives are carried at customers operating warranties on delivered acquisition cost in the balance sheet under equipment. Hedging instruments . Contingency provisions are set aside to hedge the portion of future expenses deemed probable to arise from these obligations. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 These provisions are calculated using technical data or on a statistical basis. 99 Consolidated financial statements They are subsequently stated at fair value based C12-3 Net financial income or expense on the market price disclosed by the relevant financial institutions. Net financial income or expense mainly comprises: The Group applies hedge accounting for the unrealized capital gains or losses on cash operations concerned in accordance with the equivalents, criteria set forth in IAS 39 Financial instruments : gains on disposal of marketable securities, The changes in fair value of hedging dividends from non-consolidated companies instruments are posted, net of tax, to other recognized when the Group – as shareholder income and expense recognized through is entitled to receive payment, equity, except for changes corresponding to the ineffective amount of the hedge, if any, financial expense, which largely relates to which are posted to operating income in contracted borrowings and employee profit respect of foreign exchange derivatives and to sharing current accounts, net financial income in respect of interest rate variations in value of hedging instruments not derivatives. satisfying the conditions required by the standard for hedge accounting. Where the cash flow is received, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized in  C13 Deferred taxation operating income. Deferred taxes linked to temporary differences are At each interest payment date for hedged calculated per company. borrowings, the gain or loss on the interest rate hedge is posted to net financial income or In accordance with the requirements of IAS 12 expense in respect of the relevant period. Income taxes , deferred tax assets are only recognized, for each company, insofar as When a derivative instrument chosen for its estimated future taxable profits are sufficient to hedging effectiveness by the Group does not cover these assets and their maturity does not satisfy the requirements for hedge accounting, the exceed ten years. changes in fair value are recognized in net RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. financial income or expense. Provisions are set up for tax on dividends proposed by subsidiaries.  C12 Net sales and income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at C12-1 Recognition of revenue and operating the tax rates that are expected to apply to the income or loss period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on local tax rates (and tax laws) Revenue from sales of goods is recognized when that have been enacted by the year-end. the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. This normally represents the transfer Taxes related to items charged or credited directly of ownership for the Group. to equity are charged or credited to equity. Services are recognized under the percentage of Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset by completion method according to the milestones set consolidated entities for presentation in the forth in contracts. Income or loss is recognized at balance sheet. each stage of completion if it can be reliably measured. Losses on completion are recognized as soon as they are known. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 C12-2 Research-based tax credits The Research-based Tax Credits of the Group's French companies are recognized in operating income, under other revenue . 100 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 2 Scope of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of DASSAULT AVIATION and the following subsidiaries and affiliates: % equity interest (1) Name Country 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Fully consolidated companies Parent Parent DASSAULT AVIATION (2) France company company DASSAULT FALCON JET USA 100 100 DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE France 100 100 DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES USA 100 100 SOGITEC INDUSTRIES France 100 100 Equity affiliates DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC. USA 100 100 THALES France 26 26 (1) The equity interest percentages are identical to the percentages of effective control for all Group companies except for THALES, for which the Group holds a 25.96% equity interest, 26.33% of the interest entitlements and 29.50% of the voting rights as of December 31, 2012. In 2012, the Group benefited from the provision allocating a double voting right for all shares that have been held on a registered basis for at least 2 years. The Group therefore held 29.50% of the voting rights on December 31, 2012 (compared to 20.40% on December 31, 2011). This has no impact on the chosen consolidation method. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (2) Identity of the parent company: Société Anonyme (French Limited Liability Company) with share capital of EUR 81,007,176, listed and registered in France with the Paris Trade Registry under the number 712 042 456, 9, Rond-point des Champs-Élysées-Marcel Dassault 75008 PARIS Note 3 Goodwill (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Acquisitions Disposals Other 31.12.2012 DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE 3,702 0 0 0 3,702 DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES 5,887 0 0 0 5,887 SOGITEC INDUSTRIES 4,777 0 0 0 4,777 TOTAL 14,366 0 0 0 14,366 As the tests performed in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets did not indicate any impairment loss, no provision for goodwill impairment was recognized. A 10% variation of the discount rate and of the long-term growth rate does not affect the absence of goodwill impairment. Pursuant to the IFRS standards, the goodwill for THALES, which is consolidated under the equity method, is included dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 under Equity affiliates (see Note 5). 101 Consolidated financial statements Note 4 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 4.1 Geographical breakdown (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Net value France 306,929 313,470 USA 137,246 156,816 TOTAL 444,175 470,286 Intangible assets 38,612 44,181 Property, plant and equipment 405,563 426,105 4.2 Intangible assets Additions / Disposals / (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Gross value Development costs (1) 139,030 4,220 0 0 143,250 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 100,591 2,373 -1,339 702 102,327 Construction in progress; advances and progress 834 1,492 0 -702 1,624 payments 240,455 8,085 -1,339 0 247,201 Depreciation Development costs (1) -109,830 -6,420 0 0 -116,250 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Software, patents, licenses and similar assets -86,444 -7,289 1,339 55 -92,339 -196,274 -13,709 1,339 55 -208,589 Net value Development costs (1) 29,200 27,000 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 14,147 9,988 Construction in progress; advances and progress 834 1,624 payments TOTAL 44,181 -5,624 0 55 38,612 (1) cf. paragraph C2-1 of the accounting policies. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 102 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 4.3 Property, plant and equipment Additions / Disposals / (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other (1) 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Gross value Land 26,948 79 -11 65 27,081 Buildings 414,607 16,669 -1,950 2,338 431,664 Plant, equipment and machinery 533,105 19,008 -19,059 2,058 535,112 Other property, plant and equipment 301,557 7,515 -33,230 -750 275,092 Construction in progress; advances and 11,059 9,106 -2,081 -8,555 9,529 progress payments 1,287,276 52,377 -56,331 -4,844 1,278,478 Depreciation Land -5,113 -454 11 0 -5,556 Buildings -219,895 -16,918 1,433 826 -234,554 Plant, equipment and machinery -448,100 -27,335 18,607 496 -456,332 Other property, plant and equipment -177,991 -13,834 15,958 905 -174,962 -851,099 -58,541 36,009 2,227 -871,404 Impairment (2) Other property, plant and equipment -10,072 -1,511 10,098 -26 -1,511 -10,072 -1,511 10,098 -26 -1,511 Net value Land 21,835 21,525 Buildings 194,712 197,110 Plant, equipment and machinery 85,005 78,780 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Other property, plant and equipment 113,494 98,619 Construction in progress; advances and 11,059 9,529 progress payments TOTAL 426,105 -7,675 -10,224 -2,643 405,563 (1) This involves essentially foreign exchange differences. (2) Impairment tests of property, plant and equipment (see Note C3 Accounting policies):  The impairment tests carried out for cash-generating units did not highlight any other impairment to be recognized as of 31.12.2012.  The provision for depreciation of capitalized used business jets was revised to EUR 1,511 thousand on December 31, 2012, compared to EUR 10,072 thousand on December 31, 2011. This provision is equal to the difference between the net carrying amount of the capitalized aircraft and their recoverable value. The recoverable value of a capitalized aircraft is the higher of its fair value (less costs to sell) and its value in use. The value in use of all capitalized aircraft is calculated using the discounted future cash flow method, with a post-tax discount rate of 8.7% and a 2% growth rate, a cash flow forecast period equal to the term of the aircraft’s lease and a value at which the aircraft will be resold after the lease term has elapsed. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 103 Consolidated financial statements Note 5 Non-current financial assets 5.1 Equity affiliates This concerns, on the one hand, the THALES participation for which, as of December 31, 2012, DASSAULT AVIATION possesses 29.50% of the voting rights and 26.33% of the interest entitlements. Consequently, DASSAULT AVIATION has a significant influence over THALES, which as such is consolidated under the equity method in the Group financial statements. The Group also fully owns DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC. This is a holding company that has a 12.5% stake in DASSAULT FALCON JET (DFJ). It is consolidated using the equity method, since its assets and liabilities, other than the DFJ investment, are negligible. 5.1.1 Group share of net assets and net income of equity affiliates % equity interest at year Net assets at year end Net income (2) (EUR 000) end (1) (2) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 2012 2011 DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL 100 100 5,042 5,082 60 54 INC. THALES (3) 26.3 26.4 1,636,548 1,674,957 90,376 41,010 TOTAL 1,641,590 1,680,039 90,436 41,064 (1) % interest entitlements. (2) Group share after consolidation adjustments. (3) The share value includes goodwill amounting to EUR 1,101,297 thousand. The Group share of the THALES income after consolidation adjustments is detailed in Note 5.1.3. 5.1.2 Change in value of investments in equity affiliates RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (EUR 000) 2012 2011 On January 1 1,680,039 1,726,993 Acquisition of THALES shares (1) 0 25,770 Group share of net income (after consolidation adjustments) 90,436 41,064 Elimination of dividends paid by THALES (1) -40,975 -38,903 Total income and expense recognized directly through equity Net change in fair value measurement of available-for-sale financial assets 132 79 Net change in fair value measurement of hedging instruments (2) 20,379 -10,625 Actuarial adjustments on defined benefit obligations -103,372 -79,581 Corresponding deferred taxes -7,779 3,840 Foreign exchange differences 1,501 8,192 Share of other income and expense recognized directly through equity relating to -89,139 -78,095 equity affiliates Other movements (3) 1,229 3,210 As of December 31 1,641,590 1,680,039 (1) In 2012, the Group received EUR 27,842 thousand in THALES dividends for 2011 and EUR 13,133 thousand in interim dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 dividends for 2012. In 2011, the Group received EUR 38,903 thousand, of which EUR 25,770 thousand for 2010, paid in shares, and EUR 13,133 thousand in interim dividends for 2011, paid in cash in the 2nd half-year of 2011. (2) The totals stated represent the change in the portfolio’s market value during the year. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. (3) This largely consists of changes in treasury shares and THALES stock options. 104 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 5.1.3 THALES summary financial statements (100%) and share of net income of equity affiliates by DASSAULT AVIATION (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Total assets 21,332,400 21,075,500 Equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 4,576,200 4,120,200 Net sales 14,158,100 13,028,400 Net income attributable to the owners of Parent Company (1) 535,700 511,800 (1) The breakdown between the Group share of THALES’ attributable net gain/loss and that applied by DASSAULT AVIATION is given in the table below: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 THALES net income (100%) 535,700 511,800 THALES net income DASSAULT AVIATION share (A) 141,050 135,269 Post-tax amortization of the purchase price allocation (1) -67,967 -83,858 Other consolidation adjustments  run-off of the hedging instruments included in THALES equity on the -2,370 -19,558 acquisition date  adjustment of pension liabilities (2) 21,064 2,907  corresponding deferred tax 856 6,694  dilution impact -2,257 -444 Sub-total consolidation adjustments (B) -50,674 -94,259 Value applied by DASSAULT AVIATION (A+B) 90,376 41,010 (1) depreciation of identified assets for which the modes and periods of depreciation are identical to those used for the RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. year ended December 31, 2011 (2) standardization of accounting policies for pension liabilities given that THALES uses the corridor method 5.1.4 Market price of THALES shares and impairment test Based on the market price of THALES shares at December 31, 2012 of EUR 26.24 per share, DASSAULT AVIATION’s investment in THALES is valued at EUR 1,378 million. The THALES investments have been subject to an impairment test. The value in use was estimated by forecasting future post-tax cash flows over a four year period. These cash flows were then discounted at a post-tax rate of 8.5% (being the discount rate applied by THALES on 31.12.2012, identical to that on 31.12.2011). The final value was calculated based on medium-term earnings assumptions in line with the THALES forecast data and taking into account a long-term growth rate of 2%. This impairment test did not result in the company recording any impairment. A variation of 10% of the main assumptions adopted (discount rate, long-term growth rate, cash flow) does not affect the absence of impairment of Group participation in THALES. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 105 Consolidated financial statements 5.2 Available-for-sale securities Available-for-sale securities are recognized at their fair value. They comprise in particular short-term Group investments in the form of marketable securities. It should be noted that other marketable securities are classified under cash equivalents (see Note 8). The analysis of risks relating to all the Group’s available-for-sale securities is presented in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. Fair value (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Acquisitions Disposals Other 31.12.2012 variation Shares (EMBRAER) 32,475 0 0 3,181 0 35,656 Marketable securities (listed) 3,066,435 45,653 0 19,564 0 3,131,652 (1)(2) Unlisted securities 86,607 3,300 0 4,390 1,209 95,506 Available-for-sale securities 3,185,517 48,953 0 27,135 1,209 3,262,814 (1) The sum of EUR 45,653 thousand corresponds to the net change in available-for-sale marketable securities (at cost). (2) The variation of EUR 19,564 thousand corresponds to the increase in fair value of the listed marketable securities amounting to EUR 31,980 thousand offset by a loss on sale amounting to EUR -12,416 thousand (included in the net financial income). 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Capital Capital Historical Consolidated Historical Consolidated gain / loss gain / loss cost value cost value (1) (1) Shares (EMBRAER) 32,120 3,536 35,656 32,120 355 32,475 Marketable securities (listed) 2,152,470 979,182 3,131,652 2,106,817 959,618 3,066,435 Unlisted securities 70,228 25,278 95,506 65,719 20,888 86,607 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Available-for-sale securities 2,254,818 1,007,996 3,262,814 2,204,656 980,861 3,185,517 (1) The observed capital gain is posted to Other income and expense recognized directly through equity . 5.3 Other financial assets Additions / Disposals / (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Gross value Advance lease payments 30,020 2,216 -48 0 32,188 Housing loans and other 2,614 376 -510 -3 2,477 TOTAL (1) 32,634 2,592 -558 -3 34,665 Provision -309 0 0 3 -306 NET VALUE 32,325 2,592 -558 0 34,359 (1) maturing within more than one year: EUR 33,898 thousand as of 31.12.2012 and EUR 31,708 thousand as of 31.12.2011 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 106 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 6 Inventories and work-in-progress 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Raw materials 183,362 -74,236 109,126 105,983 Work-in-progress 2,251,958 -23,576 2,228,382 2,213,551 Semi-finished and finished goods 867,797 -288,400 579,397 479,556 TOTAL 3,303,117 -386,212 2,916,905 2,799,090 Note 7 Trade and other receivables 7.1 Details 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Trade receivables 457,200 -89,687 367,513 338,825 Corporate income tax receivables 26,355 0 26,355 63,392 Other receivables 84,193 0 84,193 123,763 Prepayments and accrued income 11,894 0 11,894 9,820 TOTAL 579,642 -89,687 489,955 535,800 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 7.2 Maturity of trade and other receivables gross value 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Within More than Within More than Total Total 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year Trade receivables 457,200 314,901 142,299 446,855 270,619 176,236 Corporate income tax receivables 26,355 26,355 0 63,392 63,392 0 Other receivables 84,193 84,193 0 123,763 123,763 0 Prepayments and accrued income 11,894 11,894 0 9,820 9,820 0 TOTAL 579,642 437,343 142,299 643,830 467,594 176,236 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 107 Consolidated financial statements Note 8 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 Net cash (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Gross Provision Net Net Cash equivalents (1) 725,840 0 725,840 546,686 Cash at bank and in hand 224,576 0 224,576 375,122 Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 950,416 0 950,416 921,808 Bank loans and credit balance bank accounts 0 0 0 0 Net cash in the cash flow statement 950,416 0 950,416 921,808 (1) mainly demand deposits and cash equivalent marketable securities; the corresponding risk analysis is described in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements 8.2 Available cash The Group has defined a specific indicator, Available cash , which reflects the Group’s total liquidities net of borrowings. It is calculated as follows: (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Available-for-sale marketable securities (market value) (1) 3,131,652 3,066,435 Cash equivalents (market value) 950,416 921,808 Sub-total 4,082,068 3,988,243 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Borrowings (2) -321,779 -714,009 Available cash 3,760,289 3,274,234 (1) See Note 5. At the Group’s initiative, the available-for-sale marketable securities may be sold in the very near future, given their liquidity. (2) See Note 11. Note 9 Share capital and capital management Share capital amounted to EUR 81,007 thousand, comprising 10,125,897 fully paid-up issued ordinary shares, each with a par value of EUR 8. The number and par value of the shares did not change during the year. The Group does not hold any treasury shares and did not grant any stock option plans to its employees and senior executives. Furthermore, the Group regularly distributes dividends. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 108 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 10 Identity of the consolidating Parent Company % control (1) GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT (GIMD) 50.55% 9, Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées Marcel Dassault, 75008 Paris (1) identical to the consolidation percentage Note 11 Borrowings Amount due in more than 1 year Amount due Of which Total on Total due (EUR 000) within > than 1 More than 31.12.2012 within more 1 year year and < 5 years than 1 year than 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 56 17 39 39 0 Other borrowings (2) 321,723 58,223 263,500 262,773 727 TOTAL 321,779 58,240 263,539 262,812 727 Amount due in more than 1 year Amount due Total on Of which: (EUR 000) within Total due 31.12.2011 > than 1 More than 1 year within more year and < 5 years than 1 year than 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 400,957 400,901 56 51 5 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Other borrowings (2) 313,052 36,193 276,859 276,320 539 TOTAL 714,009 437,094 276,915 276,371 544 (1) In 2012, the Group repaid loans of EUR 400 million taken out with a credit establishment. No short-term bank credit on 31.12.2012 and on 31.12.2011. (2) On 31.12.2012 and on 31.12.2011, the other borrowings mainly include locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 109 Consolidated financial statements Note 12 Provisions 12.1 Provisions for contingencies and losses and for impairment Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other (1) 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Provisions for contingencies and losses Operational 1,164,542 246,078 -209,454 67,141 1,268,307 Financial 0 0 0 0 0 1,164,542 246,078 -209,454 67,141 1,268,307 Provisions for impairment and write-down Financial 309 0 0 -3 306 Property, plant and equipment 10,072 1,511 -10,098 26 1,511 Inventories and work-in-progress 421,034 389,222 -422,124 -1,920 386,212 Trade receivables 108,030 89,678 -108,005 -16 89,687 539,445 480,411 -540,227 -1,913 477,716 TOTAL 1,703,987 726,489 -749,681 65,228 1,746,023 (1) Including Foreign exchange differences and actuarial adjustments posted to other income and expense recognized directly through equity. In 2012, the actuarial adjustments contributed to the increase in current operating provisions for contingencies and losses amounting to EUR 69,137 thousand. 12.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other (1) 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Warranties (2) 631,608 120,528 -92,697 -651 658,788 Services and work to be performed 195,352 87,045 -86,417 -802 195,178 Retirement severance payments 329,809 36,854 -28,269 68,664 407,058 French companies 318,698 28,179 -10,128 49,850 386,599 US companies 11,111 8,675 -18,141 18,814 20,459 Miscellaneous (3) 7,773 1,651 -2,071 -70 7,283 Operating – current 1,164,542 246,078 -209,454 67,141 1,268,307 Financial 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 1,164,542 246,078 -209,454 67,141 1,268,307 (1) Including Foreign exchange differences and actuarial adjustments posted to other income and expense recognized directly through equity. These actuarial adjustments are relative to the retirement severance payments and are broken down, excluding Foreign exchange differences, as follows (EUR thousands): French companies 49,850 US companies 19,287 Total actuarial adjustments 69,137 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 (2) Warranty provisions are updated to reflect the fleet in service and contracts delivered. (3) The other long-term benefits relating to long-service awards amounted to EUR 2,699 thousand on December 31, 2012, compared to EUR 2,474 thousand at the end of 2011. 110 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 12.3 Provisions for retirement severance payments 12.3.1 Calculation methods (defined benefit plans) Retirement severance payment commitments are calculated for all Group employees using the projected unit credit method and are accrued in full. Employment projections are weighted using French Insurance Code mortality rates and the DASSAULT AVIATION employee turnover rate (this may vary according to age). The obligation is estimated pro rata on the employee’s length of service at the period-end in relation to his total career expectancy. Note that no Group companies have commitments in respect of medical insurance plans. 12.3.2 Assumptions used French companies US companies 2012 2011 2012 2011 Inflation rate 2.00% 2.00% 3.00% 3.00% Discount rate 2.30% 3.60% 4.45% 4.95% Weighted average salary increase rate 3.90% 3.90% 4.18% 4.22% Expected return on plan assets 5.25% 5.25% The discount rates were based on the yield for top-ranking corporate long-term bonds corresponding to money markets and the future dates when the payments will be made. 12.3.3 History of commitments (EUR 000) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Total commitment 579,783 485,241 419,381 382,715 373,016 Plan assets 172,725 155,432 138,786 116,075 108,579 Unfunded status (1) 407,058 329,809 280,595 266,640 264,437 (1) fully provisioned in the Group accounts 12.3.4 French companies The movements in this provision over the year break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 As of January 1 318,698 277,937 Current service cost 15,630 14,032 Interest cost 12,549 11,805 Benefits paid -10,128 -7,837 Actuarial adjustments 49,850 22,761 As of December 31 386,599 318,698 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 111 Consolidated financial statements The periodic cost for defined benefit obligations breaks down as follows: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Current service cost 15,630 14,032 Interest cost 12,549 11,805 Periodic cost for defined benefit obligations 28,179 25,837 12.3.5 US companies In the US, defined benefit retirement commitments are financed externally. Commitments not covered by the plan assets are accrued in the financial statements. The movements in this provision over the year break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 As of January 1 166,543 141,444 Current service cost 8,424 7,430 Interest cost 8,349 7,504 Benefits paid -4,737 -4,114 Actuarial adjustments 18,629 8,212 Foreign exchange differences -4,024 6,067 As of December 31 193,184 166,543 Changes in investments held for the plans over the year break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Fair value of the plan as of January 1 155,432 138,786 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Expected return on plan assets 8,098 7,055 Actuarial adjustments -658 -670 Employer contributions 18,141 8,984 Benefits paid -4,737 -4,114 Foreign exchange differences -3,551 5,391 Fair value of the plan as of December 31 172,725 155,432 The value of the fund amounted to USD 228 million as of 31.12.2012, compared to USD 201 million as of 31.12.2011. The fund invests largely in bonds with a minimum guaranteed annual yield. The periodic cost for defined benefit obligations breaks down as follows: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Current service cost 8,424 7,430 Interest cost 8,349 7,504 Expected return on plan assets -8,098 -7,055 Periodic cost for defined benefit obligations 8,675 7,879 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 112 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 13 Operating payables 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Within 1 More than 1 Within 1 More than 1 Total Total year year year year Trade payables 536,606 536,606 0 505,524 505,524 0 Other miscellaneous payables 118,974 118,974 0 106,740 106,740 0 Prepayments and accrued income 112,588 73,713 38,875 116,797 61,154 55,643 Trade and other payables 768,168 729,293 38,875 729,061 673,418 55,643 Current corporate income tax payables 5,472 5,472 0 5,365 5,365 0 Other tax and social security payables 237,020 237,020 0 203,572 203,572 0 Tax and employee-related 242,492 242,492 0 208,937 208,937 0 liabilities Note 14 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Within More than Within More than Total Total 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year Customer advances and progress 3,043,088 2,244,170 798,918 2,897,612 1,692,426 1,205,186 payments on work-in-progress TOTAL 3,043,088 2,244,170 798,918 2,897,612 1,692,426 1,205,186 Note 15 – Net sales RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (EUR 000) 2012 2011 France (1) 997,341 856,382 Export 2,943,893 2,448,960 TOTAL 3,941,234 3,305,342 (1) principally the French government One single customer, the French government, accounts for over 10% of the net sales of the Group in 2011 and 2012. (EUR 000) 2012 2011 First quarter 950,103 645,831 Second quarter 978,988 670,970 Third quarter 591,913 748,871 Fourth quarter 1,420,230 1,239,670 TOTAL 3,941,234 3,305,342 The net sales break down as follows: dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Sales of goods 3,180,800 2,780,745 Sales of services 760,434 524,597 TOTAL 3,941,234 3,305,342 113 Consolidated financial statements Note 15 Net sales (cont'd) By origin, net sales break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 France (1) 2,562,426 2,466,851 United States (2) 1,378,808 838,491 TOTAL 3,941,234 3,305,342 (1) DASSAULT AVIATION, DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE and SOGITEC INDUSTRIES (2) DASSAULT FALCON JET and DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES Note 16 Other revenue (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Research-based tax credits 32,552 31,535 Financial revenue from operations (1) 796 1,775 Capitalized production (2) 4,257 1,550 Other operating grants 243 56 Other operating income 5,622 26,000 TOTAL 43,470 60,916 (1) interest in arrears (2) including capitalized development costs: EUR 4,220 thousand in 2012 and EUR 1,550 thousand in 2011 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Note 17 Other operating income and expenses (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Losses from disposals of non-current assets -190 -116 Foreign exchange gains or losses from business transactions (1) 8,206 -10,858 Income/(loss) from non-capital transactions -127 -98 Other operating expenses -3,987 -611 Share of income of joint ventures 1,554 1,502 TOTAL 5,456 -10,181 (1) Particularly foreign exchange gains and losses on trade receivables and payables. Foreign exchange gains and losses relating to hedging transactions are recognized in net sales. Note 18 Research and development costs Non-capitalized research and development costs are recognized in expenses for the year in which they are incurred and represent: dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Research and development costs -387,457 -303,413 The Group’s research and development strategy and initiatives are described in the directors’ report. 114 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 19 Net financial income/(expense) (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Interest generated by cash and cash equivalents 8,081 5,732 Disposal gains and change in fair value of cash equivalents 609 1,657 Income from cash and cash equivalents 8,690 7,389 Interest charges on financing operations -12,437 -23,728 Cost of gross financial debt -12,437 -23,728 COST OF NET FINANCIAL DEBT -3,747 -16,339 Dividends and other investment income 2,856 3,800 Interest income and gains/losses on disposal of other financial assets (excluding 15,470 40,583 cash and cash equivalents) Foreign exchange gain/loss (1) 83,318 -14,065 Other financial expenses 0 0 Financial income and expenses 101,644 30,318 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 97,897 13,979 (1) The stated totals correspond mainly to the variation in the value of hedging instruments that are not eligible for hedge accounting under the terms of IAS 39 Financial instruments . They are not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. Note 20 Tax position RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 20.1 Net effect of taxes on net income (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Current tax expense -204,501 -152,530 Deferred tax gain / expense -20,940 43,651 Tax gain / expense on net income -225,441 -108,879 20.2 Net effect of taxes on other income and expense recognized directly through equity, fully consolidated companies (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Hedging instruments 4,566 30,145 Available-for-sale securities -8,420 -14,949 Actuarial adjustments 13,757 6,529 Tax charge recognized directly through equity 9,903 21,725 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 115 Consolidated financial statements Note 20 Tax position (cont'd) 20.3 Reconciliation of the theoretical and actual tax charge (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Net income 509,878 322,665 Cancellation of the tax charge 225,441 108,879 Cancellation of the Group share of net income of equity affiliates -90,436 -41,064 Income before tax 644,883 390,480 Theoretical tax expenses calculated at the current standard tax rate (1) -232,803 -140,963 Effect of foreign tax rates and deferred tax -1,685 790 Changes resulting from non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses 9,047 31,294 Accounting Tax Charge -225,441 -108,879 (1) Pursuant to the 2012 amendments to the Finance Act, a rate of 36.10% applies for years 2012, 2013 and 2014 for the Parent Company of the Group. 20.4 Deferred tax sources Consolidated balance Consolidated income (EUR 000) sheet statement 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 2012 2011 Temporary differences on provisions (profit-sharing, retirement, 219,717 206,681 72 5,710 etc.) Available-for-sale securities and cash equivalents -10,603 -9,615 583 9,670 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Hedging instruments -85,349 -61,631 -28,284 6,363 Other temporary differences 74,131 67,910 6,689 21,908 Deferred tax gain /expense -20,940 43,651 Net deferred tax (1) 197,896 203,345 Deferred tax assets 197,896 203,345 Deferred tax liabilities 0 0 (1) The schedule for the payment of deferred taxes was not determined as certain deferred tax bases may not be accurately broken down by year. The deferred tax bases for which a reversal is expected with certainty in 2013 and 2014 have been subject to tax at 36.10%. The other bases are subject to tax at 34.43%. 20.5 Tax losses carried forward (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Deferred tax assets not recognized in the balance sheet 84,975 70,161 This concerns temporary differences with a maturity in excess of 10 years. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 116 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 21 Earnings per share BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE 2012 2011 Net income attributable to shareholders (EUR 000) (1) 509,834 322,628 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares 10,125,897 10,125,897 Basic earnings per share (in EUR) 50.3 31.9 (1) Net income is fully attributable to income from continuing operations (no discontinued operations). Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. As the Group does not hold any treasury shares and does not have any share option plans, diluted earnings per share is identical to basic earnings per share. Note 22 Dividends paid and proposed DIVIDENDS ON ORDINARY SHARES 2012 2011 Decided and paid during the year (in EUR 000) 86,070 108,347 Per share (EUR) 8.50 10.70 Submitted to the AGM for approval, not recognized as a liability as of 94,171 December 31 (in EUR 000) Per share (EUR) 9.30 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 117 Consolidated financial statements Note 23 Financial instruments 23.1 Financial instruments assets The valuation mode on the balance sheet (cost or fair value) of financial instruments assets is detailed in the following table: Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2012 Fair value (2) (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Total repayments (1) Impact on net Impact on income equity Non-current assets Listed investments 35,656 35,656 Non-listed investments 95,506 95,506 Available-for-sale marketable securities 3,131,652 3,131,652 Other financial assets 34,359 34,359 Current assets Trade and other receivables 489,955 489,955 Hedging instruments 68,604 179,290 247,894 Cash equivalents 725,840 725,840 Total financial instruments assets 524,314 794,444 3,442,104 4,760,862 (1) The carrying amount of the financial instruments assets recognized at cost or cost less repayments corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) method used for valuing financial instruments assets recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Fair value (EUR 000) Impact on net Impact on Total income equity Quoted prices in active markets (level 1) (3) 725,840 3,167,308 3,893,148 Valuation techniques based on observable market data (level 2) 68,604 179,290 247,894 Valuation techniques based on non-observable market data (level 3) 0 95,506 95,506 Total of financial instruments assets recognized at their fair 794,444 3,442,104 4,236,548 value (3) including demand deposits as of 31.12.2012: EUR 469,471 thousand dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 118 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP On December 31, 2011, the data were as follows: Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2011 Fair value (2) (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Impact on net Impact on Total repayments (1) income equity Non-current assets Listed investments 32,475 32,475 Non-listed investments 86,607 86,607 Available-for-sale marketable securities 3,066,435 3,066,435 Other financial assets 32,325 32,325 Current assets Trade and other receivables 535,800 535,800 Hedging instruments -13,414 192,543 179,129 Cash equivalents 546,686 546,686 Total financial instruments (assets) 568,125 533,272 3,378,060 4,479,457 (1) The carrying amount of the financial instruments assets recognized at cost or cost less repayments corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) method used for valuing financial instruments assets recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value: Fair value (EUR 000) Impact on net Impact on Total income equity Quoted prices in active markets (level 1) (3) 546,686 3,098,910 3,645,596 Valuation techniques based on observable market data (level 2) -13,414 192,543 179,129 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Valuation techniques based on non-observable market data (level 3) 86,607 86,607 Total of financial instruments assets recognized at their fair 533,272 3,378,060 3,911,332 value (3) including demand deposits as of 31.12.2011: EUR 228,924 thousand dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 119 Consolidated financial statements 23.2 Financial instruments (liabilities) The valuation mode on the balance sheet (cost or fair value) of financial instruments liabilities is detailed in the following table: Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2012 Fair value (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Total repayments (1) Impact on net Impact on income equity Non-current liabilities Bank borrowings 39 39 Other borrowings (2) 263,500 263,500 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 17 17 Other borrowings (2) 58,223 58,223 Trade and other payables 768,168 768,168 Total financial instruments liabilities 1,089,947 0 0 1,089,947 On December 31, 2011, the data were as follows: Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2011 Fair value (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Total repayments (1) Impact on net Impact on income equity Non-current liabilities RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Bank borrowings 56 56 Other borrowings (2) 276,859 276,859 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 400,901 400,901 Other borrowings (2) 36,193 36,193 Trade and other payables 729,061 729,061 Total financial instruments liabilities 1,443,070 0 0 1,443,070 (1) The carrying amount of the financial instruments liabilities recognized at cost or cost less repayments corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) mainly include locked-in employee profit-sharing funds (cf. Note 11) dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 120 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 23.3 Financial instruments (derivates) The different types of financial instrument derivatives used by the Group (foreign currency and interest rate hedges) along with their recognition under hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 Financial instruments are defined in section C11 of the accounting policy note to the consolidated financial statements. The recognition of financial instrument derivatives is as follows: Market value Market value as (EUR 000) as of of 31.12.2011 31.12.2012 Foreign exchange options 44,977 -15,570 Futures 202,917 194,443 Foreign exchange hedging 247,894 178,873 Interest rate hedges 0 256 Instruments recognized in assets 247,894 179,129 including premiums and accrued interest on financial instruments 0 131 Net capital gains on financial instruments 247,894 178,998 The impact on net income and equity of the changes in fair value is as follows: Impact on net income (EUR 000) In equity (1) In operating In financial Total income income (2) Net capital gains on financial instruments -13,253 -5 82,154 68,896 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (1) posted to the heading Other income and expense recognized directly through equity, fully consolidated companies (2) changes in fair value of Foreign exchange hedging instruments not eligible for recognition under hedge accounting under the terms of IAS 39 Financial instruments (cf. Note 24.5 for the sensitivity study) dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 121 Consolidated financial statements Note 24 Financial risk management 24.1 Interest rate risk In 2012, the Group repaid loans of EUR 400 million taken out in 2011 with a credit establishment and is consequently no longer subject to the interest rate risk. 24.2 Shares risk On December 31, 2012, the Group owned EMBRAER shares for a value of EUR 35,656 thousand (cf. Note 5.2). This equity share is classified as available-for-sale securities. On the basis of the share price on December 31, 2012, a 10% rise or fall in the share price would have no significant impact on the equity and income of the Group. The unrealized capital gains recorded on December 31, 2012 amounted to EUR 3,536 thousand. 24.3 Cash and liquidity risks The Group investment portfolio mainly comprises money market investments with no significant risk of impairment. 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Consolidated Historical cost Capital gain In % value Cash at bank and in hand, money market investments, 2,241,448 333,129 2,574,577 63% demand deposits Bonds (1) 306,967 205,160 512,127 13% Diversified investments (1) 551,447 443,917 995,364 24% Total 3,099,862 982,206 4,082,068 100% RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (1) Investments in bonds and diversified investments are in most cases collateralized, which limits the risk of impairment. The Group can therefore meet its commitments without any liquidity risk due to its cash resources and its portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities. The Group is not faced with restrictions with regard to the availability of its cash and of its marketable securities portfolio. 24.4 Credit and counterparty risks The Group performs its cash and foreign exchange transactions with recognized financial institutions and places its investments and has bank accounts with these various institutions. The Group had no investments or accounts with financial institutions that went bankrupt in 2011 or 2012. The Group limits counterparty risk by performing most of its sales in cash and ensuring that the granted loans are secured by export insurance guarantees (COFACE) or collateral. The amounts of export insurance guarantees and collateral obtained and not exercised at the year-end are recorded in off-balance sheet commitments (see Note 25). Guarantees are also underwritten with export insurance firms for the manufacturing risk relating to major military export contracts. Considering the trade receivables write-down method, the percentage of outstanding receivables not written-down at the year-end is immaterial and not at risk. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 122 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 24.5 Foreign exchange risks 24.5.1 Hedging portfolio The Group is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through the parent company with regard to FALCON sales that are virtually all denominated in US dollars. This risk is partially hedged by using forward exchange contracts and foreign exchange options. The Group partially hedges its cash flows that are considered highly probable. It ensures that the initial future cash flows will be sufficient to use the foreign exchange hedges in place. The hedged amount may be adjusted according to the variability in the timing of expected net cash flows. A sensitivity analysis was performed in order to determine the impact of a 10 cent increase or decrease in the US dollar/euro exchange rate. Portfolio market value 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Net balance sheet position 247,894 178,873 Closing US dollar/euro exchange rate 1 EUR = 1.3194 USD 1 EUR = 1.2939 USD Closing dollar/euro exchange rate +/10 cents 1.4194 USD 1.2194 USD 1.3939 USD 1.1939 USD Change in net balance sheet position (1) + 172,046 -226,561 + 225,197 -282,309 Impact on net income +24,933 -55,319 + 24,954 -48,521 Impact on equity +147,113 -171,242 + 200,243 -233,788 (1) Data calculated based on existing market conditions on the balance sheet dates. The data are not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. 24.5.2 EMBRAER shares RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. The Group owns EMBRAER shares for a value of EUR 35,656 thousand. EMBRAER is listed on the Brazilian stock market. It is stated in the Group’s financial statements, based on market value at the balance sheet closing date, in Brazilian reals converted into euros. The value of the shares may therefore fluctuate according to the exchange rate of these two currencies. On the basis of the price of the real on December 31, 2012, a 10% rise or fall in the share price would have no significant impact on the equity and income of the Group. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 123 Consolidated financial statements Note 25 Off-balance sheet commitments The off-balance sheet commitments of the Group relate essentially to its operational activities and break down as follows: (EUR 000) COMMITMENTS GIVEN 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Future payments to subcontractors or suppliers 2,093,642 2,108,357 Fixed asset orders 18,000 23,000 Guarantees and deposits 16,054 50,646 TOTAL 2,127,696 2,182,003 COMMITMENTS RECEIVED 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Future billings to customers 7,991,200 8,751,200 Export insurance guarantees 59,449 89,965 Collateral 51,309 68,740 TOTAL 8,101,958 8,909,905 SECURED PAYABLES AND RECEIVABLES 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 456,988 487,379 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 5,070 2,886 TOTAL 462,058 490,265 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. OPERATING LEASES TOTAL Within 1 year More than 1 year Minimum future non-cancelable lease payments 307,776 36,455 271,321 (not discounted) The Group’s main operating leases concern industrial office buildings. Note 26 – Contingent liabilities In late 2002, a group of French manufacturers, including Dassault Aviation, was collectively issued with a request for arbitration from a common client claiming a sum which, according to the plaintiff, would amount to no less than USD 260 million, and for which the group of manufacturers may have joint obligation with regard to the plaintiff. This request related to the execution of old contracts implemented by these manufacturers. In the framework of an agreement signed between the parties in June 2003, the plaintiff withdrew its action. In November 2012, the latter gave notification of a new request for arbitration based on similar grounds to to the 2002 action, for a total now amounting to EUR 226 million. The parties strongly contest this request and, to date, it has not been possible to evaluate the potential financial risk. Consequently, Dassault Aviation has recognized any reserve. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 124 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 27 Related-party transactions The Group’s related parties are: GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT, and its subsidiaries, THALES Group and its subsidiaries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION, Directors of DASSAULT AVIATION. Terms and conditions of related-party transactions Sales and purchases are made at market price. Balances outstanding at the year-end are not guaranteed and payments are made in cash. No guarantees were provided or received for related-party receivables. For 2012, the Group did not recognize any provisions for bad debts relating to amounts receivable from related parties. The need for provisions is assessed each year by examining the financial position of the related parties and the market in which they operate. 27.1 Details of transactions (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Sales 10,171 5,414 Purchases 126,421 129,837 Trade receivables 31,908 28,918 Advances and deposits received 32,353 5,242 Trade payables 47,724 52,653 Advances and deposits paid 26,377 13,791 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 27.2 Compensation of senior executives and benefits in kind Directors’ loans 2012 fiscal year None 2011 fiscal year None Other directors’ interests 2012 fiscal year None 2011 fiscal year None Remuneration and other commitments Total remuneration received by corporate officers in respect of 2012, broken down in the directors’ report, amounted in 2012 to EUR 1,024,036 for the parent company, USD 77,144 for the subsidiaries, EUR 1,043,041 for GIMD and EUR 62,650 for THALES. Consequences of the end of term of office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Charles EDELSTENNE: Supplementary pension: DASSAULT AVIATION has undertaken to pay a supplementary pension to Mr. EDELSTENNE. This represents a sum of EUR 308,660 per annum. DASSAULT AVIATION has provisioned this sum in its accounts, for payment beginning in 2013. At the end of his term of office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION, Mr. EDELSTENNE has not ceased his professional activity on account of his terms of office with DASSAULT SYSTÈMES and GIMD. He cannot therefore draw on his statutory pension. Consequently, DASSAULT AVIATION, despite its commitment, must defer the payment of this pension. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Retirement allowance: DASSAULT AVIATION must pay a retirement allowance to Mr. EDELSTENNE. This represents a sum of EUR 460,833. DASSAULT AVIATION has provisioned this sum in its accounts. 125 Consolidated financial statements In 2009, in application of AFEP/MEDEF recommendations, the employment contract of Mr. EDELSTENNE was terminated at the initiative of DASSAULT AVIATION on account of his retirement. Since Mr. EDELSTENNE was pursuing at the time the exercise of his term of office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION, the Board had linked the payment of this allowance to the end of his last term of office. Insofar as: his term of office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION has now come to an end, he no longer exercises within DASSAULT AVIATION any activity giving rise to the payment of salaried remuneration or the considered equivalent, the payment of this allowance is not subject to the condition that its beneficiary effectively draw on his retirement benefits, NOW, THEREFORE, the Board has decided to pay, in 2013, to Mr. EDELSTENNE, his contractual retirement allowance. Note 28 Average number of employees 2012 2011 Engineers and management and executive grades 5,245 5,128 Supervisory and technical grades 2,337 2,344 Administrative employees 1,228 1,217 Production employees 2,742 2,758 TOTAL 11,552 11,447 Note 29 Environmental information DASSAULT AVIATION Group recorded environmental capital expenditure amounting to EUR 1,902 thousand and income statement expense of around EUR 1,158 thousand in 2012 relating to risk, impact and regulatory compliance analyses. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Note 30 Statutory auditors' fees The statutory auditors' fees posted to expenses for 2012 and 2011 are as follows: DELOITTE & ASSOCIES MAZARS EUR 000 2012 2011 2012 2011 Statutory audit, certification, review of individual and consolidated financial statements (1) DASSAULT AVIATION 210 200 210 200 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 0 0 349 334 Other statutory audit engagements (2) DASSAULT AVIATION 44 83 29 64 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 0 0 26 0 TOTAL 254 283 614 598 (1) These fees primarily include the review and certification of the Group’s consolidated financial statements, certification of the financial statements of the parent company DASSAULT AVIATION S.A. and its subsidiaries and compliance with local dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 regulations. (2) These fees involve services normally rendered as an extension to the statutory auditors’ engagement (drafting of specific attestations, notices and opinions relating to accounting standards, etc.). 126 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP In addition, the fees paid by fully consolidated subsidiaries to statutory auditors other than DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS and MAZARS should be added to the above amounts: EUR 46,000 in 2012 and EUR 45,000 in 2011. Note 31 Subsequent events No events likely to have a material impact on the financial statements occurred between December 31, 2012 and the date of the financial statements being approved by the Board of Directors. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 127 Consolidated financial statements AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL In application of the provisions of Article L. 823-9 STATEMENTS of the French Commercial Code, we have conducted our own assessments, which we bring Year ended December 31, 2012 to your attention. Dear Shareholders, THALES impairment test In accordance with our appointment as auditors by Notes 1-C3 and 5.1.4 describe the estimations and your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to assumptions of your company concerning the you for the year ended December 31, 2012 on: valuation of the acquisition of THALES and the the audit of the accompanying methods of implementing the impairment test. We consolidated financial statements of have checked the appropriate character of the DASSAULT AVIATION, accounting methods involved in the above, and the justification of our assessments, examined the data and hypotheses on which this the specific procedures and disclosures test and these implementation methods are based. required by law. The consolidated financial statements have been Provisions for contingencies and losses approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial statements, Our work consisted in particular in assessing the based on our audit. data and assumptions used to determine the estimated provisions for contingencies and losses, OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED as described in Note 1-C8 and in Notes 12-1 and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12-2 to the financial statements, reviewing the calculations performed by the Company, We conducted our audit in accordance with comparing the accounting estimates of previous professional standards applicable in France. These periods with the corresponding results and RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. standards require that we plan and perform the examining the procedures adopted by audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the Management to approve such estimates. On this consolidated financial statements are free of basis, we assessed the reasonableness of these material misstatement. An audit includes checking, estimates. using sample testing techniques or other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts and Multi-annual agreements disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the For multi-annual contracts, the Company’s income accounting principles used and significant relating to service provisions is calculated estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall according to the completion method. On the basis financial statement presentation. We believe that of data available to date, our work consisted in the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient assessing the data and the assumptions drawn up and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. by Management and on which they based their estimates of the profit/loss on completion of those In our opinion, the year's consolidated financial contracts and their trends, reviewing the statements give a true and fair view of the calculations made, comparing the estimates made financial position and the assets and liabilities of in previous years with the actual profits and losses. the Group as of December 31, 2012 and the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with IFRS as adopted in the European dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Union. 128 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP These assessments were made as part of our audit SPECIFIC PROCEDURES approach for the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and contributed to our opinion as In accordance with professional standards expressed in the first part of this report. applicable in France, we have also performed the other specific testing, required by law, of the information on the Group given in the Directors’ Report. We have no comment to make as to the fair presentation of this information or its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 13, 2013 The Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Dominique Jumaucourt RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 129 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 130 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. PARENT COMPANY ANNUAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 131 Company financial statements ASSETS 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) NOTE Depreciation, Gross amortization and Net Net provisions Intangible assets 2 91,845 -80,984 10,861 14,356 Property, plant and equipment 2 968,724 -719,627 249,097 254,825 Long-term investments 3 2,218,329 -154 2,218,175 2,210,885 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 3,278,898 -800,765 2,478,133 2,480,066 Inventories and work-in-progress 4 2,809,844 -263,452 2,546,392 2,491,478 Advances and progress payments to 196,499 0 196,499 198,972 suppliers Trade receivables 6 463,095 -78,013 385,082 363,942 Other receivables, prepayments and accrued 6 461,478 0 461,478 532,926 income Marketable securities and cash instruments 9 2,313,074 0 2,313,074 2,206,795 Cash at bank and in hand 214,374 0 214,374 255,736 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 6,458,364 -341,465 6,116,899 6,049,849 TOTAL ASSETS 9,737,262 -1,142,230 8,595,032 8,529,915 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 132 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (EUR 000) NOTE 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Share capital 10 81,007 81,007 Additional paid-in capital 19,579 19,579 Reserves 12 2,832,730 2,659,521 Net income for the year 282,658 259,279 Tax provisions 14 276,449 303,390 TOTAL EQUITY 13 3,492,423 3,322,776 PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES 14 1,140,644 1,058,920 Borrowings (1) 15 319,710 711,788 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 2,799,193 2,626,278 Trade payables 16 457,306 449,171 Other payables, accruals and deferred income 17 385,756 360,982 TOTAL LIABILITIES 3,961,965 4,148,219 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8,595,032 8,529,915 (1) of which short-term banking facilities : 0 0 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 133 Company financial statements INCOME STATEMENT NOTES (EUR 000) 2012 2011 NET SALES 20 3,341,778 2,914,346 Capitalized production 37 0 Change in work-in-progress -59,548 52,718 Reversals of provisions and depreciation and amortization, 458,308 507,515 expense reclassifications Other revenue 5,835 28,230 OPERATING REVENUES 3,746,410 3,502,809 External purchases -1,671,745 -1,554,096 Payroll and related charges -676,480 -640,178 Other operating expenses -298,880 -299,105 Taxes and social security contributions -57,022 -54,985 Depreciation and amortization 2 -49,899 -57,485 Net charges to provisions 14 -549,100 -475,837 OPERATING EXPENSES -3,303,126 -3,081,686 NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE FINANCIAL ITEMS 443,284 421,123 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 22 61,854 44,284 NET INCOME FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAX 505,138 465,407 Non-recurring items 23 27,225 -936 Employee profit-sharing -108,219 -100,426 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Corporate income tax 24 -141,486 -104,766 NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 282,658 259,279 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 134 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT (EUR 000) 2012 2011 I NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 282,658 259,279 Elimination of gains and losses from disposals of non-current assets -308 -44 Elimination of investment grants added to net income 0 0 Net charges to and reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions 100,912 72,033 (excluding those relating to working capital) Net cash from operating activities before working capital changes 383,262 331,268 Change in inventories and work-in-progress (net) -54,914 -19,737 Change in advances and progress payments to suppliers 2,473 -18,540 Change in trade and other receivables (net) -21,140 20,249 Change in other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 71,448 -65,307 Change in customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 172,915 110,702 Change in trade payables 8,135 46,227 Change in other payables, accruals and deferred income 24,774 -23,455 Increase (-) or decrease (+) in working capital 203,691 50,139 Total I 586,953 381,407 II NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment -44,966 -36,395 Purchases of investments -5,848 -26,484 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Disposals of or reductions in fixed assets 6,926 2,533 Total II -43,888 -60,346 III NET CASH FLOW USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES Capital increase 0 0 Increase in equity items 0 0 Decrease in equity items 0 0 Increase in borrowings (1) 94,564 514,207 Repayments of borrowings (1) -486,642 -1,449,481 Dividends paid -86,070 -108,347 Total III -478,148 -1,043,621 CHANGE IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ( I + II +III) 64,917 -722,560 Opening net cash and cash equivalents (2) 2,462,531 3,185,091 Closing net cash and cash equivalents (2) 2,527,448 2,462,531 (1) In 2012, the Company repaid the loan taken out in 2011 with a credit establishment (cf. Note 15). (2) Cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balance sheet headings: [cash at bank and in hand] + [marketable securities and cash instruments] [bank facilities and bank balances in credit] dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 135 Company financial statements NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Borrowings GENERAL 16 Maturity of borrowings 1 Accounting policies 17 Other payables, accruals and deferred BALANCE SHEET income 2 Intangible assets and property, 18 Accrued expenses plant and equipment 2.1 Intangible assets 19 Notes on related companies and affiliates 2.2 Property, plant and equipment INCOME STATEMENT 3 Long-term investments 20 Net sales 4 Inventories and work-in-progress 21 Research and development costs 5 Interest on current assets 22 Net financial income/(expense) 6 Trade and other receivables 23 Non-recurring items 6.1 Details 6.2 Maturity of trade and other receivables ADDITIONAL INFORMATION gross value 7 Accrued income 24 Analysis of corporate income tax 8 Prepaid expenses and deferred 25 Off-balance sheet commitments RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. income 26 Secured payables and receivables 9 Difference in measurement of current assets 27 Contingent liabilities 10 Breakdown of share capital 28 Financial instruments: US dollar foreign exchange transaction portfolio 11 Identity of the consolidating parent company 29 Impact of exceptional tax assessments 12 Reserves 30 Deferred tax 12.1 Reserves 12.2 Revaluation reserves 31 Remuneration of company officers 13 Statement of changes in equity 32 Average number of employees 14 Provisions 33 Environmental information 14.1 Provisions 14.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses 34 Five-year summary dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 136 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY DASSAULT AVIATION 9, ROND-POINT DES CHAMPS-ÉLYSÉESB/ MEASUREMENT METHODS MARCEL DASSAULT75008 PARIS  B1 Intangible assets and property, plant and Société Anonyme (French limited liability equipment company) with share capital of EUR 81,007,176, listed and registered in France Intangible assets and property, plant and Registered with the Paris Trade Registry under the equipment are recognized at acquisition or number 712 042 456 production cost, less any accumulated depreciation or amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. As an exception to the rule, intangible Note 1 Accounting policies assets and property, plant and equipment acquired prior to December 31, 1976 were revalued. Interest expense is not capitalized. Each identified A/ GENERAL PRINCIPLES component of an intangible asset or item of property, plant and equipment is recognized and The financial statements of the Parent Company as depreciated or amortized separately. of December 31, 2012 were approved at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on March 13, Depreciation and amortization are calculated using 2013, and will be submitted for approval to the the straight-line method. No residual value is taken Annual General Meeting that will take place on May into account, except for aircraft. 15, 2013. Property, plant and equipment and intangible The individual financial statements have been assets are depreciated and amortized over their prepared in accordance with French Accounting estimated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at Standards Committee Regulation 99-03 approved by each year-end for material non-current assets. the decree of June 22, 1999 and subsequent notices Initial useful lives are extended or reduced and recommendations of the French Accounting depending on the conditions in which the asset is Standards Authority (ANC). used. The methods used to present the financial Useful lives are as follows: RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. statements are comparable year-on-year. Software 3-4 years The general accounting conventions have been Industrial buildings 25-30 years applied, in compliance with the principle of Office buildings 25-35 years prudence, and in line with the basic assumptions of: Fixtures and fittings 7-15 years continuity of operations, Plant, equipment 3-15 ans permanence of the accounting methods from and machinery one year to the next, Aircraft 4-10 years independence between years, Rolling stock 3-4 years Other property, plant and equipment 3-8 ans and in line with the general rules for the Second-hand goods on a case-by-case basis establishment and presentation of financial statements.  B2 Impairment of assets The individual financial statements have been At each year-end, the Company assesses whether prepared on a historical cost basis. there is an indication of impairment and carries out an impairment test if an indication of impairment has been detected. At each year-end, an impairment test is systematically carried out. Indications of impairment derive from significant dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 adverse changes of a permanent nature, affecting the economic environment or the assumptions or objectives adopted by the Company. 137 Company financial statements Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are impaired by the Company when their net Inventories and work-in-progress are impaired when carrying amount exceeds their present value. The their net realizable value is lower than their carrying amount of impairment recognized in income is equal amount. Net realizable value is the estimated selling to the difference between the net carrying amount price in the ordinary course of business less the and present value. estimated costs of completion and the estimated The present value of an asset is the higher of its fair costs necessary to make the sale. value (less costs to sell) and its value in use. B5 Receivables The value in use of an asset is calculated using the discounted future cash flow method, with a post-tax Receivables are stated at nominal value. A discount rate of 8.7% (compared to 8% as of provision for impairment is recorded when the 31.12.11) and a 2% growth rate (same as of recoverable value is lower than the carrying 31.12.11). The discount rate includes the rates amount. prevailing in the aviation industry and was calculated using the same method as in 2011. Post-tax cash  B6 Borrowings flows are projected over a period not exceeding 5 Borrowings are recorded at the amount received. years and the method takes into account a terminal Transaction costs are posted to expenses for the value. These future cash flows result from the year. forecast operating conditions determined by the Group's Executive Management. As far as the  B7 Statutory provisions interest of DASSAULT AVIATION in THALES is concerned, these cash flows are consistent with the These include: forecast data as provided by the THALES Management. provisions for investments, provisions for price increases,  B3 Equity investments, other investments and provisions for medium-term export credit marketable securities risk, RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. accelerated depreciation. The gross value of such assets is their purchase price excluding incidental costs, except in the case  B8 Provisions for contingencies and losses of assets subject to the 1976 legal revaluation. A provision for impairment is recorded when the book B8-1 Retirement severance payments and related value is lower than the gross value. The book value benefits is the higher of its market value and its value in use. Retirement severance payment and related benefit  B4 Inventories and work-in-progress (e.g., long-service award) commitments are provided in full. Provisions cover all employees and Incoming raw material, semi-finished and finished are estimated based on vested rights and a goods inventories are measured at acquisition cost projection of current salaries, after taking into for items purchased and production cost for items account mortality rates, employee turnover, and a produced. Outgoing inventories are measured at discounting assumption. weighted average cost, except for used aircraft Actuarial gains or losses or gains and losses which are stated at acquisition cost. analyzed as such are fully recognized in income in The work-in-progress is measured at production cost the period during which they are incurred. and does not include interest expense. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 138 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY B8-2 Other provisions for contingencies and losses  B11 Net sales and income In the course of its business, the Company grants its customers operating warranties on delivered Revenue from sales of goods is recognized when equipment. the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. This normally represents the transfer Contingency provisions are set aside to hedge the of ownership for the Company. portion of future expenses deemed probable to arise from these obligations. Services are recognized under the percentage of completion method according to the milestones set These provisions are calculated using technical data forth in contracts. or on a statistical basis. Income or loss is recognized at each stage of  B9 Foreign exchange hedging completion if it can be reliably measured. Losses on completion are recognized as soon as they are The Company uses derivative financial instruments to known. hedge against foreign exchange risks relating to its operations.  B12 Unrealized capital gains on marketable These risks mainly arise from US dollar denominated securities sales. The corresponding future cash flows are partially hedged by firm or optional forward Unrealized capital gains on marketable securities transactions. are not recognized in the income statement until effectively realized. Premiums paid or received on the purchase or sale of put options are recognized in the income statement Under Article 8 of the French Commercial Code, on maturity of these options, with the exception of the corporate income tax charge recorded in the those relating to zero premium hedging strategies, financial statements relates solely to reported which are recognized immediately in the income income. As such, the tax charge relating to statement to avoid temporary timing differences. unrealized gains on marketable securities is recorded within prepayments until recognition of RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository.  B10 Operations in foreign currencies the capital gains within financial income. This method, which constitutes a departure from Income statement items denominated in foreign the general principle of full recognition of deferred currencies are translated into euros at the exchange tax, has been adopted to provide a fairer rate prevailing at the date of payment or receipt, with presentation of the results of the Company. the exception of flows covered by hedging arrangements which are recorded at the hedge rate C/ TAX CONSOLIDATION for the year. Receivables and payables outstanding at the year-end With effect from January 1, 1999, DASSAULT are translated into euros at the closing rate of AVIATION 9 Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées exchange. Differences arising on the translation of Marcel Dassault 75008 PARIS, formed a tax opening balances at closing exchange rates are taken consolidation group pursuant to Article 223A et to balance sheet suspense accounts as follows: seq. of the French General Tax Code. unrealized translation losses to assets, This tax consolidation arrangement is tacitly unrealized translation gains to liabilities. A renewable by periods of five fiscal years. provision is recorded in respect of unrealized By agreement, it does not have an impact on losses. member company net income, as tax charges are Translation gains and losses arising on cash at borne by the tax group companies as if no such dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 bank and in hand as of December 31 are taken to election had been made. the income statement. 139 Company financial statements Note 2 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2.1 Intangible assets Additions Disposals (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Gross value Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 88,872 1,951 -1,297 700 90,226 Construction in progress; advances and 827 1,492 0 -700 1,619 progress payments 89,699 3,443 -1,297 0 91,845 Amortization Software, patents, licenses and similar assets -75,343 -6,936 1,295 0 -80,984 -75,343 -6,936 1,295 0 -80,984 Net value Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 13,529 9,242 Construction in progress; advances and 827 1,619 progress payments TOTAL 14,356 -3,493 -2 0 10,861 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 140 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY 2.2 Property, plant and equipment Additions Disposals (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Gross value Land 26,688 79 -11 65 26,821 Buildings 264,678 14,911 -1,281 4,476 282,784 Plant, equipment and machinery 480,135 15,865 -12,051 2,304 486,253 Other property, plant and equipment 178,529 3,953 -16,747 378 166,113 Construction in progress; advances and 9,342 6,715 -2,081 -7,223 6,753 progress payments 959,372 41,523 -32,171 0 968,724 Amortization Land -5,113 -454 11 0 -5,556 Buildings -163,575 -11,050 1,187 0 -173,438 Plant, equipment and machinery -408,253 -23,165 11,909 0 -419,509 Other property, plant and equipment -125,836 -8,294 13,006 0 -121,124 -702,777 -42,963 26,113 0 -719,627 Impairment (1) Other property, plant and equipment -1,770 0 1,770 0 0 -1,770 0 1,770 0 0 Net value Land 21,575 21,265 Buildings 101,103 109,346 Plant, equipment and machinery 71,882 66,744 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Other property, plant and equipment 50,923 44,989 Construction in progress; advances and 9,342 6,753 progress payments TOTAL 254,825 -1,440 -4,288 0 249,097 (1) Impairment tests of property, plant and equipment (cf. paragraph B2 of the Accounting policies):  A provision of EUR 1,770 thousand was recognized in 2011 for capitalized aircraft. This provision was written back on 31.12.2012.  The impairment tests carried out on other property, plant and equipment did not highlight any other impairment to be recognized as of 31.12.2012. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 141 Company financial statements Note 3 Long-term investments Additions Disposals (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Equity investments (1) 2,175,797 3,300 0 0 2,179,097 Other investment securities 5,894 0 0 0 5,894 Loans 2,459 376 -510 0 2,325 Other long-term investments 28,889 2,172 -48 0 31,013 TOTAL 2,213,039 5,848 -558 0 2,218,329 Provisions -2,154 0 2,000 0 -154 NET VALUE 2,210,885 5,848 1,442 0 2,218,175 (1) Market price of THALES shares and impairment test: Based on the market price of THALES shares at December 31, 2012 of EUR 26.24 per share, DASSAULT AVIATION’s investment in THALES is valued at EUR 1,378 million. The THALES investments have been subject to an impairment test. The value in use was estimated by forecasting future posttax cash flows over a four year period. These cash flows were then discounted at a post-tax rate of 8.5% (being the discount rate applied by THALES on 31.12.2012, identical to that on 31.12.2011). The final value was calculated based on mediumterm earnings assumptions in line with the THALES forecast data and taking into account a long-term growth rate of 2%. This impairment test did not result in the company recording any impairment. A 10% variable in the main assumptions adopted (discount rate, long-term growth rate, cash flow) does not affect the absence of impairment of the Company’s interest in THALES. Maturity of long-term investments RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Within 1 More than (EUR 000) Total year 1 year Loans 2,325 296 2,029 Other long-term investments 31,013 0 31,013 TOTAL 33,338 296 33,042 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 142 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 3 Long-term investments (cont'd) A. List of subsidiaries and affiliates whose gross value exceeds 1% of the Company’s share capital and in which the Company holds at least 10% of shares Carrying amount of shares Outstandi Net Dividends held ng loans income received Companies or groups Guarante Net sales of Equity other % and (+)/ loss by the Share es given the most of companies than share sharehold advances (-) of the Company capital by the recent fiscal (in EUR 000) capital ing Gross Net granted Company year most during by the recent the fiscal company fiscal year year 1. SUBSIDIARIES (more than 50% shareholding) a. French subsidiaries DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE 3,680 64,047 99.99 59,453 59,453 0 0 150,109 3,641 0 DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL 1,529 18,744 99.63 19,236 19,236 0 0 4,197 163 0 DASSAULTREASSURANCE 10,459 7,872 99.99 10,133 10,133 179 0 2,415 116 0 DASSAULT AVIATION PARTICIPATION 3,337 -28 100.00 3,337 3,337 0 0 0 -22 0 SOGITEC INDUSTRIES 4,578 109,508 99.74 25,355 25,355 0 0 103,694 14,014 0 Total 117,514 117,514 179 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries DASSAULT FALCON JET (1) 10,650 500,206 87.47 7,767 7,767 0 16,054 1,552,106 53,436 0 DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC 3,827 40,560 100.00 3,727 3,727 0 0 1,216 60 0 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (USA) DASSAULT PROCUREMENT 76 44,087 100.00 28,965 28,965 0 0 310,461 2,982 0 SERVICES INC (USA) Total 40,459 40,459 0 16,054 0 Total 157,973 157,973 179 16,054 0 SUBSIDIARIES 2. AFFILIATES (between 10 and 50% shareholding) a. French affiliates CORSE COMPOSITES AERONAUTIQUES 1,707 4,165 24.81 996 996 0 0 36,763 511 0 EUROTRADIA INTERNATIONAL (2) 3,000 31,627 16.20 3,099 3,099 0 0 59,264 1,554 248 THALES (3) 607,000 4,529,100 25.96 1,984,272 1,984,272 0 0 174,900 306,800 40,975 Total 1,988,367 1,988,367 0 0 41,223 b. Foreign affiliates Total 0 0 0 0 0 Total AFFILIATES 1,988,367 1,988,367 0 0 41,223 (1) This is a direct holding; the remaining 12.53% of the shares are held by Dassault International Inc. (United States), dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DASSAULT AVIATION. (2) 2011 fiscal year information (3) parent company financial statements 143 Company financial statements Note 3 Long-term investments (cont'd) B. Other subsidiaries and affiliates Carrying amount of shares Outstanding Dividends Guarantees General information held loans and received by the given advances Company (EUR 000) by the Gross Net granted by the during the Company company fiscal year 1. SUBSIDIARIES a. French subsidiaries 567 567 0 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries 0 0 0 0 0 Total 567 567 0 0 0 2. AFFILIATES a. French affiliates 5,913 5,913 0 0 555 b. Foreign affiliates 32,171 32,171 0 0 355 Total 38,084 38,084 0 0 910 C. General information on securities (A+B) Carrying amount of shares Outstanding Dividends Guarantees General information held loans and received by the given advances Company (EUR 000) by the Gross Net granted by the during the Company company fiscal year 1. SUBSIDIARIES a. French subsidiaries 118,081 118,081 179 0 0 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. b. Foreign subsidiaries 40,459 40,459 0 16,054 0 Total 158,540 158,540 179 16,054 0 2. AFFILIATES a. French affiliates 1,994,280 1,994,280 0 0 41,778 b. Foreign affiliates 32,171 32,171 0 0 355 Total 2,026,451 2,026,451 0 0 42,133 GRAND TOTAL 2,184,991 2,184,991 179 16,054 42,133 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 144 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 4 Inventories and work-in-progress 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Raw materials 177,725 -71,923 105,802 102,158 Work-in-progress 2,010,849 0 2,010,849 2,070,397 Semi-finished and finished goods 621,270 -191,529 429,741 318,923 TOTAL 2,809,844 -263,452 2,546,392 2,491,478 Note 5 Interest on current assets No interest is included in the balance sheet value of inventories and work-in-progress. Note 6 Trade and other receivables 6.1 Details 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Trade receivables Trade receivables 463,095 -78,013 385,082 363,942 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 463,095 -78,013 385,082 363,942 Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income Other receivables 101,632 0 101,632 166,628 Prepaid expenses 353,819 0 353,819 346,630 Prepayments and accrued income 6,027 0 6,027 19,668 461,478 0 461,478 532,926 TOTAL 924,573 -78,013 846,560 896,868 6.2 Maturity of trade and other receivables gross value 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Within 1 More than Within 1 More than 1 Total Total year 1 year year year Trade receivables (1) 463,095 330,804 132,291 454,588 279,288 175,300 Other receivables 101,632 101,632 0 166,628 166,628 0 Prepaid expenses 353,819 353,819 0 346,630 346,630 0 Prepayments and accrued 6,027 6,027 0 19,668 19,668 0 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 income TOTAL 924,573 792,282 132,291 987,514 812,214 175,300 (1) of which receivables and payables represented by commercial paper: EUR 78,635 thousand as of 31.12.2012 and EUR 117,062 thousand as of 31.12.2011 145 Company financial statements Note 7 Accrued income Accrued income is included in the following balance sheet accounts 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Trade receivables 151,187 177,876 Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 0 175 Marketable securities 345 0 Cash at bank and in hand 250 275 TOTAL 151,782 178,326 Note 8 Prepaid expenses and deferred income (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Operating income 70,315 74,815 Operating expenses (1) 353,819 346,630 (1) income tax on unrealized capital gains 346,351 339,502 Note 9 Difference in measurement of marketable securities MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND CASH INSTRUMENTS (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Book value 2,313,074 2,206,795 Market value 3,292,255 3,166,412 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 146 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 10 Breakdown of share capital Number Par value Share capital at the beginning of the year 10,125,897 EUR 8 Share capital at the end of the year 10,125,897 EUR 8 Note 11 Identity of the consolidating parent company % consolidation GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT (G.I.M.D) 9, Rond Point des Champs Élysées Marcel Dassault 50.55 % 75008 PARIS Note 12Reserves 12.1 Reserves (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Revaluation difference 4,305 4,305 Legal reserve 8,101 8,101 Other reserves 71,332 71,332 Retained earnings 2,748,992 2,575,783 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. TOTAL 2,832,730 2,659,521 12.2 Revaluation reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve (EUR 000) 2012 movements Decreases due to 31.12.2011 Other changes 31.12.2012 disposals Land 3,784 0 0 3,784 Equity investments 521 0 0 521 TOTAL 4,305 0 0 4,305 Revaluation reserve (1976) 4,305 0 0 4,305 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 147 Company financial statements Note 13 Statement of changes in equity 1/ INCOME FOR THE YEAR 2012 2011 ACCOUNTING INCOME EUR 000 282,658 259,279 In EUR per share 27.91 25.61 CHANGE IN EQUITY EXCLUDING NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR EUR 000 -26,941 890 In EUR per share -2.66 0.09 DIVIDENDS EUR 000 94,171 (1) 86,070 In EUR per share 9.30 (1) 8.50 (1) proposed at the Annual General Meeting 2/ STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY EXCLUDING INCOME FOR THE YEAR (EUR 000) Prior to After appropriation appropriation of 2011 net of 2011 net income as of income as of 31.12.2012 31.12.2012 A1. 2011 closing equity excluding net income for the year 3,063,497 3,063,497 2. 2011 net income prior to appropriation 259,279 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 3. Appropriation of 2011 net income to net equity by the AGM 173,209 4. 2012 opening equity 3,322,776 3,236,706 B Additional paid-in capital with retroactive effect to 2012 0 opening equity 1. Change in share capital 0 2. Change in other items 0 C (= A4 + B) 2012 opening equity 3,236,706 D Changes during the year excluding 2012 net income -26,941 1. Change in share capital 0 2. Change in additional paid-in capital, reserves 0 3. Change in equity provisions 0 4. Revaluation offsetting entries Reserve 0 5. Change in tax provisions and equipment grants -26,941 6. Other changes 0 E 2012 CLOSING EQUITY EXCLUDING 2012 NET INCOME PRIOR 3,209,765 TO THE AGM (= C + D) F TOTAL 2012 CHANGE IN EQUITY EXCLUDING 2012 NET -26,941 INCOME (= E C) 3/ FUTURE TAX PAYABLE (EUR 000) dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Statutory provisions excluding provisions for investments: 132,789 x 36.1 % = 47,937 148 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 14 Provisions 14.1 Provisions Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Tax provisions Investments 166,359 0 (3) -22,699 (3) 0 143,660 Price increases 52,722 11,434 (3) -7,999 (3) 0 56,157 Accelerated tax depreciation 78,493 11,732 (3) -17,788 (3) 0 72,437 Medium-term export credit 5,798 0 (3) -1,621 (3) 0 4,177 Capital gains rolled over 18 0 (3) 0 (3) 0 18 303,390 23,166 -50,107 0 276,449 Provisions for contingencies and losses Operating 1,039,252 207,635 (1) -112,270 (1) 0 1,134,617 Financial 19,668 6,027 (2) -19,668 (2) 0 6,027 Non-recurring 0 0 (3) 0 (3) 0 0 1,058,920 213,662 -131,938 0 1,140,644 Provisions for impairment and write-down Intangible assets 0 0 (1) 0 (1) 0 0 Property, plant and equipment 1,770 0 (1) -1,770 (1) 0 0 Financial 2,154 0 (2) -2,000 (2) 0 154 Inventories and work-in-progress 253,622 263,452 (1) -253,622 (1) 0 263,452 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Trade receivables 90,646 78,013 (1) -90,646 (1) 0 78,013 348,192 341,465 -348,038 0 341,619 TOTAL 1,710,502 578,293 -530,083 0 1,758,712 { Operating 549,100 (1) -458,308 (1) Provision increases and reversals { Financial 6,027 (2) -21,668 (2) and expense reclassifications { Non-recurring 23,166 (3) -50,107 (3) 578,293 -530,083 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 149 Company financial statements 14.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2011 Other 31.12.2012 Charges Reversals Operating Retirement severance payments and 307,000 78,500 -14,000 0 371,500 long-service awards (1) Warranties (2) 591,433 93,800 -70,833 0 614,400 Services and work to be performed 140,819 35,335 -27,437 0 148,717 1,039,252 207,635 -112,270 0 1,134,617 Financial Foreign exchange losses 19,668 6,027 -19,668 0 6,027 19,668 6,027 -19,668 0 6,027 Non-recurring Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR 1,058,920 213,662 -131,938 0 1,140,644 CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES (1) Provisions for retirement severance payments and long-service awards: Retirement severance payment and long service award commitments are calculated for all employees using the projected unit credit method and are accrued in full. Employment projections are weighted using French Insurance Code mortality rates and the DASSAULT AVIATION employee turnover rate (this may vary according to age). The obligation is estimated pro rata on the employee’s length of service at the period-end in relation to his total career expectancy. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. The calculation factors take into account a wage increase assumption of 3.9% per annum, a discount rate of 2.3% and an annual inflation rate of 2%. (2) Warranty provisions: warranty provisions are updated to reflect the fleet in service and contracts delivered. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 150 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 15 Borrowings (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Bank borrowings (1) 56 400,957 Other borrowings (2) 319,654 310,831 TOTAL 319,710 711,788 (1) Of which short-term bank credit: zero as of 31.12.2012 and as of 31.12.2011. In 2012, the Company repaid loans of EUR 400 million taken out in 2011 with a credit establishment. (2) On 31.12.2012 and on 31.12.2011, the other borrowings mainly include locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. There are no participating loans. Note 16 Maturity of borrowings Between 1 (EUR 000) Total Within 1 year After 5 years and 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 56 17 33 6 Other borrowings (2) 319,654 58,223 261,431 0 Trade payables (3) 457,306 457,306 0 0 Tax and employee-related liabilities 194,178 194,178 0 0 Amounts payable in respect of PP&E and related accounts 4,673 4,673 0 0 Other payables 111,216 111,216 0 0 TOTAL 1,087,083 825,613 261,464 6 (1) see Note 15 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. (2) see Note 15 (3) of which payables represented by commercial paper: EUR 47,499 thousand Note 17 Other payables, accruals and deferred income (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Tax and employee-related liabilities 194,178 167,529 Amounts payable in respect of PP&E and related accounts 4,673 3,630 Other payables 111,216 104,283 Deferred income 70,315 74,815 Accruals and deferred income 5,374 10,725 TOTAL 385,756 360,982 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 151 Company financial statements Note 18 Accrued expenses Accrued expenses are included in the following balance sheet accounts 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 (EUR 000) Borrowings (1) 6,448 7,955 Trade payables 376,153 363,554 Other payables, accruals and deferred income 234,260 214,494 TOTAL 616,861 586,003 (1) of which bank borrowings: zero as of 31.12.2012 and EUR 884 thousand as of 31.12.2011 Note 19 Notes on related companies and affiliates Notes on Companies in (EUR 000) Related which the undertakings Company holds an investment Investments 158,540 2,020,557 Loans and other long-term investments 30,234 0 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 25,541 25,761 Trade receivables 67,219 1,557 Miscellaneous receivables 180 0 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 356,043 15,294 Trade payables 80,787 33,280 Other miscellaneous payables 0 0 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Financial expenses 0 0 Note 20 – Net sales (EUR 000) 2012 2011 A) ANALYSIS BY CLASS OF GOODS OR SERVICES: Finished goods 2,644,563 2,454,760 Services 697,215 459,586 TOTAL 3,341,778 2,914,346 B) ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA: France 989,033 844,162 Export 2,352,745 2,070,184 TOTAL 3,341,778 2,914,346 C) ANALYSIS BY QUARTER: First quarter 881,388 578,095 Second quarter 750,706 643,095 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 Third quarter 502,646 632,063 Fourth quarter 1,207,038 1,061,093 TOTAL 3,341,778 2,914,346 152 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 21 Research and development costs Research and development costs are recognized in expenses as incurred and represent: (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Research and development costs -359,756 -277,734 The Company’s research and development strategy and initiatives are described in the directors’ report. Note 22 Net financial income/(expense) (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Investment income (1) 41,578 40,453 Income from other long-term loans and assets 611 574 Other interest and similar income 4,082 3,950 Reversals of provisions for Foreign exchange losses 19,668 0 Reversals of provisions for equity investments 2,000 2,600 Foreign exchange gains 0 0 Net gains on sale of marketable securities 12,416 42,666 FINANCIAL INCOME 80,355 90,243 Net charges to provisions for Foreign exchange losses -6,027 -19,668 Net charges to provisions for equity investments 0 -2,000 Net charges to provisions for loans 0 0 Interest and similar expenses -12,425 -23,776 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Foreign exchange losses -49 -515 Net losses on sale of marketable securities 0 0 TOTAL FINANCIAL EXPENSE -18,501 -45,959 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 61,854 44,284 (1) of which THALES dividends: EUR 40,975 thousand in 2012 and EUR 38,903 thousand in 2011 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 153 Company financial statements Note 23 – Non-recurring items (EUR 000) 2012 2011 Gains on sales of assets Property, plant and equipment 4,287 620 Long-term investments 0 0 4,287 620 Other non-recurring income 19 179 Reversals of provisions Investments 22,699 30,297 Price increases 7,999 5,419 Medium-term export credit 1,621 1,223 Accelerated tax depreciation 17,788 17,858 Capital gains rolled over 0 0 50,107 54,797 NON-RECURRING INCOME 54,413 55,596 Non-recurring expenses on operating activities 0 -6 Carrying amount of assets disposed: Intangible assets 0 0 Property, plant and equipment -3,979 -576 Long-term investments 0 0 -3,979 -576 Other non-recurring expenses -43 -263 Charges to tax provisions RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Investments 0 -37,693 Price increases -11,434 -6,564 Medium-term export credit 0 0 Accelerated tax depreciation -11,732 -11,430 -23,166 -55,687 Other non-recurring provisions 0 0 NON-RECURRING EXPENSES -27,188 -56,532 NON-RECURRING ITEMS 27,225 -936 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 154 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 24 Analysis of corporate income tax Long-term Income before Corporate Income after (EUR 000) capital gains tax income tax tax tax Net recurring income before tax 505,138 -176,102 0 329,036 Non-recurring items (including profit-sharing and -80,994 34,616 0 -46,378 incentive schemes) Accounting income 424,144 -141,486 0 282,658 -141,486 Note 25 Off-balance sheet financial commitments COMMITMENTS GIVEN (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Future payments to subcontractors or suppliers 1,979,886 1,987,374 Fixed asset orders 12,483 18,490 Guarantees given in respect of: subsidiaries 16,054 50,646 equity investments 0 0 other 0 0 TOTAL 2,008,423 2,056,510 COMMITMENTS RECEIVED (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Future billings to customers 7,219,300 8,045,200 Export insurance guarantees 59,449 89,965 Collateral (e.g. mortgages, pledges) 51,309 68,740 TOTAL 7,330,058 8,203,905 Note 26 Payables and receivables secured by bank guarantees (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 456,988 487,379 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 5,070 2,886 TOTAL 462,058 490,265 Note 27 Contingent liabilities In late 2002, a group of French manufacturers, including Dassault Aviation, was collectively issued with a request for arbitration from a common client claiming a sum which, according to the plaintiff, would amount to no less than USD 260 million, and for which the group of manufacturers may have joint obligation with regard to the plaintiff. This request related to the execution of old contracts implemented by these manufacturers. In the framework of an dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 agreement signed between the parties in June 2003, the plaintiff withdrew its action. In November 2012, the latter gave notification of a new request for arbitration based on similar grounds to to the 2002 action, for a total now amounting to EUR 226 million. The parties strongly contest this request and, to date, it has not been possible to evaluate the possible financial risk. Consequently, Dassault Aviation has not established a reserve. 155 Company financial statements Note 28 Financial instruments: US dollar foreign exchange transaction portfolio DASSAULT AVIATION is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through FALCON sales that are virtually all denominated in US dollars. The Company only incurs a portion of its expenditure in the same currency (mainly purchases). DASSAULT AVIATION is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk that it partially hedges using forward sales contracts and, where necessary, foreign exchange options. The financial instruments held by DASSAULT AVIATION are stated below at market value. Market values represent the equivalent in euros translated at closing dollar exchange rates of amounts payable or receivable in the event of liquidation of the entire portfolio. They do not reflect actual results realizable on maturity, as they do not take account of future price fluctuations. The portfolio market value is therefore provided for illustration only. In valuing the portfolio, the assumed hedging rate did not generate any losses on commercial transactions hedged. 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 MARKET VALUE USD 000 EUR 000 USD 000 EUR 000 Foreign exchange options 59,634 45,198 -20,340 -15,720 Futures 267,722 202,912 251,028 194,009 TOTAL 327,356 248,110 230,688 178,289 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Note 29 Impact of accelerated tax valuations (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Net income for the year 282,658 259,279 Corporate income tax charge 141,486 104,766 NET INCOME BEFORE TAX 424,144 364,045 Accelerated tax depreciation -6,056 -6,428 Provision for price increases 3,435 1,145 Provision for capital gains rolled over 0 0 Provision for medium-term export credit -1,621 -1,223 INCREASE IN TAX PROVISIONS -4,242 -6,506 NET INCOME EXCLUDING TAX VALUATIONS ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION (BEFORE TAX) 419,902 357,539 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 156 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 30 Increases and reductions in future tax charges (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Tax provisions: Price increases 56,157 52,722 Medium-term export credit 4,177 5,798 Accelerated tax depreciation 72,437 78,493 TOTAL 132,771 137,013 INCREASES IN FUTURE TAX CHARGES 47,930 49,462 Items not deductible in the current year: Employee profit-sharing 94,219 86,426 Retirement severance payments and long-service awards 371,500 307,000 Other partly non-deductible items (trade receivables, 491,001 443,054 inventories, warranties, other) TOTAL 956,720 836,480 REDUCTIONS IN FUTURE TAX CHARGES 345,376 301,969 Long-term capital losses 0 0 Note 31 Compensation of corporate officers Total compensation received by corporate officers, as broken down in the directors' report, amounted to EUR 1,024,036 for 2012. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Note 32 Average number of employees Company employees Seconded to the Company Engineers and management and executive grades 4,401 Supervisory and technical grades 2,023 Administrative employees 491 41 Production employees 1,182 153 TOTAL 2012 8,097 194 TOTAL 2011 8,059 131 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 157 Company financial statements Note 33 Environmental information DASSAULT AVIATION recognized environmental capital expenditure amounting to EUR 1,902 thousand and posted around EUR 851 thousand to 2012 expenses relating to risk, impact and regulatory compliance analyses. The Company did not need to recognize any environmental liabilities. Note 34 Five-year summary Nature of indications (EUR 000 except per share data 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in point 3 stated in EUR/share) 1/ FINANCIAL POSITION AT YEAR-END a. Share capital 81,007 81,007 81,007 81,007 81,007 b. Number of shares outstanding 10,125,897 10,125,897 10,125,897 10,125,897 10,125,897 2/ SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS a. Net sales 3,540,455 2,748,219 3,551,695 2,914,346 3,341,778 b. Income before tax, depreciation, amortization 857,547 473,545 769,467 409,810 522,253 and provisions c. Corporate income tax 184,009 63,335 167,441 104,766 141,486 d. Income after tax, depreciation, amortization 352,508 265,969 325,815 259,279 282,658 and provisions e. Dividends paid 58,730 89,108 108,347 86,070 94,171 (1) 3/ PER SHARE DATA (EUR) a. Income after tax, but before depreciation, 66.5 40.5 59.5 30.1 37.6 amortization and provisions b. Income after tax, depreciation, amortization 34.8 26.3 32.2 25.6 27.9 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. and provisions c. Dividends paid 5.8 8.8 10.7 8.5 9.3 (1) 4/ PERSONNEL a. Average number of employees during the year 8,349 8,362 8,138 8,059 8,097 b. Total payroll charges excluding taxes 422,353 415,659 414,240 417,578 430,604 c. Total payroll taxes and social security charges 214,547 208,945 221,369 222,600 245,876 5/ EMPLOYEE PROFIT-SHARING 122,203 86,712 106,451 86,426 94,219 6/ INCENTIVE PAYMENTS 14,000 14,000 14,000 14,000 14,000 (1) proposed to the Annual General Meeting dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 158 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In application of the provisions of Article L. 823-9 of the French Commercial Code, we have conducted Year ended December 31, 2012 our own assessments, which we bring to your attention. Dear Shareholders, Equity investments In accordance with our appointment as auditors by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to Note 1-B3 to the financial statements describes the you for the year ended December 31, 2012 on: evaluation principles chosen for equity investments, and Notes 1-B2 and 3 describe the estimations and the audit of the accompanying financial assumptions that your company is led to make statements of Dassault Aviation, concerning the valuation of the equity investment in the justification of our assessments, THALES and the methods of implementing the impairment test. the specific procedures and disclosures required by law. Our work consisted in assessing the data serving as the basis of determining the value in use of equity These financial statements have been approved by investments and in examining the data and the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an assumptions on which the THALES investment opinion on these financial statements, based on our impairment test, along with the methods of its audit. implementation, is based. OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL Provisions for contingencies and losses STATEMENTS Our work consisted in particular in assessing the We conducted our audit in accordance with data and assumptions used to determine the professional standards applicable in France. These estimated provisions for contingencies and losses, as RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. standards require that we plan and perform the described in Note 1-B8 and in Note 14 to the annual audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual statements, reviewing the calculations performed by financial statements are free of material the Company, comparing the accounting estimates misstatement. An audit includes examining, using of previous periods with the corresponding results sample testing techniques or other selection and examining the procedures adopted by methods, evidence supporting the amounts and Management to approve such estimates. On this disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also basis, we assessed the reasonableness of these includes assessing the accounting principles used estimates. and significant estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 2012 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting regulations. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 159 Company financial statements Multi-annual agreements For multi-annual contracts, the Company’s income We have no comment to make as to the fair relating to service provisions is calculated according presentation and consistency with the financial to the completion method. On the basis of data statements of the information given in the Directors’ available to date, our work consisted in assessing Report and in the documents addressed to the data and the assumptions drawn up by shareholders with respect to the financial position Management and on which they based their and the financial statements. estimates of the profit/loss on completion of those As regards the information provided, pursuant to contracts and their trends, reviewing the calculations Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code, made, comparing the estimates made in previous regarding the compensation and benefits paid to years with the actual profits and losses. corporate officers and any commitments undertaken These assessments were made as part of our audit in their favor, we have verified the consistency of approach for the financial statements taken as a this information with the financial statements and whole and contributed to our opinion as expressed with the data used in drawing up the financial in the first part of this report. statements and, where applicable, the data obtained by the Company from the companies controlling the SPECIFIC PROCEDURES AND Company or which the Company controls. On the DISCLOSURES basis of this work, we hereby certify the accuracy and fairness of this information. We have also performed the other specific Pursuant to the law, we have verified that the procedures required by law, in accordance with Directors’ Report contains the appropriate professional standards applicable in France. disclosures relating to the identity of shareholders and holders of voting rights. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, Wednesday, March 13, 2013 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. The Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Dominique Jumaucourt dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 160 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY AUDITORS’ REPORT PREPARED IN Information concerning internal control and ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L.225risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and 235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL accounting information CODE ON THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF Professional standards require that we implement DIRECTORS procedures in order to obtain reasonable assurance that information concerning the internal Year ended December 31, 2012 control and risk management procedures for the preparation and processing of financial and Dear Shareholders, accounting information, as set out in the report of the Chairman, is free of material misstatement. In our capacity as auditors of Dassault Aviation, These procedures consist in particular in: and in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the taking note of the internal control and risk French Commercial Code, we hereby report to you management procedures for the preparation on the report prepared by the Chairman of your and processing of financial and accounting Company in accordance with Article L.225-37 of information underlying the information the French Commercial Code for the year ended presented in the Chairman's report, and of the December 31, 2012. existing documentation; taking note of the work involved in preparing It is the responsibility of the Chairman to prepare this information and the existing and submit for the approval of the Board of documentation; Directors a report on the internal control and risk determining whether the major internal management procedures implemented in the control deficiencies relating to the preparation Company containing the other information and processing of financial and accounting required by Article L. 225-37 of the French information that we identified during our Commercial Code, relating in particular to assignment are appropriately disclosed in the corporate governance. RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Chairman’s report. It is our responsibility to: On the basis of our work, we have no comment to make on the information concerning the internal communicate to you our observations on the control and risk management procedures for the information contained in the Chairman's report preparation and processing of financial and concerning the internal control and risk accounting information, set out in the report of management procedures for the preparation the Chairman of the Board of Directors, prepared and processing of financial and accounting in accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French information, and Commercial Code. to certify that the report contains the other information required by Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, while specifying that it is not incumbent upon us to check the sincerity of this other information. We have carried out this work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 161 Company financial statements Other information We certify that the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors contains the other information required under Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 13, 2013 The Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Dominique Jumaucourt RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 162 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON RELATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND SUBMITTED FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE COMMITMENTS AGM Transactions and commitments authorized Year ended December 31, 2012 over the past fiscal year We can inform you that we have received no Dear Shareholders, information of any transaction or commitment authorized in the course of the past fiscal year to In accordance with our appointment as Auditors of be submitted to the AGM in application of the the Company, we hereby report on related-party provisions of Article L.225-38 of the French transactions and commitments. Commercial Code. The terms of our engagement require us to TRANSACTIONS AND COMMITMENTS communicate to you, based on information provided to us, the principal terms and conditions ALREADY APPROVED BY THE AGM of those transactions and commitments brought to our attention, or which have come to our attention Transactions and commitments approved in in the course of our work, without having to previous years with continuing effect over express an opinion on their usefulness and the past fiscal year appropriateness, or to seek the existence of other In application of Article R.225-30 of the French transactions and commitments. It is your Commercial Code, we have been informed that the responsibility, pursuant to Article R.225-31 of the following transactions and commitments, already French Commercial Code, to assess the interest approved by the AGM in previous years, have had involved in respect of the conclusion of these continuing effect during the past fiscal year. transactions and commitments for the purpose of approving them. WITH THE COMPANY GROUPE INDUSTRIEL RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Furthermore, it is our responsibility, where MARCEL DASSAULT (GIMD), MAJORITY appropriate, to communicate to you the SHAREHOLDER OF DASSAULT AVIATION information laid down in Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the execution, DASSAULT AVIATION has continued to rent from over the course of the past fiscal year, of the GIMD a number of premises, plots of land and transactions and commitments already approved industrial installations under leases that replaced, by the AGM. with effect from January 1st, 2009, those signed in 2008. We conducted our procedures in accordance with professional standards recommended by the Rent paid to GIMD during fiscal year 2012 totaled National Accountants Order and applicable in EUR 33,449,330.11 excluding VAT. A supplemental France. Those standards require that we check the guarantee deposit of EUR 1,936,192.55 was also concordance of the information provided to us with paid to GIMD in fiscal year 2012. the relevant source documents. The director concerned is: Serge DASSAULT, who is also Chairman of GIMD. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 163 Company financial statements WITH THE COMPANY DASSAULT FALCON JET WITH ALL THE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE (USA), 100% SUBSIDIARY OF DASSAULT OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY AND ITS AVIATION SUBSIDIARIES: At the request of DASSAULT FALCON JET, A Directors and Corporate Officers Liability DASSAULT AVIATION undertook to refund insurance policy was taken out with AXA GLOBAL amounts paid on account by DASSAULT FALCON RISKS, now called AXA CORPORATE SOLUTIONS, JET customers, should DASSAULT FALCON JET fail with effect from July 1st, 1999. to meet its contractual obligations. These guarantees remain in force until delivery of the This policy, renewed on January 1st, 2012, covers aircraft ordered. all directors and corporate officers of the company and its subsidiaries up to an annual limit of As of December 31, 2012, the guarantees indemnity of EUR 25 million. amounted to EUR 16,053,509.17. The annual insurance premium amounted to The directors concerned are: Serge DASSAULT and EUR 102,203.30 incl. VAT in 2012. Charles EDELSTENNE, who are also directors of DASSAULT FALCON JET. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 13, 2013 The Auditors RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Dominique Jumaucourt dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 164 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. ORDINARY ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING, MAY 15, 2013 dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. 166 Resolutions ORDINARY ANNUAL GENERAL Third resolution MEETING OF MAY 15, 2013 DRAFT Auditors’ Report on related-party RESOLUTIONS transactions The shareholders, acting in accordance with the First resolution rules as to quorum and majority applicable to ordinary general meetings, and having taken due Approval of the 2012 annual financial note of the Auditors' Report on related-party statements transactions, governed by Articles L.225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, acknowledge this The shareholders, acting in accordance with the report. rules as to quorum and majority applicable to ordinary general meetings, having taken due note Fourth resolution of the report of the Board of Directors, of the Chairman's report governed by section 6 of Article Discharge of Directors from liability L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, the Auditors’ Report and their own report, as governed The shareholders, acting in accordance with the by section 5 of Article L. 225-235 of the French rules as to quorum and majority applicable to Commercial Code hereby approve, in full and ordinary general meetings, hereby discharge the without reservation, the financial statements for Directors, fully and finally, from any liability arising the year ended December 31, 2012 as presented from their management of the Company during the and showing a net income of EUR 282,657,751.55, year ended December 31, 2012. together with all transactions presented therein or summarized in these reports. Fifth resolution Second resolution Appropriation and distribution of the net income of the Parent Company Approval of the 2012 consolidated financial RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. statements The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to The shareholders, acting in accordance with the ordinary general meetings, hereby decide, in rules as to quorum and majority applicable to accordance with the proposal of the Board of ordinary general meetings, having taken due note Directors, that 2012 net income for the year of that the report on Group activities is included in EUR 282,657,751.55 plus retained earnings of the Directors’ Report and having read the Auditors’ EUR 2,748,991,722.57, for a total of Report on the consolidated financial statements, EUR 3,031,649,474.12 be appropriated as follows: hereby approve, in full and without reservation, the consolidated financial statements for the year  dividend distribution of: ended December 31, 2012 as presented and EUR 94,170,842.10, showing consolidated net income before minority interests of EUR 509,878 thousand (including  with the remaining balance to retained EUR 509,834 thousand attributable to the owners earnings: of the Parent Company), together with all EUR 2,937,478,632.02 transactions presented therein or summarized in these reports. As a result of the above appropriation, a dividend per share of EUR 9.30 shall be distributed. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 167 Resolutions For individuals taxable in France, this dividend Sixth resolution shall be liable for a flat-rate withholding of 21% upon payment, and the following year for a Ratification of the appointment of a new progressive scale after the 40% allowance. This Director dividend shall also give rise to social security contributions deducted at source. The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to The dividend shall fall due for payment in euros on ordinary general meetings, ratifies the cooptation May 23, 2013, and be paid directly for registered of Éric TRAPPIER as Director, to replace Philippe shares, and via authorized intermediaries for HUSTACHE, that is until the end of the Annual administrated or bearer shares. General Meeting held to adopt the financial statements for the year ended December 31, Net dividends per share distributed in respect of 2014. the last three years and the corresponding tax credits or allowances are as follows: Seventh resolution Net dividend Fiscal Tax allowance Powers to execute formalities distributed (in year (1) euros) The shareholders, acting in accordance with the 2009 8.80 40% rules as to quorum and majority applicable to 2010 10.70 40% ordinary general meetings, hereby confer full powers on the bearer of copies of or extracts from 2011 8.50 40% the minutes of this meeting in order to comply with all legal, publication or other formalities. (1) allowance for individuals RELEASED document issued from Dassault Aviation repository. dassaultaviation_ra2012_VA_9-04-13 168 Publisher Dassault Aviation External Relations & Corporate Communication Department 78, quai Marcel-Dassault Cedex 300 92552 Saint-Cloud Cedex France Design and production Agence Marc Praquin 5, rue du Coq Héron 75001 Paris France Printing April 2013 Imprimerie TAAG Parc d’activité des radars 91350 Grigny France Photo credits Cover: montage by Agence Marc Praquin (original photos: Rafale © Dassault Aviation – A. Février, nEUROn © Dassault Aviation R. Michelin, Falcon © Dassault Aviation – A. Ernoult) p.2, 4, 7 top, 11 bottom, 15 top, 19 top, 20: © Dassault Aviation A. Février p.7 bottom: © Dassault Aviation P. Dhaud p.8 top: © Dassault Aviation V. Almansa p.8 bottom, 19 bottom, 23 bottom: © Dassault Aviation S. Randé p.11 top: © ONERA p.12 top: © Solar Impulse – Jean Revillard p.12 bottom: © Dassault Aviation Ph. Stroppa p.15 bottom: © POTEZ – Luc Hautecœur p.16 top: © Dassault Aviation – Pierto.net p.16 bottom: © Dassault Aviation E. de Malglaive p.23 top: © Dassault Aviation – W. Buch p.24-25: montage by Agence Marc Praquin (original photos: Rafale © French Air Force Th. Labataille, nEUROn © Dassault Aviation A. Paringaux, Falcon © Dassault Aviation P. Bowen) p.26-27: profiles aircraft © F. Fischer/Zephyr Éditions p.26: © Dassault Aviation K. Tokunaga p.27 bottom: © Dassault Aviation p.28-29: profiles aircraft © F. Fischer/Zephyr Éditions p.28: © Alex Paringaux p.29 bottom: © Dassault Aviation A. Paringaux Rafale ® is a trademark of Dassault Aviation Mirage ® is a trademark of Dassault Aviation nEUROn ® is a trademark of Dassault Aviation Falcon ® is a trademark of Dassault Aviation and Dassault Falcon Jet On-line consultation You may consult this annual report on-line in HTML format: www.dassault-aviation.com, “Finance” tab, then “Publications”. Financial analysts may extract data in PDF format. BV/COC/915713 sources mixtes recyclées This brochure is printed on 100% recyclable and biodegradable coated paper made from bleached ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp in a European factory certified ISO 9001 (for quality management), ISO 14001 (for environmental management), CoC PEFC (for the use of paper from sustainably managed forests) and EMAS accredited (for environmental performance). Headquarters: 9, rond-point des Champs-ÉlyséesMarcel Dassault 75008 Paris France Tel.: +33 (0)1 53 76 93 00 Fax: +33 (0)1 53 76 93 20 Paris Trade Registry Number: 712 042 456 www.dassault-aviation.com ETHICAL CHARTER A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO HIGHER TOGETHER Founded almost a century ago, the Dassault Aviation Group is now one of the world’s major players in civil and military aeronautics. Renowned for its technical and industrial expertise, buttressed by employees who are passionate about what they do, offering outstanding products, innovative processes and working in synergy with its partners, the Group looks to the future with confidence. The Dassault Aviation Group also nurtures and projects a clear identity, strong values and strict ethical principles. Since 2001, the Group has stated these principles in this very document, its Ethical Charter. The Charter comprises two sections. The first section is entitled “Our values” and describes our five main guiding principles. The second section is called “Our code of conduct” which pragmatically illustrates daily conduct flowing from these values. The Ethical Charter aims to rally the men and women in our Group around these values and is intended to inspire their actions and convey Dassault Aviation’s image to our customers, partners and suppliers. This Charter represents a collective commitment which will come into its own as long as everyone is on board. Higher together! Éric Trappier Ethical charter | 1 CUSTOMER SPIRIT Satisfying the customer is both our philosophy and our guideline: • being a good listener, understanding his/her needs, acting in a manner which efficiently serves him/her; keeping our word; • offering excellent technical performance, confidentiality when needed and customized follow-up while optimizing the control of business expenses and response times. OUR VALUES 2 | Dassault Aviation HUMAN ECONOMIC QUALITIES PERFORMANCE People are the heart of our Group. We We regard creating value as an essential promote team spirit, the sharing of goal: it guarantees our profitability, our knowledge and know-how, creative initiative, financial stability, and our long-term future. and respect for ethics. In a context of intense international We favor united action at all levels, competition, we must be flexible, adaptable, mutual respect, the search for professional and responsive in dealings with our self-realization, and, from a human customers, our suppliers, and our partners. perspective, the feeling of being part of a successful, innovative business enterprise. TECHNOLOGICAL OPENNESS EXCELLENCE TO THE WORLD AND INNOVATION To reach these goals, we are engaged in sustained programs of scientific, technological, This is our Group’s spirit, passion, history, technical, and industrial cooperation and motto. in France, the U.S. and abroad, in a spirit We ensure the quality, reliability, and safety of partnership. of our aircraft through a dynamic of We are active in national and international constant innovation combined with our aviation and defense organizations. project management capability and Our internal and external communication our mastery of complex systems. We take is open and transparent. constant care of controlling and reducing the environmental signature of our activities and products. Ethical charter | 3 OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct translates the 5 professional and ethical values expressed bythe Dassault Aviation Group into pragmatic and operational terms. Its purpose is to unite the Group’s personnel around these principles. The code of conduct is both a collective commitment and an individual imperative. It does not substitute for the national and international legislation in force. It is not a contractual document, but an ethical commitment which must be known and applied by all. It focuses on 5 key values. 4 | Dassault Aviation CUSTOMER SPIRIT The Dassault Aviation Group Respecting the customer also builds long-standing relationships means that the Dassault Aviation with customers based on trust Group acts in conformity with the national and international laws and honesty. which are in force. We will comply Satisfying the customer is the priority scrupulously with the commercial of all. ethics and principles of the OECD convention of December 17th, 1997, This presupposes: which has been ratified by France • listening attentively to his/her and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt needs and requirements in Practices Act of 1977, both of which, order to foster a business relain particular, prohibit offering tionship which is precise, apor granting any undue benefits, propriate, and customized; directly or indirectly, to any • keeping promises made concergovernment employee, in ning delivery times, cost, quality, exchange for acting, or refraining performance, specifications, reto act, in the performance of his liability, and confidentiality; duties or mandate, so as to favor • personalized follow-up to ensure the Dassault Aviation Group. satisfactory performance of the aircraft, and its systems, and our The Dassault Aviation Group also services. complies with applicable export control rules. The commercial relations of our employees and agents with customers must be grounded on the principles of integrity, professionalism, and the interest of the Group. Any actions directed at a customer – invitations, entertainment, travel, and gifts – must remain appropriate in nature and within accepted limits, in both amount and frequency. Ethical charter | 5 HUMAN QUALITIES The continued successful growth The Group is deeply concerned of the Dassault Aviation Group with enforcement of human rights is based on the quality and and fair labor practices; it gives commitment of the men and women special care to the implementation who make it up. They are its of essential principles such as: main asset. • working in a spirit of truth; • freedom from discrimination Accordingly the Group strives based on national origin, lifestyle, to maintain harmonious human marital status, sex, race, physical relations: handicaps, political or religious beliefs, or union membership; • by favoring professional self• respecting the individual and realization, initiative, and creatihis/her private life; vity; • maintaining a professional • by practicing an open and work environment and working constructive dialogue based conditions; on trust, mutual respect, • he availability of vocational and information about objectives training and the prevention of and challenges; health and occupational risks. • by encouraging team spirit, which entails solidarity, willingness to The personnel of the Dassault help, exchanges of experience, Aviation Group owe the Group the sharing of knowledge and undivided loyalty. It is, for example, the transmission of know-how. prohibited to work, without the Group’s express permission, for an actual or potential competitor. 6 | Dassault Aviation TECHNOLOGICAL EXCELLENCE AND INNOVATION The technical and technological The Group’s assets must be excellence of the Dassault Aviation preserved – both material assets Group’s aircraft is one of the pillars like buildings and equipment of its national and international and such intangibles as patents, reputation. manufacturing secrets, customer lists and software. Each employee This excellence is founded must see to it that there is no on a constant concern for quality, illicit or fraudulent use thereof for anticipating needs, for and take all necessary measures innovation, creativity, and the to prevent theft, sabotage, development of effective and espionage, and piracy. reliable new products and services. In connection with his/her duties Throughout its search for new our employees may be required materials and processes, the Group to handle or possess information takes the environmental aspects of a confidential or privileged into account. It is committed character concerning our customers to actively protect the environment or the Group or other information during the whole aircraft lifecycle, which has a national, international, right from the design stage. industrial, or commercial character or other value. He/she must be When conducting research and prudent, discreet, and honest with development, the Group is mindful such data at all times. of the environmental impact of new processes and materials which may be adopted for industrial use. The Group must always encourage the taste for challenge, favor professional commitment, responsiveness, and the transmission of the experience and know-how of its engineers, managers, technicians, skilled workers, and employees. Ethical charter | 7 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE In the context of keen international Economic performance is also competition and the globalization relevant to dealings with suppliers. of the worldwide economy, the The Group works consistently sustained growth of the Dassault to promote competition between Aviation Group requires a rational, suppliers. flexible and responsive organization, effective operating methods, and The selection criteria applied a sound financial policy. for suppliers are comparative in nature and are based on Creating value is a prime duty: it performance, cost, delivery time, ensures the Group’s independence quality, and reliability. and longterm future; it helps enable continuous improvements The Group maintains relations to our product line and more of mutual cooperation and efficient processes and cost savings. fair treatment with its suppliers; these relations are based on The Group provides true and reciprocal square dealing and the accurate information to its mutual meeting of commitments. shareholders and to the financial markets, in a sustained policy The Group’s employees owe of transparency. it loyalty. This includes not requesting or accepting gifts All of the Group’s personnel must or benefits which exceed take care, when in possession of standard business practice privileged information, concerning or which might influence the Group’s situation or plans, the employee’s behavior. Offers not to use it or disclose it illicitly, of travel, junkets, and participation particularly when it has not in non-professional events must yet been made known to the be declined. As a general rule, marketplace. a conflict between one’s own personal or financial interest, whether direct or indirect, and the group’s interests must be avoided. 8 | Dassault Aviation OPENNESS TO THE WORLD As information becomes more As a corporate citizen, it maintains global in nature, the Dassault the strictest political, religious, and Aviation Group has acquired philosophical neutrality; it does not means of communication, internal finance political parties, elected and external, that favor constructive officials, or candidates unless dialogue, trust, and transparency. such activities fully comply with existing laws. The Group is open to the scientific and academic community and In the business world, it takes participates in occupational training care to act in conformity with and professional education, laws, regulations, and established in research and development, practices, in a spirit of integrity, and in international exchanges ethics, and professionalism. of knowledge, techniques, and know-how. The Group does care about the impact of its activities on the citizen’s community, as well as the good implementation of fundamental principles of environment protection and respect. It has therefore voluntarily committed itself, since the year 2000, towards the ISO 14001 certification of all its production units. © photos: A.Février – Design and production: Agence Marc Praquin Dassault Aviation – 2013 78, quai Marcel Dassault – cedex 300 – 92552 Saint-Cloud France Tel.: + 33 (0)1 47 11 40 00 www.dassault-aviation.com
