Process – Analytics Technology GENPACT United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2013 Note of Thanks Genpact would like to thank each and every individual who has helped formulate this report A special thanks to Sanjay Bhatia –Senior Manager, Global CSR and Sona Saptarshi-EHS Leader who worked boundary-lessly to give this report its final shape. Thanks to Susmita Malik, head of Corporate Social Responsibility, Vidya Srinivasan, head of Global Infrastructure and logistics, Shyamashis Brahma, head of Projects and Environment Health and Safety, Diana Lurie Boersma, head of Compliance, Nandini Kochar head of media reporting, the entire Engineering, Logistics, Travel, IT, Audit and the Communication team under whose guidance this report was structured and formulated. Last but not the least our employee volunteers without whom we could not have received accurate data and vendor employee who directly or indirectly contributed to make our sustainability vision and report a success. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT AND COMMITMENT 4 OUR HISTORY 5 OUR COMPANY AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 5 LOCATIONS OF GENPACT 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 7 GENPACT BOARD 8 RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK 9 HUMAN RIGHTS PRACTICES 10 BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION 12 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 25 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES 37 CEO Statement “We at Genpact are proud of adhering to the UNGC principles and are continuously working towards their adherence.” Genpact is committed to the mission and values of the United Nations Global Compact and its agenda on human rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. As an organization, we are constantly striving to build stronger communities in places we live and work through our corporate citizenship programs, environmental health and safety standards and Green Initiatives. And, binding all these initiatives together is a set of values built on unyielding integrity. At the workplace Genpact adheres to the ISO 14001:-2004 and OHSAS 18001-2007 Environmental, Health and Safety norms which ensure Environmental Management and Health and Safety of more than 60,000+ employees in 18 countries around the world. Through our corporate citizenship program we have initiatives aimed at increasing education & employability, healthcare, environment and inclusion, applying our distinctive strengths to maximize social and environmental value. Genpact is also a pioneer signatory of the World Economic Forum's Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), which supports a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and the development of a practical and effective implementation program which aims to raise business standards and contribute to the goals of good governance and economic development. We at Genpact are proud of adhering to the UNGC principles and are continuously working towards their adherence. Our History Genpact has a unique heritage, which has contributed to our deep understanding of business processes. We began in 1997 as a business unit within GE, building the company from the ground up. Our charter was to provide business process services to GE’s businesses, with the goal of enabling outstanding efficiencies. During the eight years that followed, we earned the opportunity to manage a wide range of processes from the simple to the complex, operating across GE’s financial-services and manufacturing businesses. In January 2005, we became an independent company bringing our process expertise and unique DNA in Lean Six Sigma to clients outside the GE family. Our new name, Genpact, conveys the business impact we generate for our clients. In August 2007, Genpact was listed on the NYSE under the symbol ‘G’. Since then we have grown rapidly, expanding our range of services and diversifying our client base. About Genpact Genpact Limited (NYSE: G), a global leader in business process and technology management services, leverages the power of smarter processes, smarter analytics and smarter technology to help its clients drive intelligence across the enterprise. Genpact’s Smart Enterprise Processes (SEPSM) framework, its unique science of process combined with deep domain expertise in multiple industry verticals, leads to superior business outcomes. Genpact’s Smart Decision Services deliver valuable business insights to its clients through targeted analytics, reengineering expertise, and advanced risk management. Making technology more intelligent by embedding it with process and data insights, Genpact also offers a wide range of technology services. Driven by a passion for process innovation and operational excellence built on its Lean and Six Sigma DNA and the legacy of serving GE for more than 15 years, the company’s 60,000+ professionals around the globe deliver services to its more than 700 clients from a network of 70+ delivery centers across 18 countries supporting more than 30 languages. For more information, visit www.genpact.com. Financial Performance Financial performance ($ million, except per share amounts) CAGR 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (%) Total Revenues 613 823 1,041 1,120 1,259 1,600 1,902 20.77% GE 453 481 490 451 479 484 497 1.55% Global Clients 160 342 551 669 780 1,117 43.64% 1,405 Gross Profit 244 340 422 447 470 596 744 20.42% Margin % 39.80% 41.30% 40.50% 39.90% 37.40% 37.20% 39.12% Income from Operations 45 89 134 162 178 216 264 34.30% Adjusted Income from 97 134 178 199 204 265 313 21.56% Operations Margin % 15.80% 16.30% 17.10% 17.80% 16.20% 16.50% 16.46% 0.68% Diluted earnings per share -0.15 0.12 0.57 0.58 0.63 0.81 0.78 Diluted adjusted earnings 0.44 0.5 0.76 0.73 0.74 0.98 0.96 13.89% per share Net cash provided by 37 150 211 158 163 267 311 42.59% operating activities Capital expenditure 79 66 69 64 49 47 78 -0.21% As % of revenues 12.90% 8.00% 6.60% 5.70% 3.90% 2.90% 4.10% Locations of Genpact 18 Countries* | 30 Languages | 60,000+ Employees Corporate Governance We believe that good corporate governance is critical to our success. We adhere to the highest levels of ethical business practices, as embodied by our Code of Conduct, which provides guidelines for ethical conduct by our directors, officers and employees Commitment Statement by the President & CEO in which he states. “At Genpact, we believe that integrity, compliance and controllership are nonnegotiable. This culture is driven relentlessly across the organization, and is reinforced repeatedly with our employees. We adhere to the highest levels of ethical business practices as articulated by our Code of Conduct.”For more detail follow this link: http://media.corporateir.net/media_files/irol/20/209334/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidelines.pdf Strong, Active and Independent Board Genpact Board * 10 of 11 Directors Independent Risk Assessment Framework Rigorous Internal Controls We have an independent audit function that reports directly to our Audit Committee and the Chief Internal Auditor has direct link to senior management including our CEO & the independent auditor. A formal board charter is reviewed and approved annually by the Audit Committee. The internal audit team reviews and reports on internal controls within the organization. Process, financial, and compliance risks identified through risk assessments annually are reviewed by the management followed by adopting an adequate audit plan, with the approval of the Audit Committee, to address potential risks. Members of the internal audit team are rotated every 18-24 months to ensure independence. External auditors are invited to conduct audits involving complex areas. Code of Conduct Genpact is united on a foundation of unyielding integrity. Our customers rely on our integrity when they entrust their business to us. Genpact expects that each and e v e r y employee needs to exemplify this essential value every day in everything we do in order to maintain this trust. Genpact communicates our expectations through our Code of Conduct, Integrity@Genpact, through regular training on the policies it outlines, and via communications from every level of leadership that business results are never more important than ethical conduct, compliance with law and compliance with Genpact policies. In order to illustrate the importance Genpact places on compliance, Genpact shares with employees instances where employees or vendors have fallen short of these values, as well as the actions Genpact is taking to ensure that Genpact’s foundation of integrity remains strong. Human Rights Practices One of Genpact’s core policies is that we grow when our people grow, and that such growth is ensured through strong Fair Employment Practices. Genpact works hard to provide its employees with a workplace free of harassment, and requires that all decisions relating to employment be made on the basis of merit, which protects the rights of minorities and all protected classes of people. In the event that an employee believes that any of these policies have been violated, the employee has recourse to Genpact’s Human Resources Group and the members of its Legal Group as well as network of independent ombudspersons who report, through Genpact’s Global Compliance Leader, to our Audit Committee. Employees may report concerns anonymously through an email hotline or, in many of our larger locations, to an Ombuds box. Genpact’s Fair Employment Practices & Right of Collective Bargaining Genpact is committed to Fair Employment Practices. An essential cornerstone of these practices is the requirement that all employment decisions be made on merit. Genpact is committed to observing all applicable labor and employment laws wherever it operates. That includes observing those laws that pertain to privacy, the prohibition of forced, compulsory and child labor, and those laws that pertain to the elimination of any improper employment discrimination. Genpact recognizes that employees have freedom of association, and follows the employment laws of all countries in which it does business. In many countries, local law guarantees collective bargaining. In most of the countries in which it operates, however, Genpact is not a union based environment. Irrespective of the country, we observe the following globally: Genpact does not tolerate nepotism or adverse bias. Merit, qualifications (for example, education, experience, or skill sets) and other job-related criteria are the sole basis for all employment related decisions affecting employees and applicants. No allowances are given to any discriminatory practices regardless of what cultural practices may persist in the wider society. Genpact’s goal is to maintain a congenial and productive working environment conducive for all. Discrimination Genpact’s Fair Employment Practices policy requires that all employment related decisions be based on merit. Genpact prohibits basing any employment decisions on r a c e , color, religion, sex, caste, sexual orientation, national or regional origin, or any other characteristic protected by law. For example, it would violate Genpact policy to deny someone a promotion because of age, or to avoid sharing important work-related information with a co-worker because of religion. Genpact's Policy is to use merit, qualifications and other job-related and HR sanctioned criteria as the sole basis for all employment-related decisions. Harassment by Third Parties Where harassment occurs as a result of an act or omission by any third party or outsider, Genpact will take all steps that are reasonable and appropriate to prevent the harassment from continuing. Employee Personal Information Genpact respects employee privacy with respect to personal information or communication stored on official systems, with the provision that Genpact may access any such files/information for business reasons, for example in the course of performing maintenance, when investigating a problem or concern or in response to a legal request for such information. In addition, Genpact gives its employees notice that it may monitor, investigate, copy and inspect files/information (personal or otherwise) as required to protect its business interest, such as to protect intellectual property, for avoidance of business risk, to safeguard trade secrets including client information, security issues, investigation or prevention of crime and ensuring integrity of information systems and compliance with Genpact Policies. Further, information found on Genpact computer systems will be disclosed to third parties if required by law. Forced Labour As a part of Fair Employment P r a c t i c e s Policy, Genpact strictly prohibits all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour either directly or through contractors. Genpact endeavors to ensure that age criteria as per law are met not only by the company, but also by the contractors we hire. Actions Taken: Every employee as a mandatory company policy has to undergo background check to ensure date of birth proof is verified. For vendor employees, date of birth proof is taken and audited in areas of high risk, during the construction stage of new buildings where potential risk of child labour can exist, we have a special project team and safety committee who audits and ensures no form of forced, compulsory or child labour practices occur. Vendors are regularly audited and vendor employees are spoken to, in order to obtain assurance that conditions of policies to mitigate all forms of compulsory and forced labour including child labour exist in the organization. Genpact has zero tolerance of violations of its basic integrity policy which outlines all forms of compliance towards human rights, corruption and compulsory and forced labour including child labour. Bribery and Corruption Improper Payments Genpact policy prohibits its employees from offering anything of value to customers, governmental authorities or any person or party in order to obtain any advantage in selling goods and services, conducting financial transactions, or representing Genpact’s interests. Genpact does not authorize, involve itself in, or tolerate any business practice that does not follow this Policy. Any violation of this Policy would result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination and G e n p a c t w a r n s i t s e m p l o y e e s t h a t v i o l a t i o n may also result in severe civil and criminal penalties. Genpact instructs its employees to never give, offer, or authorize the offer of, directly or indirectly, anything of value (such as money, goods or a service) to a customer or government official to obtain any improper advantage. Genpact also prohibits its employees from receiving improper payments. In a previous year, one vendor did include an improper gift (an expensive scarf) together with its bid for a project. The employee brought the gift to her supervisor to discuss next steps. The gift, and the bid, was returned to the vendor. Permissible Payments Genpact does permit its employees to provide customers with ordinary and reasonable entertainment and gifts for the purpose of furthering business relationships, but only if such entertainment or gifts are permitted by: Applicable law of the country concerned The customer's own policies and procedures The particular Genpact business component's procedures This Policy does not prohibit lawful reimbursement for reasonable and bona fide expenditures for travel and living expenses incurred by customers and directly related to the promotion of products or services, or to the execution of a contract. However, Genpact employees are instructed to consult their business legal counsel before making these kind of payments as the applicable laws in some jurisdictions may prohibit them. Genpact instructs its employees never to provide gifts or entertainment to government officials and employees without prior consultation with counsel, as these are highly regulated by law. In the summer of 2012, Genpact issued a new GENPACT GLOBAL Business Entertainment and Gift Policy further clarifying these basic rules, and giving examples of permissible and improper payments. Political Contributions Genpact instructs it employees to obey the laws and regulations of all applicable jurisdictions with respect to political contributions and to never give or offer, directly or indirectly, a payment or anything of value (such as money, goods or services) to any political party, party official, or any candidate for political office of any country to influence or reward any governmental act or decision, or to obtain any improper advantage. Actions Taken Genpact is among the first few to become a member of the Partnering against Corruption Initiative. Genpact conducts focused training on our policies relating to corruption to key risk groups, such as leaders of our business development teams and those handling government contracts. The company entertainment and travel policies have a clear approval matrix to ensure adherence and are audited on a sample basis to ensure compliance with our prohibition of all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. How to Raise a Concern Genpact believes that all its employees have a duty to act ethically, and to conduct business in accordance with applicable law and Genpact’s Values, which are based on our foundation of unyielding integrity. Genpact asks its employees to be vigilant for circumstances that may indicate illegal or unethical behavior, and to act appropriately and timely to prevent improper conduct. If an employee observes conduct that may violate Genpact’s policies, including improper payments, they have an obligation to report it. Genpact offers multiple avenues for such reporting – it can be to an employee’s immediate supervisor, a higher level of management, a local compliance person, a member of the Legal Department or a local or global ombudsperson. In addition, there is an ‘Ombuds box’ at most of Genpact’s larger locations where employees can place a concern, either signed or anonymously. Concerns can also be raised via email to ombudsperson@genpact.com anonymously or signed. No Retaliation Policy It is Genpact’s belief that employees who come forward and raise integrity concerns play an important role in maintaining our ethical workplace and protect the entire Genpact community: our company, our colleagues and our stakeholders. Genpact absolutely prohibits retaliation against anyone for raising an integrity concern in good faith or assisting in an investigation of an integrity question. Retaliation is grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal. Employee Responsibility – Raising their Concerns Genpact employees receive regular instruction on how to raise concerns, are informed that they are required to report issues, and are encouraged to do so. These instructions include the following directions: To ASK – Actively Seek Knowledge, when in doubt about application of any of the Genpact Policies Raise the concern with the employee’s manager, compliance person assigned to the business, the legal counsel, Ombudsperson or the next level of management Complaints should address Policy breaches Know the Genpact “No Retaliation Policy” What happens when a concern is raised? Communication In 2012, Genpact instituted a Compliance Communications Program. Under this program, Genpact’s Global Compliance Leader provides the Business Leaders at each Genpact location with material which they can use to communicate the existence of Genpact’s Ombuds Program and the substance of Genpact’s no-retaliation policy, as well as one of the policies from the Genpact Code of Conduct. The substantive communication must be in person in order to increase employee understanding of the policy and the importance of integrity at Genpact, and must reach at least 80% of the employees assigned to the location. A monthly report of compliance with this program is provided to leadership. In addition to the Compliance Communications Program, Genpact’s Compliance Team also communicates regularly on Genpact’s policies, with the goal of increasing employee knowledge and internalization of Genpact’s culture of integrity. For example, every September is ‘Data Privacy Month’ at Genpact, with many activities organized to illustrate the importance of protecting the confidentiality of Genpact, client and employee information. In October, Genpact sends out a series of communications illustrating different aspects of its Fair Employment Practices, including its policies encouraging diversity and prohibiting discrimination and sexual harassment. Genpact sends out communications on its anti-corruption policies at least twice a year. In the spring, Genpact sends out communications describing its anti-corruption policies in general, with examples targeting those areas that we deem of the greatest risk. Genpact also sends a holiday reminder on Genpact’s policy requiring that entertainment and business courtesies be used only to enhance relationships, and prohibiting improper payments. The holiday reminder is sent at different times at different locations, to coincide with local holiday periods. In addition, Genpact sends out multiple reminders during the year of its Ombudsman process which enables employees to raise concerns outside their normal reporting channels, including the option to raise such concerns anonymously. Genpact also encourages its employees to report any instance where Genpact fails to live up to its high standards of integrity. It is the Company’s belief that employees who come forward and raise integrity concerns play an important role in maintaining Genpact’s ethical workplace and protect the entire Genpact community: our company, our colleagues and our stakeholders. The Company absolutely prohibits retaliation against anyone for raising an integrity concern in good faith or assisting in an investigation of an integrity question. Retaliation is grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal. Monitor and Review Genpact conducts a Compliance Risk Assessment annually. The CRA is a selfassessment aimed at identifying our business risks, assessing how we are responding to those risks and identifying key areas for improvement. The goal of this periodic assessment is to establish a baseline level of legal and regulatory compliance risks. In addition to gathering information from management, 25% of our employees are invited to participate in a survey intended to measure employee awareness of policies as well as whether employees believe that management is implementing the policies. The assessments include verification of how well our controls are implemented and are working, whether training has been understood and whether issues have been reported, inter alia. Where shortfalls are found, the business unit is required to formulate an action plan to eliminate the shortfall, and reports on progress towards completion of all such plans. Reports detailing violations of Genpact integrity policies are prepared quarterly, and submitted to the Audit Committee of the Genpact Board of Directors. Genpact encourages any employee who has a question relating to a Genpact policy, is concerned that a policy is being violated or feels that he or she might be a victim of a policy violation such as harassment or unfair employment practices to raise that concern, with assurance of privacy / anonymity, if desired, to the maximum extent possible. If such instances are to be reported or cited at any forum, then care is taken to protect the privacy of the individuals concerned especially of the victim, so that employees are not discouraged from bringing up these issues. Corporate Citizenship Genpact cares for the community. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, aims to mesh our social and environmental principles into our operational fabric. We have institutionalized a culture of giving among our employees through a number of global platforms and programs, like payroll giving and volunteering. We provide our employees with a single community engagement interface to volunteer for community service events, including those related to the elderly, the differently-abled and children. At Genpact, giving is a way of life. Genpact empowers its employees to give back to the communities where they live and work. Key themes are Education and Employability, Healthcare, Environmental Conservation and Inclusion of diverse groups, CSR at Genpact is driven through, Volunteering, Payroll Giving and Donations. Some other areas of focus to support community impact programs are Disaster Relief, Social Investments, and Recycling Used IT Equipment. Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the continuing commitment by companies to behave ethically and contribute to the economic development while improving the quality of life of their workforce and their families as well as of the local community and society at large. As we expand our footprint into more cities around the world, we also take on the responsibility to care for the communities from which we draw our talent. Corporate Citizenship has a critical role to play in shaping our company's success. Our global Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) initiative involves us as individuals as well as a company and has a cross-functional stakeholder involvement Our guiding principles are:  Embed our social and environmental code of conduct into our core operations and functions  Leverage our differentiating skills and competencies  Design and implement sustainable and scalable solutions We focus on socially-relevant areas that complement our business model and skills/competencies and systematically apply our distinctive strengths to maximize social and environmental value. Towards this goal, we have designed a number of global platforms and programs to make giving a way of life at Genpact and empower us to build stronger communities, where we live and work. While giving has always been a way of life at Genpact, we formally appointed a Global CSR Leader in 2007. We have been successfully able to deliver Global Business Impact and Local Community Impact, with 60,000+ employees applying their unique skills to serve others. Genpact Volunteers ‘Employee volunteering’ was designed to mobilize community service and unleash the potential of our employees. Our mission is to encourage skill-based volunteering i.e. 'Teach a man to fish versus simply giving a man a fish' and strive for long-term partnerships that deliver sustainable impact. We believe our Volunteer base is the single most important asset we have which far outshines any amount of financial resources we can spend on society. In 2010 we also instituted a guideline which allows for an employee to take a minimum of 3 hours per month from work to devote to a social cause he or she is passionate about. We have partnered with credible non-profit organizations to support causes which are determined by the employees’ preferences and skills. Education and Employability is the primary focus of our CSR program followed by Environment, Healthcare and Inclusion. For Education and Employability, most of our sites run partnerships with various schools sponsoring the education of children and youth, teaching and/ mentoring them to get employable. Additionally, each region drives initiatives that focus on the specific needs of their community – eg. Europe runs a number of Environmentrelated volunteering programs, US volunteers for Leukaemia and premature death of children,while Latin America, China or India focus a lot of effort on Education-related causes. One such program is the Udayan Shalini program driven by India sites through which our volunteers train and mentor under-privileged girls to make them employable – either at Genpact or other organizations in the industry. Another is Project Gurukul run by our Hyderabad site in India. This project which started in September 2006 in association with Uppal Zillah Parishad School, has been a huge success since its inception. In these 6 years journey we have added 4 schools under the tag and our volunteers have taught students Basics of Computers and English grammar and improved their pass percentage after the coaching. We have an Executive Champion and team of Community Champions at each of our sites to catalyze this initiative and design effective community outreach programs, supporting a wide range of causes and non-profit organizations. In 2012 we achieved 25% volunteer penetration and 23% payroll penetration, 1% point more than the previous year for both, on an average headcount growth of 18% Employee Payroll Giving Donations Genpact has partnered with leading non-profit organizations to provide flexible and transparent platforms that enable employees to donate a small part of their salary to credible local charities with convenience and confidence. These programs are voluntary and also allow employees the flexibility to change or discontinue their contribution if they so wish. Today more than 12,000 employees across India, Mexico, Philippines, Guatemala, and Hungary are cumulatively donating more than USD $ 300,000 a year! % of employees Country Partner donating India 26% Give India Mexico 22% United Way Americas India Guatemala 30% Foundation Romania 38% United Way Hungary 16% United Way Total 23% Other Donations: In the USA , teams donated non-perishable food and Warm clothes for the homeless and needy. In Mexico & Gautemala donation of clothes, groceries, blankets in poor zones, shoes for children and books and computers to Central Library in Juarez city was done. Europe Hungary donated Christmas gifts for children and organized an Animal Carnival to collect Pet Food while the Romania team undertook mentoring of prison kids as well as cooking meals for them. Asia Philippines team donated school supplies for children of Talon and China gave away Exercise books, bags, dictionaries for Hope School. In INDIANCR sites organized donation of Clothes, Toys, Books, Medicines and Shoes to an NGO named Goonj , while Bangalore did a week-long drive for old clothes collection and Kolkata collected winter clothes and stationary and distributed among the underprivileged children in Classes KG to VII. South AfricaExercise books and Dictionaries (including School Books) were donated to Klopperpark Primary School in Johannesburg. Disaster Relief and Social Investments Disaster Relief The victims of natural disaster struggle to rebuild their lives and get back to their normal routine. Their immediate priority is food, shelter, clothing, medical assistance, and security. Genpact has always contributed significantly in the recovery process and has extended all the necessary support and resources to the victims. North America Cyclone in 2012Especially hard hit were the coastal areas of New York and New Jersey. Both states border Pennsylvania, and as news reports and pictures of the devastation were broadcast, members of the CSR (Caring@Genpact) Committee and the Employee Committee in the Genpact Wilkes Barre Service Center joined forces, determined to find a way to help the storm victims. Earthquake in GautemalaA severe earthquake hit San Marcos in Central America. CSR Mexico team organized a Hot Dog Sale to raise money for the cause and Genpact supported with donations to support the victims. Social Investments We present solutions that leverage our unique competencies and our donations are targeted at sustainable and scalable socio-economic development. In 2012, we have spent more than USD 3,00,000 to support the cause under our 4 pillars of Education & Employability, Healthcare, Environment and Inclusion.. Highlights of 2012: Education and Employability •Koshish CSR Team @ Kolkata-Udayan Shalini Programme Volunteers designed & delivered a 6 month F&A and communications training for underprivileged girls of Udayan Care, an NGO, leading to our first hire from this pilot program . •Capital Markets team have, through Chirag Trust, provided scholarships & sponsorships to students and coaching to teachers. The team has also mentored students that has helped them gain employability Healthcare •2615 units of Blood donated globally – India at 1600 followed by US at 925 with Danville site being the biggest contributor at 900 Inclusion •In Genpact China 869 employees donated books, bags, stationery and clothes to underprivileged students of Hope School •CSR Jaipur with Akshya Patra helps provide mid-day meal support for children and the Jaipur CSR team has helped set up a bakery unit to add to the mid day meals. Environment •NCR Sites planted 3000 trees on a single day under the “Plant A Million Trees Gurgaon” initiative in August’12 •Guatemala, Cluj and NCR(40 volunteers Silokhera) Build homes for the homeless with Habitat For Humanity . In addition, Genpact is currently involved in various other ongoing social investment programs. Two programs which merit mention are Primary Healthcare Dispensary and Industry-Academia Partnership. Public Health – Genpact has adopted and restored a non-functional government-run primary health centre in Gurgaon, Haryana. As part of this effort, Genpact has provided the healthcare centre with a team of doctors and nurses to help the many underprivileged citizens who otherwise do not have access to primary medical care. Services at the health centre focus on the preventive aspects of diseases such as basic health check-ups, pathological tests, immunizations, eye examinations and diagnostic tests. Free medicine is also provided at the facility. Industry Academia Partnership – Genpact partners with State Governments, Universities and institutions on programs to train unskilled students and make them employable for the BPO or other industries. Regions where this is being driven through multiple partnerships are India, China and Philippines. Some examples of how Industry-Academia Partnership is being driven: India IMT Ghaziabad  MoU signed in July 2012  5 Pilot courses launched from Oct 2012 in Analytics Genpact Campus recruitment teams across the country have assessed All Fresher’s and jobs being offered at entry level positions in places like Abhor ( Punjab ) in the north, Kakinada ( AP ) in the South, Murshidabad/Balurhat at West Bengal in the East and Alwar ( Rajasthan ) on the West of India. Sourcing students from the noted locations is helping to solve 2 major issues: 1. Un-employment 2. Economic stature of the society. China: The Training Team in China partnered with the local Govt. to train unskilled graduates from campus in skills like F&A, PSCS, CS, HRO, ITO etc. & break the bottleneck for BPO industry development. 400 students were trained and hired in 2012 from Huaqiao as part of the Govt. sponsored initiative. Philippines:, Genpact is partnering with the Govt. in the training for work program which was launched nationally in 2012 in line with the government’s objective of increasing global competitiveness of the Filipino workforce and increase employment. As part of the Near-Hire program, 400 students were trained for the BPO/ BPM Industry and 90+ were hired since 2012. Diversity in Workforce: Gender We are a globally diverse organization across multiple dimensions. Our focus is to create the right environment, level playing field and support structure to enable a gender diverse work to equally participate, succeed and rise to positions of leadership in the organization based on their merit. We maintain Diversity not only at our entry level. Genpact continuously drives programs and initiatives focusing on building diversity throughout the company, including on our board and senior management. Currently, women represent approximately 38% of Genpact’s global headcount and 18% at the leadership (VP+) level. Our approach focuses on initiatives to attract women: eg. through focused hiring initiatives to attract the right talent pool such as specialized hiring agreements with our manpower consultants with special incentives for diverse meritorious hiring. develop & nurture them : eg. through development interventions & sponsorship programs for our high potential middle level women, with the objective of building the leadership pipeline or programs for our women leaders to achieve their full potential. retain women through a supportive workplace: eg. Day Cares at our operational centres, Special focus on safety, security, flexibility and support policies such as Work from Home, extended Maternity Leave, Sabbaticals, gender sensitization programs,etc. Genpact has also been awarded Nasscom’s Corporate Award for Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion for promoting the cause of women in 2012. In the 2012 McKenzie study of 54 Fortune 500 companies and 23 Wall Street Journal CEO council members, Genpact emerged as one among 27 companies in the pool that satisfied at least 2 success metrics out of 4 Critical success measures i.e. 1) Women at Entry Level 2) Odds of Advancement 3) Women at the top 4) Presence in line roles To support our gender diversity focus and integrate it with workplace culture, we have a global women affinity group called GenWIN (Genpact Women’s International Network) which focuses on driving positive reinforcement initiatives, hosts leadership and external speakers sessions, awareness forums and targeted interventions for women like work-life balance, health camps and self-defense sessions across Genpact. The key objective of this program is to empower women with an informal base, support system, and platform for experience sharing to build successful careers and strike a fine work-life balance. Diversity in Workforce: Hiring the Differently-Abled Genpact is proud to engage people with disabilities including the orthopedically challenged, hearing, and visually impaired. These employees are all engaged with different operations and functions, ranging from accounting, insurance, and customer care to hiring and HR shared services. Some of our visually-impaired employees have been with us for more than 3 years and have grown from an associate level to middle management positions, handling different roles and responsibilities and even leading teams. We have also hired candidates with severe to extreme orthopedic and hearing impairment to work in our Insurance vertical. To promote this initiative, Genpact is working on the following measures:  Promoting targeted hiring drives and participating in job fairs for differently-abled  Launching special Employee Referral Programs for employees to refer their differently-abled friends and relatives  Engaging with consultants to carry out a job mapping exercise to identify suitable opportunities for candidates who are differently-abled  Organizing a sensitization session for representatives from departments like hiring, training, operations, and other teams that comprise differentlyabled talent  Conducting facilities access audits to ensure that our differently-abled employees do not face difficulties in the work environment; we earmark accessibility of our facilities and work towards implementing recommendations  Exploring and leveraging local Government incentives for differently-abled  Ensuring that our disabled workforce is not segregated or treated/tracked separately Recycling of Used IT Equipment Genpact has been in the process of streamlining IT asset donation programs, including End-to-End process from testing to assessing longevity, reloading OS, suggesting affordable Annual Maintenance Costs (AMC), and prescribing vendors for e-Waste disposal. So far, we have disposed over 23,961 systems and laptops through authorized 'eWaste' vendors. In addition, we have donated over 5,256 systems to educational outfits and non-profit organizations in India. Environmental Performance Environmental Conservation Genpact strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees and stakeholders, which benefits communities we live and work in globally. By integrating economic and social progress with environmental conservation and sustainability, we aim to improve the quality of life of all our employees and stakeholders A key highlight for 2012-13 was to move towards a sustainable journey. Genpact upgraded its existing Safe Work Environment policy to Global “Environment Health Safety & Sustainability policy” (EHS&S) signed by our New and dynamic CEO ‘Tiger’ Tyagarajan This is displayed & communicated across every locations. In 2012, we released our 1st ever Sustainability Report as per G3.1 (Global Reporting initiative) guidelines eliciting our economic, social and environmental performance this was audited by an independent third party assurance as per ISAE 3000 by Ernst and Young. the report complies with GRI G3.1 guidelines with an application level of A+. . To Further validate our journey towards Eco transformation, Ernst and Young, an Independent third party Assurance firm validated and assured our 2011 carbon footprint data. This was poised to be 115613 tons of CO2 (for its major operating locations across India, China, Philippines, Europe) In 2012, we added many of our Global locations in our footprint including some of the acquired sites like Capital markets, this has increased our overall carbon footprint to 132457 tons of CO2, however our per employee carbon emission has reduced by 10.16 % from what we reported in 2009 data. Genpact Global EHS&S Policy Mission Statement: Genpact strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees and stakeholders, which benefits communities Some of the key highlights for we live and work in globally. By integrating economic and 2012 are: social progress with environmental conservation and sustainability, we aim to improve the quality of life of all our employees and stakeholders. Our management is committed, and provides considerable resources to meet our Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) goals which are to: 1. Genpact has received ISO-14001• Meet and whenever possible exceed applicable 2004 & OHSAS 18001-2007 reenvironmental, health and safety (EHS) legal requirements; certification by BSI for all its Global operating sites for achieving • Adopt best practices that support conservation, sustenance environmental, Health and Safety and rejuvenation of the environment and natural resources; excellence at par with world-class • Minimize our carbon footprint and become carbon neutral in standards. This includes primarily India, China, Mexico, EMEA, and our operations; Philippines and Capital Markets, • Drive active participation of all our stakeholders to promote Headstrong. environmental, occupational health and safety procedures through training and behavioral compliance; 2. Inline with our commitment towards the sustainability journey, We have • Provide a Safe and Healthy work environment by proactively rolled out our Global Environment assessing and reducing risk Health, safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) policy and extended our EHS programs in our acquired companies such as Headstrong-Capital Markets division and Empower Research, Atyati ltd. 3. Genpact has been compliant with all its surveillance audits. We ensure 100% compliance to all established regulatory standards for air pollution, noise pollution, effluent quality, etc. We have set our own internal objectives and targets on specific environmental standards as per the requirement of ISO-140012004. 4. We control our infrastructure exposures through internal EHS standards relevant to our operation 5. We have ad new strategies such as Green Six Sigma to improve, LEED feasibility studies at our own sites in Uppal, DLF Phase V and JLN and Green buildings of our facilities to come at par with the best Environment standards. 6. We have invested in latest technologies such as modular UPS to improve our power efficiency and minimize environmental releases 7. Conducted an Independent carbon footprint data validation by Ernst & Young Eco-Transformation RoadmapEnvironmental concerns are real and to mitigate its impact from Genpact’s operations has become its prime motto Genpact hired a third party in 2009 to analyze its own carbon footprint arising out of its operations. This was poised to be 92,021 tons of Co2. While the project is primarily led by the Environment Health and Safety (EHS) team, it also involves employees and the operations, processes, sourcing, and engineering teams. Genpact’s sustainability journey started in 2006, by developing a BPO/ ITES specific environmental policy. The EHS team followed this up by developing a BPO specific EHS Framework and a maturity based scorecard to evaluate its environmental performance. Over the last few years, Genpact has gone a step further and created an Eco-Transformation Roadmap that, since 2007, has guided its environmental initiatives. Genpact’s eco-transformation journey unfolded in three distinct phases. Phase 1 of the journey was to achieve ISO 14001(Environment management system) certification. By 2009, all of Genpact’s sites – Indian and global – were ISO 14001 certified. Phase 2 was about capturing and analyzing the carbon footprint of its India locations. Genpact hired third party consultants to capture and then verify the results. Phase 3 focused on implementing energy and environment conservation programs to reduce this carbon footprint. Their major initiatives include water, energy, and climate conservation, reducing paper usage, and recycling waste. In addition, we have undertaken specific initiatives towards energy conservation and protection of the environment: Water Conservation initiatives: For conservation of water as a resource, we are focusing on principles of 3Rs reduce, recycle, and reuse. 1. With increased STP performance and modifications, all treated water of average 150 KL/day at Uppal facility Hyderabad is also diverted to cooling tower which was earlier used only for landscaping. 2. At our JLN, Sitapura and PH V sites we have optimized the usage of STP. 3. We carry out regular maintenance schedules of our cooling towers to avoid leakages. 4. Automatic water control sensors for overhead tanks, automatic hand wash sensors and spring load faucets etc. are being installed across various facilities to reduce water wastage 5. Rain water harvesting pits are used for flushing at toilets and for bore well recharge at our Bangalore Surya Park site. Energy Conservation: Few new initiatives that we have undertaken in 2012 to reduce our carbon footprint are: Replacement of Old PAC units with energy efficient PAC units with New Technology.  Installation of Smart Cool in Chillers  Replaced of Old down light 36watt with energy efficient LED lights  BMS system made operational.  Installed energy efficient LED down lights.  Conducting energy Audits at Hyderabad and operational control in floor lightings and DC.  Implementation of Connect M Software Tool at our Capital Markets sites to generate savings in Energy consumption.  Usage of R407 C and 410 A instead of R 22 (which is ozone depleting refrigerant) for all new projects across India.  Implemented modular UPS in all the new sites to run at maximum efficiency and thereby reducing the energy losses.  Arranged the racks inside DC with hot aisle concept to prevent mixing of hot air with cold air and thereby prevent energy loss. Source 1: Direct GHG Emission Direct GHG emission which contributes to almost 2 % of our total GHG emission has been drastically brought down to 127% from what we started measuring in 2008 for India sites. Better electricity Grid availability, some of the primitive sites which were run completely under DG has now been running under electricity grid power, this has significantly helped improve our direct GHG emission. Increase in source 1 emission from last year is primarily due to poor availability of electricity grid power supply primarily at our Major locations of Gurgaon and Hyderabad, India. (Consumption at these two locations has almost increased nearly 70 % in this reporting period. Fuel Consumption Climate Conservation: We ensure that we are consistently much below the statutory emission limits under air pollution through generators, and water pollution through effluent – no instances of exceeding limits so far in all our facilities 1. We monitor our indoor air quality performance every seasonal change to ensure compliance to indoor Air quality standards. 2. Every Year we take a plantation drive across our sites to promote a Greener tomorrow. 3. We are working to ensure and replace all new buys of gas flooding and fire extinguisher to be clean agents 4. Reduction of DG testing hours in our Capital Markets site resulting in savings. Paper conservation: We aim to reduce paper consumption by at least 10% in our facilities; this has been one of the key focus areas in the ISO-14001 objectives and targets  Programs like – Minus One (Reducing the font size to 1 unit for paper efficiency, online bills, back to back printing, promoting ceramic/reusable cups to disposable, etc. are our key drivers for paper reduction.  Removal of Paper cups and awareness sign, go green initiatives flash, ticket based delivery to printer Reuse of Products/Recycling of Waste: The key focus area on waste handling management is the segregation of waste under two broad categories: hazardous and nonhazardous wastes, dry and bio degradable. We would want to establish benchmark to further segregate our waste specially scrap and other products. Waste Initiatives 1. All hazardous waste including biomedical waste, used oils and electronic waste are disposed to CPCB approved recyclers. 2. For some of these waste items, we also have buy-back arrangements with dealers/manufacturers 3. For food waste, we have Municipality approved disposal agencies We are also doing our best efforts to make our sites adopt the best industry level practices in adopting the Green Building strategies. Carbon Footprint for Travel Since the time we started monitoring our air carbon footprint in year 2008, Genpact has put forward stringent measures to reduce the air travel Measures like audio bridges, web chats, Video conferencing, Lync, and teleconference were primarily driven to educate employees to reduce travel, employee communications and campaigns were run across sites to educate and empower employees to switch to VCs then to travel. Ground travel used to commute employees from home to office is primarily driven with the fact considering safety of employees and night time travels, measures like optimum vehicle utilization, optimum travel time and route, frequency, route optimization etc. Greenbelt projects were identified and implemented under this initiative with overall impact of reducing 26% reduction of our carbon footprint since 2008. As a part of our work life balance initiative, we also encourage employee to avoid traveling and allow them to work from home. We encourage employees to use mass transport system wherever we have access to Metro Rails and better public transport system. This aspect has also helped to reduce commute footprint. Green IT-Green IT is the latest buzz word in the IT/ITES industry. Genpact is committed to Green IT initiative and champions it aggressively. Towards this initiative, Genpact Corporate IT team explored various ideas, which could be implemented at low cost with high returns. Productivity in all form has been a key driver of all IT initiatives taken at Genpact. Industry drive towards Greener IT, clubbed with the organizational culture encouraged, the IT team to conceptualize and identify areas of opportunity in this area. Green IT initiatives 1.Genpact’s IT Team drives a strong process to assess all application / server requirements to host on Virtual environment unless there is a specific need or I/O intensive application which demands physical server-There was Approximate annual savings of 419,428 KWH energy or 355 tCO2 of Carbon foot print reduction. 2. 35 servers and 82 network switches which were EOL were refreshed. These devices were bulky and power guzzlers and all 35 servers were virtualized and 82 switches were consolidated and reduced to 40 state of the art energy efficient switches. There was approximate annual savings of 127,668 KWH energy or 108 tCO2 of Carbon foot print reduction. 3. Green IT initiatives have contributed to the increased working capital and more cash flow for Genpact. In the area of Travel and Living, spend reduction resulted in a saving of Rs 90Mn. Using the data de-duplication 10TB of storage space was freed up. Server virtualization and consolidations have contributed to the tune of Rs 130 Mn. In 2011 we initiated the Teleconference facility for leader interactions. Unique Features:  True replacement for face-to-face meetings, it’s like travelling anywhere without leaving your office  Screen sharing / collaboration with Interactive Smart Board for document creation, annotation etc.  Enable connectivity between Non-Tele Presence / Regular VC rooms in a Tele Presence session, with the limitation being a maximum of 3 sites at any given conference  Ability to add audio-only participants  Enable point to point and multipoint meetings with the following clients: We have also started Data center consolidation project which will help positively impact on energy and space requirement by 2013. Genpact Overall Carbon Footprints Over all Carbon footprint has increased primarily due to Addition of new sites total 5 sites are being added from 2011, including our newly y acquired sites like capital markets in India. However our per employee GHG emission has reduced to 10.16 % which is the reflection of various initiatives taken across sites. Increase in diesel consumption due to poor electricity Grid power availability in our prime India locations In 2012 we increased our penetration to better segregate and track our food waste data, eg. At our site Uppalwe introduced our own running Canteen which has significantly increased the food waste data due to addition of waste from raw material and vegetable cutting. We are working to track and display our daily consumption of food waste to make employees aware and also working on evaluating feasibility to convert food waste into compost. Employee Awareness and Engagement. Environment initiatives also provide scalable events for volunteers to get engaged. We participated in the Million tree initiative with I AM Gurgaon in planting tree saplings in Gurgaon. Journey towards sustainable future cannot be attained without employee participation and engagement. Employees form the core strength for Genpact. Genpact firmly believes that conservation starts from each one of us and each employee is ecologically empowered and responsible to contribute towards sustainable future. Genpact EHS team developed an initiative as’ YES’ – You Environment and Sustainability’ and with this reiterated its commitment towards Sustainability and sound environment .This was an ideal platform for our employees to showcase their talent and also enthusiasm towards Employee engagement programs. Under this initiative, fun initiatives were rolled out last year to engage employees in a creative manner. Under the ‘Go Green’ drive and to celebrate the last week of ‘Earth Day’2012, Genpact Hyderabad Logistics ran a ‘Flash Mob Dance’ in the Uppal premises. The objective was to bring employees together and spread awareness on ‘Saving Our Planet’. To close the Earth week celebrations, there was a candle light walk at Hyderabad to emphasize and imbibe a spirit of Environmental awareness. Offices in Hyderabad and Bangalore had Safai-Abhyan clean up drives to add on the YES programs The Puttenhalli Lake Cleaning Drive on April 14, 2012, spearheaded by the Bangalore I & L, EHS and CSR teams, was a tremendous success, thanks to the spirited participation of some volunteers from Genpact who truly care for the environment. GENPACT joined hands with the members of the ‘Spark the Rise Project’ for the lake restoration and cleaning activity. The intention of the drive was to enable the lake to breathe and foster a healthy co existence of bio diverse forms, make it a clean water body and restore it as a natural the habitats of avian, aquatic and other life forms Earth Hour Participation Since 2007 Genpact has been participating to support WWF initiative of Earth Hour globally, 2012 had been a another year where Genpact globally participated for the earth hr drive, Globally also our sites in China, Europe and Mexico also did events to raise Employee consciousness. China had a Greening tomorrow activity and Mexico had a plantation drive Ergonomics Along with Environment, maintaining a proper posture while working is also equally important. While as a part of the ongoing EHS programs, awareness on fire safety measures, emergency preparedness, food safety etc are done on a regular basis…special campaigns like an ERGO workshops was conducted with active participation from our employees. Achievements in 2012 and Future Plans for Genpact’s Sustainable Strategy  Genpact came out with its 1st ever Sustainability report as per G3.1 guidelinesin2012.  Genpact firmly believes that Productivity runs through optimization, optimizing the utilization not only helps us conserve natural resources, it also helps improving the cost.  One of the leased Genpact buildingPritech Park SEZ, Bangalore has been awarded the Commercial Greenest site, 2012 in CNBC Awaaaz awards. This shows our commitment to select better and efficient buildings wherever possible. Conservation of key resources like paper, water, reduction of pollution, reduction of air travel.  Become Carbon neutral and water neutral by 2021.  Construct all new Own buildings as LEED certified Green buildings.  Green sourcing, in next 5 years we would want to focus on infusing sustainability into our supply chain and green sourcing where possible, create a Green card rating system internally to evaluate all product and equipment buys, also sustainability selection matrix to evaluate our new upcoming buildings etc. Buy recycled products or buy products which can be recycled. Example would be furniture’s, papers and other areas.  Genpact is also pioneer BPO into the initiative of cloud computing, virtualization, thin client and would further deep-route its utilization to increase productivity apart from computer hibernation, printing optimization and other initiatives.  We are also looking into options of deployment of renewable energy in operations through third party purchases and investment in wind and solar PV Awards and Accolades  SSON (Shared Services Outsourcing Network) Genpact – Astra Zeneca Excellence in People and Communications, Europe; Excellence awards: Excellence in Customer Service  SSON Excellence Awards India : Excellence award in Customer Service Black Belt project 'Reducing Outstanding Missing Payments’ for TD Bank  IQPC (International Quality and Production Council) – Process Excellence(PEX) awards India : Best process improvement project Black Belt project ‘ATR Monthend Close harmonization’ for Kimberly Clark  IAOP (international Association of Outsourcing Professionals) – Global Top 20 Outsourcing Provider; Best 10 Overall CSR in Outsourcing; By Industry focus: Best 20 Leaders Financial Services (Banking, Markets), Financial Services (Insurance), Discrete Manufacturing; By Service Area: Best 20 Leaders Transaction Processing Services, Leaders Information/Comm. Technology Services; By Service Area : Best 20 Companies Financial Management Services; By Region Served : Best 20 Leaders in US, Leaders in Western Europe, Best Companies in India  Outsourcing Center – Outsourcing Excellence Awards for Best F&A/Procurement  EDGE: Max Bupa for best IT implementations in India  Supply & Demand Chain Executive magazine – 100 Great Supply Chain Projects  European Outsourcing Association Awards: Outsourcing End-User of the Year – Merck; and Award for Innovation in outsourcing – Smart Enterprise Process  NASSCOM – Ranked No. 1 BPO company in India; Diversity and Inclusion  DSCI Excellence Award: Security in BPO – Global  China Green IT Service Outsourcing Innovation Contribution  InformationWeek Global CIO Awards, Sanjeev Prasad  Top 100 CISO Awards, AR Vijay  Global Services 100; Leaders in Mid-tier Infrastructure Management Vendors & Midmarket Enterprise Applications Deployment; Top Mid-tier ADM Companies & Global BPO Leaders; Global Knowledge Process Leaders, LeadersIndustry-specific BPO, Procurement Management Leaders, FAO Vendors & Customer Management Leaders ;  ASTD Champion of Learning  Aon Hewitt – Awards that Work Flexible Work Practices  Frost and Sullivan – Business Process Outsourcing Service Provider of the Year, Asia Pacific  NASSCOM – Top IT-BPO Employers in India  “CRY “Special Jury Award 2012 in the area of Child Rights  World CSR Congress-Social Innovation Award in the “Best Employee Engagement Category”  “Give India Challenge 2012” awarded First prize –raised Rs 60 Lacs highest among 33 corporates
