Global Responsibility 2013 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Table of Contents 2 INTRODUCTION 10 HEALTH 26 ENVIRONMENT 40 SOURCING 11 Overview 27 Overview 41 Overview 11 Our approach: invest and innovate 28 Our approach: measure and reduce 42 Our approach: plan and execute 12 Our strategies and actions 29 Our strategies and actions 42 Our strategies and actions 13 Provide nutritious food 30 Reduce resource usage in our operations 43 Increase sustainability of ingredients 21 Educate consumers 39 Increase sustainability of ingredients 50 Improve global water stewardship 24 Advance global food safety 52 Improve supplier sustainability 54 WORKPLACE 66 COMMUNITY 76 APPENDIX 55 Overview 67 Overview 76 Environmental Data Summary 56 Our approach: inspiration and action 68 Our approach: connect and lead 77 GRI Index 56 Our strategies and actions 68 Our strategies and actions 57 Build a strong workplace culture 69 Alleviate hunger and advance 61 Maintain a safe workplace nutrition wellness 63 Respect, develop and invest in employees 72 Improve education 74 Strengthen communities To our Stakeholders: At General Mills, one of our goals is to stand among the most socially responsible food companies in the world. In pursuit of this goal, we work to earn the trust of our consumers, customers, employees and other key stakeholders every day. Building and maintaining this trust is essential to our business and to the fulfillment of our mission of Nourishing Lives. Acknowledging and addressing the interof hungry is likely to only increase. mitigating water risk, and taking steps to relationship of economic, environmental Current projections suggest the world’s more sustainably source raw materials. and social value is a necessity in population will reach 9 billion people Of course, we also continue to support today’s world. For companies looking by 2050. Essential natural resources – our employees with safe, ethical and to responsibly address truly global especially water and arable land – are inclusive workplaces. And we continue challenges, it is also an opportunity. At already under severe stress in parts of to nourish our communities through Ken Powell General Mills, we call our approach the planet, creating chronic challenges for philanthropic and employee engagement. Chairman, Chief Executive “Holistic Value Creation.” We look to millions. Producing enough food to feed We’re not alone in addressing these Officer, General Mills create value holistically – not only for an increasingly hungry world will require global challenges. We’re finding our shareholders, our customers and our not only innovation and dedication, but opportunities for collaboration with consumers, but also for our suppliers, also careful attention to the impact business, government and NGOs on our communities and our world. of agriculture on our environment. important systemic solutions. We’re From China to Peru, we are more In this, our 43rd year of reporting back working with external partners and are carefully considering business outcomes to our communities and stakeholders, signatories on a number of key global and external impacts. Through our we have expanded the breadth and efforts, such as the United Nations products, we are continuously striving depth of our reporting across five Global Compact. And while we’re to make consumers’ lives healthier, key focus areas: Health, Environment, proud of our progress, we also know easier and richer. Through our actions, Sourcing, Workplace and Community. there is still much more to be done. we are simultaneously working to We continue to make progress in Thank you once again for your source responsibly, to conserve advancing our stated goals in these key interest. As always, we welcome the natural resources on which our focus areas. For example, in 2012, we your questions and comments. products depend and to strengthen again improved the health profile of the communities producing them. General Mills products around the world. Sincerely, We again decreased natural resource Our world faces unprecedented consumption in our operations and challenges. Today, almost 1 billion people WATCH VIDEO across our global supply chain. We are lack sufficient food – and the number General Mills Global Responsibility 01 INTRODUCTION General Mills has been fulfilling our mission of Nourishing Lives – making lives healthier, easier and richer – for 146 years. Our values Everything we do reflects our strong core values, and we live these values every day: We do the We innovate We build We respect, We strive for right thing, in every aspect our great develop and invest consistently superior all the time. of our business. brands. in our people. performance. General Mills Global Responsibility 02 Highlights 650+ $143 52% 50% 8 General Mills products have been nutritionally million+ packaging volume has been improved palm oil will be sustainably sourced countries honored General Mills with improved since we donated to charitable since 2009 – exceeding by the end of fiscal workplace awards in implemented our Health causes in 2012 – General our 2015 goal, which year 2013. 2012, and 88 percent of Metric in 2005. Mills has given more than we have increased. our U.S. employees said $1 billion to charitable that General Mills is a causes worldwide since the great place to work. General Mills Foundation was created in 1954 (US$). 86% 10 $35 10 84% increase in R&D spending on health and priority ingredients representing 50 percent million+ or less grams of sugar in all General Mills solid waste diverted from landfills in 2012. Since food products donated wellness since 2004. of our annual purchases tofoodFeeding America’s 200 cereals marketed 2005, we have reduced banks in 2012 (US$). are on the path to to children. our waste generation improved sustainability. rate by 40 percent. General Mills Global Responsibility 03 We produce and market more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. $16.7 $1.6 $143 34,500 100+ $4.2 146 billion billion million employees consumer brands billion years Global net sales* Net earnings* Community About half work outside Our many brands can be Net sales for our We have been contributions the United States found in more than 100 International making lives countries on six continents business segment* healthier, easier and richer for more than a century *Excludes $1.3 billion proportionate share of joint venture sales All figures represent fiscal 2012 results and U.S. dollars. General Mills Global Responsibility 04 Opportunities and challenges As one of the world’s largest food companies, we see the opportunity to help address some of the world’s most pressing challenges, including nutritional imbalances, natural resource scarcity and food insecurity. Health – improve nutrition and increase activity Nutrients – More than an average of 9 to 12 grams of salt a steady since 2007. Making nutritious Making nutritious food 15 percent of the global day – up to twice the recommended daily food choices and balancing food intake choices and balancing population today is undernourished. level of 6 grams. General Mills and other with activity are keys to addressing food intake with activity Fortified foods help deliver needed food companies are reducing calories, the obesity challenge. General Mills are key to addressing nutrients. General Mills and other food fat, sugar and sodium in our products. helps educate and empower people the obesity challenge. companies enrich foods with nutrients, around the world to live healthier lives. Balance – In more developed such as vitamins, minerals and fiber. regions of the world, obesity is Reduction – Many people a major health issue. The World Health around the world consume too Organization reports that the number many calories and too much fat, sugar of overweight children has tripled in the and sodium. Consumers worldwide eat past three decades, with rates holding Environment – reduce impact Climate change – Climate and Development (OECD), almost Everyone across the food production According to OECD change poses serious risks for half of the world’s population could and consumption spectrum plays a projections, almost half our planet. Governments, companies, be living under severe water stress by role in reducing the amount of solid of the world’s population organizations and individuals all need 2050. Agriculture is a major user of waste. Efficiencies in production could be living under severe to take action to mitigate these risks. water resources and also contributes play a role as does the processing of water stress by 2050. In the process of bringing food from to water pollution: farming accounts food, which extends shelf life, and the the farm to the consumer’s table, the for approximately 70 percent of water packaging of food in quantities that majority of greenhouse gas (GHG) used in the world today. General Mills match consumption to reduce waste. emissions occur in agriculture and the is addressing water use across our General Mills also works to reduce the packaging supply chain. General Mills is value chain to improve sustainable environmental impact of our packaging. reducing GHG emissions in our facilities management of water resources. and across our entire value chain. Waste – Food waste creates Water – Water scarcity is a five times more methane in growing problem around the landfills than packaging waste – and world. According to projections from the methane is a greenhouse gas 20 times Organisation for Economic Co-operation more potent than carbon dioxide. General Mills Global Responsibility 05 Sourcing – protect people, animals and the environment People – Workers in agriculture Animals – The humane packaging. General Mills pursues and food production around treatment of animals is an increased levels of sustainability in our the world deserve to be treated with area of concern within the agricultural raw materials and promotes sustainable dignity and respect in accordance with supply chain. General Mills’ animal processes in our supply chain. the United Nations Global Compact and welfare policy focuses on how the International Labour Organization’s animals are raised and treated. To conserve natural resources, it is essential to 1998 Declaration on Fundamental sustainably source ingredients that become agriculture – To conserve Principles and Rights at Work. General food and fiber that becomes packaging. natural resources, it is essential Mills supports ethical standards and to sustainably source ingredients that guidelines across our supply chain. become food and fiber that becomes Food security – increase yields sustainably, reduce water use, reduce food waste Grow – In order to feed the and support. Ingredients improved United States, where as much as 9 billion people expected by through biotechnology have been 40 percent of food is wasted, more 2050, the world will need to produce used for 15 years, yet some consumers than 90 percent of that waste occurs 70 percent more food. Doing so will remain opposed to biotechnology. at homes or in foodservice settings. require innovation and collaboration As a consumer-focused company, Processing and packaging food to increase yields sustainably on General Mills tries to deliver what extends shelf life, thereby reducing currently producing lands. Future consumers want and need. For that waste. General Mills strives to production increases must be achieved reason, products we produce for package food in quantities that match using less water and less expensive Europe do not use genetically modified consumption to reduce waste. inputs to conserve resources. ingredients, and we offer our U.S. consumers leading brands of organic In order to feed the 9 billion people Research – Higher yielding products as a non-GMO choice. expected by 2050, the world will need crops, including disease and to produce 70 percent more food. drought resistant varieties, will be Preserve – One-third of the necessary to sufficiently boost global food grown globally is wasted, food production. While biotechnology according to the Food and Agriculture holds promise to alleviate chronic Organization of the United Nations hunger and prevent disease, and to (FAO). Reducing food waste is critical to enhance sustainability, nutrition and feeding the world’s growing population. taste, the success of this technology In the developing world, much of the will continue to depend on its ability to waste stems from inadequate food achieve broad consumer acceptance storage and transportation. In the General Mills Global Responsibility 06 Field to Table: nsformin Our Value Chain 2 Tra g The General Mills value chain includes our own operations as well as those of our partners, such as farmers, millers, transporters and retailers. Our employees 1 fa as well as our suppliers, customers, 3 ing consumers and other stakeholders play an rm ert essential role in helping to bring our mission Turning crops into to life and our products to consumers. in food ingredients nv g n C  leaning n M  illing Co n P  reparing Growing crops Making n P  lanting products from n T  ending food ingredients n H  arvesting n Mixing n Cooking n Packaging Enjoying Moving food food to stores n M  aking n Packing n E  ating n Transporting G D  isposing Delivering Making food n n IN available for purchase UM n S  tocking Sh NS ipp n P  romoting n S  hopping 6 CO ing 4 5 selling General Mills Global Responsibility 07 Responsible practices are at the core of our mission and business strategy. Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community We provide people with Our goal is to continually We conserve and protect We foster a safe, ethical, We nourish our communities convenient, nutritious food reduce our environmental resources by sustainably diverse and inclusive workplace globally with remarkable that – when combined with footprint. We focus our efforts sourcing the raw materials where employees can thrive. philanthropy. We work in exercise and activity – can help on areas where we can have we use in our products. We We respect, develop and innovative ways with partners them live healthier lives. We the greatest impact, both focus on increasing the invest in our employees and at the global, national and local improve the health profile of within our own operations sustainability of the 10 priority continue to improve workplace levels to harness our collective our products while meeting and outside of them, primarily agricultural raw materials safety through our efforts to impact in key target areas, consumer requirements for in agriculture and ingredient we source, which represent prevent injuries and illnesses. while engaging employees taste. We educate consumers production. Across our global more than 50 percent of our We support our employees through volunteerism. We to promote better health, operations, we work to annual purchases. We also in being active, eating focus on alleviating hunger and we support responsible reduce our natural resource help improve the livelihoods of healthy and staying well. advancing nutrition wellness, marketing practices, and we consumption. And upstream, smallholder farmers, improve improving education, and advance global food safety. we focus on sustainably global water stewardship, strengthening communities. sourcing the raw materials improve supplier sustainability we use in our products. and respect human rights in our supply chain. General Mills Global Responsibility 08 Approach Ethics and compliance General Mills Foundation; Jerry Lynch, chief sustainability officer; and John participants in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since its inception in 2000 our public policy engagement and political contributions. Our civic policy Our Code of Conduct for employees Church, senior vice president of Supply and are members of the Roundtable on describes our approval process for using reflects our value, “Do the right thing, all Chain; as well as our Board of Directors’ Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). As part of corporate funds for political contributions. the time.” We have high expectations Public Responsibility Committee. our commitment to supporting human The Public Responsibility Committee for ethical conduct in every aspect of our rights in our supply chain, we are leaders of our Board of Directors oversees the business. General Mills’ global reputation Stakeholder in the AIM-PROGRESS Responsible company’s political activity, including our as an ethical company depends on each employee always acting consistently engagement Sourcing task force, and are signatories policy, an annual list of corporate political to the United Nations Global Compact contributions, major trade association with the law, our policies and our values. We solicit input from groups like Ceres (UNGC). In addition, we are guided by memberships, and any independent General Mills employees receive a Code (a coalition of investors, environmental the International Labour Organization’s political expenditures (although the of Conduct that outlines our ethical organizations and other public interest (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental company has not made any). A list of our expectations and provides practical tips groups working with companies to Principles and Rights at Work. With political contributions is made available and examples for how to act with integrity advance their environmental and regards to nutrition, we work with several on our website. We have been publicly in every decision, every action, every day. social performance) to ensure we organizations including the American disclosing this information since 2005. address issues of concern to them. Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) In 2012, we increased the disclosure Organizational We are active members in key industry and the Academy of Nutrition and of information we provide about our responsibility coalitions such as the Consumer Goods Dietetics to fund nutrition research and public policy engagement. In 2012, The General Mills leadership team has Forum, Grocery Manufacturers of help promote nutrition education. the Center for Political Accountability ultimate responsibility for the company’s America, and Field to Market. We partner gave General Mills a positive ranking corporate social responsibility. The team with nongovernmental organizations Public policy using its accountability metric. includes: Ken Powell, chairman and CEO; (NGOs) such as the World Wildlife In addition to this engagement, we Kim Nelson, senior vice president of Fund and The Nature Conservancy on also recognize the importance of External Relations and president of the environmental matters. We have been accountability and transparency regarding Report scope Increasing transparency For the second year, we have utilized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Scope and responsibility operations, the largest segment of our business. Key metrics do not reflect In this year’s report, we have expanded Guidelines to help inform our reporting Our progress on key metrics is reported recent acquisitions – our controlling from three to five key focus areas: Health, scope and content. We expanded the for fiscal 2012. We also include interest in Yoplait S.A.S. to market Yoplait Environment, Sourcing, Workplace number of GRI Indicators included information about some of our more yogurt around the world and the fiscal and Community. Our decision to in this year’s report – including recent activities to illustrate progress 2013 acquisition of Yoki Alimentos S.A. elevate Sourcing and Workplace Food Processing Sector Supplement on newer initiatives. The report scope as independent sections is based includes global operations except The General Mills leadership team, indicators. Our report is undeclared on our own assessment as well as where otherwise noted. Because more noted above, has responsibility for and is not externally assured. stakeholder input on material topics. data is available, the report provides the development of this report. comparatively more data about our U.S. General Mills Global Responsibility 09 HEALTH Our goal is to provide people with convenient, nutritious food that – when combined with exercise and activity – can help them live healthier lives. We believe that a variety of convenient foods plays an important role in peoples’ diets, providing nutritious, tasty choices at a reasonable cost. A healthy product portfolio is a fundamental part of our business strategy, and we continue to improve the health profile of our products. At General Mills, our mission is Our strategies Nourishing Lives – making lives Provide Educate Advance healthier, easier and richer. nutritious consumers global food foods safety Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Overview Measuring progress: our Health Metric – General Mills is committed to improving the health profile of our products while meeting consumer requirements for taste. Since 2005, we have tracked and quantified health profile improvements using the General Mills Health Metric. This tool is overseen by the General Mills Health and Wellness Council and our Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition. Our Health Metric enables us to measure progress against our product improvement goals. We have improved the nutrition profile of more than 650 General Mills products in the U.S. since 2005 in one or more of the following ways (for more detailed goals and results, see page 15): Performance dashboard Product improvement guidelines Reducing Increasing Formulating Reducing calories, fat, Increasing beneficial nutrients – including Formulating new products or reformulating existing saturated fat, trans fat, vitamins, minerals and fiber – by 10 percent products to meet specific internal requirements, sugar or sodium by or more and formulating products to include including limiting calories, and meeting health 10 percent or more. at least a half-serving of whole grain, fruit, or nutrition claim criteria as defined by the vegetables, or low or nonfat dairy. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Our approach: invest & innovate We invest in nutrition science to better understand the relationship between food and health as we enhance our product portfolio Our investment includes research as for health professionals around the U.S. Since 2004, we’ve increased R&D spending $ conducted by our own Bell Institute of In fiscal 2012, the Bell Institute of Health on health and wellness by 86 percent. In Health and Nutrition scientists as well as and Nutrition distributed more than 2.8 May 2012, we realigned our Innovation, by scientists outside General Mills. With million consumer nutrition education Technology & Quality (ITQ) organization 86% Since 2004, we’ve backgrounds in nutrition science, public materials to health professionals. to increase the speed of innovation, invest increased R&D spending on health and wellness health, clinical nutrition and food science, in technologies that support multiple Within our business units, we invest in by 86 percent. Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition businesses and leverage our R&D and research and development (R&D) to help experts are a valuable resource for the Quality capabilities around the world. improve the health profile of our products. business teams at General Mills, as well General Mills Global Responsibility 11 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community We also enhance and accelerate our Foods business, which offers consumers innovation efforts by teaming up with the convenience of ready-to-cook spice world-class innovators from outside blends made with natural ingredients, such of the company. Through the General as herbs, spices, onions and sunflower Mills Worldwide Innovation Network oil, to deliver authentic Indian flavors. (G-WIN), we actively seek external partners who can help us deliver innovation in products, packaging, Our strategies and actions processes, ingredients and technologies. We are growing our portfolio through acquisitions that meet consumer demand 1 Provide nutritious food p. 13 for health, taste and convenience. General Mills has licensed the Yoplait brand A Delivering nutrition to millions of consumers from Yoplait since 1977 and operates the B Improving product health profiles U.S. Yoplait business, which holds the No. 1 brand position in the U.S. yogurt r In fiscal 2012, we expanded our C Offering nutritious new products interest in Yoplait worldwide and acquired category. In fiscal 2012, we completed Food Should Taste Good natural snack our acquisition of a 51 percent controlling foods and Parampara spice mixes. interest in Yoplait S.A.S., and a 50 percent 2 Educate consumers p. 21 interest in a related entity that holds the worldwide Yoplait brands. Yoplait is Leadership and A Promoting better health the second-largest brand in the global governance B Supporting responsible marketing yogurt market. Consumer demand for yogurt is growing in response to Our commitment to offering nutritious increased interest in foods that emphasize foods extends across the company. convenience, flavor variety, value and Operationally, product responsibility lies within the R&D and Marketing 3 Advance global food safety p. 24 nutrition. Yogurt is a nutrient-dense food that provides protein, calcium, organizations. Responsibility for consumer health and safety, and product and A Adhering to strict food safety processes potassium, vitamin D and other nutrients. service labeling is held by the Senior Vice B Partnering to increase food safety In 2012, we expanded our portfolio by President of Supply Chain, Senior Vice acquiring the Food Should Taste Good President of Innovation, Technology and natural snack food business. Food Quality. Responsibility for Marketing Should Taste Good is the latest addition Communications is held by the Chief to our Small Planet Foods natural and Marketing Officer. The Board Public organic products business, joining the Responsibility Committee oversees the division’s category-leading Cascadian company’s health and wellness strategy. Farm, Muir Glen, and LÄRABAR brands. In India, we acquired the Parampara General Mills Global Responsibility 12 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1 Provide nutritious food 1A Delivering nutrition to millions of consumers Our portfolio offers a broad array of great-tasting products that boost nutrient intake Since the 1940s, General Mills has been an industry leader in enriching foods with nutrients in the United States. Research shows that enriched and fortified foods make a substantial contribution to the nutrient intakes of Americans. Around the world, more than 18,400 servings of Yoplait dairy products are eaten every minute, providing consumers with calcium and vitamin D. Key nutrients and food groups General Mills’ impact Whole grain Cereal and Snack Bars Nine out of 10 Americans aren’t getting enough whole grain. Most Americans In 2012, our U.S. operations shipped more than 15 billion servings of whole grain annually. That adds up to more than are barely eating one serving of whole grain a day. Research shows that eating 40 million servings of whole grain each day (1 serving = 16 grams) – 35 million of those servings from our Big G cereals. enough whole grains, as part of a healthy diet, can help with heart health, weight Per capita cereal consumption is growing in markets around the world. Since 2003, our Cereal Partners Worldwide management and diabetes management and reduce the risk of certain cancers. joint venture with Nestlé has increased global consumption of whole grain by more than 3.4 billion servings. Fiber, Iron, Vitamin C, B Vitamins Vegetables Cereal Dietary fiber is important to digestive health and may also help curb Americans get as much as 30 percent of their daily fiber and General Mills offers nearly 40 innovative, fiber-added hunger. Some research suggests that people who have a higher 50 percent of their daily vitamin C from frozen, canned and dry fruits products – everything from cereal and bars to pancakes – under intake of fiber also tend to have a healthier body weight. and vegetables. According to research by the University of California, its category-leading Fiber One brand. According to the U.S. Davis, frozen vegetables are as nutritious as their fresh counterparts. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), readyGreen Giant vegetables are picked at the peak of perfection, packed to-eat cereal is the No. 1 source of key nutrients like iron and and frozen to lock in naturally occurring nutrients. folate for kids ages 4-12. Our cereals advertised to children are fortified with calcium, iron, vitamin D and B vitamins. Calcium & Vitamin D Yogurt Cereal Most Americans aren’t getting enough calcium or vitamin D in their diets. Nearly nine out Yogurt provides protein, calcium, potassium and other important General Mills has been a pioneer in fortifying cereals. Today, all of 10 American kids don’t get enough vitamin D, and about four out of 10 don’t get enough nutrients. Yoplait Original contains 20 percent of the Daily Value Big G kid cereals are fortified with vitamin D and calcium. A calcium. Sixty percent of women don’t get the calcium they need for healthy bones and teeth. of calcium and vitamin D in each cup. Research indicates that July 2012 study funded by the General Mills Bell Institute of Percentage of people who are not getting enough calcium or vitamin D women who regularly eat yogurt have a healthier body weight, Health and Nutrition, and published in The Journal of Food smaller waist size and consume more essential nutrients. Science, shows that vitamin D fortified cereal is one of the top Age groups Calcium Vitamin D 10 food sources of vitamin D for those in the United States. 2-5 years 16% 86% 6-12 years 43% 94% 13-18 years 53% 92% 19-50 years 26% 96% 51+ years 55% 94% General Mills Global Responsibility 13 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community General Mills has a long history of providing convenient, affordable, nutritious foods to help consumers meet key health and nutrition recommendations. In fiscal 2012, General Mills’ U.S. retail operations shipped billions of grams of whole grain and dietary fiber and billions of servings of vegetables and dairy, detailed below. Whole grain Vegetables Dairy Fiber 240 billion grams of whole grain  1 billion servings of vegetables 2.3 billion servings of low/ 55 billion grams of dietary fiber (1 serving = 1/2 cup) nonfat dairy (1 serving = 1 cup) Benefits of cereal Health benefits for children Health benefits for adults n S  tudies have shown that children and adolescents who eat a ready-to-eat A research1 study conducted in 2012 and funded by the Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition cereal breakfast have a lower Body Mass Index (BMI) and waist circumference examined the relationship between ready-to-eat cereal consumption and BMI, nutrient than those who don’t eat cereal at breakfast or who skip breakfast.1, 2 intake and whole grain intake among American adults. Key findings include: n Girls who eat cereal are less likely to become overweight as young adults than non-cereal eaters.3 adults (ages 19-64) n A  serving of cereal with milk costs about 50 cents on average, making cereal an n A dults who consumed more than 7 servings of ready-to-eat cereal in a 2-week inexpensive and efficient way to get important vitamins and minerals. period had lower BMIs than those who ate cereal less frequently. n F requent cereal eaters were less likely to be overweight or obese, compared to those who ate cereal less Cereal provides key nutrients for children frequently, and had nutrient intakes that aligned more closely with national dietary recommendations. Percent of selected nutrients provided by ready-to-eat cereal, children age 4-12 30% n R eady-to-eat cereal consumption is related to improved nutrient intakes. Ready-to-eat 23% cereal consumption is related to improved nutrient intakes in American adults. 20% 17% 13% 15% 14% Learn more about the benefits of cereal. 3% 1 Albertson AM et al. Ready-to-eat cereal consumption: Its relationship with BMI and nutrient intake of children aged 4 to 12 years. J Am Diet Assoc 2003;103:1613-1619. Calories Vitamin A Thiamin Niacin Vitamin B6 Folate Iron Zinc 2 Cho S et al. The effect of breakfast type on total daily energy intake and body mass index: Results from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). National Center for Health Statistics Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). J Am Coll Nutr 2003;22(4):296-302. (NCHS). National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Data. Hyattsville, MD: U.S. 3 Barton BA et al. The relationship of breakfast and cereal consumption to nutrient intake and body mass index: Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute Growth and Health Study. J Am Diet Assoc 2005;105:1383-1389. General Mills Global Responsibility 14 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1B Improving product health profiles Increasing nutrients in key food groups while reducing sugar, sodium, fat and calories Around the world, we are making progress Percent Nutritional Improvement health at work that is backed by the also includes educating consumers about toward our healthier product commitments. (U.S. retail sales volume) U.K.’s Department of Health. balanced diets and healthy, active lifestyles 64% 68% General Mills has improved the health 60% and promoting employee wellness. 45% In Australia, we joined the Australian profile of 68 percent of our U.S. retail 40% 33% Food and Grocery Council and other In Canada, we began a strategic process sales volume since we began tracking and 16% 21% food companies to launch the Healthier to address nutritional improvements to quantifying health improvements in 2005. Australia Commitment in October 2012. In our product portfolio in 2010. During the In fiscal 2012 alone, we improved nearly support of this commitment, General Mills first two years of this initiative, more than 16 percent of our U.S. retail sales volume. FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 and the other companies have pledged 30 percent of our retail product portfolio Improvements include adding whole we are proceeding with our sodium to collectively deliver on targets that in Canada was nutritionally improved or grains, fiber and calcium, and reducing reduction program as part of our include reducing sodium by 25 percent launched with a strong nutrition profile. In calories, sugar, sodium and trans fat. pledge associated with the “Responsibility and reducing energy (as measured by fiscal 2012 alone, more than 25 percent In the U.K., we have removed Deal,” a set of voluntary agreements kilojoules to address calorie consumption) of retail volume in Canada qualified artificial trans fat from foods, and covering food, physical activity and by 12.5 percent by 2015. The commitment for our “health improved” criteria, with Tracking health improvements Key to indicators: Achieved goal In progress Whole grain Sugar Sodium Trans fat Calories 650 or more of our U.S. products have U.S. U.S. U.S. U.S. U.S. been nutritionally improved since Increase whole grain: Reduce sugar in kids’ Reduce sodium by Remove trans fat Reduce calories: 2005. Every Big G cereal now cereals to single-digit 20 percent across top 10 Currently more than U.K. has more whole grain levels per serving product categories by 2015 500 U.S. retail products than any other single with 100 calories or U.K. Remove trans fat ingredient and contains less per serving; at least 10 grams of and more than 800 U.S. Reduce sodium in food, helping whole grain per serving; retail products with 150 consumers get closer to the more than 20 General calories or less per serving 2.4 grams per day maximum Mills cereals deliver recommended daily intake at least 16 grams General Mills Global Responsibility 15 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community meaningful increases in nutrients targeted 2012, General Mills reached a multiyear for increased consumption or decreases reformulation milestone across its portfolio in nutrients that are over-consumed of Big G cereals to ensure that every Big G in the Canadian population. We are cereal now has more whole grain than 10 grams anticipating similar achievements in any other single ingredient. All Big G fiscal 2013 to help improve diet quality cereals now contain at least 10 grams of in Canada in areas such as whole grain, whole grain per serving, and more than fiber, sodium and heart-healthier fats. 20 General Mills cereals deliver at least All Big G cereals PR1, FP6, FP7 16 grams. This whole grain innovation now contain at least was accomplished while delivering the 10 grams of whole Boosting whole grains same great taste consumers expect. grain per serving. Research shows that eating whole All global cereal brands offered by our grains as part of a healthy diet can CPW joint venture with Nestlé now have help improve heart health, weight at least 8 grams of whole grain per serving. management and diabetes management CPW – which makes and markets cereals while reducing the risk of some cancers. such as Fitness, Cheerios, Chocapic The USDA 2010 Dietary Guidelines for and Nesquik globally outside North Americans advise people to eat at least America – is the second-largest cereal half of all grains as whole grains and provider in the world. CPW is working to increase levels of whole grain so it is Learn more about choose products that name a whole the main ingredient in all CPW cereals. whole grains grain ingredient first on the label. In s Our Pillsbury Chakki Fresh Atta is made with 100 percent whole grain wheat, providing fiber, iron and essential nutrients. Product information helps build customer awareness of the nutritional value of whole grains. WATCH VIDEO r Watch “The Benefits of Whole In India, our Pillsbury Grains” – one of five videos focusing Atta with Multigrains on making half your grains whole. The combines seven natural videos were produced by the General Mills Bell Institute of Health and grains – wheat, soy, oats, Nutrition and other partners committed maize, ragi, chana dal to promoting and supporting grains in collaboration with the USDA Center and barley – with added for Nutrition Policy and Promotion. iron, calcium and protein. General Mills Global Responsibility 16 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Reducing sugar these cereals, including Honey Nut Cheerios and Cinnamon improve the nutrition profile of our products while striving to General Mills continues to reduce Toast Crunch, contain 9 grams meet consumer taste preferences. sugar across our global product of sugar per serving, down from 13g 13g 13g 13g portfolio. For example, in 2009 11 to 15 grams of sugar in 2007. 12g 12g 12g 12g 10g 10g 10g 10g the company announced it would 9g 9g 9g 9g General Mills also has been reduce sugar in all of its cereals working since 2004 in the advertised to children under age U.S. to lower the sugar in our 12 to single-digit grams of sugar 07 12 07 12 07 12 07 12 07 12 07 12 07 12 07 12 yogurts advertised to children per serving. Today, all General under age 12. Since 2007, we’ve Mills cereals marketed to children lowered the average sugar level are at 10 grams of sugar or less KEY in Yoplait kid yogurts by more 2007 Sugar level per serving. Four varieties of than 21 percent and continue to 2012 Sugar level Cereals at single-digit sugar levels 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 6g 6g 5g 4g 3g 3g 2g 1g 0g Cereal Partners Worldwide nutritional improvements Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint children and teenagers to 9 grams or less and Milo. In addition, CPW is making other sodium content of 20 breakfast cereals venture with Nestlé makes and markets per serving by the end of 2015. The changes nutritional improvements, including increasing popular with children and teenagers to cereals under the Nestlé brand globally outside mean that Nestlé calcium to at least 135 mg or less per serving by the end of North America. CPW announced specific breakfast cereals will 15 percent of the 2015. Since 2003, CPW has removed more commitments in October 2012 to nutritionally have a sugar reduction recommended daily than 9,000 tonnes of sugar and almost 900 improve about 5.3 billion portions of breakfast of up to 30 percent allowance (which tonnes of salt from its recipes, while adding cereals in more than 140 countries. across brands including varies in different more than 3.4 billion servings of whole grain. Nesquik, Chocapic, parts of the world) CPW is working to reduce the sugar content of Honey Cheerios and reducing the 20 Nestlé breakfast cereal brands popular with General Mills Global Responsibility 17 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Reducing sodium by 30 percent or more in several Chex Mix varieties and made significant strides General Mills has a broad commitment in other product categories, such as dry to reducing sodium in our products while dinners, canned vegetables, frozen pizza 20% meeting consumer taste requirements. and refrigerated dough. In fiscal 2012, Around the world, consumers eat an General Mills had 1,641 U.S. retail SKUs average of 9 to 12 grams of salt a day. with 480 mg or less sodium per serving. Many health authorities recommend In the U.S., General Mills has In the U.K., we have pledged as part of committed to trim sodium, reducing this level to around 6 grams – or the Responsibility Deal to reduce salt in about a teaspoonful – a day. General on average, by 20 percent in food – helping consumers get closer to Mills has steadily reduced sodium in our our top 10 categories by 2015. the 6 grams of salt per day (2.4 grams of product portfolio in many parts of the sodium) maximum recommended daily world. We have a team of researchers intake. Our sodium reduction program dedicated to reducing sodium in is aligned to the U.K. Department of foods through gradual reductions. Health targets. Acceptable technical In the U.S., General Mills committed solutions have been identified for some in 2008 to trim sodium, on average, by product categories, enabling us to speed Sodium reduction – corn 20 percent in our top 10 categories by 2015. 0.30 v Green Giant is up reformulation activities. We continue We are on track to meet this ambitious, lowering the salt in its to seek additional sodium reductions 0.25 canned vegetables by industry-leading sodium reduction effort. in our remaining product categories. Sodium g/100g 0.20 5 to 35 percent across This effort affects a significant portion of We also have implemented nutrition Europe, Russia, Africa our portfolio – products from snacks to standards for each brand to ensure that 0.15 and the Middle East. soups to side dishes. General Mills has This sodium reduction sodium levels are a key consideration 0.10 effort has already made strong progress toward this goal with when developing new products. been implemented in 0.05 sodium reductions in fiscal 2012 across 90 percent of Green In Australia, we also have been reducing Giant products – our product portfolio. In 2012, our ready0.00 sodium in our portfolio, including our Pack Pack Pack Pack Pack Pack Pack including sweet corn, to-serve soup category 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Old El Paso products. These reductions help artichokes and hearts achieved more than of palm – in these lay the foundation for our progress toward Standard (UK, FR, MENA, BENIT, RU, ASIA) 20 percent sodium Low salt (SP, NO) markets. the collective industry goal of reducing reduction four years No salt (UK, FR, SP, MENA) sodium by 25 percent by 2015 as part of ahead of schedule. We the Healthier Australia Commitment. also reduced sodium r In 2012, our ready-to-serve soup category achieved more than a 20 percent sodium r For the past five years, Green Giant has made consistent, steady reduction – four years ahead of schedule. We sodium reductions across our range of vegetable products in Europe. also reduced sodium by 10 percent in a number In Sweden and Norway, we apply the keyhole symbol on our packaging of Hamburger Helper dinners along with other to highlight healthier options in the canned vegetable category. products in the meals category. General Mills Global Responsibility 18 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Reducing trans fat In the U.K., we have achieved our goal of removing trans fat from partially In recent years, General Mills has hydrogenated oils in our products, successfully reformulated a number of meeting the trans fat elimination products to reduce trans fat, achieving target of the U.K. Responsibility Deal trans fat reductions in more than 150 of pledge. In addition to these ingredient our U.S. retail products since 2005. In fiscal selection and reformulation efforts, we 2012, General Mills continued to remove have put in place nutrition standards trans fat by reformulating additional ensuring continued absence of trans Pillsbury biscuits and crescents – all fat from our products in the U.K. r In the U.S., all Pillsbury flaky refrigerated r Our Old El Paso line of products in Europe Pillsbury refrigerated biscuits and crescents biscuits now have zero grams labeled has achieved a 39 percent saturated fat now have zero grams labeled trans fat. trans fat. Many varieties of these biscuits reduction and 43 percent total fat reduction. have lowered calories as well. Reformulating products Light to 90 per serving, and switched to natural colors, flavors and sweeteners We continually reformulate our products We modified Yoplait Light in Original Style Yoplait. In addition, we to meet consumer preferences and offer so it now contains 90 calories redesigned our packaging (read more healthier options. For example, in the – 10 less calories than the about our Yoplait packaging reductions in summer of 2012, we modified several the Environment section of this report). previous formulation – varieties of our Yoplait yogurt. We removed as well as zero grams of high fructose corn syrup from our Original fat and 20 percent of the Style Yoplait, Yoplait Light, Light Thick & recommended Daily Value Creamy and Yoplait Lactose-Free (along of calcium and vitamin D. with our new Fruplait and Simplait yogurt Yoplait Light is the only options). We also added more fruit to light yogurt endorsed our yogurt varieties that contain pieces WATCH VIDEO by Weight Watchers®. of fruit, reduced the calories in Yoplait r We listened and responded to customer feedback about Yoplait yogurt. Yoplait, Simplait and Fruiplait are trademarks of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. “At General Mills we are committed to continuous health improvements. We also know that food is absolutely not nutritious unless people are eating it. The win in innovation is in providing healthier products that are affordable and taste great.” – Maha Tahiri, Senior Technical Director, General Mills Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition General Mills Global Responsibility 19 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Modifying school meals The new requirements apply to school lunches during the 2012/13 school year, with zero grams trans fat that can be served throughout the school meal program. We General Mills also is responding to while the majority of changes to school also have convenient breakfast items – changing U.S. Department of Agriculture breakfasts take effect beginning July 2013. such as Pillsbury Mini Pancakes, Mini (USDA) standards for K-12 school Waffles and the new Pillsbury Sunrise General Mills is well-positioned to meet meals, which include increasing fruits Flatbread – that provide schools a quick these new requirements while continuing and vegetables, serving items with zero way to serve hot breakfast favorites to provide items that offer easy menu grams of trans fat and meeting whole while meeting the new requirements. planning and preparation. Already, we have grain requirements. Under the new 70 products that meet the USDA whole standards, school meals also must meet grain criteria, a full portfolio of products r General Mills products help schools serve meals that meet new USDA requirements. specific calorie ranges and sodium targets. 1C Offering nutritious new products Striving to offer products with more whole grain, more calcium, more vegetables and fruit, reduced sodium, less fat, fewer calories General Mills continues to provide Nutritious new products New options for limited diets consumers with healthful new product options. In fiscal 2012, General Mills continued to expand our offerings of glutennew products – such as Fiber Our summer 2012 product launches included: free and lactose-free products, making it easier for consumers One 90 Calorie Brownies, Multi to find the nutrition attributes they seek, including: Grain Cheerios Peanut Butter and Nature Valley Protein bars – generated 5 percent of General Mills’ U.S. retail segment sales. s Fiber One 90 Calorie Brownies provide 20 percent of the Green Giant Seasoned Yoplait Greek 100 has Cascadian Farm LÄRABAR über sweet Gluten Free Apple Yoplait Lactose recommended Daily Value of fiber Steamers frozen two times the protein Ancient Grains Granola and salty Fruit & Nut Cinnamon Chex cereal Free yogurt provides with 5 grams of fiber per serving. vegetables in six of regular yogurt – with organic cereal combines bars are gluten-free and has 10 grams of whole 20 percent of the varieties are made 100 calories. Yoplait quinoa, spelt and kamut contain 9 ingredients. grain per serving and no Daily Value of calcium with seasoning Greek 100 is the only khorasan wheat with artificial colors or flavors. and vitamin D. blends – including Greek yogurt endorsed granola, providing an rosemary, oregano, by Weight Watchers®. excellent source of General Mills offers more than 300 gluten-free honey and parsley – that fiber with 5 grams of products, including gluten-free versions of boost flavor without protein and 35 grams Betty Crocker dessert mixes and frostings, a added sauces. of whole grain. gluten-free version of Bisquick pancake and baking mix, and five varieties of Chex cereals. General Mills Global Responsibility 20 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 2 Educate consumers 2A Promoting better health Educating consumers around the world about nutrition and fitness General Mills believes that in addition Encouraging “At General Mills, we not to delivering a range of healthful and consumption of fruits only provide consumers better-for-you products, we also can help to raise awareness about the and vegetables with a range of healthful importance of achieving a balance of good Across Europe and the U.S., General Mills products – we also help nutrition and physical activity through is helping promote consumption of fruits raise awareness about the healthy lifestyle choices. In the U.S., we and vegetables. Our campaign to leverage r Our Green Giant campaign promotes importance of making healthy sponsor Champions for Healthy Kids, a the popularity of the Jolly Green Giant to vegetable consumption in France. lifestyle choices. Through our program promoting healthy nutrition encourage families to eat more vegetables and fitness for America’s youth (learn has expanded from the U.K. and France pledge as part of the Responsibility Deal Champions for Healthy Kids more in the Community section). to the U.S. In France, we help promote the through media campaigns and online program, our participation In 2012, we joined in a strategic partnership Programme National Nutrition Santé with efforts promoting the “5 a day” message, in the Healthy Weight with the USDA Center for Nutrition Policy the “5 par jour” (5 a day) message online, including providing recipe ideas and promotion of healthy lifestyle habits. Commitment Foundation and and Promotion to help promote dietary on product packaging and in stores. In guidelines for Americans. As part of this the U.K., General Mills supports the U.K. PR4, FP8 other partnerships, we are combined effort between government Department of Health’s Fruit and Vegetable working to promote overall and industry to promote nutrition in s In October 2012, kids interacted with a virtual Jolly Green Giant during an event at health by balancing good the context of the Dietary Guidelines New York City’s Grand Central Terminal promoting the nutritional benefits of eating vegetables. nutrition and physical activity.” for Americans 2010, our Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition helped equip health – Kim Nelson, General Mills Senior professionals with information about Vice President, External Relations and President, General Mills Foundation the latest science and practical nutrition tips. Learn more at ChooseMyPlate.gov. General Mills also is a member of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation, an industry-led coalition of more than 200 organizations focused on combating childhood obesity. PR4, FP8 General Mills Global Responsibility 21 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Combining nutrition Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation to help reduce obesity – particularly and fitness among kids – by 2015, Together Counts General Mills supports online resources is now being used as part of the Healthier that help consumers make more healthy Australia Commitment as well. Together choices about nutrition and exercise. In the Counts encourages families to eat and U.K., we promote physical activity through exercise together regularly to achieve our Nature Valley brand in partnership healthy weight through energy balance – with Walk for Life, part of the Change4Life matching calories in with calories out. In the movement that encourages families and U.S., we also support EatBetterEarly.com adults to eat well, move more and live (featuring recipes, nutrition tips, cooking longer by making small lifestyle changes tips, and information about whole grains) that add up to big health benefits. Our and LiveBetterAmerica.com (featuring U.K. Nature Valley website now features recipes, tips for healthy living, Food 101 details of more than 2,000 free walks glossary of fruits and vegetables, coupons and fitness insights – consistent with and a blog from a range of contributors). Canada: In Canada, we participate in the our brand and our participation in the PR4, FP8 Nutrition Facts Education Campaign, a U.K. Responsibility Deal pledge. Nature collaboration between Food & Consumer Nature Valley promotes Valley promotes healthy, active lifestyles Communicating Products of Canada and Health Canada healthy, active lifestyles fueled by whole grain consumption. nutrition information that has helped increase consumer fueled by whole grain on packaging awareness and use of the “% Daily Value,” consumption. a component in the Nutrition Facts table. General Mills’ product packaging provides clear nutrition information for consumers. Europe: In Europe, we joined 11 other U.S.: Currently, more than half of our U.S. leading food and beverage manufacturers products feature front-of-package labeling in November 2012 in reaffirming our and, by early 2014, all of them will. The commitment to harmonized front-of-pack “Nutrition Keys” are a set of standard nutrition labeling across all markets in the icons including information about calories, European Union (EU). The commitment will ensure that consumers have access Each portion contains saturated fat, sodium and total sugars – r Within six months after its launch, 78 percent to consistent, meaningful nutritional designed to make it easier for consumers to Calories Sugars Fat Saturates Sodium of the more than 90,000 visitors to the Nature make informed food choices in the grocery information on products, including 112 2,5g 0,3g Trace 0,2g Valley U.K. website viewed information about local walks. aisle. All of our Big G cereal boxes also continuing to display calorie information on 6% 3% <1% <1% 8% display grams of whole grain per serving the front of packages. Currently, 92 percent In Australia and in the U.S., of our products across all EU markets of an adult’s Guideline Daily Amount so consumers can see how cereal helps we support Together feature Nutrition Keys printed on the them meet dietary recommendations. r In Europe, 92 percent of our products feature Counts, an online program packaging. We began this labeling in 2008. Nutrition Keys on the packaging. We were also the first to use a “contain” promoting energy balance. FP8 statement to highlight allergen information Launched in the U.S. by the Per portion boldly on our product information panels. Calories 112 General Mills Global Responsibility 22 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 2B Supporting responsible marketing Participating in pledges around the world that address advertising to children General Mills’ marketing guidelines reviewing ads to ensure they are “Our goal is to innovate to make people’s lives healthier, easier underscore our commitment to responsible appropriate for the intended audience. marketing and advertising by stating and richer. As an industry leader, we are also committed to Along with other companies in the that all marketing should respect three maintaining the highest standards for responsible marketing industry, we have also made commitments key steps to healthier living: balance, to self-regulation around the world – practices, especially those directed to children. Each year, we moderation and physical activity. We take proactively establish industry-leading product standards and including advancing pledges to ensure particular care around advertising directed to children – including prior review by the our advertising meets specific standards marketing guidelines to ensure we deliver on our commitment.” in countries from the U.S. and the EU to Better Business Bureau’s Child Advertising – Mark Addicks, Chief Marketing Officer, General Mills Brazil, Canada, India and Singapore. Review Unit in the United States. General Mills has had child marketing guidelines In July 2011, for example, we joined 16 food and beverage companies in General Mills’ commitments regarding any product that does not meet specific in place for more than 30 years, and they establishing uniform nutrition criteria for advertising to children in the U.S.) nutrition criteria to kids under 12. In are reviewed and updated annually by foods advertised to children under age November 2012, the EU pledge added the company’s Child Marketing Review In Canada, we participate in the Canadian 12 in the U.S. – strengthening industry harmonized nutrient profiles to the EU Council. These guidelines are reviewed Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising guidelines that we had helped put in place platform for diet, physical activity and annually with the company’s CEO and the Initiative (CAI), a voluntary initiative in 2007. We are on track to comply with health. In the future, only foods and Chief Operating Officers of the company’s by 19 of Canada’s leading food and Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising beverages meeting these profiles will be U.S. and International operating units. beverage companies to promote and Initiative (CFBAI) guidelines by the Dec. 31, advertised to children. The EU pledge support healthy dietary choices and We adhere to strict internal and aligns with the International Food and 2013, deadline. (Find more details about healthy lifestyles to children under 12 industry guidelines in producing and Beverage Alliance’s pledge to establish years of age. The 2011 CAI Compliance global minimum standards for marketing report includes General Mills. to children in accordance with the As a founding member of the EU pledge, World Health Organization (WHO) a voluntary initiative by leading food and framework. WHO has identified child beverage companies, General Mills and marketing as a regulatory priority. other signatories agree not to advertise PR6 General Mills is among 14 of the world’s leading food companies to sign the Singapore Food & Beverage Industry Responsible 14 Advertising to Children Pledge – the first pledge of its kind in Singapore. Beginning in January 2013, these companies will advertise to children only products that meet agreed-upon nutritional criteria. General Mills Global Responsibility 23 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 3 Advance global food safety 3A Adhering to strict food safety processes Setting high standards for prevention, quality and investment As a consumer foods company, General Critical Control Points (HACCP) process an independent third party, according Mills is committed to the safety of with NASA. HACCP details a process for to publicly available and recognized the products we produce and market ensuring food safety by identifying critical standards. In 2012, our plants around around the world. That commitment is stages in the production process in order to the world were inspected by numerous fundamental to the way we do business. minimize or eliminate potential food safety local, state, federal and/or provincial This emphasis on food safety and quality issues. Today, the comprehensive HACCP regulatory agencies; no official actions or has long addressed issues such as preventive process is not only required noncompliance issues of significance were spoilage and contamination, as well as of General Mills’ businesses around identified. We had a total of five recalls in r All General Mills owned facilities receive allergenicity and ingredient simplification. the world, it also has become the food 2012, all of which were voluntary and did certification based on audits from an industry’s gold standard and the backbone not result in any consumer illness or injury. independent third-party service provider – Strategy and process of many countries’ food safety regulations. a strategy we adopted more than 50 years Our food safety risk management Governance ago and continue to refine. strategy is based on three core elements: Investment and and auditing including: regulatory compliance; trace and prevention, intervention and response. certification Governance of General Mills food safety recall; labeling; claims; physical, chemical We work hard to prevent problems by General Mills adopts and applies the and regulatory matters begins with a and biological hazards; transportation; good building in quality and food safety from same high safety and quality standards corporate policy signed by our CEO. This manufacturing practices and sanitation. the start of our product design process. everywhere we do business. All employees corporate policy is further supported by The policies form the foundation for our We maintain stringent internal standards are stewards of our brands, and food an additional set of 16 detailed policies internal audits, including collaborations and requirements to ensure safety safety is integral to this mission. We with accompanying standards and with our global internal auditing group. across all processes and operations. To spend five times the amount on food guidance documents providing more verify prevention, we conduct focused audits, risk-based surveillance and testing. We continually review our safety we spent five years ago and annually review areas where capital is required to address emerging needs. granular requirements. These food safety policies are developed by a global team involving subject matter experts relevant 5 times processes and procedures. Should a We spend five times the More than 90 percent of our total to the policy. Policies are signed by the amount on food safety we compromised product reach the market, senior leader(s) in the functions primarily we have well-established processes worldwide volume – including products spent five years ago. produced at our own plants and at coresponsible for assuring compliance. These that guide our immediate response. policies are global – we have the same manufacturing sites – is manufactured More than 50 years ago, General Mills in facilities audited and/or certified by expectations regardless of country – and developed the Hazard Analysis and cover a broad range of food safety areas, General Mills Global Responsibility 24 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 3B Partnering to increase food safety Increasing supplier and co-manufacturer audits, training and awareness 500+ In recent years, we have dramatically increased our supplier and comanufacturer audits worldwide to help ensure the safety of the raw materials We conducted more than (ingredients and packaging) we use in 350 supplier and 150 our products, including those products co-manufacturer audits produced by non-General Mills locations. worldwide in 2012. In fiscal 2012, we directly conducted more than 350 supplier and 150 co-manufacturer in Asia in 2012. In addition, we directly audits worldwide. We also encourage hosted several webinars covering topics third-party audits and/or certification, such such as biological and physical hazard as the Global Food Safety Initiative, as an controls, allergen management and plant additional preventive control measure. sanitation. We are continuing this wellreceived strategy in 2013, kicking off with In fiscal 2011, we held our first supplier a supplier school in Europe in March. school in the U.S., reaching our largest FP5 base of suppliers. We have continued this strategy, conducting a supplier school We encourage third-party audits and certification as additional preventive control measures. BPA Most canned food and drink products on the Despite broad scientific and regulatory Technical challenges remain, but progress As viable alternatives prove safe and effective market today use BPA (bisphenol A) in the consensus on the safety of BPA, we is being made. For example, General Mills for other products, we expect can suppliers can lining or lid to protect food from spoiling know that some consumers would identified a safe, viable alternative for our Muir and the food industry, including General Mills, and to prevent metal food packaging from prefer to see alternatives – and General Glen tomatoes in the United States, and with in response to consumer interest, will convert corroding. Scientific and governmental bodies Mills is actively working with suppliers the fall 2011 tomato harvest, we successfully to alternatives that do not incorporate BPA. worldwide have studied BPA and concluded and manufacturers to develop and test transitioned Muir Glen tomato products that the weight of evidence supports its safety. can linings that do not use BPA. to cans with linings that do not use BPA. General Mills Global Responsibility 25 ENVIRONMENT Our goal is to continually reduce our environmental footprint. We focus our efforts on areas where we can have the greatest impact, both within our own operations and outside of them, primarily in agriculture and ingredient production. Across our global operations, we work to reduce our natural resource consumption. Additionally, we focus on sustainably sourcing the raw materials we use in our products. Our sustainability mission is Our strategies to conserve and protect the natural resources upon which Reduce resource Increase usage in our sustainability our business depends. operations of ingredients Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Overview Our Environmental Sustainability Metrics – We continue to work toward our fiscal 2015 goal of achieving significant, measurable reductions in energy usage, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water usage and other sustainability metrics. In fiscal 2012, our rates improved across all metrics with the exception of water usage. This increase was due to slightly decreased product volumes across our business as well as changes to product mix, which adversely impact all rate-based metrics. We exceeded our packaging goal and have since reset our 2015 goal to reflect this performance. In absolute terms, we improved across all dimensions (see page 76 for detail). We remain committed to making progress toward our goals. EN5, EN18 Performance dashboard FY2015 target (% rate Progress through FY2011 Progress through FY2012 reduction from FY2005) *,** (% rate reduction from FY2005)*** (% rate reduction from FY2005) Energy usage rate* (kilowatt hours/metric ton of product) 20% 8% 11% GHG emissions rate* (metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product) 20% 9% 10% Water usage rate*,** (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 20% 11% 10% Solid waste generation rate* (metric tons/metric ton of product) 50% 35% 40% Transportation fuel usage rate*,** (% fuel reduction/metric ton of product shipped) 35% 15% 17% Packaging improvement rate*,** (% of packaging volume improved) 60% 27% 52% (increased from 40%) * Energy, GHG emissions, water and solid waste generation absolute and rate-based data in this section are from wholly owned production facilities globally, excluding recently acquired Yoki and Yoplait International. Transportation fuel use data covers outbound shipments in the United States by our logistics service providers. Packaging improvement data are global. ** Water usage rate goal and progress are based on fiscal 2006 baseline data. Transportation fuel usage rate and packaging improvement rate goals and progress are based on fiscal 2009 baseline. *** FY2011 rate adjustments reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodology. General Mills Global Responsibility 27 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Our approach: measure & reduce We track our environmental footprint, report progress and work to reduce our global impact We measure and report our progress 2020. To date, sustainability initiatives have impact occurs upstream and downstream according to key performance indicators contributed substantially to our progress of our own operations. Results of (see table on page 27) as well as other against this goal. For example, by focusing that study are detailed on page 41 metrics, making changes in our processes on landfill diversion, our North American of this report’s Sourcing section. Environmental and facilities to improve our environmental plants returned more than US$8 million EN18 management performance. We affect these improvements in recycling income to their bottom lines approach through our environmental management in fiscal 2012. Additionally, our energy Organizational PLAN: Identify our key impacts system, which follows a “plan, do, check, reduction projects in fiscal 2012 resulted responsibility and develop thorough task act” approach. At each facility, we use in a cost savings of US$1.3 million. Since lists to address them. scorecards to track and report progress. At General Mills, our Chairman and 2005, our North American operations have CEO has ultimate accountability Do: Leverage multiple systems To reduce our environmental impact, we saved more than US$55 million by using for environmental sustainability to complete the work. pursue two key business strategies. The proactive environmental management, CI performance, which is included in his check: Complete internal and first is Continuous Improvement (CI), and HMM tools to make our plants more annual performance objectives. He external assessments and audits. which focuses on waste elimination and efficient and environmentally sustainable. convenes the Sustainability Governance act: Utilize the results $55 million prevention. CI encourages employee Committee three times per year, made ownership of company processes – from to improve performance up of operating and functional heads. and update our tasks. plant production workers to our executive The committee reviews and approves management team – to eliminate and Since 2005, our North strategies, programs and key investments. prevent waste, including time and effort. American operations In addition, our Chief Sustainability The second is Holistic Margin Management have saved more than Officer, who reports to the Senior Vice our global environmental sustainability (HMM), which calls on cross-functional US$55 million through President of Supply Chain and the Senior initiatives. Executives in Supply Chain, teams to understand the value drivers for proactive efforts to make Vice President of External Relations, leads External Relations and Sustainability have our brands and eliminate nonvalue-added plants more efficient responsibility to develop, coordinate and costs. In addition to improvements in and sustainable. execute programs to achieve corporateenvironmental performance, savings from wide goals. To ensure ownership across these initiatives enable us to offset inflation the company, these goals are broken increases in our raw material costs which, down and assigned annually to the in turn, helps us to keep our consumer relevant executives within business prices stable and to invest in innovation. WATCH VIDEO units, supply chain and production Our companywide goal – which includes In fiscal 2012, we commissioned a Trucost facilities. The Board of Directors’ Public Jerry Lynch, Chief Sustainability environmental and non-environmental study of natural resource use across Responsibility Committee regularly Officer at General Mills, highlights initiatives – is to accrue US$4 billion in our value chain. We recognize that the the role of employees in championing reviews the company’s sustainability HMM savings between fiscal 2010 and majority of our overall environmental sustainability efforts. objectives, strategies and performance. General Mills Global Responsibility 28 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Training, monitoring and follow-up On a quarterly basis, our Global Safety Significant Our strategies and actions and Environment team reviews the reductions in 2012 company’s compliance status and Reduced total energy use by more than 172 million kilowatt hours Reduce resource usage progress toward sustainability goals with senior management, production 1 in our operations p.30 Lowered GHG emissions facilities and business units. Global by about 60,000 metric tons Safety and Environment teams at our A Reducing energy usage plants hold regular meetings to share Cut water usage by roughly best practices about environmental 300,000 cubic meters B Reducing GHG emissions and initiatives and compliance requirements. addressing climate change In each production facility and targeted Reduced solid waste generated C Reducing water usage by about 17,000 metric tons commercial units, we conduct training D Reducing solid waste generation annually with relevant personnel. In fiscal Received no significant compliance E Reducing transportation fuel usage 2012, we performed scheduled safety violations, fines or penalties and environmental audits at many of our F Reducing packaging footprint wholly owned facilities around the world. Increase sustainability 2 of ingredients p. 39 A Improving sustainability of raw materials and watersheds In 2012, we exceeded our 2015 packaging improvement goal and have since reset our 2015 goal to reflect this performance. r Yoplait fridge pack: reduced, recycled, and labeled for recycling. In 2012, we reduced the weight of the Yoplait cup, reduced the weight of the paperboard carton, converted the paperboard carton from virgin to recycled paper, and printed a label on the carton indicating the recyclability of each packaging component. General Mills Global Responsibility 29 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1 Reduce resource usage in our operations 1A Reducing energy usage Improving the energy efficiency of our facilities around the world Across our businesses worldwide, total). We remain committed to meeting facilities – and developed an internal energy use reduction rate (per pound we are making improvements our goal of a 20 percent reduction by process focused on energy reduction. of production) from 1.4 percent to to the energy efficiency of our plants 2015, using 2005 as our baseline year. Through this process, we systematically 8 percent during the first six months of and processes. We continue to focus EN3, EN4, EN5 analyze energy use at each facility and the initiative (May-November 2012). on reducing energy consumption in our develop improvement plans. We have Our comprehensive energy management operations. Our energy audit program Energy reduction piloted the approach at seven sites, and process improves plantwide performance collects and shares sustainability best process in fiscal 2013 will roll through a range of actions at each practices across our production facilities, it out across our other facility. While some changes provide In the United States, we are using a such as dryer and oven optimization, divisions to accelerate sizable savings on their own, we also new process to drive energy efficiency building heating and cooling system energy reduction improvements and lighting replacement in our Big G cereal sites, which account for more than 40 percent of our global performance. The 8% realize the cumulative contribution of smaller steps toward our energy innovations. The combined savings results are significant goals. For example, our Big G plant in energy consumption. In 2012, we from individual projects at each of our – participating sites Albuquerque, New Mexico, identified allocated resources – including adding plants adds up to significant energy improved their energy savings opportunities including dedicated, energy-focused engineers reductions across the company. average annual at each of our Big G cereal production During 2012, we used 2.4 billion kilowatt hours of energy in our wholly owned production facilities, 7.0 percent less than Energy usage, 2005 2012 3.0 700 in 2011. During this time, we used 514 kWh/metric ton of product kilowatt hours per metric ton of product, 2.5 600 a decrease of 2.7 percent over 2011. GOAL 500 2.0 Billion kWh These decreases were primarily due to a 400 continual focus on energy conservation 1.5 300 and developing processes around energy 1.0 200 r Our Big G plant in Covington, Georgia, management. Main sources of energy 0.5 100 first piloted the energy reduction process, included natural gas (54 percent of the decreasing the energy use rate (per pound total) and electricity (45 percent of the 0.0 0 of production) by 29 percent and saving an 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 estimated US$5 million in energy over five years. Direct Indirect General Mills Global Responsibility 30 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community shutting down dryers in our production to save 865,000 kilowatt hours per area, eliminating compressed air cooling year, decreasing GHG emissions by 917 in the packaging process, turning off metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent Sustainable building design lights in offices, and adjusting controls and saving US$133,000 annually. We In September 2012, we opened the largest LEED Gold certified for heating and cooling the entire facility. completed installation of the new facility of its kind in North America: our warehouse and distribution Together, these changes are saving 2.6 office lighting in July 2012, followed by center in Fort Wayne, Indiana. This new facility received certification million kilowatt hours of energy annually. factory lighting in September 2012. The from the U.S. Green Building Council because environmental We are using a similar energy savings have been validated as part of sustainability has been integrated into the building’s design, management approach at our plant in a rebate program from the local energy construction, operation and maintenance. In January 2012, an Rooty Hill, Australia, where we installed provider, state and federal governments. expansion at our production facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico, EN7 also earned LEED Gold certification. Five General Mills buildings high-efficiency lighting that is expected have attained LEED Gold certification since 2010. s A Taste of General Mills blog, September 2012, “A solid gold facility” r In Australia, high-efficiency lighting better illuminates the workspace while saving energy. The system uses programmable logic controllers and zoning to further reduce energy consumption. Renewable energy: solar panels in Spain Many of our facilities use renewable sources of energy, such as biomass, wind and solar power. v Solar panels generate At our San Adrián plant in northern Spain, nearly 4,500 solar panels generate almost 1.5 million electricity at our plant in kilowatt hours of electricity annually, which is directed to the power grid. Completed in July San Adrián, Spain. This facility also has achieved 2012, the facility is our first in Europe with solar power (we already have solar panel installations ISO 50.001:2011 Energy at facilities in the United States and China). The San Adrián plant receives all of its electricity – Management System representing one-third of its energy overall – from renewable sources, including wind power. The certification. plant also has significantly trimmed its energy and water usage rates in recent years. Learn more about the San Adrián solar panel project in this Triple Pundit interview with our plant manager. General Mills Global Responsibility 31 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1B Reducing GHG emissions and addressing climate change Managing the environmental impact of our operations Climate change is a serious Deforestation and forest degradation issue with broad implications for also contribute to climate change. agriculture and the world’s food supply. General Mills has policies in place to General Mills has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) We see a clear role for responsible help slow the impact of these trends. For since its inception in 2000. We regularly report our GHG emissions and companies to help mitigate the risk example, we have public commitments climate change strategies through this initiative. In 2012, CDP compiled of climate change. Our primary focus about our sourcing of ingredients such as data from 4,100 organizations in 60 countries around the world. is reducing our GHG emissions in our palm oil, detailed in our Sourcing section. operations through improved energy EN18 efficiency and the use of low-carbon energy sources (see pages 30-31). goal of a 20 percent reduction by 2015, of reducing GHG emissions for fluid using 2005 as our baseline year. milk by 25 percent by the year 2020 The majority of our Scope 1 and EN16, EN17 (using 2007-2008 as a baseline) – and Scope 2 GHG emissions are from burning the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Reducing emissions fossil fuels at production plants and In addition to reducing GHG emissions (SAI) in Europe. We are also helping We reduce GHG emissions in purchased electricity. Energy sources we from our own operations, we also work to measure GHG emissions stemming our operations by improving use include natural gas, fuel oil, propane to decrease emissions across our value from U.S. row crops through our energy efficiency and using and electricity generated by various chain. Regarding our Yoplait yogurt collaboration with Field to Market. Learn low-carbon energy sources. sources. We promote energy efficiency business, General Mills is a member more about our efforts to help manage throughout our value chain and consider of the Sustainability Council of the GHG emissions across our supply chain the climate impacts of packaging Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy – which in the Sourcing section of this report. design and raw material inputs. has committed to the voluntary goal During fiscal 2012, we generated 936,000 metric tons carbon dioxide Greenhouse gas emissions, 2005 2012 Metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product equivalent (CO2e) of GHG emissions in 1,200,000 0.25 our wholly owned production facilities, 1,000,000 0.20 5.9 percent less than in 2011. This GOAL Metric tons CO2e included 242,000 metric tons CO2e of 800,000 0.15 Scope 1 emissions and 694,000 metric 600,000 tons CO2e of Scope 2 emissions. GHG 0.10 400,000 emissions were 0.2 metric tons CO2e per 0.05 metric ton of product, down 1.5 percent 200,000 from 2011. These decreases were 0 0 primarily due to energy conservation. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 We remain committed to meeting our Scope 1 Scope 2 General Mills Global Responsibility 32 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1C Reducing water usage Lowering consumption and reusing water In food production, water is The decrease in the absolute amount was Water usage, 2006 2012 Cubic meters/metric ton of product used as an ingredient, to cool primarily due to our water conservation 12 3.0 or heat various production operations, efforts and reuse projects. In 2012, 10 2.5 Million cubic meters and to clean and sanitize equipment. our water consumption rate was 2.1 8 GOAL 2.0 We track water usage in each of our cubic meters per metric ton of product, production facilities to identify areas an increase of 1.1 percent over 2011, 6 1.5 of high usage and target opportunities primarily due to change in the mix of 4 1.0 for conservation. We are working with products sold. We are renewing efforts to vendors and partners to develop water meet our goal of a 20 percent decrease 2 0.5 balance processes to help our facilities by 2015, using 2006 as our baseline year. 0 0 identify opportunities to decrease 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 water use. We continue our efforts Water recycling results by using recycled water to recirculates up to 75 percent of the water. to reduce water usage by making improvements to the efficiency of our saves 380,000 cubic cool soup cans during the final stage As a result, the team predicts that water plants and processes around the world. meters each year of canning. In addition to reducing usage will decrease by nearly 40 percent, water usage and energy consumption, the equal to about 2 percent of General Mills’ During 2012, we used 10 million cubic We fund scalable sustainability projects new approach has led to an estimated entire global water use. The system also meters of water in our wholly owned that drive us toward our corporate US$600,000 in combined annual savings. will save US$220,000 annually in water production facilities, 2.9 percent less footprint reduction targets. Two examples At our cereal facility in Cedar Rapids, and sewer costs. The savings at these than in 2011. Eighty-two percent of total of this approach include investments a filtration system installed in 2012 two plants are a result of plant-driven usage was from municipal sources, and to reduce water use at our production has reduced water usage by 190,000 CI initiatives. the other 18 percent was groundwater. facilities in Vineland, New Jersey, and cubic meters per year. Previously, water EN10, EN26 Cedar Rapids, Iowa. In both cases, we was used only once; the new system are reusing water only for cooling and cleaning during the production process, separate from water in food products. 75% At our soup facility in Vineland, we are reusing water to save 190,000 cubic meters of water per year – a 14 percent annual reduction in the plant’s water At our Cedar Rapids cereal plant usage. We are also recovering heat energy in Iowa, a new water filtration to save 14.7 million kilowatt hours of system recirculates up to energy (natural gas), representing a 75 percent of the water used 13 percent annual reduction in energy r Employees helped General Mills earn an Environmental Quality Award from the New Jersey to clean emissions from the air. usage. The plant team achieved these Business & Industry Association for the Vineland plant’s water and energy conservation system. General Mills Global Responsibility 33 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Reverse osmosis creating a pure water stream that the facility uses in the food production value chain, we are implementing our global water stewardship strategy system saves process. The remaining water is used for to improve the health of watersheds water in Mexico sanitation after treatment with ultraviolet accessed by our operations. Learn (UV) light as a safety precaution. more in the Sourcing section. At our facility in Irapuato, Mexico, we EN9, EN10 installed a reverse osmosis (RO) water Looking at our broader environmental WATCH VIDEO recovery system that saves more footprint, the majority of water required r At our plant in Covington, than 3,000 cubic meters of water per to bring our products to consumers is Georgia, an onsite facility treats year. The RO system purifies water used upstream of our direct operations, food processing wastewater so thoroughly that the water can by removing salts using membranes, primarily in agriculture. Across our be fully reused, saving about 750,000 liters of water per day and almost US$1 million annually. Our reverse osmosis water recovery system purifies water by removing salts. WATCH VIDEO r Agriculture accounts for the largest percentage of water use in our value chain (see Trucost study results on page 41). In Mexico, our Green Giant business helps growers use water more efficiently. r We are saving more than 3,000 cubic meters of water per year at our facility in Irapuato, Mexico. Raising awareness about water consumption At our Häagen-Dazs facility in Arras, France, more than 100 people – including students and employees – gathered to raise awareness and exchange information about water consumption in the community during our Water Day event. The environmental team presented best practices of its water use and provided a tour of its wastewater treatment facility. General Mills Global Responsibility 34 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1D Reducing solid waste generation Keeping waste out of landfills through reduction, reuse and recycling We continue to reduce our solid and loss identification, specifically Solid Waste by Disposition, 2012 waste stream by improving ingredient overuse elimination efforts. (% of total) efficiencies in our production operations. This includes identifying sources of Waste reduction at our 84% waste and decreasing waste from our plants around the world processes. We also reduce the amount n A  t many of our facilities, we reuse of waste sent to landfills by finding ways to recycle it or use it for other purposes. boxes and totes instead of recycling We diverted approximately the cardboard or sending it to a 84 percent of waste During 2012, we diverted approximately landfill. At our plant in Belvidere, 84 percent of waste from landfills. We from landfills in 2012. Illinois, for example, we reuse generated 159,000 metric tons of solid corrugated cardboard from supply landfill” plant, the change also saves EN22 waste in our wholly owned production shipments – decreasing waste more than US$16,600 per year. n  ecycling 78% R facilities in 2012, 10.7 percent less by 200 metric tons annually. n O  ur Seretram plant in Labatut, France, n Landfill 16% than in 2011. Our waste generation n I nthe U.K., our Berwick facility stopped shares the zero-waste-to-landfill n  euse 4% R rate was 0.034 metric tons per metric sending its waste to landfills in 2012. distinction. Green Giant sweet n Incineration (Incl Energy Recovery) 0.6% ton of product, which is a decrease Instead, the plant now manages its corn cans that do not meet quality n  omposting 0.3% C of 7.6 percent, on target to achieve waste through reuse and recycling, specifications are crushed in a our goal of a 50 percent reduction and diverted 328 metric tons of waste machine, which separates steel ready by 2015, compared to 2005. These from local landfills in fiscal 2012. In for recycling from corn. In 2012, we decreases were primarily due to a addition to becoming a “zero waste to identified a partner that composts focus on Continuous Improvement the corn for use as garden fertilizer. Solid waste generation, 2005 2012 Metric tons/metric ton of product 300,000 0.06 250,000 0.05 Metric tons 200,000 0.04 150,000 GOAL 0.03 WATCH VIDEO 100,000 0.02 r At our San Adrián plant in northern Spain, our employees are 50,000 0.01 working toward a zero-waste goal. 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 General Mills Global Responsibility 35 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Targeting food waste food for donation, such as surplus In the United States, the Food Waste Donating surplus: One-third of all the calories of food ingredients or over-runs of products Reduction Alliance plays a critical reducing waste and with seasonal or promotional packaging. role in food waste reduction. The produced in the world every year are feeding people From promotional cereal boxes and goals of the Alliance – made up of the wasted – equaling 1.3 billion metric tons snack bars to ingredients such as flour Grocery Manufacturers Association, In 2012, we donated more than 10,800 of food waste – while nearly 1 billion metric tons of surplus food to U.S. and chocolate chips, we continuously the Food Marketing Institute, the people do not have enough to eat. Food charitable organizations – feeding seek opportunities to donate food and National Restaurant Association and waste also is five times more impactful in hundreds of thousands of people rather boost food security in developed and many member companies – are to than recycling the food (such as using a landfill than packaging waste, because developing countries (read more about reduce the amount of food going to it for animal feed) or sending food it creates methane – a GHG 20 times our work with food cooperatives and landfills and increase the amount waste to landfills. Examples include: more potent than carbon dioxide. food shelves around the world in the of food going to hungry people. n 1 58 truckloads of Big G cereal products In our supply chain, we have established Community section of this report). EN22 n 3  33 truckloads of Yoplait products – more new systems to more effectively We also help address the food waste than 4,800 metric tons of food identify opportunities to capture challenge through industry collaboration. n More  than 61 metric tons of snack products donated to Feeding America Food Banks n M  ore than 250,000 cases of Mill City Reducing transportation fuel usage baking products donated to food 1E banks in Georgia, Ohio, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York and Tennessee Improving transportation efficiency (Fuel use per metric ton product, 2009 = 100%) We are making progress toward U.S. transportation fuel use reduction, 2009 – 2012 our U.S. goal of a 35 percent 100% “Dramatically reducing the 95% reduction in fuel usage by 2015, using amount of wasted food is a Percent reduction rate 90% 2009 as the baseline year. During 2012, fuel usage per metric ton of product 85% critical strategy in the drive (for outbound product transport in the 80% for global food security. 75% U.S.) decreased by 2 percent to reach 70% Reducing food waste also 17 percent fuel reduction versus the 2009 65% GOAL lowers the amount of baseline. The reduction is largely due to 60% increased efficiency in transportation 0% methane gas – a significant planning and increased regional 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 source of GHGs – coming distribution, shipment loading practices, from landfills.” and delivery methods. Our approach Global fuel reduction and associated GHG emissions by 47 percent. By substituting wooden – Jerry Lynch, General Mills Chief includes improved logistics planning, Around the world, our transportation pallets with slip sheets and shifting all Sustainability Officer and Food Waste modal shifts to less-impactful forms of teams are making targeted changes to load movements from trucks to ocean Reduction Alliance Co-chair transport (such as truck to rail), loading reduce fuel usage. In the Middle East transport, the team can load almost using slip sheets, and pallet reduction. North Africa region, for example, we twice as many cases per container – EN29 decreased transport-related fuel usage General Mills Global Responsibility 36 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community shipping the same volume using 250 logistics provider to ensure efficient other frozen foods transported by our containers instead of 474. In France, we delivery of our products to customers. logistics provider and then delivered to also used intermodal transport – shifting Today, our products are combined with our largest retail customer’s distribution some truck shipments to more fuelcenters. Using this strategy, we cut efficient rail – to decrease emissions more than 4 million road kilometers in by 134 metric tons of CO2e in 2012. 2012. This collaboration optimizes our In addition to these efforts, we work supply chain, reducing product transportwith other partners across our supply related environmental impacts and chain to reduce fuel usage. For example, boosting efficiency. We are leveraging r Full containers leave our distribution in the U.K. and Ireland, we transport this approach in other locations. partner’s frozen depot, maximizing space nearly 90 percent of EU-produced utilization and reducing truck miles driven. products bound for the U.K. primarily by boat. We collaborate with our r In France, we decrease emissions using a combination of truck and rail transport. 1F Reducing packaging footprint Exceeding our goal and setting a more aggressive packaging improvement target EN26 Our internal Packaging Metric packaging that has been improved since in the U.S. market in the mid-1970s. We indicators measure our progress fiscal 2009. While our 2012 results do achieved this reduction through a series in reducing the environmental impact not include recent acquisitions (Yoki of packaging enhancements over the Packaging Metric of our packaging. Our Packaging Metric and Yoplait International, which were years. This latest packaging improvement We use four key indicators to includes four key indicators to assess not yet fully integrated within the fiscal represents a breakthrough after many assess packaging improvement: improvement: packaging weight; year), those businesses are included years of development, demonstrating recycled content and recyclability; in the scope of the revised 2015 goal. General Mills’ commitment to making Packaging weight – reducing renewable and compostable the capital investments necessary to the package-to-product ratio content; and truckload efficiency. Packaging weight improve product packaging for the benefit Recycled content – increasing of consumers and the environment. recycled content and recyclability In 2012, we reached a milestone with We innovate to reduce the package-to52 percent of our packaging volume product ratio across our product portfolio. Renewable content – increasing improved from our fiscal 2009 baseline In 2012, we introduced a lighter weight renewable and compostable content – exceeding our 2015 goal of 40 percent Yoplait cup, which decreased the cup’s v The new lightweight Truckload efficiency – fitting improvement three years early. The weight by 18 percent. The innovation Yoplait cup reduces more product onto trucks for transport vast majority of those improvements packaging weight by saves 8 million pounds, or more than We work to reduce our impact 18 percent, saving were achieved through packaging 3,600 metric tons, of plastic annually. 8 million pounds across all indicators, ensuring weight reduction. Our revised goal This new cup is about half the weight (more than 3,600 that reductions in one area do states that by 2015, 60 percent of our of the cup in use when General Mills metric tons) of not cause increases in another. plastic each year. global product volume will be sold in acquired the license to sell Yoplait yogurt General Mills Global Responsibility 37 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Recycled content packaging improvements have saved hundreds of thousands of dollars due “The Sustainable Packaging Coalition is a cross-industry effort to and recyclability improve packaging throughout the value chain. The How2Recycle to the recycled paperboard content General Mills is among the largest and overall reduction in tonnage. project, which resulted in a common label for communicating users of post-consumer recycled paper EN2 the recyclability of packaging, demonstrates the high value of packaging in the United States. Recycled Recyclability: We now feature collaboration across multiple industries. This outcome could not content accounts for approximately How2Recycle labels on all eight-count have been achieved by a single company or even a single industry.” half the weight of the packaging we Yoplait fridge packs sold at U.S. retailers – Paul Earl-Torniainen, Sustainability Manager, General Mills, and use for our U.S. products. We continue nationwide to increase consumer Member, Executive Committee, Sustainable Packaging Coalition to pursue opportunities for increasing awareness of recyclability, especially our use of recycled materials while of the polypropylene cup. Educating maintaining product quality and safety. consumers represents a substantial Recycled content: In addition to opportunity, because while 48 percent Renewable content reduced packaging weight by 66 percent, while allowing us to fit 58 percent encouraging consumers to recycle, we of Americans have access to recycling for We are making progress in more packaging on each pallet. also increase the amount of recycled this cup, only 8 percent of this identifying viable replacements content in our packaging. General type of packaging was actually recovered for nonrenewable materials. Mills has used recycled materials for in the recycling stream in 2010, according v Switching from paperboard cartons since the 1930s. to the most recently reported data by the Truck loading efficiency cartons to printed-film packaging reduces In 2012, we began converting from a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. To improve product transport efficiency, packaging weight by virgin fiber carton in our Yoplait fridge By the end of 2012, approximately we introduce packaging innovations 66 percent and allows pack to one made of 100 percent 20 million fridge pack cases with the 58 percent more that enable us to fit more products into packages per pallet. recycled fiber. At the same time, How2Recycle label had been sold. Our each container and shipment. For we reduced the carton weight by hope is that this change will increase example, we changed the packaging nearly 17 percent by decreasing the recycling of this packaging across the of the 120-count size of our Totino’s Pizza thickness of our paperboard. The new country. We are evaluating adding Rolls snacks from a carton containing fridge pack will save more than 180 the How2Recycle symbol to other a pouch to a printed film. This change metric tons of material per year. The packaging across our product portfolio. s Our Pillsbury dough cans contain more than v How2Recycle labels educate 60 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. Our consumers about recyclability of supplier also is investigating how to recover packaging. All Yoplait fridge packs dough cans. sold at U.S. retailers now feature these labels to encourage recycling. General Mills Global Responsibility 38 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 2 Increase sustainability of ingredients 2A Improving sustainability of raw materials and watersheds Promoting sustainable practices, purchasing sustainable ingredients and protecting natural resources Our efforts to reduce our environmental practices. Our strategy is to increase solutions, focusing on our 10 priority raw footprint extend beyond our own the sustainability of the ingredients we materials. Learn more about how we are operations and include raw material use in our products. We partner with helping transform the food supply chain sourcing. Because agriculture is industry groups to advance sustainable in the Sourcing section of this report. resource intensive, we focus on sourcing frameworks across our food EN26 improving our sustainable sourcing supply chain. We also pilot scalable Sustainable agriculture and integrated pest management At General Mills, our holistic approach to Market, we also are helping growers capture in the 1940s. Beginning in 1980, Green sustainable agriculture includes reducing information about pesticide use, including Giant agronomists implemented a series environmental impacts and improving energy use (farmer application of pesticides) of measures and practices for reducing the overall value chain. Through our and GHGs (embedded in the manufacturing pesticide use across all crops. Between relationships with growers, suppliers, industry of pesticides). For more details, see the Field 1980 and 2007, Green Giant sweet corn associations and other partners, we focus to Market story in the Sourcing section. products cut the pounds of insecticides on sustainably sourcing the raw materials Another example is the support we provide to used by 80 percent, reduced the number of WATCH VIDEO we use in our products. Integrated pest farmers in central Mexico through interestapplications by 40 percent, and trimmed r Learn more about Green Giant management (IPM) is one component of our free loans that allow them to adopt drip the costs to control insects by 37 percent. In integrated pest management. broader focus on sustainable agriculture. irrigation, which reduces the use of pesticides, 2007, we set new goals, including reducing improves yields and uses about 50 percent insecticide and herbicide applications on monitoring and improved harvest/cleaning As part of our long-term sustainable less water than conventional furrow irrigation. sweet corn – insecticides by 30 percent and equipment. These practices are still in agriculture strategy, we share our knowledge herbicides by 5 percent – in three years. The use today. We continue to collaborate, about IPM with peer companies and work General Mills has a long history of working insecticide goal was attained one year early educate where needed and encourage with our suppliers to minimize the use of closely with farmers around the world to – with the fall harvest in 2009; herbicide IPM wherever our business takes us. pesticides on the crops and ingredients we promote responsible pesticide use. Our Green reductions were achieved in 2010. Growers EN26 source. Our suppliers utilize their own IPM Giant brand, for example, was among the first reduced insecticide use by utilizing better programs. Through our work with Field to to use best-in-class pesticide management General Mills Global Responsibility 39 SOURCING Our ultimate goal is to sustainably source the raw materials we use in our products. Our current focus is on increasing the sustainability of the 10 priority agricultural raw materials we source, which represent more than 50 percent of our annual purchases. We partner with industry groups to advance sustainable sourcing frameworks across our supply chain. Then we pilot scalable solutions and share our findings so others can refine their efforts as well. Our sustainability mission is Our strategies to conserve and protect the natural resources upon which Increase Improve Improve sustainability global water supplier our business depends. of ingredients stewardship sustainability Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Overview Evaluating General Mills’ greenhouse gas (GHG) and water footprint – In fiscal 2012, General Mills commissioned a Trucost study of our environmental dependence on natural capital (use of natural resources) across the value chain – including agriculture, ingredient production, packaging supply chain, product production, distribution and consumer use. The resulting natural capital assessment, issued in September 2012, shows that nearly two-thirds of GHG emissions and 99 percent of water use occurs outside our own operations in the growing of raw materials and preparation of ingredients we use to produce our products (detailed below) – reinforcing the importance of sustainable sourcing. Greenhouse gas emissions Water consumption Consumer/customer storage 2% Consumer/customer preparation 12% Product production 1% General Mills transportation 3% Ingredient production 3% Packaging supply chain 14% General Mills distribution centers 1% Agriculture 41% Distribution (retailing) 12% Agriculture 82% Product production 8% Ingredient production 7% Packaging supply chain 14% Performance dashboard Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Assessment Strategy Transformation Monitoring formation & evaluation corn Dairy Oats Cocoa Vanilla Animal Welfare Wheat Palm oil Sugar beets Fiber packaging Sugarcane General Mills Global Responsibility 41 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Our approach: plan & execute We focus on improving the environmental, economic and social impacts of sustainable sourcing Through our work with industry groups, such as Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture and the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), we are helping to move the raw material supply chain toward more sustainable solutions. Our efforts include measuring and managing Our strategies and actions the use of water and energy throughout our supply chain. Through our holistic value creation strategy, we also are helping to improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and their communities. 1 Increase sustainability p. 43 General Mills follows a four-step sustainable sourcing model – assessment, strategy formation, transformation and monitoring/evaluation – to improve the sustainability of ingredients of the raw materials we use to make our products. We also apply this four-step process to manage the impact of water usage across our supply chain. A Purchasing sustainable raw materials and promoting sustainable processes 1. Assessment: In 2011, we worked with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the B Improving the livelihoods of smallholder farmers Rainforest Alliance to complete a comprehensive, in-depth assessment of all the raw materials we buy worldwide. Each raw material was measured against dozens of potential risk categories, including animal welfare, child labor, deforestation, economic sustainability, fertilizer (nitrogen) use, GHG emissions, soil loss, water quality and water use. 2 Improve global water stewardship p. 50 2. Strategy formation: We identified the 10 priority raw materials where we can have A Charting a path to watershed health the greatest impact from a sourcing standpoint: wheat, oats, palm oil, vanilla, cocoa, corn, dairy, eggs, fiber packaging and sugar (sugar beets and sugarcane). Our focus is on developing strategies for sustainably sourcing these materials. 3 Improve supplier sustainability p. 52 3. Transformation: Improving sustainability is a continuing process – one that we do not A Tracking our upstream environmental impact undertake alone. We believe we can have the greatest impact by working with industry partners and nongovernmental agencies across the supply chain to identify new solutions. We pilot projects and B Respecting human rights in our supply chain “By assessing the impacts of each of their raw materials, General Mills has an opportunity to advance a sustainable agriculture industry. This transformation is only possible by mapping and engaging their supply chain in water stewardship and improved farming practices to meet the challenges of feeding a growing population on a finite planet.” – Jeff Malcolm, Manager, Business & Industry, World Wildlife Fund Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community communicate the results so we – and others in the industry – can continue to refine our (CSO) and the Director of Sourcing Sustainability, who reports to the CSO and the approach. General Mills has taken the lead in pursuing sustainable solutions for wheat and Vice President and Chief Purchasing Officer. The CSO reports into the Senior Vice oats. In other geographies, we are pursuing a holistic value creation strategy to improve President of Supply Chain and the Senior Vice President of External Relations. Our the livelihoods of smallholder farmers who grow artichokes, cocoa, corn and vanilla. Sustainability Governance Committee is comprised of the Executive Vice President of Supply Chain, Executive Vice President of U.S. Retail Operations and Executive 4. Monitoring and evaluation: Our efforts to monitor and Vice President of International Operations. Board oversight occurs through the evaluate our progress are ongoing. When necessary, we involve thirdannual sustainability update to the Public Responsibility Committee. The General party auditors to help measure and analyze our results. Mills Director of Sourcing Sustainability plays a leadership role in key industry initiatives, including serving on the board of Field to Market and participating in Leadership and governance: Within General Mills, responsibility for the Sustainability Council of the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy and the RSPO. sustainable sourcing lies with the Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer 1 Increase sustainability of ingredients 1A Purchasing sustainable raw materials and promoting sustainable processes Applying our sustainable sourcing model to our 10 priority raw materials As noted in the timeline on page 41, General Mills committed in 2010 to that responsible users of even small our efforts to improve sustainability sourcing 100 percent of its palm oil from amounts of raw materials can impact of our 10 priority raw materials (those sustainable sources by 2015. We are issues via principled purchasing practices. where we can have the greatest impact on track to meet this commitment. We General Mills supports RSPO principles from a sourcing standpoint) are are advancing our pledge by identifying and efforts to encourage and certify proceeding through the strategy and and securing sources of sustainably sustainable palm oil production practices. transformation phases. We continue produced palm oil in a phased approach. To reinforce those principles, General to make progress on all fronts. We We are in the process of converting our Mills purchases palm oil only from are furthest along in our work to portfolio leveraging mass balance and RSPO members – with preference for sustainably source palm oil and wheat. anticipate that by the end of fiscal 2013, purchasing RSPO-certified sustainable 50 percent of our global portfolio will palm oil. General Mills is committed Palm oil be using sustainably sourced palm oil. to sourcing palm oil in a socially and r General Mills is committed to sustainably To reinforce the development of certified Although General Mills is a relatively environmentally responsible manner. sourced palm, the raw fruit used to create sustainable palm oil production practices, minor user of palm oil, we acknowledge EN26 palm oil. General Mills Global Responsibility 43 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Wheat of sustainable wheat using the outcomebased measures established by the Field As a large buyer of U.S. wheat, General to Market roundtable. Through our role Mills is at the forefront of sustainable in the pilot and roundtable, General sourcing efforts for this raw material. Mills is helping lead the effort for more We are partnering with Field to Market: sustainably sourced wheat. We hope to The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture begin meeting our customers’ requests to conduct a three-year pilot project for sustainable wheat starting in 2014. studying the environmental impact of EN26 wheat production in eastern Idaho. The goal of this work is to reduce the impact of wheat cultivation on the environment while maintaining or improving productivity. r General Mills is identifying supply chain strategies to define, measure and promote continuous This Idaho pilot includes 15 to 20 growers improvement for agriculture. One of these strategies is to develop and pilot outcomes-based, science-based metrics and tools. Using this approach, we are partnering with Syngenta and wheat with more than 50,000 acres of land growers as part of a Field to Market pilot in Idaho. raising 6 million bushels of wheat annually to better understand the environmental region, across the state and nationally. over the 2010, 2011 and 2012 growing impact of crop production on GHG Next steps in 2013 include expanding seasons. Using a software tool called the emissions, irrigation water use, energy use, the Field to Market approach beyond Fieldprint Calculator, participating growers soil loss and land use. In February 2013, wheat to potatoes and sugar beets – the obtain detailed reports about how they these growers gathered at a workshop other rotation crops in the Snake River, are performing against key indicators. The r A Taste of General Mills blog, August 2012, to share results and insights about how Idaho, pilot growing area. Additionally, “Growing sustainable wheat in Idaho” data helps them measure inputs and yields their operations compare to others in the we are exploring third-party verification Field to Market: industry collaboration increases sustainability of U.S. row crops “Field to Market is the General Mills participates in Field to Market: The Land use leading roundtable defining Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, which brings v Using the Fieldprint together a diverse group of grower organizations, Calculator, which is sustainability for U.S. row agribusinesses, food companies, conservation groups, integrated into the crops. This group plays a universities and agency partners to focus on promoting, growers’ farm record software, growers analyze strategically important role in defining and measuring the sustainability of agriculture. Climate Soil Field to Market’s sustainability efforts focus on reducing impact conservation how their practices advancing our work on wheat, influence natural resource the environmental impacts – including GHG emissions, management outcomes oats, sugar beets, corn and irrigation water use, energy use, soil loss on their farms, including and land use – of North American row efficient land use, soil soy – almost half of our priority crops. Field to Market is now expanding conservation, water use, ingredients.” – Steve Peterson, General its water metric beyond the quantity of energy use and GHG Mills Director of Sourcing Sustainability emissions. water used to also focus on water quality. Energy use Water use and Vice Chair of Field to Market General Mills Global Responsibility 44 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Animal welfare At General Mills, we support the humane treatment of animals in agriculture. Our animal welfare policy focuses on how animals are raised and treated. FP11, FP12 Pork production Egg production Milk production General Mills supports the development of pregnant sow housing General Mills is working with suppliers in Europe to increase Along with other members of the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative alternatives. Though we recognize that the development and the volume of eggs available from free-range hens. As a result, (SAI), General Mills Europe is working with farmers’ associations to implementation of alternative systems may be a long-term process in 2013 we expect to source 100 percent free-range eggs for all ensure that all animals are: free from hunger, thirst and malnutrition; that could take up to 10 years, we will favor pork suppliers who Häagen-Dazs products produced in Europe, while continuing to free from discomfort; free from pain, injury and disease; free provide actionable plans by 2017 to create traceability and to end support and source ingredients from local farmers and suppliers. from fear and distress; and free to engage in normal patterns of their use of gestation crates within the U.S. pork supply chain. To encourage the development of alternative production methods animal behavior. In the United States, General Mills’ Yoplait was FP11 in the United States, General Mills purchased 1 million eggs the first leading yogurt company to source only milk produced from cage-free hens for our U.S. retail operations in 2012. by cows not treated with the synthetic growth hormone rBST. FP11 General Mills’ Häagen-Dazs products in Europe are also produced using only cream and milk from cows not treated with rBST. FP12 Vanilla greater economic vitality for smallholder vanilla farmers in Madagascar and “CARE is excited about the opportunity to expand its longMadagascar is the world’s leading ensure the availability of high-quality standing partnership with General Mills in Madagascar. producer of vanilla, responsible for more vanilla for future generations. This will allow us to work together to integrate smallholder than 80 percent of production. General Barriers to a sufficient supply of farmers in the supply chain, raising incomes for poor Mills relies on this region as a source of the high-quality vanilla used in Häagensustainably sourced vanilla include families and providing an environmentally sound, socially Dazs ice cream. For a majority of the limited yields due to recurring crop responsible source of vanilla for Häagen-Dazs and disease, weather disruptions and other estimated 80,000 Malagasy farmers, the challenges faced by growers, such General Mills. This is a great example of a partnership vanilla crop is their only source of income. as price volatility and limited market based on shared values and a true ‘win-win’ effort.” In February 2013, we announced a new access. General Mills is pursuing a – Helene D. Gayle, MD, MPH, President and CEO, CARE USA sourcing program designed to foster two-pronged approach to address General Mills Global Responsibility 45 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community these issues: working with smallholder on teaching value-added production vanilla growers in Madagascar and techniques, including yield improvement supporting vanilla genome research to and vanilla curing. By adding value improve the crop’s disease resistance. at the farm level, vanilla growers will Smallholder program: This new sourcing be able to significantly increase their program brings together the strength of incomes. The program also will include three partners to promote responsible building a vanilla curing and storage vanilla farming: General Mills and its facility that can be used to store rice extensive supply chain and agronomic after harvest, helping improve food knowledge; vanilla supplier Virginia security for the community. Based on Dare with its deep understanding of the our experiences with the initial pilot vanilla market; and the international village in Madagascar’s Sava region, we humanitarian organization CARE with will modify the program as needed and its expertise in economic development expand it to other villages. This evolution r General Mills is a member of the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), which encourages socially, for poor communities globally. is consistent with our approach across economically and environmentally responsible and sustainable cocoa farming. WCF has reached more all raw materials in our supply chain: than 540,000 cocoa farmers in Africa, Asia and the Americas. The Madagascar vanilla program pilot, learn, then implement a scalable will provide access to training and of the vanilla plant, which will ultimately source products such as chocolate from model for sustainable sourcing. education that will allow several hundred benefit growers in Madagascar. The ingredient suppliers – cocoa is one of the HR6, FP4 smallholder vanilla farmers to produce company is funding cutting-edge priority commodities we are addressing a more sustainable and higher quality Genome research: General Mills is also research to map the vanilla genome in our sustainable sourcing model. Cocoa vanilla crop. The training will focus working to deepen global understanding by the University of California, Davis. farming is an intensive process, and This research is well underway and will there are labor issues within the cocoa help lay the foundation for natural and supply chain. General Mills’ Supplier conventional breeding improvements to Code of Conduct prohibits the use of increase disease resistance or even to forced labor and child labor in the making enhance flavor. Using traditional plant of our ingredients and products (read breeding methods, researchers are more about human rights in our supply working to develop disease-resistant, chain on p. x). It is our view that a greater higher-yielding varieties. Researchers share of the benefit of more socially plan to begin small-scale testing of new and economically sustainable cocoa vanilla varieties in 2013 and hope to production practices should accrue to the make the plants available to growers as people who produce the crop. Sustainable soon as 2015. Future research efforts methods and improved production will target yield improvements. practices are key tools for helping raise living standards for cocoa growers. Cocoa We are exploring opportunities to r In Madagascar, vanilla beans are laid out to dry in the hot sun as part of the curing process, which adds Although General Mills does not buy help generate better sources of cocoa, value to farmers’ vanilla production and significantly increases their incomes. cocoa directly from farmers – we improve sustainability, and foster greater General Mills Global Responsibility 46 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Sugar beets participated in the Global Packaging Project, a CGF initiative to harmonize In concert with Field to Market, we the definition of sustainable packaging. are working across the industry to EN26 improve sustainable sourcing of sugar beets. Our efforts include pursuing the Sugarcane launch of a sugar beet pilot in the Red General Mills buys sugar sourced from River valley of Minnesota and North sugar beets and sugarcane. Given the Dakota, which is a major sugar beet different growing environments of these growing area in the United States. This two crops, our sustainability approach to work is a natural extension of our Field sourcing these two types of sugar also to Market pilot efforts with wheat and varies. We are currently evaluating our r We are helping launch a sustainability pilot program for oats in western Canada, a major oat oats. Through our work with sugar global strategy for sustainable sugarcane growing region. beets, we are now bringing another sourcing. We anticipate following a economic vitality for cocoa growing wheat, two of the main crops used in our important North American row crop similar process to the approach we communities and individual farmers. cereals. This pilot also will include canola into the Field to Market program. are taking with our other priority raw and pulse crops (peas and lentils) as EN26 materials: joining an industry group, General Mills is a member of the World part of the local growers’ crop rotation. engaging suppliers and partners, and Cocoa Foundation (WCF). WCF builds Our partners in this sustainability project piloting programs to execute sustainable partnerships with cocoa farmers, origin include Pulse Canada, Canola Growers, sourcing of sugarcane. General Mills governments and environmental the Prairie Oat Growers Association has begun work with the World Wildlife organizations; supports and applies (POGA), Crop Life and Ducks Unlimited. Fund on sustainable sugarcane in order research that improves crop yield and to advance industrywide initiatives quality; and supports training and This sustainable oats pilot project builds for improving production methods education for cocoa farming families. on General Mills’ previous research focus and conserving natural resources. HR6, HR7, FP4 on oats. In 2009, General Mills funded EN26 an initiative at the U.S. Department of Oats Agriculture to promote public research r With Field to Market, we are targeting sugar beets grown in Minnesota and North Dakota as Oats are one of the largest grain crops on oats to produce a genetic roadmap for the next sustainability pilot. purchased by General Mills. In Canada, the crop. General Mills has now partnered General Mills is helping to launch the Western Canada Sustainability Pilot in with the North Carolina Research Campus (NCRC) – pairing more than 80 years of Fiber packaging Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Canada is agricultural research expertise with the Through our membership in the Consumer one of the world’s largest producers of cutting-edge technology and genomic and Goods Forum (CGF), we are working oats – and a significant source of oats for bioinformatics expertise at NCRC. One to determine the best approach for our products. We are working to recruit objective of this research is to boost the sustainable sourcing of fiber-based growers for a sustainability pilot beginning yield improvement and disease resistance packaging, including managing the role in 2013 (similar to the Field to Market of future oat crops, thus further improving of fiber packaging in helping to reduce r We are evaluating our global strategy for efforts in the United States) for oats and the sustainability of this important crop. global deforestation. We also have sustainable sugarcane sourcing. EN26 General Mills Global Responsibility 47 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community processors, environmental groups, industry partners to advance sustainable scientists, economists and government sourcing of corn and soybeans. agencies – involving stakeholders from EN26 across the value chain. Using this framework as a baseline, we are working toward demonstrating continuous improvement in dairy sustainability. General Mills Europe is an active member of the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) Platform, which facilitates sharing of knowledge and initiatives to support the development and implementation of sustainable r Sustainable sourcing of corn grown in the agriculture practices worldwide involving United States is advancing through a Field to stakeholders from across the food chain. Market pilot program. r We support efforts to establish a dairy sustainability framework for measuring the impact of dairy production from cows to consumers. Corn The majority of the corn and soybeans Dairy We participated in the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy’s efforts to establish we purchase are grown in the United Since 2010, we have been an active a dairy sustainability framework for States. General Mills’ use of corn is member of the Innovation Center measuring the impact of dairy production relatively small compared with our use for U.S. Dairy Sustainability Council, from farmers to consumers. This of other raw materials, such as wheat WATCH VIDEO which is working to improve the standardized framework was developed and oats. In the United States, we r In Arras, France, we are sustainably sustainability of the U.S. dairy supply. in partnership with dairy producers, support the Field to Market pilot led by producing Häagen-Dazs products. Reducing our dairy carbon footprint General Mills is a member of the Sustainability Council of the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy, which has committed to the voluntary goal of reducing GHG emissions for fluid milk production by 25 percent by the year 2020 (using 2007-2008 as a baseline). Read more about our GHG reduction efforts in the Environment section of this report. EN26 v The addition of a raw milk receiving and processing facility at our yogurt plant in Reed City, Michigan, has significantly reduced our inbound freight. By switching from processed condensed skim milk to direct delivery and onsite processing of raw milk, we have eliminated more than 1 million transportation miles each year. The plant also reduced its use of city water by 10 million gallons annually. General Mills Global Responsibility 48 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1B Improving the livelihoods of smallholder farmers Pursuing sustainable development through origin-direct investment Through our holistic value creation deliver huge impact for the farmers and to growing conditions and helps reduce strategy, we are building a model for their community by raising household risks, such as plant diseases. Higher prices sustainable development focused on incomes across the village and spreading and a guaranteed market for the farmers’ origin-direct investment to boost incomes the ripple effect of these economic corn crops have raised living standards for of smallholder farmers, raise living gains through the surrounding area. In everyone in the village. Household incomes standards in their communities and ensure return, General Mills has a reliable, have grown as much as eightfold; two-story WATCH VIDEO sustainable sourcing of raw materials. sufficient supply of high-quality, locally houses constructed of brick and cement We have a long-standing program with sourced corn – a more efficient and block are replacing mud and grass homes; r General Mills partners with corn farmers in the Yongqing Village in Chinese corn farmers and are launching sustainable solution than importing corn and many families have purchased cars, China’s Heilongjiang Province. new programs in Madagascar and Peru to make our Bugles snacks in China. appliances and farming equipment. The (see page 50). These programs build upon town also benefits from paved roads and an By contracting directly with General General Mills’ century-long history of airport that serve the nearby corn processor. Mills, the corn growers increase their working closely with farmers around the EC9, SO1, FP4 agronomic knowledge and improve their world to promote sustainable agriculture. environmental stewardship, as well as their yields. General Mills also stays close Partnering with corn Our holistic value creation farmers in China strategy in northeastern China has improved Since 2003, General Mills has pursued household incomes for a holistic value creation strategy in corn farmers since 2003. northeastern China. Our three-pronged approach includes: providing smallholder farmers with training, seeds and other inputs; guaranteeing a price that’s higher than the market price; and committing to buy the farmers’ entire corn crop. This holistic approach continues to General Mills Global Responsibility 49 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Working with artichoke practices and entrepreneurial skills. In addition, the project will support the growers in Peru establishment and formalization of We also are pursuing a holistic value farmers’ associations and offer financial strategy in Peru, where we source hightraining to help farmers access credit quality artichokes for our Green Giant for the purchase of seeds. General business in Europe. In partnership with Mills will benefit from a reliable and our Peruvian artichoke co-packer, NGO sufficient supply of high-quality partner CARE and smallholder artichoke artichokes – a special variety grown farmers, General Mills is launching a only in the Sierra region of Peru. The project to improve agronomy practices, long-term goal is to develop a scalable, yields and crop quality. This pilot sustainable artichoke sourcing model project, initiated in 2013, will provide that creates value for the farmers, for technical training to local farmers on our business and for the environment. r Harvesting artichokes in Peru. Our new pilot program will provide technical and entrepreneurial growing techniques, post-harvest FP4 support to 89 smallholder artichoke farmers in Peru’s Sierra region. 2 Improve global water stewardship 2A Charting a path to watershed health Applying our sustainable sourcing model to conserve water resources Path to watershed health Water is a critical resource for General to create and distribute our products Mills. Within our own facilities, we reduce occurs outside our direct operations. the amount of water we use through Assessment Strategy Transformation Monitoring We are working to improve the efficiency improvements and water reuse sustainability of water use throughout (see Environment section of this report). As the General Mills value chain. In noted in the Trucost data on page 41, our 2012, we launched a global water own operations account for a small fraction a study of key A plan to improve Convening Evaluating stewardship strategy in partnership operation and watersheds other water results and of our overall footprint – approximately growing region found to be users and expanding with The Nature Conservancy (TNC). 99 percent of the water consumed watersheds at risk taking action our work EN9, EN26 General Mills Global Responsibility 50 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community As with the other raw materials in our supply chain, our approach to water stewardship follows a four-step process of assessment, strategy formation, transformation and monitoring/evaluation. phase 1 Assessment phase 2 Strategy formation phase 3 Transformation In March 2012, we began the process with TNC of In collaboration with TNC, we are now proceeding with Our goal is to begin implementing changes – based conducting a water risk assessment of all our plants a “deep-dive” assessment of some of our key growing on our Phase 2 assessments – in high-risk watershed and growing regions, beginning with North America areas – including broad stakeholder engagement – that is areas in 2014. We anticipate these actions to include: and continuing across our global footprint. This helping to shape our strategies. One of those areas is in beginning to implement on-the-ground conservation assessment is helping us to better understand the Mexico, where we have completed an assessment in the initiatives in the most at-risk watersheds; putting in health of freshwater resources we depend upon for area around our Irapuato site. Our work in the Irapuato place stewardship best practices; setting companyour global plant locations and in our most important area was instructive, causing us to shift our approach wide sustainability targets; and developing a global growing regions around the world. We expect to from a point-source water strategy (water sourced freshwater stewardship program including public complete this global footprint assessment by the end from a specific well head or municipality) to a broader commitments, public education and advocacy with of calendar 2013. This assessment builds on our work watershed strategy focused on the entire growing region. watershed neighbors. We also will work with others to with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to conduct a This example demonstrates General Mills’ iterative pursue Alliance for Water Stewardship certification. supply chain water risk analysis in 2010. That analysis process of assessment and experimentation through helped identify potential physical, regulatory and pilot projects to inform our strategy. We are building on phase 4 Monitoring reputational water risks associated with sourcing key commodities, including dairy, sugar, wheat and our previous facility-focused conservation efforts and elevating our strategy to focus on longer-term impacts and evaluation oats, used in our products. WWF leveraged this to our business and the surrounding area. We plan Our efforts to track progress and analyze work to create its online Water Risk Filter, which to replicate this approach across our global high-risk results are ongoing. was developed with support from DEG, the German watershed areas. Going forward, we will be formulating Development Bank. Our collaboration with WWF strategies based on the health assessment of each demonstrates General Mills’ leadership in partnering watershed with clear mitigation plans, then inviting “General Mills is a global leader of corporate to innovate and solve problems in our supply chain. others to join us in protecting each watershed area. watershed stewardship, demonstrated EN9 by their commitment to incorporating assessment of risk and development of real on-the-ground action throughout their entire value chain. The company has realized its potential to serve as a water stewardship leader, engaging with other stakeholders to make a real impact on the sustainability of water use.” r We are working with The Nature Conservancy to conduct water r Watershed strategies focus on mitigating longer-term impacts – Kari Vigerstol, Senior Hydrologist, Global risk assessments of our plants and growing regions. to an entire growing region. Freshwater Team, The Nature Conservancy General Mills Global Responsibility 51 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 3 Improve supplier sustainability 3A Tracking our upstream environmental impact Measuring our broader footprint with Supplier Sustainability Scorecards Because our broader environmental impact enabling better collaboration to reduce suppliers responded. We now have occurs outside our operations – primarily our extended environmental impact. baseline data for each of these suppliers. in agriculture, ingredient production and In the future, we plan to collaborate As awareness grows of the importance of packaging (as noted in the Trucost study around reductions in energy, water, this type of measurement, new industryresults on page 41) – we are working with solid waste and GHG emissions. wide platforms for data collection are our suppliers to measure and reduce our emerging. We are evaluating those options. upstream footprint. Using our Supplier FP1 Phase 2 Sustainability Scorecard to track our Already in fiscal 2013, we have launched portion of a supplier’s energy, water, waste and GHG emissions, we are gathering Phase 1 results the supplier scorecard with our top 15 European suppliers to capture the data associated with the raw materials In fiscal 2012, we deployed the supplier same baseline data as in the United used to make our products. We’ve been scorecard to our top 100 U.S. suppliers in States. We also expect to introduce tracking these metrics since 2005 in our our four main categories: commodities, optimized data collection and reporting, own operations. Now we are expanding ingredients, packaging and external establish supplier goals and implement this process to include our suppliers, supply chain. Eighty percent of these changes across our sourcing platform. We are working with our suppliers to measure and reduce 80 percent of our top U.S. our upstream footprint. suppliers participate in our Supplier Sustainability 80% Scorecard efforts. Our top 15 European suppliers will capture data using the scorecard in 2013. General Mills Global Responsibility 52 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 3B Respecting human rights in our supply chain Supporting ethical standards and guidelines We believe that the protection of human Guided by the 1998 Declaration, General In 2012, we completed rights through responsible sourcing is a Mills respects the principles of collective our first audit cycle of critical part of our Nourishing Lives mission. bargaining and freedom of association, finished goods producers. Responsible As part of our commitment to supporting and prohibition of discrimination, child sourcing guidance: human rights in our supply chain, we are labor and forced labor – including that geographic source of certain “conflict leaders in the AIM-PROGRESS Responsible associated with human trafficking. A n AI M-PROGRESS minerals:” General Mills is well-aware Sourcing task force, whose mission is to third-party auditing program helps ensure Responsible Sourcing of this new regulatory requirement and promote responsible sourcing by sharing remediation should we find or become task force is fully committed to the important best practices and promoting efficiency aware of violations. All instances of public policy behind it. We are currently n U  nited Nations in the packaged goods supply chain. noncompliance related to our audited in the process of assessing its impact Global Compact We also are signatories to the United suppliers in fiscal 2012 are either resolved on our business operations and our n International Labour Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and or are actively being addressed in an precise reporting obligations. Organization’s 1998 are guided by the International Labour agreed-upon corrective action plan. Read more about our commitment Declaration on Organization’s (ILO) 1998 Declaration on HR2, HR5, HR6, HR7, FP1 to responsible sourcing. Fundamental Principles Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Regarding Dodd-Frank Act (Section and Rights at Work Our Supplier Code of Conduct details our 1502) additional reporting requirements expectations of our suppliers. Together, our n  Supplier Code of Conduct for SEC registrants relating to the Workplace Standards and Ethical Sourcing Policy and our Supplier Code of Conduct set standards for our company, as well as for our suppliers, vendors and other business partners, regarding the protection of human rights. These standards are based in part on the ILO 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights The protection of human at Work. In 2012, we completed our first rights through responsible audit cycle of finished goods producers, sourcing is a critical part of including our own facilities and co-packers. our Nourishing Lives mission. We will continue to audit our finished goods producers and co-packers on a continuous cycle driven by performance. General Mills Global Responsibility 53 WORKPLACE Our goal is to foster a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive workplace where employees can thrive. We accomplish our mission by living our values: do the right thing, all the time; innovate in every aspect of our business; build great brands; respect, develop and invest in our people; and strive for consistently superior performance. Every day around the world, our Our strategies 34,500 employees work to carry Build Maintain Respect, out our mission of Nourishing Lives. a strong a safe develop and workplace workplace invest in culture employees Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Overview A great place to work – Employees recognize our efforts to foster a positive and rewarding work environment by consistently identifying General Mills as “a great place to work.” In 2012, we received workplace awards in Australia, Canada, China, France, Greece, India, the U.K. and the U.S., where we also were named one of the World’s Most Admired Companies by Fortune magazine. We recruit, retain and develop talented employees and continue to improve workplace safety through our efforts to prevent injuries and illnesses. We support our employees in being active, eating healthy and staying well. Performance dashboard Strengthening our Increasing diversity Increasing Increasing employee workplace culture and inclusion workplace safety well-being 88 percent of U.S. employees Our Board of Directors includes We reduced our total injury 36 percent of our U.S. employees said that General Mills is a 31 percent female directors and 23 percent rate, improving from 2.11 injuries participated in voluntary health great place to work in 2012.* who are people of color. Our U.S. per 100 employees in 2011 to assessments in 2012. We offer *2012 Great Place to Work Institute, workforce includes 40 percent women 1.79 in 2012. Our ultimate goal health and wellness programs representative sample of U.S. employees and almost 20 percent people of color. is zero injuries and illnesses. for employees worldwide. General Mills Global Responsibility 55 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Our approach: inspiration & action We work hard to earn our employees’ respect and trust At General Mills, we know that engaged people for a career, not for a specific job. Our employees drive customer value and motivated and talented employees have an business performance. Our mission and culture, our brands and business practices, opportunity to innovate, contribute and lead. We also encourage a healthy work/life balance Our strategies and actions and our commitment to a clear Code of and promote safe, injury-free workplaces. Conduct helps inspire our employees. Our company leadership maintains the highest We believe that the way employees view their managers is one of the most significant drivers 1 Build a strong workplace culture p. 57 ethical standards when conducting business, of engagement, success and satisfaction. and they honor and acknowledge employees’ Recently we launched a multiyear program, A Setting clear expectations contributions to the company’s success. called Great Managers, to inspire and empower B Fostering diversity and inclusion The best companies win committed employees managers at every level of the company with C Rewarding employees who grow and develop to achieve their highest the tools and resources to become better potential, making significant contributions leaders so they can support and challenge employees to achieve their full potential. to the business. This is especially true – and 2 Maintain a safe workplace p. 61 important – at General Mills, because we hire A Leading with safety Respect, develop and 3 invest in employees p. 63 A Empowering employee health B Investing in development and training General Mills Global Responsibility 56 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1 Build a strong workplace culture 1A Setting clear expectations for ethics and compliance Do the right thing, all the time At General Mills, doing the right thing is not – must attest to compliance with our Code “Every single one of us is personally responsible for upholding left to chance. Our comprehensive Code of Conduct and business conduct policies. our reputation as a highly ethical company. When we think of Conduct and ethics and compliance We have high expectations for ethical program promote ethical behavior in all conduct in every aspect of our business. about integrity and ethics, it is our everyday decisions aspects of our employees’ work. We treat that are most important.” – Ken Powell, CEO, General Mills our employees with respect and integrity. Ethics The motto for our Ethics & Compliance This assessment included analysis We include corruption as a risk factor in Conduct program is “Every Decision, Every Action, of specific business operations data, the annual risk assessment fielded by our Our Champion’s Code of Conduct Every Day.” The program includes extensive geographic corruption risk, electronic Global Internal Audit function. This risk summarizes our ethics guidelines and online resources and self-directed courses employee questionnaires and live assessment touches all of our business gives employees practical information as for employees along with our confidential employee interviews. The results of this risk units around the world. In addition, we ask well as answers to their questions. The Ethics Line, which allows employees to assessment were then used to inform our detailed questions related to corruption risk code covers everything from maintaining raise questions or report questionable global anti-corruption compliance program during each routine, in-depth business unit corporate integrity, communicating conduct anonymously, where allowed and internal anti-corruption controls. audit by our Global Internal Audit team. appropriately, and competing fairly and by law, and an orientation video that SO2 legally to personal safety, appropriate introduces new employees to General use of company resources and ensuring Mills’ ethics philosophy. The program also consumer privacy. Annually, our company features “Ethics Matters,” a collection leaders – from managers upward, of stories published by the Ethics & approximately 14 percent of our employees Compliance group that puts policies into practice by providing real, concrete examples of ethical lapses and choices that reflect a great deal of integrity. In 2012, General Mills was ranked No. 1 on the list of Assessment America’s Most Reputable We also take steps to analyze risks related Companies by Forbes and to corruption. We recently conducted a the Reputation Institute comprehensive corruption risk assessment across our businesses around the world. r At General Mills, employees are encouraged to do the right thing, all the time. General Mills Global Responsibility 57 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Action corporate policies. Upon completion of the investigation, our Ethics & Compliance Organizational ensuring that employees know what it means to behave ethically and to act in All allegations of bribery and corruption group oversees appropriate disciplinary responsibility compliance with our Code of Conduct. relating to General Mills’ business actions (including termination of thirdOur Ethics & Compliance group, led by Key business leaders throughout our operations are promptly and thoroughly party relationships), remediation steps our Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, is global operations own responsibility for investigated, in accordance with our and internal/external reporting. committed to upholding General Mills’ ethical market and brand development. ethics and compliance procedures and SO4 long-standing culture of integrity by Awards, honors and accolades General Mills receives a wide array of workplace awards and honors annually. We value the objective, third-party recognition of our commitment to being a great place to work. General Mills received numerous awards in 2012. The map below showcases some of our global recognition. France n Best Workplaces in France, Great Place to Work Institute Greece U.K. n Best Workplaces in Greece, n Great Place to Work Institute Great Place to Work Institute Canada Laureate Award n Best Companies n Best Workplaces in Canada, Great Place to Work Institute China n Best Employer Award, Guangzhou Daily newspaper U.S. n 100 Best Companies to Work For, Fortune magazine World's Most Admired n Companies, Fortune magazine India n World's Most Innovative n Best U.S. Company in India in Companies, Forbes FMCG (fast moving consumer n Working Mother magazine goods), Indo-American 100 Best Companies Chamber of Commerce n World's Best Multinational Workplaces, Great Place to Work Institute n 100 Best Corporate Citizens, Corporate Responsibility magazine Australia n Australian Business Award for Recommended Employer in the Food Industry General Mills Global Responsibility 58 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1B Fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion Taking action through hiring practices, employee development and measurement At General Mills, we value diversity and General Mills creates a diverse workforce Our leaders focus on personal objectives consider it core to our business strategy. by recruiting the best and brightest regarding diversity and inclusion. Each of Our goal is to build an employee base that mirrors the consumers of our products. talent from all communities to drive innovation and consumer engagement our plants also creates and implements a diversity and inclusion strategic plan. Recognition Attracting, retaining and developing around the world. To cultivate an LA13 General Mills’ efforts to create an employees with a variety of backgrounds inclusive environment, we respect all inclusive, supportive workplace is a top priority. For example, almost dimensions of diversity – gender, race were recognized by a number of 20 percent of our U.S.-based employees are and sexual orientation as well as cultural organizations in 2012, including: people of color and 40 percent are women. values, preferences and beliefs. We 94% n B  est Companies for publically demonstrated this respect Multicultural Women, during the 2012 U.S. election cycle Working Mother magazine when General Mills opposed the A record-setting 94 percent n T  op 50 Companies for proposed constitutional amendment on marriage in the state of Minnesota. of our employees say Diversity, DiversityInc We increase our ethnic and gender General Mills provides n 4  0 Best Companies diversity by assessing our hiring needs a working environment for Diversity, Black for women and people of color, and accepting of differences in Enterprise magazine implementing strategies to meet background and lifestyle. n 5  0 Best Companies for Latinas, those needs. We engage in effective LATINA Style magazine r General Mills attracts, retains and develops a outreach efforts – including search Employee networks n B  est Companies for Hispanics, diverse workforce – reflecting the broad base of consumers who enjoy our products. firms, community groups, professional organizations and employee referrals. and associations HispanicBusiness Media Members of our employee networks n 5  0 Out Front, Diversity support each other and help recruit new MBA magazine employees by increasing confidence “When you combine diversity with a culture that in General Mills’ approach to diversity n T  op Companies for Executive acknowledges, respects and values all of our differences and inclusion. Our employee networks Women, National Association for Female Executives and similarities, good things happen. We are able to include: Black Champions Network, American Indian Council, Hispanic n T  op 50 Employers, Woman connect with our consumers, customers and communities. Network, Asian Heritage Network, South Engineer magazine We reap new ideas and innovation. And we recruit Asian Network, Middle East North and retain the talent to win now and in the future.” African Network, Veterans Network and – Kenneth Charles, Vice President, Global Diversity & Inclusion, General Mills Betty’s Family for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender (GLBT) employees. General Mills Global Responsibility 59 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community We also sustain relationships with with an increasing number of qualified Purchasing history with minority and women-owned suppliers professional associations, including the minority and women-owned enterprises. $700 National Black MBA Association and Fulfilling this commitment is important National Society of Hispanic MBAs. to our shareholders, our increasingly $600 Spend (in millions of US$) diverse consumer base, the communities Supplier diversity in which we operate and, ultimately, the $500 Our Supplier Diversity efforts are a success of our company. Each division or $400 reflection of our commitment to nourish department establishes annual objectives $300 lives through job creation and by and plans that lead to measurable strengthening the economic footprint improvement in diversifying our supplier $200 of communities across the U.S. In 2012, base. The Supplier Diversity department $100 our first-tier spending with minority and at General Mills advocates for and supports the business development of $266 $319 $342 $362 $453 $558 $600 $534 $552 $570 female-owned businesses exceeded $0 diverse suppliers by creating networking 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 US$570 million, and over the past 10 and training opportunities for minority Fiscal Year years we’ve grown our first-tier spending by 9 percent compounded annually. and female-owned businesses. EC6 We are committed to establishing and growing successful business relationships 1C Rewarding employees and ensuring equal opportunity Creating a culture of fairness, trust and openness We believe our compensation, benefits and incentive plans are among the best Labor-management of workers and/or worker representatives in health and safety inspections, audits in our industry. At General Mills, we relations and accident investigations; as well as use value our employees and reward them Globally, General Mills is committed of personal protective equipment, training with a competitive “Total Rewards” to providing both our union and and periodic inspections. We maintain compensation and benefits package. We non-union production employees good relationships with our unions, and are a pay-for-performance culture, so workplaces that are among the safest our labor contracts are typically settled incentive payments and merit increases are manufacturing facilities in the world. on time and without work disruption. directly linked to employee performance. In addition, we work to have total employee LA6, LA9 We offer competitive pay, retirement engagement as the foundation of our programs and employee and education mutual success, strive to create cultures Equal opportunity r We value our employees and reward them for assistance programs. Implemented in that champion respect and inclusion, and their contributions to our company’s success. General Mills prohibits discrimination 2009, our annual performance and awards offer competitive rewards. We have clear based on age, race, sex, national statement was developed and revised health and safety practices that include origin, disability, citizenship, sexual in response to employee suggestions. joint management-employee health and orientation or other characteristics LA3 safety teams and committees; participation General Mills Global Responsibility 60 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community protected by law. This equal employment retaliation against employees who express labor and decent work. Examples include employee initiatives in partnership with opportunity (EEO) policy applies to concerns. We manage our business a refined performance management company business leaders at multiple employment practices and procedures operations so that employees feel they process, annual employee surveys and levels. Reflecting the importance of people including compensation practices. are being treated fairly. We value our a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. to our business, General Mills has a vice Employees are expected to report relationships with our employees and Responsibility for upholding our workplace president of Global Diversity and Inclusion; situations that compromise their ability invest in them for the long term. commitments starts at the top and extends a vice president of Global Health Services; to do their jobs. Formal channels are across the organization. Our Chairman a vice president of Engineering, Global available for employees who seek advice Organizational and CEO has ultimate accountability Safety and Environment; and a Chief or a solution. Everyone has the right responsibility, monitoring for ensuring a healthy, productive and Learning Officer. At the board level, the Compensation and Public Responsibility to work without fear or intimidation. and follow-up motivated workforce. Governance for our Committees maintain responsibility for General Mills does not accept abusive labor practices lies primarily within our General Mills has established key issues related to labor and decent work. conduct or harassment – a policy made Human Resources, Law and Supply Chain metrics and measurement approaches to clear from an employee’s first day of organizations. At an operational level, the understand our performance as it relates to orientation. Our policies strictly prohibit Human Resources organization leads key 2 Maintain a safe workplace 2A Leading with safety Building a safety culture and tracking our progress Our ultimate workplace health and chain, followed by generating return on focused on creating a culture of safety. safety goal is zero injuries and illnesses. capital and growing our business. We The “What if” campaign, which targets Achieving that goal requires support believe that the discipline required to our production employees, challenges from company leadership, improvements ensure food safety and the safety of employees to think about how their in our safety culture, and systems to our people will drive other priorities as decisions and actions can lead to injurymanage and track progress and results. well. During the 2012 calendar year, we free workplaces. Part of a companywide In 2012, we laid the groundwork in restructured our global safety team to effort, the campaign supports our goal of each of those important areas. support our focus on leading with safety. having zero workplace injuries. We are rolling out the campaign across our General Leadership Culture Mills manufacturing plants throughout r “Lead with Safety” is the top priority across fiscal 2013. Building on momentum, we our supply chain. Our “What if” campaign raises In 2012, we made “Lead with Safety” In the summer of 2012, we began rolling awareness to help prevent injuries. the top priority across our supply out an awareness-building campaign launched our revised safety principles General Mills Global Responsibility 61 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community across our North American operations in capabilities. Our goal is to expand to and measures progress. In fiscal 2012, their jobs. This training helps ensure January 2013. Our three safety principles other locations during 2013 and establish we reduced our total injury rate from 2.11 that all employees know how to perform are: we lead with safety, every incident is G-STEMS in all global production facilities injuries per 100 employees in 2011 to their jobs correctly and to comply with all preventable, and we are all accountable. by the beginning of fiscal 2014. Safety 1.79 in 2012 and maintained our lostlocal, regional and country requirements. research shows that for every injury, time accident rate of 0.66. Sadly, we had As part of the safety management system Tracking and there are typically several other incidents one employee fatality in fiscal 2012. The at General Mills, manufacturing locations managing progress that serve as predictors. Capturing that death of one of our long-time employees are encouraged to have safety committee information and following up to resolve occurred following a rail car accident at our meetings on a periodic basis (e.g., monthly). In 2012, General Mills invested in a new issues will help improve workplace safety. Lodi, California, plant. Efforts by responding The committee is organized by the formal global safety tracking and environmental employees and emergency medical and/or informal safety leaders and consists management system, called G-STEMS. Clear safety targets personnel to resuscitate were unsuccessful. of wage and management employees. G-STEMS allows us to track all workplace LA7 incidents – even those near-misses that Historically, General Mills has had a very LA6 strong safety record when compared with did not result in an injury – and also document the completion of necessary our peer food group manufacturers. Our Responsibility, training General Mills has an active auditing program to monitor our operations actions to reduce future risks and corporate policy for workplace health and and auditing to ensure compliance with all internal communicate progress. Now we are safety directs all operations to implement Workplace health and safety is the requirements and external regulations. Any updating the system to include mobile management systems, programs and responsibility of line management and deficiencies identified are tracked until device access and enhanced language procedures that will lead the company to each individual employee. All employees completion. Senior-level responsibility for our goal of zero injuries and illnesses. We are expected to work safely by following workplace safety lies with the Director have set interim improvement targets, all rules, procedures and training. of Global Safety and Environment, who which are the basis for our plant safety Employees are trained in all applicable reports to the Vice President of Engineering, metrics. General Mills has established clear health and safety subjects relevant to Global Safety and Environment. safety targets specific to each location General Mills injury history 1975 to date 14.00 12.00 North America – Total Injury Rate North America – Lost-Time Injury Rate 10.00 Global Total Injury Rate 8.00 Global Lost-Time Injury Rate 6.00 4.00 2.00 0.00 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 r Our workplace safety culture reinforces three principles as we work to achieve our goal of zero r We reduced our total injury rate in 2012 to 1.79 injuries per 100 employees at our production injuries and illnesses: we lead with safety, every incident is preventable, we are all accountable. facilities around the world. LA7 General Mills Global Responsibility 62 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 3 Respect, develop and invest in employees 3A Empowering employee health Supporting work/life balance and wellness Our employees – whether on a and field sales employees. On an health assessment in 2013. The 2012 manufacturing line or working at annual basis, we evaluate our work/ assessments of participating employees headquarters, union or non-union – are life balance programs in an effort to showed improvement since 2009 in five core in our mission and the key to our meet employees’ changing needs. We of the nine health risks we measure. success. We value them and provide have a work-flex strategy focused on benefits specific to the needs of increasing the work/life balance programs each geography, including retirement throughout the company, including savings plans, health care coverage partnerships with community-based and flexible work arrangements. programs, flexible work arrangements, r General Mills offers multiple flexible work and wellness and fitness programs. We’re Balance and flexibility arrangements for employees. proud of the progress we’ve made. We dedicate resources to help employees balance the demands plants and office locations. We also offer multiple flexible work arrangements to Health and wellness r Employees check their blood pressure and of work and personal life. accommodate employees, including We support our employees in being record their weight at stations in 29 of our U.S. telecommuting, flextime and the innovative active, eating healthy and staying well. facilities. More than 7,000 employees have The General Mills culture has emphasized For 28 years, General Mills has provided recorded over 250,000 blood pressure and the importance of work/life balance for Flexible User Shared Environments weight readings since 2009. Sixty percent of the program, which allows employees to resources that help employees live healthy decades. We offer special leave programs, employees who logged in more than 50 times create workspaces that best suit their lifestyles. We encourage our employees during a two-year period lost weight (an average an on-site health clinic at headquarters personal and business needs. Our to take a personalized health assessment of 11.5 pounds). and fitness centers at several of our LA8 education and referral program provides that helps identify risks, motivate lifestyle information and resources on important changes, and provide information about subjects such as child care, adoption health and wellness resources. In 2012, information, elder care and more. 36 percent of our U.S. employees took a voluntary health risk assessment – an Our programs to help employees balance increase from 35 percent in 2011. We their work and personal lives extend are hoping to see that number continue WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO from our headquarters to our locations to grow – 71 percent of U.S. employees r Supporting work/life balance worldwide, including plant employees r Health and wellness at General Mills at General Mills have committed to completing a General Mills Global Responsibility 63 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Our wellness programs are an integral help employees take better care of their emotional support, and referrals to to provide more support for wellness part of our culture. We invest in wellness bodies and their long-term health. employees and their families in the United programs around the world. Council programming, which continues to have States. Counselors assist employees participants connect on a quarterly basis to Our LifeWorks Employee Assistance leadership support from the top of the dealing with stressful situations through share best practices and resources. Overall program provides confidential counseling, organization. The programming is based on-site face-to-face counseling, tollresponsibility for health and wellness lies on a strategy of empowering employees to free phone access, online resources, with the Vice President of Global Health bring wellness to life and creating physical and educational materials. Through Services and Chief Medical Officer. spaces that support a culture of wellness, LifeWorks sponsorship, some locations such as on-site fitness centers, healthy also offer on-site support groups. Our dining choices and safe walking spaces. We worldwide employee assistance program are also working toward being a tobaccois available to help global human free company. We continue to create resource professionals find resources and Recognition innovative programming to meet the everinformation to support employee issues. n S tart! Fit-Friendly Company, changing needs of our employee population. American Heart Association, General Mills participated on the advisory As a food company, nutrition and eating board of the World Economic Forum’s United States – General right are primary concerns for our Workplace Wellness Alliance in 2012, Mills has received this consumers and for our employees. General focusing on promoting workplace health award annually since Mills sponsors a number of weight loss and raising awareness about the impact 2007 (Platinum level) and weight management programs to of chronic disease globally. We will n B est Employers for Healthy continue to stay engaged as the alliance Lifestyles, National Business transitions to become part of the Institute Group on Health, United for Health and Productivity Management. States – General Mills has r In the U.K., Healthy Highlights are posted in LA8 employee restaurants to reinforce healthy food received this award annually choices. Healthier meals from the on-site catering since 2007 (Gold level) options also are more heavily subsidized to Organizational encourage nutritious selections. At our Uxbridge, n N ational Health and WellU.K., facility, employees recorded a total weight loss leadership being Award, New Zealand of more than 150 kilograms in 2012. The location r We support the health and wellness of our also has a wellness consultant offering advice on We launched a new global health and Heart Foundation employees by encouraging proper nutrition, personal health and well-being. wellness advisory council in January 2013 activity and well-being. 3B Investing in development and training Developing our people At General Mills, we know that engaged we plan for it, we invest in it, we track it executives alike – and we work to have a are promoted from within the company. employees drive customer value and and evaluate it. It is essential to develop depth of leadership prepared to take on General Mills consistently receives external business performance. We are singleall employees production employees, new responsibilities, when necessary. recognition for our performance in this area. minded when it comes to development – salaried employees, managers and Globally, 87 percent of our managers General Mills Global Responsibility 64 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community At General Mills, development takes The severance benefits include many forms and includes performance compensation as well as professional appraisals. In the U.S., opportunities development assistance from an General Mills is proud that 91 percent of our officers have been range from employees’ Individual external organization that provides promoted from within the company. More than 50 percent started Development Plans (IDP) to our Great outplacement services. their careers at entry-level positions with General Mills, and Manager initiative, as well as mentoring, LA11, LA12 40 percent come from non-officer roles. Contributing to this 21 million peer networking and courses at the continuity in leadership is the company’s broad-based commitment General Mills Institute. We also offer numerous courses and online learning $ to leadership development. LA11 classes that support professional In 2012, General Mills development. General Mills provides invested US$21 million in severance benefits to employees training and development who are impacted by downsizing. for U.S.-based employees. LA10 Encouraging activity and well-being around the world LA8 We support the efforts of our employees walking, running, gardening and more – for employees created a personal health goal, to lead active, healthy lifestyles fueled a grand total of 6.1 million minutes reported then participated in activities working toward by good nutrition and overall well-being. exercised, equaling an average of four-andthose goals. Employees have reported feeling Listed below is a sampling of health and a-half hours of exercise per person per week. healthier and better about themselves, losing wellness programs around the world. In addition, General Mills’ headquarters in weight, increased physical activity, and Minnesota was named a “bicycle friendly being more engaged and focused at work. U.S. and Canada: In business” by the League of American Bicyclists. 2012, more than 2,700 General Mills employees Spain: In San Adrian, our cardiovascular in the U.S. and Canada risk reduction program has been helping r Employees in Mexico ran together. participated in the Great to increase awareness about the main American Fitness Challenge, drivers of cardiovascular risk since 2009. U.K.: General Mills participates in the U.K. a program that encourages participants to The program continues to reduce risk Public Health Responsibility Deal pledge to exercise at least 30 minutes per day for eight factors among employees, including help improve levels of employee health and weeks. The challenge got people out biking, corporal mass index improvements and well-being, including focusing on physical smoking cessation. Becoming a tobaccoactivity. Our U.K. operations have seen a reduction in the number of employee working r General Mills received an award from the New free workplace is a companywide goal. Zealand Ministry of Health. days lost year-on-year, with current levels Mexico: More than 50 employees competed in races to improve their fitness below targeted U.K. industry standards. China: All employees receive free physical New Zealand: As part of its year-round checkups. Our on-site clinics also provide levels and tracked their weight loss – each focus on wellness, the New Zealand team care and health tips to factory employees. kilometer raced and kilo lost represented a WATCH VIDEO offers regular activities emphasizing weight At our Shanghai office, employees contribution to benefit Fundación Familiar management, nutrition, physical activity and now have access to a gym space. r Biking to work is a preferred activity Infantil, a local children’s charity. of many employees – hear why. stress management. In 2012, 96 percent of General Mills Global Responsibility 65 COMMUNITY Our General Mills Foundation and Our goal is to build strong communities. Our philanthropic work community engagement mission is is an extension of the company’s to nourish our communities globally Nourishing Lives mission and ties with remarkable philanthropy. closely to our company’s core business. We work in innovative ways with partners at the global, national and local levels to harness our collective impact in key target areas, while engaging employees through skillsbased and other volunteerism. Our strategies Alleviate Improve Strengthen hunger and education communities advance nutrition wellness Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Overview Nourishing our communities – In fiscal 2012, General Mills donated more than US$143 million (nearly $3 million a week) to key initiatives that support our communities around the globe. General Mills has given more than US$1 billion to charitable causes worldwide since the General Mills Foundation was created in 1954. $143+ million The amount we gave to charitable Foundation Grants “To us, remarkable philanthropy lies at the intersection of the world’s greatest needs and causes in fiscal 2012 $27.6 million our company’s unique strengths. That is why we focus our philanthropic and community Corporate Contributions/ engagement efforts on alleviating hunger Brand Partnerships and advancing nutrition wellness, improving $77.9 million Product Donations education and strengthening communities.” – Ellen Goldberg Luger, Executive Director, General Mills Foundation EC1 $37.7 million Performance dashboard Nourishing Educating Strengthening We alleviate hunger. We improve education. We strengthen communities. More than US$37 million in product 2,400 girls and 100 teachers More than US$27 million in grants donations around the world. supported in residential schools to local nonprofit organizations in 200 food processors (sourcing from 100,000+ smallholder through Join My Village in India. 48 communities worldwide. farmers) supported through Partners in Food Solutions. US$60 million raised for schools 2,500 employees from 60 locations We advance nutrition wellness. by General Mills brands through participated in “Think Global, Volunteer Box Tops for Education. Local” initiatives around the world. US$500,000 in Champions for Healthy Kids grants. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 67 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Our approach: connect & lead We bring together resources, partners, innovative ideas and employee expertise to make an impact around the world Our commitment to building strong communities General Mills’ community engagement includes providing grants from the General Mills Foundation, donating food products and Foundation programs are led by the Executive Director of the Foundation with Our strategies and actions from our businesses, supporting brand/ support from program officers at headquarters cause partnerships, and encouraging and who are aligned to each philanthropic focus Alleviate hunger and advance enabling high-impact employee volunteerism around the globe. Through their skills-based area. In addition, employee councils located across our key operating locations around the 1 nutrition wellness p. 69 volunteerism, our employees address local world assist with the identification and selection needs and deliver results. The combined impact of area nonprofits who have demonstrated A Addressing barriers to food security around the world of these initiatives produces positive change an ability to positively impact that local in our key focus areas: alleviating hunger community. The General Mills Foundation is B Promoting nutrition wellness and advancing nutrition wellness; improving governed by a Board of Trustees that includes education; and strengthening communities. leaders from the company’s finance, supply We look for opportunities to connect the many chain, marketing, legal, human resources, 2 Improve education p. 72 stakeholders within a community and to leverage sales and external relations functions. existing programs in new ways for maximum A Building better futures through education impact. One example of this approach is our support of the Minneapolis Youth Coordinating Board in our headquarters’ community. 3 Strengthen communities p.74 This nonprofit group promotes the health, safety, education and overall development A Innovating to empower communities of Minneapolis youth through jurisdictional WATCH VIDEO around the globe partnerships, promotion of programs for young r Learn more about the scope of work people, and resources for parents and teens. in our communities throughout 2012. B Increasing impact through employee volunteerism General Mills GLobal Responsibility 68 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 1 Alleviate hunger and advance nutrition wellness 1A Addressing barriers to food security around the world Providing food and developing solutions EC1, FP4 General Mills has a long-standing w We also support Rescuing food $36 million commitment to help feed people in need. Feeding America through our Outnumber Hunger Around the world every day, food is wasted. Our hunger-relief efforts span the globe consumer engagement and focus on alleviating hunger and In the United States, more than 30 million platform. We are expanding We donated nearly $36 million tons of food is sent every year to landfills, uncovering barriers to food security. consumer awareness and involvement in the fight against hunger through worth of food products to Feeding bypassing the 50 million Americans who Donating products product packaging, websites, social media and live events associated with some of our key America’s 200 food banks in 2012. struggle with hunger. Food that is in danger brands, including Bisquick, Betty Crocker, Big G of going to waste is an area of high priority General Mills is consistently ranked among cereals and Green Giant. food banks around the world. Currently, for General Mills. We are continuously the top contributors of food in the United General Mills is working with this improving our operations so that more States. Our contributions to Feeding organization in the United Kingdom, food can be saved from the landfill and America and The Global FoodBanking Mills has partnered with Feeding America South Africa, Argentina and Australia, Network help nourish people around for more than 30 years. Through this w In November 2012, General Mills employees and playing an active role in helping the world. We’ve donated US$250 partnership, we provide nourishment in our supply chain and quality groups The Global Foodbanking Network plan million in food worldwide since 1999. to Americans struggling with hunger; helped redirect food from and prepare for further expansion to an overturned truck to a safe and nurturing places for children to alleviate hunger in other countries food pantry in New Mexico, have a meal; emergency assistance for including 23 pallets of Yoplait around the globe. Last year, the disaster victims; and an opportunity for yogurt, Grands! biscuits and company donated nearly US$2 million Pillsbury refrigerated cookies. adults trying to break the cycle of poverty in food outside the United States. and hunger to achieve self-sufficiency. Feeding America: In 2012, we donated “General Mills’ involvement has helped The Global FoodBanking nearly US$36 million worth of food products to Feeding America’s 200 food Network educate food bank leaders from around the world banks across the United States. General through our Food Bank Leadership Institute, create new programming to feed more people, focus on providing highly The Global FoodBanking Network: v After Superstorm Sandy nutritional food to children, and continue to develop food banks in damaged the U.S. East Coast, Outside the United States, General Mills General Mills sent more than directs product donations to The Global countries where they are needed. We are inspired and extremely 31,000 cases (nine tractorFoodBanking Network, an organization grateful.” – Jeffrey D. Klein, President and CEO, The Global FoodBanking Network trailer loads) of Progresso soup dedicated to creating and strengthening to food banks in New Jersey. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 69 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Partners in Food Solutions In many parts of the developing world, visited General Mills to honor employee General Mills for its pioneering work helping partners, working with 500 Africa-based strengthening the food supply chain is one of the volunteers who share their business and to improve food security across Africa. food processors, who purchase from more most effective ways to raise living standards. technical expertise through PFS with small than 500,000 local smallholder farmers In addition to General Mills, PFS corporate and growing food processors and mills in in as many as 12 African nations, thereby General Mills founded Partners in Food partners include Cargill, Royal DSM and Africa. General Mills also was highlighted benefiting tens of millions of consumers. Solutions (PFS), a nonprofit organization Bühler, along with implementing partner at the 2012 Clinton Global Initiative annual that focuses on improving mills and food TechnoServe and public partner USAID. Over meeting. During a session on the future of processors in the developing world, as a way the next five years, PFS plans to broaden food, former President Clinton recognized to directly address chronic food supply issues its work to include as many as 10 corporate and extreme hunger in sub-Saharan Africa. In 2012, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Clinton Global “The greater challenge is to help countries become more Initiative recognized General Mills’ work with ‘food secure’ so they won’t need aid and so they can trade PFS. USAID Administrator Dr. Rajiv Shah PFS results to date with us, create jobs and grow their economy. We seek strong n 3 00 food companies and partnerships with American corporations. We can get more processors in Kenya, Zambia, value for our taxpayers’ money.” Tanzania, Malawi and Ethiopia have received training and – Dr. Rajiv Shah, Administrator, U.S. Agency for International Development support since 2008. n M  ore than 131,000 local WATCH VIDEO smallholder farmers – and r Learn more about Partners in their 786,000 family Food Solutions. members – benefit as they supply these processors. n N  early 500 skilled employees from corporate partner organizations have participated. n M ore than 40,000 hours contributed by these volunteers WATCH VIDEO have supported more than r Former U.S. President Bill Clinton speaks r Through Partners in Food Solutions (PFS), we are improving access to more locally sourced, nutritious 150 individual projects. about PFS at the Clinton Global Initiative and safe food at affordable prices for both food aid and local retail markets in sub-Saharan Africa. Annual Conference in September 2012. General Mills’ work with PFS was recognized by the USAID and the Clinton Global Initiative in 2012. shared with people in need. General Mills’ Our Haverhill facility in Massachusetts Boston Food Bank in 2012. The food saving millions of pounds of edible Product Donations Action Team leverages is one example of how General Mills bank honored General Mills with food from landfills every year. In 2012, employee expertise in supply chain increases food donations and reduces its “Food Donor of the Year” award. we saved US$650,000 of surplus operations, warehousing, tax, finance and food waste sent to landfills. The Haverhill pineapple pouches from going to waste. Ingredients: We also find ways to quality to help drive improvements in our warehouse donated 1.25 million pounds We partnered with Feeding America donate bulk items and ingredients, food donation processes around the world. of soon-to-expire food to the Greater to repack and re-label the items. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 70 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Agricultural surplus: In September 2012, hunger and closing the “missing meal In Canada, we support Breakfast Clubs of multi-ethnic and First Nations breakfast General Mills and others in the food gap” by increasing the amount of food Canada (BCC), a nonprofit organization programs across Canada, providing supply chain worked together to rescue available through the emergency food that provides breakfast programs to nutrition training and food – including 600,000 pounds of freshly harvested system by 50 million meals; adding 30 underserved youth. In 2012, General nearly 350,000 breakfasts served to sweet corn that was transformed into million meals through increased enrollment Mills granted US$100,000 to fund nine more than 2,100 students. 465,000 meals eaten by people in 10 in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance U.S. states. Read more about this success, Program; and adding 20 million meals by known as “The Great Corn Rescue.” increasing enrollment in and use of public nutrition programs for children and families. Expanding access Giving Gardens In Europe and the U.S., our employees cultivate to food “Giving Gardens” to provide fresh vegetables to We support programs that expand people’s local communities. More than 3,000 pounds of access to food. In Minnesota, General organic vegetables grown in the garden at our headquarters have been donated to food shelves Mills is a founding supporter and strategic and meal programs in Minnesota. In Germany, we partner of Hunger-Free Minnesota, support the Gardens for Children project, which helps providing charitable contributions, product urban children plant and tend school gardens. The r Employee volunteers laid the groundwork donations, expertise and employee project combines age-appropriate physical activity r In 2012, General Mills China funded nutritious for a garden that will be tended to by engagement at all levels of the company. with basic instruction about healthy nutrition. schoolchildren in Hamburg, Germany. meals for more than 1,000 students at four schools We have committed US$2 million to this in Yunnan’s Xuanwei region, which is one of the multi-year campaign focused on fighting poorest in China with high rates of malnutrition. 1B Promoting nutrition wellness Integrating food with healthy, active lifestyles We advance nutrition wellness by reached nearly 1 million kids through over six years (2012 – 2018), including helping families make nutritious grants totaling US$5 million. US$1 million of in-kind marketing food choices and integrate food support, which will enable the new Presidential Youth Fitness Program: In with healthy, active lifestyles. program to expand to reach 90 percent 2012, General Mills and the President’s Champions for Healthy Kids: Our Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition of U.S. schools, helping students Champions for Healthy Kids program launched the Presidential Youth Fitness pursue personal improves the fitness behaviors and Program, providing new school-based fitness goals and nutritional knowledge of America’s youth. education assessment tools and fitness promote lifelong We developed the program in 2002 in education program resources. As the physical activity. EC1, FP4 partnership with the Academy of Nutrition Inaugural Presidential Sponsor, the and Dietetics Foundation. Since that General Mills Foundation’s support of r The Champions for Healthy Kids program time, we have funded 460 programs and the program includes US$10 million boosts the nutritional knowledge and improves the fitness behaviors of U.S. kids. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 71 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 2 Improve education 2A Building better futures through education Increasing access to education, partnering to improve education EC1, FP4 We support programs around the world to advance their education by helping that help increase access to education strengthen and expand local school and raise achievement levels. Our education, building homes for teachers Why girls and education? contribution of funds, expertise and in remote communities and providing n E  ducation creates a pathway out of extreme poverty. collaboration are boosting the impact hundreds of scholarships for girls to n G  lobally, there are 33 million fewer girls than boys in primary school. of innovative education programs. continue to secondary school. The program began in Malawi, Africa, n A  child born to a literate mother is 50 percent more likely to survive past age 5. Educating girls in and expanded to India in n A  girl with an extra year of education can earn 20 percent more as an adult. Africa and India 2012. Join My Village is n E  ducated mothers are twice as likely to send their own children to school. a partnership with One of those initiatives is Join My Village. General Mills, Merck Since launching in 2009, Join My Village and the humanitarian has given thousands of girls the ability organization CARE. Join My Village results to date n M ore than 13,000 children have n 8  ,500 girls have been gained access to classroom supported academically at and reference materials. 24 residential schools in India. n 8 02 secondary school n 2  1 homes have been built scholarships have been given. for female teachers. n M ore than 230,000 people have n M  ore than 150 girls have participated been helped through maternal in an Udaan accelerated learning health education projects. program for older students who never attended school. v In 2012, we expanded Join My Village to India, where 40 percent of girls under age 14 don’t attend school. Join My Village helps improve schools and provides scholarships, reaching 8,500 girls in India during the first year. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 72 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Expanding educational In our headquarters community, we are collaborating to help close the resources and closing educational achievement gap that the achievement gap exists between students of color and their white counterparts. Through In 2012, our Box Tops funding and direct involvement with for Education program organizations and initiatives like Generation and its affiliates Next, AchieveMpls, and the Northside raised more than Achievement Zone (modeled after the US$74 million for K-8 schools in the U.S., Harlem Children’s Zone), General Mills is including US$60 million from General helping bring together an unprecedented Mills brands. Since inception in 1996, partnership of key education, community, this program’s fundraising has exceeded government and business stakeholders US$525 million and reached more than dedicated to accelerating educational 90,000 schools across the United States. r In the UK, General Mills launched an innovative “floating classroom” in 2012 to provide students achievement for all children – from More than 240 of our brands participate with hands-on education about geography, history, heritage, the environment and science on the early childhood through early career. waterways of England. The team was recognized as the 2012 “Outstanding Philanthropic Program” in Box Tops for Education, including at the Global Angel Awards in London. General Mills brands such as Cheerios, Promoting early 70 million Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Hamburger Helper, Spoonfuls of Stories to our Honey Nut Old El Paso, Progresso and Green Giant. childhood education Cheerios and other Cheerios varieties $74 million Through our Spoonfuls of Stories program to help distribute even more books to in the United States, we have distributed We have distributed 70 million kids and encourage parents and children 70 million children’s books since 2002 to read together. The in-pack books books through our Spoonfuls In 2012, Box Tops for inside specially marked boxes of Cheerios target children 3 to 8 years old and are of Stories program. Education raised more cereal and have donated US$4 million to printed in both English and Spanish. than US$74 million. First Book, a nonprofit children’s literacy organization. In 2012, we expanded Making college possible + The General Mills Foundation supports College Possible, a nonprofit organization that helps lowincome high school students earn admission to college and succeed once there. Overall, 98 percent of students assisted by College Possible have earned admission to college. In addition, College Possible students are graduating at more than five times the rate of their low-income peers. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 73 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community 3 Strengthen communities 3A Innovating to empower communities around the globe Providing resources to nonprofits around the world EC1, FP4 We strengthen communities from the As General Mills’ business has expanded in ground up by supporting nonprofit China, so has our community engagement organizations that are making a difference and philanthropic activity. Since 2008, around the world. We partner with United General Mills has donated more than Way Worldwide and provide grants to US$460,000 to the China Women’s support local efforts in the communities Development Foundation to construct where General Mills operates. water cellars for villages in western China’s We focus on helping women gain drought-parched Shaanxi, Gansu and livelihoods and support their communities. Ningxia provinces. In this region, women The work we are doing to educate girls typically have to walk eight hours a day through Join My Village also extends to fetch water for household use. The to women. Through Join My Village, we water cellars catch and store rainwater are, among other things, helping establish so families have access to clean water. In r Women gain access to education and credit through village-based savings and loan associations. village-based savings and loans. Since 2009, 2012, 400 additional water cellars were In several parts of the developing world, rural areas. Read more about how we more than 6,700 women and families have constructed, bringing the total number we are supporting smallholder farmers are helping boost farmer incomes in benefited from village savings and loans funded by General Mills to more than through our holistic value creation the Sourcing section of this report. made possible by Join My Village. 1,000 as part of our support to sustainable model for sustainable development in development in western China. 3B Increasing impact through employee volunteerism Sharing our skills and best practices FP4 More than 80 percent of General Mills employees sharing their skills. PFS links “We ask volunteers for one to two hours a week. It is amazing U.S.-based employees volunteer in the technical and business expertise our communities. We are proud of the of General Mills employee volunteers what you can get for a minimal investment of time. The leverage results our employees achieve around and other food industry experts with of expertise is far greater than anything you will get out of a the world. Partners in Food Solutions small and growing food processors dollar. It is working, it is measurable, and it is scalable.” (PFS), for example, thrives on our and millers in the developing world. – John Mendesh, General Mills Vice President, R&D, for Big G cereals and Partners in Food Solutions Director of Operations General Mills GLobal Responsibility 74 Health Environment Sourcing Workplace Community Thinking globally, volunteering locally We encourage our employees to “Think Global, Volunteer Local” – and in 2012, more than 2,500 employees from more than 60 locations around the world responded by participating in our annual volunteer event by the same name. Below is a sampling of their efforts, which reinforce our core values. FP4 United States India United Kingdom France r In the aftermath of a tornado in Joplin, r General Mills employees in Mumbai, India, r Employees of General Mills in the U.K. r Employees cleaned up several sites Missouri, the community lost 155 people and volunteer in a program that brings health partnered with a local nonprofit to construct contaminated by rubbish in the Forest of more than 8,000 homes and businesses. Our and nutrition education to six villages (9,400 greenhouses on school grounds, helping Meudon, learned about recycling and cleaned employees volunteered their time to clean individuals) via a tribal development project. students to grow and eat their own vegetables. a coastal beach at Messanges in the Landes up and rebuild in 2012; the company donated General Mills has also provided a multiyear grant The students also created a recipe book to region of France. US$100,000 to reconstruct a local school. to support and expand the program. reach even more schools and students. Greece Spain Dubai 80% More than 80 percent r Employees visited a construction site r General Mills employees in Athens cooked r Employees from our San Adrián facility and distributed 76 boxes containing food, of General Mills U.S.-based and served meals to people at a homeless shelter teamed up to clean the banks of the Ebro River, that feeds 200 people daily. while employees from General Mills Iberica personal hygiene and clothing items to employees volunteer in prepared for future planting of regional plants underprivileged workers. our communities. in environmentally protected areas around Madrid. Their hard work will help restore these ecosystems and contribute to the reforestation of the local habitat. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 75 APPENDIX Environmental Data Summary*,**,*** 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Energy usage rate (kWh/metric ton of product) 577 575 577 551 542 528 528 514 Energy usage (kWh) EN3, EN4 2,751,525,000 2,766,116,000 2,728,058,000 2,724,411,000 2,665,305,000 2,627,062,000 2,577,278,000 2,396,834,000 Direct energy usage by primary source (kWh) 1,508,978,000 1,539,436,000 1,525,505,000 1,469,271,000 1,452,478,000 1,485,244,000 1,449,191,000 1,308,209,000 Fuel oil (kWh) 49,036,000 59,263,000 35,326,000 25,957,000 18,939,000 17,431,000 19,143,000 2,749,000 Natural gas (kWh) 1,453,395,000 1,460,901,000 1,407,019,000 1,357,066,000 1,363,947,000 1,364,632,000 1,340,525,000 1,236,163,000 LP gas (kWh) 4,484,000 5,846,000 4,403,000 2,989,000 14,190,000 16,711,000 3,477,000 1,569,000 Biogas (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 Biomass (kWh) 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,828,000 16,704,000 Solar panels (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA NA 82,000 120,000 Cogeneration electric (kWh) NA NA 19,614,000 20,734,000 14,668,000 27,221,000 25,234,000 17,764,000 Cogeneration steam (kWh) 2,063,000 13,426,000 59,143,000 62,525,000 40,734,000 57,249,000 52,902,000 31,140,000 Indirect energy usage (electricity) (kWh) 1,242,547,000 1,226,680,000 1,202,553,000 1,255,140,000 1,212,827,000 1,141,818,000 1,128,087,000 1,088,625,000 International (kWh) 87,362,000 108,473,000 117,405,000 174,873,000 159,616,000 133,206,000 129,176,000 132,071,000 North America (kWh) 1,155,185,000 1,118,207,000 1,085,148,000 1,080,267,000 1,053,211,000 1,008,612,000 998,911,000 956,554,000 Energy usage, by region International (kWh) 182,228,000 248,443,000 276,249,000 247,902,000 245,321,000 232,405,000 243,227,000 215,436,000 North America (kWh) 2,571,250,000 2,530,373,000 2,500,226,000 2,529,338,000 2,453,208,000 2,454,816,000 2,389,988,000 2,217,720,000 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product) 0.223 0.222 0.224 0.214 0.210 0.202 0.203 0.200 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (metric tons CO2e) 1,066,000 1,065,000 1,057,000 1,058,000 1,032,000 1,004,000 992,000 935,000 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) EN16 277,000 286,000 289,000 278,000 271,000 282,000 273,000 242,000 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 11,000 14,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 4,000 4,000 1,000 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 265,000 271,000 280,000 271,000 264,000 274,000 268,000 240,000 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 3,000 4,000 1,000 1,000 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) EN16 788,000 784,000 772,000 783,000 762,000 723,000 722,000 694,000 GHG emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 56,000 76,000 84,000 77,000 82,000 77,000 80,000 72,000 North America (metric tons CO2e) 1,010,000 989,000 973,000 981,000 950,000 927,000 912,000 863,000 Water usage rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) NA 2.383 2.266 2.222 2.258 2.186 2.112 2.135 Water withdrawal (cubic meters) EN8 NA 11,100,000 10,600,000 11,000,000 11,000,000 10,800,000 10,300,000 10,000,000 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 2,000,000 1,800,000 Municipal (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 8,300,000 8,200,000 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/metric ton of product) 0.057 0.052 0.047 0.051 0.040 0.037 0.037 0.034 Solid waste (metric tons) EN22 266,000 241,000 221,000 239,000 197,000 183,000 178,000 159,000 * All data are fiscal year. Energy, GHG emissions, water, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned production facilities globally, excluding the recently acquired Yoki Alimentos S.A. ** Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. *** Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodology. General Mills Global Responsibility 76 (LA13) Governance Body Diversity (% of total) % Male 69.2% Female 30.8% Black 15.4% Asian 0.0% Hispanic 7.7% Native American/American Indian 0.0% Age 50+ 100% Standard Disclosures: Profile Disclosures Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. CEO Letter 2012 Annual Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2012 10K 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 2012 10K 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Introduction 2012 10K 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2012 Annual Report 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 2012 10K 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2012 10K 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2012 Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2012 Annual Report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Workplace GeneralMills.com/Media/Awards Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 77 Standard Disclosures: Profile Disclosures (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Introduction 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). April 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Introduction 3.5 Process for defining report content. CEO Letter/Introduction 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Introduction 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Introduction 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly Introduction affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations Health applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, Environment or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Workplace 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such Environment re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Appendix 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. None 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Appendix 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Introduction 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible GeneralMills.com/Investors for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. GeneralMills.com/Investors 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance GeneralMills.com/Investors body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 2012 Proxy Statement (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. GeneralMills.com/Investors Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 78 Standard Disclosures: Profile Disclosures (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body GeneralMills.com/Investors and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, GeneralMills.com/Company and social performance and the status of their implementation. GeneralMills.com/Responsibility 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Introduction internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. GeneralMills.com/Responsibility 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Introduction organization subscribes or endorses. Sourcing 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Introduction Health Environment Sourcing Community 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded Introduction to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Health Environment Sourcing Community Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 79 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Economic Disclosures on Management Approach Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations Community and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 2012 Annual Report 2012 Proxy Statement EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Introduction Environment Sourcing Carbon Disclosure Project EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2012 10K EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Sourcing Workplace EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Sourcing Environment Disclosures on Management Approach materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Environment energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Environment Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 80 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Environment Energy EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. water EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Environment EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Environment Sourcing EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Environment biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environment Appendix Environmental Data Summary EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Carbon Disclosure Project EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Environment EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are most commonly used in small quantities for closed-loop refrigeration systems and occasional fumigation activities. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 81 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Environment Emissions, effluents and waste EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Air emissions primarily include particulate matter and organic compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as well as emissions associated with fuel combustion. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. We do not discharge untreated sanitary wastewater to land or surface waters at any of our locations. Wastewater discharges primarily consist of organic matter from ingredient handling, food production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Environment EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills at our manufacturing locations during the reporting period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention The quantity of hazardous waste Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. produced and shipped is insignificant relative to the amount of solid waste generated at General Mills. Hazardous waste shipping and disposal is restricted by government regulations. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the No water bodies are significantly reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. affected by company discharges. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Environment Sourcing EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 82 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Environment compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with General Mills received no significant environmental laws and regulations. fines or regulatory sanctions during the reporting period. transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s Environment operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ovERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosures on Management Approach Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. In the summer of 2012, General Mills announced its intention to cut 850 jobs worldwide, amounting to 2.4% of the global workforce. The reductions were part of a restructuring plan. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Workplace LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 45% of U.S production employees are covered by CBAs LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. General Mills maintains good notice practices as it relates to notice periods, whether they are required by law, by contract or outside of both. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Workplace help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Workplace LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Workplace or community members regarding serious diseases. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 83 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Occupational health and safety LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Workplace training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Workplace LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist Workplace them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Workplace Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Workplace group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Appendix GeneralMills.com/Investors Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights Disclosures on Management Approach investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights Sourcing screening, and actions taken. GeneralMills.com/Sourcing HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be Sourcing violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Sourcing to the effective abolition of child labor. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 84 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Human Rights forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Sourcing and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Sourcing assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Disclosures on Management Approach local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Sourcing SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 19% of our global workforce participated in anticorruption training during fiscal 2012. Anticorruption training is provided to employees with roles that may involve interactions with non-U.S. government officials. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Introduction GeneralMills.com/ CivicInvolvement Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 85 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Society public policy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. GeneralMills.com/ CivicInvolvement anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Health, Environment, Workplace and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information In fiscal 2012, there were no incidents and labeling, by type of outcomes. of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. In fiscal 2012, our U.S. consumer satisfaction rate was 97%. Globally, we invest in measurement and monitor satisfaction on an on-going basis. marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, Health promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 86 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Social: Product Responsibility compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Food Processing Sector Supplement FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. Sourcing General Mills adheres to a strict supplier code of conduct and utilizes independent third parties to assess supplier compliance with this code. GeneralMills.com/Sourcing FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard. FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country. FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, volunteer initiatives, knowledge Health transfer, partnerships and product development) that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; Workplace access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. Community FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally Health recognized food safety management system standards. FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans Health fats, sodium and added sugars. FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients Health like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. Health WholeGrainNation.com GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Cereal GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Yogurt GeneralMills.com/Eating Healthy FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type. General Mills does not raise or process animals in its production operations. Meat that is used in our products is processed by our suppliers. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to physical alterations and the use of anaesthetic. General Mills does not physically alter animals or use anaesthetics. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 87 Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators (con’t) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/Comments Food Processing Sector Supplement FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type, per housing type. General Mills does not raise or process animals. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, Sourcing by species and breed type. Animal welfare policy FP13 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary standards General Mills does not transport, handle related to transportation, handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals. or slaughter live or aquatic animals. Key to indicators: Fully Partially Not covered General Mills Global Responsibility 88
