Le Pin en Mauges, 3rd november 2013 Time period • October 2012 – October 2013 Format • Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level • This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment • Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption • Includes a measurement of outcomes • Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer • Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. • To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that MATERIALS TECHNOLOGIES reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Yann JAUBERT encouraged to implement. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergone a screening on ethics. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • • Employees and third parties can use any tool to report potential claims, such as hierarchy, employee representatives, external auditors, public authority. The majority of suppliers assessed through the Ecovadis assessment are not located in countries which are identified as risky. Materials Technologies regularly consult with Employees representatives. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • • No claim regarding Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. Labour • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. • Business Partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to this principle and to all those listed in the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the MATERIALS Suppliers Charter that suppliers are required to sign and encouraged to implement. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergo a screening on ethics • Implementation • Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. • • Materials Technologies values good labor relations and ensure that a continuous communication with employee representatives exists. Materials Technologies management regularly exchange with local employee representatives. Materials Technologies also held various events to increase awareness about disabled employees and professional integration. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • • No claim regarding breach of Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP Environment • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. • • Materials Technologies ensures sustainability in the management of all its activities and is committed to minimize its impact on the environment. Materials Technologies also designed new equipement and lines to help its clients to integrate measures to reduce carbon as part of their business model. • Implementation Siège social MATERIALS TECHNOLOGIES, ZAE LES CAMENDIERES 49110 LE PIN EN MAUGES www.materials-technologies.com • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • • As examples of its “Green ambition”, Materials Technologies went on implementing its actions towards greener data center, through virtualization of servers, cloud computing, reducing electricity consumption. Materials Technologies also adopted in 2013: a waste management policy ensuring that collection, storage, transportation and disposal of waste was properly managed and recycled as far as possible; remote conferencing technologies. a support of the NGO up2green which promotes the reforestation in the world new design of equipment succeeded in a energy consumtion reduction of 15% of plants. on going development on new equipment allows a reduction in raw materials and cement of 8%. these new developments actively participate towards a sustainable industry. New patented line of equipment to ensure depollution of old vehicles • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • • No claim regarding Environment was reported in the period covered by the COP. 300 trees will be planted in the world by MATERIALS employees and clients in 2013 Anti-Corruption • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. • • Protection of Internationally recognized principles including combating corruption, is expressly part of Materials Technologies Code of Ethics, which is distributed to all employees in the company. Business Partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to this principle and to all those listed in the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the Materials Technologies Suppliers Charter that suppliers are required to sign and encouraged to implement. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergone a screening on ethics which includes questions on potential links with political parties or place of payment for their services • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • • No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. • • No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. Siège social MATERIALS TECHNOLOGIES, ZAE LES CAMENDIERES 49110 LE PIN EN MAUGES www.materials-technologies.com -
