To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Egyptian Society for Corporate Governance reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Nasr A.abbas Ahmed Human Rights • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • The principal partner monitors the application of human rights in the firm by consultation with partners and senior managers. Labour • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits • Implementation • Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. • Human resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • The company issued Human Resources Manual, that determines policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits Environment • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact environmental principles • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • The company issued financial regulation to avoid and prevent corruption, bribery and extortion. Our policy requires from our employees and clients to adhere to the Global Compact antiCorruption principals. Also, we participate in conferences or other collective – action on anticorruption. Anti-Corruption • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. • Written company policy of zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact anti-corruption principles • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anticorruption • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anticorruption performance. • The company encourages its staff to participate in conferences that raise the awareness on environmental protection . Also, we adhere to Global Compact Environmental Principles.
