Íslandsbanki in society Global Compact report 2013 Contents Message from the CEO 4 Human Capital 31 This is Íslandsbanki 5 Human Resources 32 Key figures 7 A diverse group 32 An eventful year 8 Finding the leader in you and career development for women 33 Being socially responsible 9 An ambitious training programme and education 33 Responsible objectives 10 Certified financial advisors 33 Business 11 We take pride in our work 34 Coporate Governance 12 Through the glass ceiling 34 Board of directors 14 Annual strategy summits 35 Disclosure policy 17 The ultimate team 35 Risk Report 17 Employee health and well-being 35 Anti-corruption 18 We offer a helping hand 36 Competition safeguards customers’ interests 19 Environment 37 Ethical guidelines 20 Environmentally friendly 38 Promoting CSR in Iceland 20 Recycling 38 Promoting education and financial literacy 20 Saving the trees 38 Restructuring customers debt 23 Data elimination 39 20,000 customers received interest refund 27 Reducing energy consumption 39 Outstanding service for all customers 28 Reducing water consumption 40 Supporting entrepreneurs 29 Íslandsbanki’s fleet of cars 40 Connecting with customers on social media 30 Geothermal energy & seafood 41 Publication of market research material 41 Active participation in cluster projects 41 Community 42 Reykjavík Marathon running for a good cause 43 Forskot, the Golfing Excellence Fund 43 “What if?” 44 Íslandsbanki’s Entrepreneurs Fund 44 Various community projects 44 2 Global Compact Global Compact 3 Message from the CEO This is Íslandsbanki At Íslandsbanki, we seek to work in harmony with our community, with respect Íslandsbanki, a team of 1,100 employees, is a universal bank offering a full range of financial services to for man, nature and good ethics. Although social responsibility is often put in individuals, corporate and institutional investors to the benefit of the clients and the society as a whole. With connection with grants to charities, Íslandsbanki’s most important role as a financial 25-43% market share across all domestic franchise areas, Íslandsbanki is a leader in financial services in institution is to provide capital for investment for individuals and companies for Iceland and operates the country’s most efficient branch network of 21 branches around the country serving further development of the Icelandic economy, with sound and healthy business over 200,000 customers. The Bank is divided into four main business segments: Retail Banking, Corporate practice as a guiding principle. Banking, Markets, and Wealth Management. In addition Íslandsbanki operates specialised units focused on credit card services and asset based financing. Íslandsbanki’s strong balance sheet enables the Bank to function as a major player in the development of the economy and the Bank takes that role seriously. Birna Einarsdóttir Retail Banking Wealth management Retail Banking provides comprehensive financial services Wealth Management, under the brand names VÍB and IS Responsible decision making progress in financial restructuring with recalculation of over to individuals, households, and small and medium sized Funds (Íslandssjódir), offer a broad range of advisory services 20,000 loans, resulting in ISK 475 billion in write-offs and enterprises. The division runs 21 branches around Iceland in the areas of savings, portfolio management and private Good business ethics, prudence and good corporate remissions to customers. This has increased the quality of together with two specialised units in the field of credit card banking for affluent individuals and institutional investors. governance are an integral part of our day to day business. the Bank’s loan portfolio and decreased uncertainty for our services and asset based financing. Following the mergers VÍB’s unique position lies in its ambitious educational activities We have worked on strengthening our corporate governance customers who can now better service their debt. with Byr and Kreditkort, Íslandsbanki is now a leader in retail aimed at encouraging discussion and information sharing on and one of the key strategic projects in 2012 was to implement banking services in Iceland with a 31% overall market share investments and economic affairs. Íslandsbanki is a leader in the Bank´s decision-making matrix. This was done in order and a 43% share in asset based financing for individuals. wealth management in Iceland, with around 20,000 customers to ensure that decisions taken within the Bank fulfil the Realize the policy and a market share of 20-40% depending on product area. appropriate requirements. The decision-making matrix elevated the Bank’s corporate governance standards to Íslandsbanki adheres to and supports the United Nations international best practices. guiding principles for corporate social responsibility; the Corporate Banking Global Compact. As one of Iceland’s leading company and Markets Corporate Banking provides comprehensive financial services biggest workplace, the Bank embraces the responsibility of its to larger companies and municipalities as well as financing Markets provides its customers with multifaceted services Healthier customers – healthier Bank actions and encourages a positive impact on the society. It is larger projects in Iceland. After servicing the country’s core that cover their investment banking activities. The Bank´s not enough to sign a well phrased policy about being socially industries for many years, the Corporate Banking division has investment banking division provides comprehensive services After the financial crises banks worldwide experienced the responsible. You have to integrate it into the business model expert knowledge in seafood and energy, while maintaining to larger companies and investors in the areas of capital same problem, they lost the public trust. It takes years to and stand by it in all your actions. It is an enormous task that a special focus on growing sectors such as retail and tourism. markets, corporate finance and market research. Íslandsbanki rebuild that trust and it requires hard work and commitment. we take seriously and strive to do better on every day. Íslandsbanki holds a leading position in corporate banking is the leading player in capital markets in Iceland with a 20The Bank has placed high emphasis on more extensive internal with a 37% market share. 35% market share. regulatory framework and increased transparency. Over the last 3 years, the Bank has published its Risk Report with Birna Einarsdóttir, CEO of Íslandsbanki details on the Bank’s risk profile and operational risk factors. We have worked hard on coming to terms with the past and we are ready to look to the future. We have made remarkable 4 Global Compact Global Compact 5 21 branches around Iceland Key figures Ownership structure Íslandsbanki is majority-owned by Glitnir Bank hf., which holds 95% of its share capital through its subsidiaries, on behalf of Glitnir creditors. The remaining 5% is held by the Icelandic Government and is administered by Icelandic State Financial Investments. 6 Global Compact Global Compact 7 An Eventful Year December » ISK 2bn tap issuance of Being socially responsible Corporate Finance completes two series of covered bonds November public stock o er of For the last four years Íslandsbanki has been adhering to the UN Global Compact on social responsibility. The Fjarskipti (Vodafone) on Corporate Finance completes the NASDAQ OMX Iceland » Íslandsbanki becomes compact is a guide for companies on how to be socially responsible in practice. Íslandsbanki works within » Íslandsbanki drops three public stock o er of the first bank in Iceland to lawsuits in order to expedite the shipping company launch a responsive mobile the parameters set by the compact and they have scoped the Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility policy. recalculation of loans Eimskipafélag Íslands on the and tablet network The policy covers four key areas: Business, Human capital, the Environment and the Community. The Bank’s NASDAQ OMX Iceland October participation in community programmes is based on those areas. Corporate Finance completes New ISK 1.2bn public bond o er of the issuance of » ISK 1.4bn tap issuance of two series of covered bonds real-estate company Eik non-indexfasteignafélag, the largest linked covered September private sector bond issue in bonds Four main pillars of social responsibility » Íslandsbanki publishes its Iceland since 2008 forecast for the Icelandic New type of savings economy account introduced: higher » New published report on the fisheries and seafood » Corporate Banking interest against 30 day sector participates in ISK 7bn minimum term period August refinancing of Ölgerdin hf. Reykjavík Marathon, sponsored » Íslandsbanki’s annual Finance Forum by Íslandsbanki, attracts » Íslandsbanki subsidiary attracts around 300 guests record numbers. Over 13,000 Glacier Securities LLC July participants, raising ISK 45m for 130 charities provides consultation services to fisheries and » The EFTA Surveillance » Corporate Finance heads group of seafood sector in South Authority approves the measures institutional investors in the purchase America taken on money market funds in of a 60% share in the insurance 2008 as being compatible with company Tryggingamidstödin June the EEA Agreement Íslandsbanki is the ﬁrst Interest rate ceiling Buisness Environment May bank in Iceland to receive product introduced as Íslandsbanki endeavours to serve its customers through clear Íslandsbanki seeks to work in harmony with the environment, EFTA Surveillance a new payment option VÍB’s new property Authority approval for the on non-index-linked regulations, efficient disclosure of information, increased as reflected in its operations, management practices and » Íslandsbanki introduces company, FAST-1, established restructuring of its banking housing loans transparency, and fair treatment of all its customers. investments. its competition strategy with 22 shareholders and operations an investment capacity of ISK 11bn » Educational grants awarded to ten students showing exceptional promise for a total sum of ISK 3.4m » Launch of the ‘We Lend a » ISK 1.5bn tap issuance of two series of covered bonds April Helping Hand’ campaign, by which staff can devote one day a year to Merger of Íslandsbanki a good cause of their own choosing and Kreditkort March Íslandsbanki becomes the » Glacier Securities acts as consultant on USD 15m » Issuance of two new series ﬁrst bank in the world geothermal project in the USA of covered bonds for a total to o er Meniga personal value of ISK 3.3bn ﬁnance so ware as a built-in feature of its online banking service February Human capital Community Merger of Íslandsbanki aims to recruit, strengthen and retain a skilled Íslandsbanki contributes to the community by supporting Íslandsbanki receives highest and conscientious workforce. The Bank aspires to employ various social, artistic, cultural and sporting activities, as well ranking in the annual customer Íslandsbanki and an ambitious and varied group of people, with differing as encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship. January satisfaction survey among Byr completed backgrounds and experience. ﬁnancial institutions in Iceland Syndicated loan of ISK 3.5bn to the » Íslandsbanki nominated for Landsvirkun power company » Publication of a report on the Nexpo online prize for savings Icelandic seafood cluster advice 2012 8 Global Compact Global Compact 9 Responsible objectives 2012 OBJECTIVES PERFORMANCE BUSINESS Decision-making matrix Detailed mapping of the decision making The decision-making matrix was launched on 1 November 2012. process within the Bank. Mentoring HUMAN CAPITAL Special emphasis on mentoring and The mentoring programme was launched in 2012. 35 women are coaching programmes for women. now in the programme. 95% recommend it to others. We offer a helping hand All employees will get a day off to work This project was launched in 2012. for a charity of their own choice. Electricity and water consumption Measure the consumption at Measures of the consumption can be seen in the report. headquarters. Car fleet of Íslandsbanki ENVIRONMENT How many km cars owned by the Bank 227,900 km are driven annually. How much fuel is purchased Objective not fulfilled in 2012. Measurements started in 2013. 90% of the vehicles owned by the Bank General Services is looking into purchasing/ leasing more will be environmentally friendly by 2014. eco-friendly vehicles with 0-120 g of CO2 emissions per km. Business Recycle Sort waste properly at headquarters. Implementation starts at headquarters in April. FUTURE OBJECTIVES The Bank’s most important social purpose relates BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT to its very function and role as a bank. This purpose is to provide capital for investment and the growth Lower the ratio of loans in restructuring Electricity and water consumption of Icelandic business and industry and to work with • The Bank aims at an 8% LPA ration (Loan Portfolio • Measure the consumption in the Bank’s branches in 2013. individuals and companies in their enterprises. At Analysis) in the end of 2013. The ratio was 13.7% by the • Reducing the electricity consumption by at least 10 Íslandsbanki, our primary goal is to fulfil our role with end of 2012. 15% from 2013 2016. a balance of enthusiasm and prudence. HUMAN CAPITAL Car fleet of Íslandsbanki Íslandsbanki is committed to providing customers Leadership program • 90% of the vehicles owned by the Bank will be with effective communication, transparency and environmentally friendly by 2014. equal treatment. The Bank places an emphasis on good • An intensive leadership program for managers at Íslandsbanki was launched in January. 66 managers are All tyres under the Bank’s vehichles will be service to customers to ensure customers’ satisfaction now participating. The objective is that by 2015 all of environmentally friendly in 2014 to reduce attrition and trust in the Bank. 141 managers will have completed the program. of roads and airborne particle pollution. Work place audit Recycle • To be over or equal to 4.20 in employees answers to the • All waste will be recycled at the Bank’s branches in 2013. work place audit in 2013. The results are on a scale from 1 5. Paper • In 2013 the Bank will discontinue the distribution of payment slips to customers saving around 600,000 letters annually in distribution. 10 Global Compact Corporate Governance Sound governance promotes improved work habits and Administrative stucture Methodology communications, which in turn enhances trust and confidence among shareholders, the Board, management, employees, and The decision-making matrix was formally launched on 1 other stakeholders in the Bank. November 2012 and has been in effect since that time. In Board of Directors order to fulfil its obligations to observe sound governance practises, the Bank has defined the following methodology for A clear governance framework strengthens the Bank’s Group Internal Audit major decisions. infrastructure and clarifies responsibility, thereby strengthening the foundations of the Bank’s objectives. Íslandsbanki’s • The Bank’s decisions serve the interests of the Bank and governance practices are consistent with general corporate CEO its stakeholders in accordance with current regulatory governance guidelines for entities regulated by official instruments, the documents pertaining to the Bank’s supervisors and regulatory instruments. The management establishment, and the Bank’s contractual obligations Compliance and control of Íslandsbanki are shared by shareholders, the • Decisions are taken by the parties (shareholders, Board Board, and the CEO in accordance with the Bank’s Articles of Association, other Board directives, and the external members, supervisors, managers, or employees) best regulatory environment. qualified to carry them out effectively and efficiently in view of their professional obligations, sphere of responsibility and interest, knowledge and expertise, Retail Corporate Markets Wealth Finance Operational Risk Management Banking Banking Management Services and IT and Credit Control and access to the appropriate information Decision-making matrix • Decisions are based on the best available information One of Íslandsbanki’s key projects in 2012 focused on sound and are taken following appropriate scrutiny governance principles. The project entailed mapping out all major decisions that the Bank may wish to take under given Legal Human Resources Marketing and Online Banking and Service Communication circumstances. This was done in order to foster improved decision making and ensure that the decisions taken within the Bank fulfil the appropriate requirements at any given time. Shareholders’ meetings meetings, each share generally carries one vote, and issues are decided by majority vote unless otherwise stipulated by law In accordance with the Act on Public Limited Companies and Daniel Levin the Bank’s Articles of Association, shareholders shall wield or in the Articles of Association. Board Member the ultimate authority in all matters at shareholders’ meetings. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) shall be held before the Following the adoption of the decision-making matrix, the Bank has Articles of Association end of April each year. At the AGM, the Board of Directors committed itself to a diligent and thorough implementation of these is elected, the auditors selected, the annual accounts for the Íslandsbanki’s Articles of Association contain provisions on corporate governance guidelines, which establish a clear and verifiable previous year and the employment terms policy presented for the Bank’s purpose, share capital, and shareholders’ meetings, allocation of duties and responsibilities as well as the appropriate approval, and decisions made about dividend payments and as well as the election and responsibilities of the Board of consultation and approval parameters throughout the Bank. The amendments to the Articles of Association, as appropriate. Directors and the procedures governing amendments to the introduction of the Matrix has been welcomed by the Bank’s staff with Articles of Association. open arms, and its seamless implementation throughout the Bank’s Shareholders or their representatives are authorised to attend operations elevates its corporate governance standards to international shareholders’ meetings, as are advisors. At shareholders’ best practices. In its adoption of the Matrix, the Bank’s Board of Directors emphasized that this is a “live” document that requires sustained proactive and exemplary initiative on behalf of the Bank’s staff in order to ensure that ongoing operational challenges are properly addressed and adequately reflected in the Matrix. The continued excellence and effectiveness of the Bank’s corporate governance policies require a commitment not only to the formal observance of these policies but also to the substantive values and principles reflected therein. 12 Global Compact Global Compact 13 Board of directors The Board of Directors comprises seven members who are eligibility assessment. This assessment was introduced by and their opinions on issues related to the Bank’s operations and for ensuring that the Bank’s overall financial position elected at each AGM for a term of one year. There are no the FME in order to support enforcement of rules on board and their own responsibility as members of the Board. All is in compliance with the internal and external regulatory limitations on duration of Board membership, nor are there member eligibility and – equally important – to enhance Board Íslandsbanki Board members have passed this assessment. framework. any age limits for participation in the Board of Directors. members’ awareness of the knowledge and responsibility required of them as members of the Board of Directors. The The Board of Directors wields the ultimate authority over the The Board of Directors met 15 times in 2012 and its Board members of firms supervised by the Financial FME has appointed an advisory committee that interviews Bank’s affairs between shareholders’ meetings. The Board is subcommittees held 22 meetings in total. Supervisory Authority (FME) must be subjected to an Board members in order to determine their level of knowledge responsible for supervision and organisation of operations Fridrik Sophusson John E. Mack Árni Tómasson Dr. Daniel Levin Marianne Økland María E. Ingvadóttir Neil Graeme Brown Chairman of the Board Vice-chairman of the Board Board Director Board Director Board Director Board Director Board Director since January 2010 since January 2010 since January 2010 since May 2011 since January 2010 since September 2012 since January 2010 Biography Fridrik Sophusson has nearly forty years wide-ranging John E. Mack, a US national, has many years’ Árni Tómasson has worked in bank and financial Daniel Levin, a US and Swiss national, is a Board Marianne Økland, a María E. Ingvadóttir has Neil Graeme Brown, Norwegian national, over 20 years experience a British national, has experience in fiscal policy experience in international institution auditing since Director of the Liechtenstein currently holds the in management, finance extensive experience of making, management and banking and M&A. He 1985. He was partner Foundation for State position of Managing and consulting. Since finance and restructuring public service in Iceland. was Corporate Executive and later chairman of Governance. Dr. Levin has Director of Avista 2002 Ms. Ingvadóttir of international He has also served as a Officer and CFO of Shinsei Deloitte Ltd in Iceland been advising governments Partners. Ms. Økland has has been an independent businesses. Mr. Brown board member in several Bank in Tokyo 2002-2005. until 2001. Mr. Tómasson and development spent most of her career consultant in the field of was a partner at Coopers companies and institutions. Prior to that, he spent 27 has over 20 years of agencies globally in the in banking, dealing with financial accounting and & Lybrand (now PwC) in He was Managing Director years working for Bank of experience in teaching at development of financial debt financing in various management. Prior to that, London 1990-1996. He of the Icelandic Management America and its affiliates, Reykjavik University and and capital markets, positions at JP Morgan and she held various positions has 20 years of experience Association 1972-1978 most recently as a funding the University of Iceland. and has been working UBS. She worked for their in finance and trade in international private when he was elected to executive for the Parent Mr. Tómasson was CEO closely with supervisory Capital Market division among others as the CFO equity and is an expert in Parliament. During his stretch Company. Mr. Mack has of Bunadarbankinn (later agencies and regulators focusing on Nordic of Reykjavík – European US and European M&A as an MP he moreover held specific experience in merged with Kaupthing) on the implementation Debt Origination and Capital of Culture 1998markets. Furthermore, the position of Minister of corporate workouts and 2001-2003 and has since of ethical and corporate Structuring. Ms. Økland 2001 and he has listed companies Industry and Energy 1987problem loans through his worked as an independent governance standards for is also familiar with the as the CFO and later Trade on the London, AIM 1988 and Minister of Finance former role as director of consultant. In October financial institutions. He consulting business from Representative with the and NASDAQ markets. 1991-1998. Mr. Sophusson Strategic Solutions Inc, a 2008-2011 Mr. Tómasson has been actively involved her work at Marsoft Ltd., Icelandic Trade Council Mr. Brown has served was appointed the CEO majority-owned subsidiary was chairman of Glitnir‘s in numerous financial a Boston, Oslo and London 1987-1997. and serves as a board of Landsvirkjun Ltd, the of Bank of America. Resolution Committee. legislation and parliamentary based consulting firm Ms. Ingvadóttir represents member for a number of National Power Company, in initiatives. specialising in shipping the Icelandic State international companies. 1999 and held that position investments. Financial Investments. for almost 11 years. Cand. Jur. degree in Law MBA from the University of Cand. Oecon. degree in Education from the University of Virginia, Darden School of business administration Lic.iur. (J.D.) and Dr.iur. (J.S.D./ Ph.D.) degrees from the M.Sc. degree in finance and economics from the Cand. Oecon. degree in business administration M.A. degree in business from Emmanuel College, Iceland. business and a B.A. degree from the University of faculty of Law of the Uni­vers­ity of Norwegian School of from the University of Cambridge and associate of in economics from Davidson Iceland and authorised Zürich, Switzerland, and an LL.M. Economics and Business Iceland. the Institute of Chartered College. public accountant. degree from Col­umbia University Administration. Accountants (ACA). School of Law. 14 Global Compact Global Compact Business 15 Board subcommittees In accordance with the rules governing its activities, the Board responsible for reviewing the risk management rules set by the Board. Disclosure policy has appointed subcommittees comprising Board members. The Board Special Credit Committee: addresses Each of the subcommittees conveys information on its and makes recommendations to the Board on credit issues Íslandsbanki has in place a formal Disclosure and Communication Policy approved by the Board of Directors. activities to the Board. The subcommittees are: involving credit authorisations or write-offs falling outside the The policy, which is required under Pillar 3 of the Basel framework, outlines the governing principles purview of the Bank’s internal Risk Committee. The Board Audit Committee: assists the Board in and framework for external disclosure and communication. The Bank believes in open and consistent overseeing accounting and auditing of major accounting communication with its stakeholders as it is essential for trust building and for maintaining a good relationship The Board Corporate Governance, Compensation and financial reporting matters, effectiveness of internal and Human Resources Committee: is responsible monitoring within the Bank, and the risk management and for assisting the Board with setting goals for the Bank and compliance structure. Íslandsbanki aims to make correct and sufficient disclosure of to disclose this information more frequently. Accordingly, overseeing the Bank’s relationship with managers, the Board, shareholders, and other stakeholders, with the aim of material information and keep the disclosure accessible to all Íslandsbanki may decide not to disclose information that The Board Risk Management Committee: is clarifying areas of responsibility. relevant stakeholders in a compliant, reliable, useful, timely is considered to be immaterial. In addition, the Bank will responsible for reviewing the risk management practises and consistent manner. The main channel for Íslandsbanki’s not disclose information that is deemed to be proprietary followed by Bank management and presenting to the Board risk and capital management disclosure is through the Risk or confidential. The classification of proprietary and a description of the chief risks facing the Bank. It is also report, the Annual report, the quarterly financial statements confidentential information is based on Icelandic law and and investor presentations. If material risk exposures change regulation. significantly between reporting periods, the Bank can choose Corporate Governance, Compensation Risk Report Audit Committee Risk Management Special Credit Committee Committee and Human Resource Committee Íslandsbanki has published for the third time a special Risk Report. The report provides detailed information Fridrik Sophusson on the Bank’s risk profile and risk management. John E. Mack Árni Tómasson The objective of Íslandsbanki’s Risk Report is to provide market in 2008. The Risk Report also gives a short introduction to the Dr. Daniel Levin participants and other stakeholders with information that main domestic legislative and regulatory changes, as well as Marianne Økland facilitates a better understanding of Íslandsbanki’s risk profile information on the Bank’s remuneration policy. At year-end and capital adequacy, and thus comply with Basel disclosure 2012 the Bank was in compliance with its defined risk appetite María E. Ingvadóttir requirements. The Risk Report presents comprehensive and all regulatory requirements were fulfilled. Neil Graeme Brown information on the Bank’s risk governance, risk assessment processes, material risk exposures, capital adequacy and capital The Risk Report can be found on the Bank’s website: composition. In addition, it provides detailed information www.islandsbanki.is/riskreport Member Chairman about the restructuring and recalculation of distressed debt which have been key tasks since the establishment of the Bank Structure of Board’s subcommittees Sverrir Örn Þorvaldsson Chief Risk Officer The Risk Report is modelled on the best practise of many of its international peers, sets a disclosure standard in Iceland, and fulfils the requirements of Pillar 3 of the Basel framework. The Bank believes that an open and transparent disclosure is essential in building confidence and maintaining good relations with its shareholders and other stakeholders. The Risk Report increases the transparency and provides market participants with information that helps facilitate a better understanding of Íslandsbanki’s risk profile, its risk management processes and its capital adequacy. 16 Global Compact Global Compact 17 Anti-corruption The Compliance unit is responsible for monitoring and assessing on a regular basis the appropriateness and Registered loss events during the year 2012. effectiveness of measures undertaken by Íslandsbanki to ensure that the work carried out by the Bank, its 78% Board, and its employees is in compliance with current laws, regulations, and internal rules and procedures % of all loss amounts 2011 65% at all times and that it is consistent with sound and appropriate business practise. Íslandsbanki’s Compliance % of all loss amounts 2012 Officer is appointed by the CEO and has an independent position in the Bank’s organisational chart. The Officer files reports to the CEO and the Board on regular basis. 32% Compliance risk is defined as the risk of legal or regulatory An electronic monitoring system (Norkom) for money sanctions, financial loss, or damage to the Bank’s reputation in laundering was set up in 2009 in collaboration with the the event of failure to comply with the applicable regulatory Icelandic Banks Data Centre. The system has increased the instruments. In co-operation with Internal Audit, the Bank´s security and reduced the risk of fraud for money 11% 7% Compliance department carries out a special “fit-and-proper” laundering purposes. 3% 2% 0% 0% 2% test undergone by managers and key employees. 0% 0% 0% 0% Operational risk Internal Fraud External Fraud Employment practices and Clients Products and Damage to Physical Assets Business Disruption and Execution Delivery and workplace safety Business Practices System Failures Process Management Internal Audit The Bank has adopted the definition of operational risk from Group Internal Audit provides Íslandsbanki with independent, the European Parliament and of the European Council, where impartial confirmation and consultancy designed to add operational risk is defined “as the risk of loss resulting from Breakdown of loss amounts in 2011-2012 based on Basel II event categories. Parent. value and improve the Bank’s operations. It helps the Bank to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems assess and improve the effectiveness of its risk management, or from external events“. The Bank’s definition of operational monitoring, and governance practises. Furthermore, Group risk includes legal risk, compliance risk, and reputational risk. Internal Audit leads investigations into possible instances of misconduct in the Bank’s operations. The role of Internal The Board has defined limits for acceptable losses due to Competition safeguards customers’ interests Audit is to determine whether the procedures employed by operational risk, and if quarterly losses exceed a certain limit, the Bank for risk management, monitoring, and governance as a report of the losses and a risk mitigation plan is delivered to The Bank takes the view that customers’ interests are best actions do not run counter to competition legislation. decided and presented by management are satisfactory. the Executive Board or the Board of Directors. served by fair and open competition on the markets. This year Íslandsbanki brought in a new policy on competition designed to A competition law officer is responsible for conducting internal The Bank has implemented a framework to capture both ensure that the Bank’s operations are fully in line with regulation competition surveillance and educating employees on matters of Anti-money laundering actual and potential operational risk losses. Operational risk on competition and that its decisions, agreements and competition. loss events which result in losses of more than ISK 100,000 Íslandsbanki is committed to the prevention of money and incidents that could potentially cause substantial losses laundering and the financing of terrorism. In this regard the (near-misses) are collected through a web-based system and Bank has set for itself rules that are based on and in strictest are registered in the Bank’s loss event database. The database compliance with Measures to Prevent Money Laundering and holds information on all significant actual losses, categorised Kristín Ninja Gudmundsdóttir Terrorist Financing, as subsequently amended, and guidelines according to Basel II convention, and provides a basis for Lawyer and Competition Law Officer of the Financial Supervisory Authority-Iceland (FME). These management reports. Also, the loss event data are necessary rules mandate identity verification whenever the Bank enters for the development of more sophisticated methods of capital Competition plays an important role in the open market to ensure that into “a permanent contractual (business) relationship” with a requirements assessment. consumers and society as a whole gains from active competition. There is a new customer. Such verification shall involve identifying and risk of competition law violations in the Bank’s operation as the decisionverifying the customer’s identity using information or data In 2012, a total of 454 loss events were registered in the from a reliable and independent source. These rules apply to Bank’s loss event database. 78% of the total operational risk making on trade is decentralised and activities are extensive. the Bank, its branches and its subsidiaries. All employees are losses were categorized as “Execution, delivery and process It is important that the Bank’s activities are fully in accordance with the obliged to attend a lecture on anti-money laundering. management”. competition law and that its actions on the market do not in any way breach the competition law. It is the Bank’s believe that fair competition will insure customer benefits. The Competition policy is intended to ensure that the Bank’s operations are fully in line with competition law. 18 Global Compact Global Compact 19 Ethical guidelines and encourage related research in cooperation with Icelandic universities. Festa is an independent organization with independent finances. Festa fosters debate on CSR related Gunnar Kristinn Sigurdsson issues through meetings and conferences. Four conferences To maintain and strengthen the credibility and the reputation Corporate Communication and Web Development were held in Reykjavík during the winter 2012 – 2013. of the Bank, employees were involved in formulating the Bank’s Code of Ethics. The aim of the Code is to promote good We feel that people are increasingly going online for financial Íslandsbanki also has a board member in a professional group operational and business practices, increase trust, strengthen education. Íslandsbanki has traditionally been very strong in on CSR at Stjórnvísi. Stjórnvísi is the largest management the Bank’s reputation, and guide employees in their daily financial education in the form of seminars and publication society in Iceland with nearly 2,000 active members and a very work. The Code covers the importance of professional of various educational magazines. strong network. Stjórnvísi is open to all individuals, companies methods of work, customers ‘equality, and the confidentiality and organizations. The core of Stjórnvísi lies in the work of The Bank’s aim is to increase financial education for the of employees. 20 dynamic professional groups that all focus on different customers through the Bank’s website and our ambition is aspects of management. Around 100 members are registered There are also work procedures at the Bank that prescribe the to provide the best possible online educational content on in the CSR professional group that aims at sharing knowledge general duties of Íslandsbanki’s employees. The procedures are finance. We are going to focus on education about mortgages, and experience in the field of CSR. The group held 4 meetings intended to support the code of ethics. The procedures cover savings and investments and traditional home finance. We want to appeal to a younger group to a larger extent during the winter 2012 – 2013, one at Íslandsbanki where the the conduct of employees, measures to prevent conflicts of as surveys have shown that the greatest need for education is within that age group. The goal is to use financial Global Compact reporting of the Bank was introduced. interest, confidentiality and secrecy, disclosure and handling education to build successful long-term customer relationships along with strengthening the business of the bank. of customer complaints. A number of recordings of educational courses held by Íslandbanki and VIB are already available on the banks These ethical guidelines apply to all activities, employees and managers at Íslandsbanki as well as contractors working Promoting education website, www.islandsbanki.is, and on www.vib.is. Also available on the web are almost 200 articles written by financial experts both from the inside and outside of the Bank. Recently, we have also begun to publish short oneand financial literacy for the Bank. The compliance has held workshops where the minute long videos with practical financial advices from our advisors working in the branches of Íslandsbanki. code of ethics and the work procedures are introduced. All employees are required to attend these workshops and around Although the main focus is on online material, Íslandsbanki has recently published two magazines on paper for 79% of all employees have. Employees must sign a declaration the individual and corporate customers. Both magazines were well received by the target groups and gained good Íslandsbanki has set out to boost financial literacy in Iceland stating that they have read the contents of the guidelines and attention. through a series of educational courses and seminars. Keeping will abide by them. The guidelines apply to all employees the customers well informed is important to the Bank. The regardless of whether they have signed the declaration or not. Bank’s wealth management division, VÍB, has hosted around The guidelines are accessible on the internal net. 100 courses over a two year period, on savings and investment, around the country. The Bank has also seminars on housing loans and the housing market. Customers have also been VÍB runs an ambitious education programme aimed at Promoting CSR invited to attend a workshop on the use of Meniga, personal finance software that is integrated with Íslandsbanki´s online encouraging discussion on investments and economic affairs. The initiative has been very well received: 54 information in Iceland bank. In addition the Bank provides financial information on seminars have been held, attracting around 3,000 guests in its website Your Finances. The aim is to guide people to better person and over 6,000 online. understanding so they can make informed decisions regarding their personal finances. On the website there are general Íslandsbanki has put effort into raising awareness and increase VÍB also put on a popular series of seminars on savings for explanations of financial concepts, articles and an overview knowledge of corporate social responsibility. Íslandsbanki senior citizens arranged in collaboration with the National of the financial services the Bank provides. together with five companies established FESTA– the Icelandic Federation of Senior Citizens around the country, as well as Centre for CSR in 2011. The center aims at assisting companies elementary courses on equity and fixed income trading with Webcasts of the Bank’s seminars are available online. in implementing CSR strategies, raise awareness about CSR insightful presentations by chief executives of companies listed on the NASDAQ OMX Iceland. In 2012 VÍB invited three foreign speakers to Iceland to discuss the economic situation. Manuel Hinds, an economist and former Minister of Finance of El Salvador, discussed an independent currency for Iceland and shared his experience of unilateral adoption of the US dollar. John Dizard, financial expert and a columnist for the Financial Times, covered the future of the Euro Zone and its main challenges and Lars Christensen, economist at Danske Bank, presented new analyses on the Icelandic economy. VÍB’s extensive financial education program is free of charge. This assists clients in making better investment decisions as well as providing them with increased confidence to actively take part in their own investments. Much of the provided material is also available as online video and live broadcasts. John Dizard, financial expert Manuel Hinds, economist 20 Global Compact Global Compact 21 Restructuring customers debt Björn Berg Gunnarsson Educational Officer at VÍB Restructuring has been one of the main tasks of Íslandsbanki since its establishment in October 2008. The Bank has offered various measures for both individuals and companies. These measures range from being a We at VÍB firmly believe in the merits of financial education. With our broad spectrum of educational events we continue to build our already part of a general restructuring scheme either stipulated by law or by joint agreement with the authorities or good reputation as a provider of balanced and accessible information on by following court rulings regarding the legitimacy of foreign currency loans to being offered only for the finance and economics. Our customers are very happy with this effort and Bank’s customers. The Bank’s measures have in many cases exceeded rulings and agreements for the benefit their participation is consistently very good. of the customers. Bank’s cumulative write-offs and remissions in this process In several cases Íslandsbanki has decided to go beyond amount to ISK 475 billion, of which ISK 103 billion is to the Icelandic law and court orders in recalculation for the Collaboration with 3rd parties: individuals and ISK 372 billion is to companies. benefit of the customers. By doing so the Bank contributes to accelerate the restructuring of the Icelandic economy. • Finances of senior citizens – with the National Association of Senior Citizens (LEB). Over 20 events countrywide Steinunn Gudbjörg Þorsteinsdóttir • Finances of senior citizens – with the University of Quality Manager and Project Manager Iceland for Financial Restructuring • Securities investment for women – with Nasdaq OMX Nordic (The Icelandic Stock Exchange) and FKA In 2010 the key project financial restructuring was Association of Business Women in Iceland established. This was done in order to achieve the Banks goals in restructuring of companies and individuals debt. Also to • Online Investment Simulator – with Nasdaq OMX monitor in a better way the restructuring processes and results Nordic and 365 Media as restructuring had been the Bank’s main task since 2008. Investment lectures – with the Reykjavik University The project has been challenging; the scope was not just • students society restructuring measure being offered only for the Bank’s customers, it was also the various acts and regulation that the Parliament had passed and the numerous Supreme Court rulings regarding the legitimacy of foreign currency linked loans. Due to these external factors the project needed to be re-scoped several time. The peak in the project was in 2011, when there were over hundred employees only working on restructuring and at that time there were more than ten restructuring and forbearance measures running in the Bank. The communication was then a critical tool and over hundred internal and external stakeholders received a progress reports monthly. As the project is now in the final stage we are proud to see that a remarkable progress has been made in financial restructuring, both for individuals and companies. As a result, the Bank has written-off and remitted ISK 475 VÍB educational meetings billion. This result clearly demonstrates the quality of the people in the team and all the excellent work that has been done. But the overall success in the project is that the majority of the restructured individuals and 10,000 companies are now able to service their debt. 9,090 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 Customer testimonial from debt adjustment for individuals 5,000 Live webcarst reach 4,408 (total 6) 4,000 3,000 2,837 Meeting attendance (total 54) 2,000 1,845 VOD webcast reach 1,000 (total 18) “In November Íslandsbanki contacted me as I was again late with the monthly mortgages payment. For a while, I had problems 0 Live webcast Meeting attendance VOD webcast reach Total with the mortgage payment due to less income. The Bank called and invited us to a personal meeting to go through what (total 6) (total 54) (total 18) options we had during this period. Following the meeting we were offered to go through the Íslandsbanki debt adjustment scheme. The process went rather smoothly and reduced our payment burden.” 22 Global Compact Global Compact 23 Debt restructuring measures of individuals Debt restructuring measure for companies Since the Bank’s establishment a great emphasis has been placed been offered in this respect and the focus has been on catering The Bank is faced with choices between debt relief, forcing liabilities of companies in need of restructuring and to sell on the restructuring of household debt. Various measures have to the needs of the majority of households. companies into bankruptcy or converting debt to equity. The the stakes acquired through restructuring at the earliest time Bank’s goal is to establish a balance between the assets and possible. Debt measure for individualsA sApproach remissions ISK bn Write-offs and remissions to companies at year-end 2012. Parent. Total 103.2 Cumulative write-offs and remission to individuals at year-end 2012. Parent. ISK bn 110% adjustment 100 of mortgages 80 Recalculation 60 Recalculation of Ergo 40 Interest rate discount Principal adjustment Cumulative write-offs and remission to companies at year-end 2012. Parent. 20 Write 0 non-standard restructuring 4Q2008 2Q2009 4Q2009 2Q2010 4Q2010 2Q2011 4Q2011 2Q2012 4Q2012 Debt restructuring measure for Ergo Cumulative write-offs and remission to individuals at year-end 2012. Parent. In 2011 Ergo, the asset-based financing division of It is the Bank’s opinion that Supreme Court rulings from 15 Íslandsbanki, finalized the recalculation of 12,800 leasing February and 18 October 2012 has an effect on the leasing agreements on the basis of the Supreme Court’s decision agreements and in the year 2013 Ergo will re-recalculate Customer testimonial from debt adjustment for individuals in June 2010. In 2012 Ergo started recalculation of Financial 12,800 agreements according to the Supreme Court’s decision. Lease agreements according to the Act No. 151/2010. “In February 2010 I applied for the principal adjustment scheme at Íslandsbanki, which allowed me to convert my CPIlinked mortgages to a non-index linked mortgages in lieu of 10% decrease in the principal. I admit that I struggled with this decision since the non-index interest rates were rather high at this time. But the scheme also offered a temporary interest rate discount, 2.0% the first year, 1.5% for the second year and 1.0% the third year as the future terms for my new principal adjusted loan so the my monthly burden didn’t increase. Today the principal of my loan is 20% less than if I still had the CPIlinked loan and the monthly burden is 12% less. This was probably one of my best financial decisions that I have ever made!” 24 Global Compact Global Compact 25 20,000 customers In 2012 the Supreme Court of Iceland passed several rulings regarding foreign-currency-linked loans. On 15 On 18 October 2012 the Supreme Court in Iceland passed a ruling that supplemented the findings of the Receipt received interest refund February 2012 the Supreme Court in Iceland passed a Ruling and explained, to a certain extent, how the loans ruling that affected the legitimacy of the Icelandic banks’ should be recalculated. After that ruling Íslandsbanki Approximately 20,000 of Íslandsbanki’s customers recieved a refund of 30% of the interest payments made method of recalculating loans that were illegally linked to believed that most of the issues that needed clarification the value of foreign currencies, so-called “Receipt Ruling”. after the first ruling had been resolved. The Bank therefore on mortgages and general debt over the course of 2012. The refund amounted to ISK 2.5 billion and on average The Supreme Court found that the method, described discontinued three of the cases in order to speed up the each customer received ISK 120,000, subject to a maximum repayment of ISK 500,000. This did not include in the amendment to the law on interest and indexation recalculation of the loans that were judged to have been those mortgages that are to be recalculated in accordance with the Supreme Court rulings on those loans (hereafter Act No. 151/2010), which Althingi passed in illegally linked to foreign currencies. Íslandsbanki will now December 2010, violated the provisions of the Icelandic recalculates 15,000 loans that had previously been held up. which were illegally indexed to foreign currencies. The refund was a token of gratitude to customers for their Constitution that protect the freedom to hold property as loyalty through difficult times. the legislator cannot pass a law that retroactively deprives The Bank’s recalculation make sure that customers that a person of an asset without adequate compensation. went through some sort of restructuring are not worse off After that ruling 11 cases were selected by the three major than those that did not. Furthermore, the Bank ensures The refunds was deposited into 30-day notice savings down debt that carries higher interest rates. Customers were banks in Iceland to clarify issues that the court judgment that the customers that continued making payments on accounts. Customers were free to withdraw their refund encouraged to make an appointment with a financial advisor had not clarified. Four of these cases were on behalf of their loans are not worse off than customers that stopped from the account with a 30 day notice. With this Íslandsbanki in their Íslandsbanki branch to discuss the best savings plans Íslandsbanki. paying. wanted to encourage its customers to establish savings for the available. future, although the best savings sometimes include paying 30% OBJECTIVES: LPA Ratio 25% >90 days The credit quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio continues past due to increase as more customers have received financial 20% restructuring resulting in an improved financial 15% standing. This is extremely important both for the Bank and the customers where uncertainty is eliminated 10% and the economy becomes healthier. The Loan 5% Portfolio Analysis (LPA) ratio measures the progress of restructuring and is defined as the total carrying 0% amount of loans to customers in restructuring divided Q2 2011 Q3 2011 Q4 2011 Q1 2012 Q2 2012 Q3 2012 Q4 2012 by the total carrying amount of loans to customers. At the end of 2012 the LPA metric was 13.7% compared to 22.6% a year before, which means that smaller part of the loan portfolio is still in need of restructuring. The Bank aims at an 8% LPA ratio in the end of 2013. 26 Global Compact Global Compact 27 Outstanding service for all customers Supporting entrepreneurs Without customers the Bank would not exist. Satisfied customers are an invaluable asset, and Íslandsbanki’s Íslandsbanki is a driving force in the Icelandic economy. The Bank has been diligent in supporting innovation vision is to be ranked number one for service. Customer satisfaction encourages customer loyalty and trust in the form of an Entrepreneurial Fund, various seminars on entrepreneurship and the funding of Kvosinwhich translates to increased profitability. Certain quantifiable goals have been defined in this regard, e.g. Innovation centre for young entrepreneurs. quality of service, employee participation, employees’ own initiative, and the handling of customer complaints. The Bank also ensures that all customers, whatever their size, are equal and the service that is provided to The Entrepreneurial Fund In 2013, 70 women with 55 business plans applied for them is consistent. participation but 35 women with 26 plans were selected. A Íslandsbanki’s Entrepreneurial Fund focuses on innovative new winner will be selected in May. projects in renewable energy and sustainable fisheries. The Service suveys Capacent Gallup surveys show that the Bank has made fund’s objective is to encourage innovation and development Innovation Centre for Entrepreneurs significant progress improving its service to companies. in these areas. The fund is an important platform for the Íslandsbanki has invested considerable effort in mapping out Íslandsbanki is considered the best corporate service provider development of future solutions for sustainable usage and Kvosin, an Innovation Centre for Entrepreneurs, was launched which services our customers consider most important, and and the most professional bank in the market, as well as being preservation of natural resources. There is an allocation from in 2009 by Íslandsbanki and the Innovation Centre Iceland. has conducted both extensive internal and external service the bank most customers would turn to for new loans. the fund twice a year. In Kvosin individuals and groups get assistance in working on surveys. business ideas and starting up companies, office facilities for Super Service Week Entrepreneurship competition for women moderate fee, creative environment and powerful network. For the last 14 years the Icelandic Customer Satisfaction Index Experts from the Innovation Centre offer professional has been conducted. It is a collaboration project that measures This year the Bank held a so-called Super Service Week, Íslandsbanki, FKA, The Icelandic Association of Women guidance. Íslandsbanki provides housing and access to customer satisfaction in different sectors in Iceland. The aim is intended to firmly embed a culture of quality service within Entrepreneurs, and the Open University in Reykjavík services but the centre is located in the Bank’s branch building to provide organizations coordinated measures of customers’ the company. Simultaneously, the Bank introduced a new have for two years sponsored a course and competition in down town Reykjavík. 91 entrepreneurial companies have satisfaction but also other factors that affect it, such as image, customer comments system that allows instant feedback after entrepreneurship for women. The women receive lectures benefited from Kvosin. quality and customer loyalty. Íslandsbanki ranked second in a customer’s transaction. This system is new in Iceland and for on innovation, establishment of business, strategic planning, 2012 in customer satisfaction in the financial sector, measured the time being will only be used in two of the Bank’s branches. market analysis, finance and negotiation. During the course by the Icelandic Customer Satisfaction Index. The results were gratifying whereby 90% of customers were the women make business plans that are evaluated. Five then pleased with the service. participate in the competition for the best plan that receives ISK 2 million award from Íslandsbanki. In 2012, 34 women The Icelandic Customer Satisfaction Index participated. The art and design studio Volki won first prize. Volki designs furniture, accessories and other everyday items. 90 80 70 60 Olga Hrafnsdóttir 50 Íslandsbanki Partner at Volki 40 Market 30 avarage The course helped us to be 20 more effective and think 10 more from a commercial 0 point of view. Designers 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 often forget to do so because we are busy being creative. The award was a great addition to our investment in an knitting machine that will transform our business. 28 Global Compact Global Compact 29 Connecting with customers on social media Íslandsbanki places emphasis on open and direct opinions. The Bank welcomes this open dialogue and focuses communication with its customers. An important part of that on answering questions on social media in a timely manner. strategy is the Bank’s focus on active engagement in the social media sphere. Íslandsbanki´s communication with customers Íslandsbanki and VÍB have nearly 700 followers on Twitter, through Facebook and Twitter is increasing day by day. Today far more than any other bank in Iceland. From April 2012 to the Bank has 11,000 friends on Facebook but 11 branches April 2013 Islandsbanki‘s social media profiles generated 6.7 and VÍB have a Facebook site. Customers have actively used million impressions of statuses, pictures and videos shared the Bank’s social media to ask questions and express their across Twitter & Facebook. Twitter Stats Accross all Twitter accounts 70% 80% Male followers Male followers 30% Age of followers 20% Age of followers Female followers Female followers 18-24 25-34 35-44 45+ 18-20 21-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65+ 18-20 21-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65+ Facebook Impression demographic 53% 55% Male followers Male followers 47% 45% Female followers Female followers 13-17 45.8k 50.0k Age of followers 13-17 38.8k 42.9k Age of followers 18-24 119.9k 87.7k 18-24 106.5k 71.4k Human Capital 25-34 139.3k 102.9k 25-34 126.3k 82.5k 35-44 96.7k 62.8k 35-44 85.5k 61.8k 45-54 65.9k 71.7k 45-54 56.9k 50.8k 55+ 73.5k 90.7k 55+ 68.1k 77.4k A fulfilled and engaged workforce is the bedrock of quality Top Countries Top Cities in Iceland Top Countries Top Cities in Iceland service, satisfied customers and sound financial performance. 0.5k 2.8k 2.6k 2.2k 49.1k 29.6k 0.5k 43.6k 17.9k 3.7k 50.2k 0.6k 44.4k The Bank aspires to have a group of ambitious employees Iceland Reykjavík Iceland Reykjavík 51.7k 0.7k 45.4k with differing backgrounds and experience. In this way the Denmark Hafnafjördur Denmark Hafnafjördur United States Akureyri United States Akureyri Bank will be better prepared to fulfil the various needs of its Sweden Kópavogur Sweden Kópavogur customers and to provide outstanding service. Norway Keflavík Norway Keflavík 1.0m 872.8k 648.1k 570.0k 30 Global Compact Human Resources An ambitious training programme and education Íslandsbanki offers its employees a wide variety of training courses with a special focus on sharing of knowledge between Average number Employee Gender split OBJECTIVES: in-house departments. Each member of staff attended an of employees education of new hires average of four courses during 2012. A varied programme In 2013 a special emphasis will be put on leadership of over 300 courses was set up on the basis of a detailed and an intensive leadership program for managers 40% Other education 43% Male analysis of educational needs. Personal interests of individual staff members were also to set up fun courses, unrelated to at Íslandsbanki was launched in January with the participation of 66 managers. The main objective banking, such as an introduction to astronomy. with the program is to introduce new attitudes and 1,119 behaviours. The program will consists of; lectures, workshops, individual coaching and rich emphasis Course participation: 2009 2010 2011 2012 will be put on health and wellbeing. Managers will receive various assessments to identify their strengths 35% male 65% female 60% University degree 57% Female Number of participants: 3,076 4,645 4,236 4,432 and weaknesses and set action plan to work on their leadership skills with a strong focus on motivation, Number of courses: 201 259 296 337 energy management, leading by example, change Average courses per employee: 3.2 4.8 4.5 4 management and execution. The program will span a The satisfaction and well-being of employees is important at Íslandsbanki. To best serve our customers, we whole year and at the end of the year managers will be assessed by their subordinates. Íslandsbanki’s goal is need to attract the best employees. Our dedicated team of 1,100 employees take great pride in working for Certified financial advisors that in 2015 all of the 141 managers will have completed Íslandsbanki and are fully engaged in our strategic vision which they took an active part in creating. Human Retail banking entered into collaboration with the Ministry the program. Resources places great emphasis on training for managers, information sharing, education and employee for Economic Affairs and the Icelandic Financial Services Association to establish a certified education programme development, vibrant social activities and the general well-being of the workforce. These factors produce for the Bank’s financial advisors. The program is offered greater job satisfaction which is reflected through better service for our customers. under the auspices of three Icelandic universities which are responsible for its organisation and quality. The goal is to increase quality of financial advisory and better equip bank Employee Tenure employees to effectively advise their customers. In 2012, 10 A diverse group financial advisors from Íslandsbanki graduated and 11 began 7% Íslandsbanki employs a total workforce of 1,100 people of 24% <3 years in the certified education programme. 15% which 65% are women. Furthermore 60% of the employees 3-5 years have a university level degree. There is a good age distribution 6-10 years Average tenure among our employees and the average length of employment 11.3 years 11-20 years at the Bank is 11 years. 15% 21-30 years In April 2012, the workforce at Íslandsbanki grew in size 22% >31 years Katrín Oddsdóttir following the merger with the credit card company Kreditkort. 17% Executive Director Private Banking These new recruits followed a group of reinforcements that came with the Byr merger in late 2011. The mergers For me the mentoring program was a great opportunity to Employee Age themselves and the integration of the new employees from Byr reach outside the Bank and get a different opinion than mine and Kreditkort have gone very smoothly and surveys show 7% 10% from someone in a different sector. I have been working that 83% of the staff is pleased with the merger process. This 20-29 with Íslandsbanki since graduation. I have great mentors success can be attributed to the similarities corporate cultures. 22% and professional friends within the bank that I can consult 30-39 Average age 40-49 with, but sometimes it is good to get a different perspective 44 years on things. My mentor, a woman who, like myself, has been 50-59 Finding the leader in you and career development working in an industry mostly dominated by men and I found for women 32% 60+ it interesting to talk to her about that experience and about Íslandsbanki offers managers an ambitious leadership the challenges of finding the right balance between work and personal life with two young sons. 28% training programme aimed at increasing the efficiency Most of all she has a lot of experience in management which is one the responsibilities in my job. I found my and effectiveness of employees in management positions Directors at Íslandsbanki: sessions with her somewhat like going to a therapist. I came in with cloudy head, full of my problems at work throughout the Bank. A special emphasis was placed on and some vague ideas on what the solutions could be. When I came out I had a clear vision of what needed to be mentoring for female employees in 2012 and 35 women are done and a plan of how I was going to do it. For me the mentoring program was a very positive experience. I was now participating in the programme. The mentors are women Internal hiring really lucky with my mentor who is a woman I look up to and can learn from. I can recommend this program to both inside and outside the Bank and the initiative has been (% of vacancies Average age everyone who wants to work on their carrier but it is important to know your goal before you set off. well received. This mentoring initiative has had an auspicious filled from within) 45.3 start, with 95% of the female participants saying they would 76 Average age recommend it to others. of service (tenure) 11.9 32 Global Compact Global Compact 33 We take pride in our work Gender distribution 47% Since 1997, Íslandsbanki has conducted an annual workplace take great pride in working for Íslandsbanki, know the Bank´s ale as Director audit. Results from November 2012 show that morale is high strategic direction, are ambitious and always seek to improve Fem s despite the challenges in the Bank’s working environment and their work. More importantly, they would recommend the Branch Man e in Executive boa that overall job satisfaction is above the goals set forth in the Bank as a place to work. le as age mal Bank´s 5 year plan. The audit shows that employees in general 38% 45% rs 38% rd Fe Female in Executive board Fema Workplace audit ma 32.3% 67.6% Executive Dir ect Fe ors le as Results 2009 2010 2011 2012 GOALS 2013 Male employees Female employees Consideration is given to the family circumstances of •Question: “Work load is appropriate” 53% 64% 57% 66.3% Maintain 41% employess Annual Strategy Summits The Ultimate Team Well-trained staff who •Question: “In the past 4.15 4.23 4,20 4.01 =>4.20 steadily increase their 12 months, I have had To ensure that the Bank’s strategic policy and ambitious The ‘Ultimate Team’ initiative was a product of the Strategy knowledge and disseminate opportunities at work to goals receive the widest possible response both within and Summit in 2012. Many excellent ideas emerged at the Summit it their colleauges learn and grow” outside its walls, it is important to get feedback and input on that can be broadly categorised into five groups: health, cross the Bank’s future development. In this, the annual Strategy company communication, information sharing and intranet, •Question: “I have received 81% 84.90% 81% 82.9% 90% Summits have played a key part. education and training and social activities. Many of these performance review the last ideas have already been put into practice. For example, on the Regular and year” subject of health, employees have participated in lunchtime constructive feedback seminars on positive psychology, energy management and on performance •Question: “In the past 4.11 4.05 4.1 4.08 =>4.20 nutrition. These seminars are intended to help employees weeks, I have received maintain positive energy levels throughout the day, with a recognition or praise for focus on diet, exercise and mental well-being. doing good work” Education and training •Question: “My supervisor 4.16 4.11 4.16 4.06 =>4.20 Employee health and well-being is a joint function of or someone at work, The Bank encourages its employees to lead a healthy lifestyle. management and staff encourages me to develop Changing rooms and showers facilities are available at the Bank at work” At the Summits in 2009 and 2010, employees, managers and which allows employees to work out during office hours. Good board directors together defined the Bank’s fundamental role and healthy food is served in the canteen and all members Employees are given the •Question: “At work I have 4.13 4.07 4.11 3.89 =>4.20 and core values. To follow, the Strategy Summit in 2011 focused of staff have the option to get an annual health check-up. opportunity to tackle new the opportunity to do what on the Bank’s vision; employees and customers discussed how Various activities were staged during the year to promote a projects, take on greater I do best every day” the Bank was to realise its vision to be number one in service, healthier lifestyle. Around 400 employees took part in the responsibilities in their from providing good service to providing exceptional service. Íslandsbanki Reykjavík Marathon, collecting sponsorships for work and to move between The Summit proved a great success and customers welcomed charitable causes. This event has become a major part of the jobs, when possible the opportunity they were given to influence how the Bank Bank’s corporate culture and its public profile. In 2012, 506 meets their needs and expectations. employees took part in the national “Cycle to Work” campaign The results are on a scale from 1-5 with 4,2 representing an entry into the strength zone. and Íslandsbanki took first place the second year in a row, The Strategy Summit in 2012 focused primarily on teamwork among large Icelandic corporates, for both staff participation and common purpose, for only as a dedicated team can we and the number of kilometres cycled. Through the glass ceiling Social activities are an integral part of employee satisfaction in best service our customers. Participation has grown year on the workplace. The Bank encouraged staff to take advantage Íslandsbanki attaches a great deal of importance to equal recruitment of bank employees and an equal opportunities year and over 830 employees attended, revealing a growing of “Take Your Children to Work Day” to give children insight rights. Women make up 48% of all management positions at policy is applied. interest among our employees in shaping the Bank’s strategic into how their parents spend their days. During the year the the Bank. Íslandsbanki’s non-discrimination policy provides policy and putting it into practice. In March 2013 the same Íslandsbanki has also signed the Women´s Empowerment Bank also hosted bowling and golf tournaments for its staff the guidelines for gender equality in the Bank. The principles number of employees attended the fifth strategy summit Principles Treaty which is UN sponsored collaboration and there are in-house clubs for special interests such as of total non-discrimination and impartiality are observed in under the title: “Bank of the Future”. This time the focus was between UNIFEM and the United Nations Global Compact. hiking, golf, cooking, photography and knitting. the on future solutions and technological advances in banking operations. Internal surveys confirm that employees are pleased with Health and wellbeing 2009 2010 2011 2012 the Summit format and its importance in determining the direction that the Bank is heading. Health check (participants) 581 501 602 631 Health check participants (%) 62.1 53.1 55.2 54.8 34 Global Compact Global Compact 35 We offer a helping hand Íslandsbanki is one of the largest employers in the country and has an immense opportunity to shape and influence its community in a positive way. One of last year objectives was to launch a new project “We offer a helping hand”. Íslandsbanki invites its employees to make a contribution to charitable causes, whereby each member of staff can devote one working day a year for the benefit of a good cause. If all 1,100 of the Bank’s employees take part, the Bank´s contribution to the community will amount to 1,100 days, or the equivalent of over 4 years. Employees have chosen diverse charities to lend a helping hand and the assignments have been diverse, such as gardening, cleaning litter, helping homeless people and providing charities with expert assistance. Not only does this benefit various charities but also promote a sense of solidarity and common purpose among the employees. Karl Matthíasson CEO of Samhjálp We are extremely grateful to Íslandsbanki and its employees for their friendship, understanding and support. The employees performed their charity work with care and love. The employees also helped us last Christmas by raising money so our clients could enjoy Samhjálp is an organisation that provides help to people who the holidays. It is important that bank employees have a have been defeated in life due to illnesses, poverty or other good understanding of the diversity of the community. social problems. Samhjálp runs rehab clinics, halfway houses, Samhjálp works in a difficult field that is nevertheless shelters and a soup kitchen. The soup kitchen is open from important to take care of. It is exceptionally good 10 – 16 every day of the year and serves hot meals and snacks, when people who work in a field that deals with a lot free of charge. Each year around 200,000 cups of coffee of money every day understand the circumstances and are served and 2,500 liters of soup. Around 100 people visit conditions of people living with illness and deprivation. the kitchen every day and for many of them it is the only It increases understanding and empathy. In this, meal of the day. Two employees work at the kitchen but Íslandsbanki and its employees have been exemplary Samhjálp relies heavily on voluntary work. Many employees and for that we are forever grateful. at Íslandsbanki have chosen to lend Samhjálp a helping hand. Jóhannes Hauksson Executive Director Corporate solutions After a work-related meeting with the management team at Samhjálp, I knew that I wanted to lend a helping hand to them. I spent a day at the shelter and soup kitchen helping out. I was amazed to learn how many people are being supported by Samhjálp each day at the kitchen and in other facilities operated by Samhjálp. Helping out and getting to know the operation of Samhjálp has been very interesting and enjoyable experience for me. I encourage all my colleagues to select a charity organization to support in 2013. Environment The Bank’s special interest in environmental issues is reflected most clearly in its operations and investments in the areas of renewable energy sources and sustainable fisheries. 36 Global Compact Environmentally friendly Data elimination Íslandsbanki makes it a priority to work in harmony with the environment and favours a protective approach 3..000 when it comes to environmental issues. In the day-to-day running of its activities, Íslandsbanki has taken 25,000 many steps to reduce its environmental impact by integrating environmental strategies into its management. 20,000 Íslandsbanki is one of the founders of the Icelandic Seafood Cluster and the Icelandic Geothermal Cluster. 15,000 The Bank’s energy and seafood team possesses many years of experience and provides business solutions and 10,000 analysis to parties both within Iceland and abroad. 10,000 5,000 The Bank actively seeks to reduce pollution and energy use, 0 thereby contributing to environmentally friendly solutions. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Its desire to limit its environmental impact is reflected in the following measures. 2010 2011 2012 Recycling Data elimination: At Íslandsbanki over 100 tons of waste are disposed of every At Íslandsbanki paper is not disposed as a regular waste year. Now all waste materials generated in the Bank’s canteens but is eliminated separately. Above is an overview of data and at the financial center Sudurlandsbraut are sorted for Cumulative savings in electricity per year: elimination from 2010 to 2012. Large amount of data was recycling but the Bank has laid down an ambitious plan for eliminated in connection with the merger with Byr in 2012 further recycling. and cleaning of storage at one of the branches in 2010. kWh 300 2009 250 Saving the trees 2010 Reducing energy consumption 200 Íslandsbanki incorporated a paper management system Helga Bragadóttir 150 2011 in February 2009, Rent-a-prent. This resulted in a 66% The bank places an emphasis on reducing its electricity 2012 Director General Services 100 reduction of the paper used by the Bank. Paper consumption consumption. The numbers of printers were reduced from Our objective is that 1/3 of our waste will be 650 to 218 machines in 2009 and this decrease has had a 50 has since then been cut by 74 tons. Colour printing was also reusable and 1/3 will be organic waste. We have substantial impact on electricity consumption. Cumulative 0 dramatically decreased with the introduction of the system, 2009 2010 2011 2012 been working on implementing a recycling program saving in energy because of this is around 300 kWh. contracting from 25% to 5-7%. at the headquarters and at Lyngháls. We will start Íslandsbanki also discontinued the distribution of annual bank the implementation in April and finish by the end statements in printed format to customers at the end of 2010. of year 2013 in all branches. Besides thinking about the environment we will also save some cost as disposal of regular waste costs ISK 17 per kg while OBJECTIVES: disposal of organic waste costs ISK 8 per kg. Annual Cumulative savings in paper use per year: savings because of this recycling program will be Íslandsbanki has purchased an electricity saving solution from Tons per year around ISK 1.5 to 1.8 million. ReMake Electric. ReMake Electric has developed an electricity 80 74 sensor that is used to analyse the electricity use for the purpose 70 2009 of saving electricity consumption. The solution was installed at 60 55.5 2010 Suðurlandsbraut in February. Employees can access the data at 50 2011 a special webpage and view the distribution of the electricity 40 37 2012 consumption between different units at the Bank. The data is 30 OBJECTIVES: then analysed and recommendations will be made to cut down 20 18.5 In 2013 Íslandsbanki will discontinue the distribution of electricity consumption. Later in the year of 2013 tests will be 10 payment slips to customers in printed format and they carried out to see how specific actions impact the electricity 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 will only appear online. Around 46,000 slips are sent consumption. Íslandsbanki´s goal is to reduce the electricity out to customers each month. In one year this will save consumption by at least 10 – 15% from 2013 to 2016. around 600,000 letters in distribution. 38 Global Compact Global Compact 39 In October the Bank’s service room was moved from the headquarters to the IT central service provider for Icelandic Monthly electricity consumption at the headquarters. The drop in October is due to the transport of the service room. financial institutions. The decision to move the room was made to ensure data security and to cut down electricity 260,000 consumption at headquarters. Around 70 people were involved in this project that was extremely well prepared. 240,000 About 4,300 hours went into preparation which shows the 220,000 scope of the project. This decision has saved considerable amount of electricity at the headquarters as seen in the graph. 200,000 180,000 Reducing water consumption 160,000 A modification of the heating system in the headquarters car 140,000 parking area has cut hot water consumption by 60,000 m³ in Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May. Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. the last four years, or around 15,000 m³ per year. 11 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 13 13 13 Cumulative savings in water consumption per year: m³ 60,000 2009 Íslandsbanki’s fleet of cars 50,000 2010 Íslandsbanki owns 16 vehicles for operational purposes. The 40,000 2011 Bank has set goals to manage the environmental impact of its 30,000 2012 fleet better. The objective is that by 2014, 90% of the Bank´s 20,000 vehicles will be environmentally friendly. General Services 10,000 are now looking into purchasing/ leasing more eco-friendly 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 vehicles with 0-120 g of CO2 emissions per km. Geothermal energy & seafood Number Km driven of cars: last year The seafood industry has been an intrinsic part of Íslandsbanki’s publishes industry reports in the areas of OBJECTIVES: Íslandsbanki´s business activities since 1904. Building on seafood and energy. 2012 was no exception, with new reports Corporate Banking: 2 21,900 this heritage Íslandsbanki has developed a specific expertise published on the Icelandic seafood sector, the Icelandic energy One of last years objectives was to measure the water Legal Collection: 2 38,000 within that sector. Over the years, many of the largest and market, and the Canadian seafood sector, together with issuing and electricity consumption at headquarters. The most prominent seafood companies in Iceland and globally a response to the controversial government bill on fisheries measurement of electricity consumption at headquarters General Services: 12 168,000 have been valued customers of Íslandsbanki. management and fishing fees. can be seen above and the water consumption below. Íslandsbanki aims at measuring the electricity and water Íslandsbanki and its predecessors have also accumulated consumption in its branches in the year 2013. extensive knowledge and experience when it comes to Active participation in cluster projects renewable energy. The Bank’s platform is built on the Icelandic OBJECTIVES: history of successfully harnessing both geothermal and hydro Íslandsbanki is an active participant in three so-called cluster power. More recently, Íslandsbanki has been researching and projects in Iceland, ‘The Seafood Cluster’, ‘The Geothermal • 90% of the Bank’s vehicles will be environmentally analysing the developments of the North Atlantic region, Cluster’, and ‘The Tourism Cluster’. The Bank’s objective friendly in 2014 which could entail significant opportunities for Iceland and the with participation in these projects is to promote increased Water consumptions at headquarters in 2012 • Keep track of the amount of fuel the Bank purchases Icelandic economy. A specific Energy Group was formed at the value creation in these sectors. The Bank has, amongst other each year Bank to ensure exceptional service to the Bank‘s clients. The activities, supported educational projects by the Seafood Cold Water Hot Water Snow melting • All tyres under the Bank’s vehicles will be environ­ team combines years of experience in this field and is focused Cluster amounting to ISK 5 million, the group being made up mentally friendly in 2014 to reduce road wear and on providing the global community with sustainable business of representatives from educational institutions with special 2012 95,227 m³ 31,571 m³ 7,615 m³ airborne particle pollution solutions and research material available for everyone. interests in the seafood industry. The outcome has been a new website www.verkefnamidlun.is, designed to bring together companies and students in projects relating to Icelandic Publication of market research material fisheries and increase recruitment to the sector. Corporate Banking differentiates itself from the competition by its industry focus and knowledge of customers’ affairs. 40 Global Compact Global Compact 41 Reykjavík Marathon – running for a good cause Íslandsbanki has been the main sponsor of the Reykjavík Marathon since 1997. In 2012 the event attracted a record number of entrants with over 13,400 runners taking part, thereof around 400 employees at Íslandsbanki. This is a massive increase in participation from the 214 runners that ran in the Marathon the starting year in 1984. The most important aspect of the marathon is the money it raises for charities via sponsorships for runners. In 2012 the runners raised ISK 45.7 million for charity to the benefit of 133 charities. The highest amount of money, raised by a single athlete was ISK 1.6 million by Viktor Snær Sigurdsson, running in support of the AHC Association. Viktor’s sister suffers from the rare neurological disease Alternating Hemiplegia of Childhood. Íslandsbanki is the main sponsor for the National Olympic and Sports Association of Iceland and sponsored the runner Kári Steinn Karlsson at the Olympic Games in London 2012. Kári is the first Icelander to compete in the marathon at the Olympics. He ended in 42nd place out of 105 runners. Community Íslandsbanki makes it a priority to maintain a good relationship with its immediate environment. The Bank wants to have a positive impact on the community by supporting various social, artistic, cultural and sporting projects. In 2012 Íslandsbanki provided grants for more than ISK 200m and employees laid a helping hand to several charities through the Bank’s project We offer a helping hand. In principle, the Bank’s branches support charities and institutions in Forskot, the Golfing Excellence Fund their immediate localities while headquarters Íslandsbanki was one of the founders of Forskot, a golfing supports causes on a national scale. excellence fund. The fund’s objective is to support the golfplayers, professionals and amateurs, aiming at becoming world class players. Golf will return as an event at the Olympic Games in 2016 after over 100 years. Five players received a total of ISK 15 million grants from the fund. Global Compact 43 Various community projects In 2012 Íslandsbanki´s branches supported charitable and other various organizations while headquarters stressed supporting organizations nationwide. Grants and subsidies funded by Íslandsbanki in the last year include: • Íslandsbanki and the Reykjavík City Theatre have enjoyed a successful cooperation since the Bank’s foundation. Reykjavík City Theatre is among Iceland’s oldest and most prestigious cultural institutions. Íslandsbanki is also the main sponsor of Hof, a cultural and conference center in North of Iceland. • Íslandsbanki annually grants scholarships to honour “What If?” students. In 2012 the Bank awarded 10 exemplary Over the last two years Íslandsbanki has sponsored students with grants of ISK 3.4 million in total. performances of the play “What if?” for schools, parents associations and higher secondary schools. The play focuses on preventive measures to drug and alcohol abuse, bullying, • Íslandsbanki and Ergo are sponsors of the Icelandic suicides and sexual violence by using play, music, humour and Equestrian Association (Landssamband hestamannafélaga) poetry in a fun and an innovative way. The play has now been for the next three years. The Association’s twentieth seen by about 10,500 people at 65 performances throughout National Icelandic Horse Championships held in Vídidalur the country. was a splendid occasion, enjoyed by all. • Financial support to Sólheimar, a sustainable community • Íslandsbanki’s wealth management division, VÍB, was one known for its artistic and ecological atmosphere, where of the chief patrons of the Reykjavík Arts Festival. about 100 people live and work together. The residents at Sólheimar, are very diverse, including disabled people, long-time unemployed people, prisoners and long-term • Íslandsbanki supports Víkin Maritime Museum for the patients. Roughly 45 of the residents have special needs. futherance of historical documentation of the fishing industry in Iceland at a time of innovation and change. Íslandsbanki’s Entrepreneurs Fund • Íslandsbanki has for a number of years been one of the main sponsors of the Icelandic Special Olympics team. Íslandsbanki’s Entrepreneurs Fund aims to encourage innovation and development in sustainable fisheries and renewable energy. In 2012 the Fund granted the geothermal start-up company GÍRÓ ISK 3 million to develop and produce • Ergo’s Environment Fund proved grants to Radiant Games for the development of a children‘s computer game Haukar KA Dansíþróttafélag Íslands BÍ/ Bolungarvík monitoring equipment to measure the temperature, pressure, centred on renewable energy, and to Sæthór Ásgeirsson Landsamband hestamanna FH Valur Grótta UMFN direction and inclination of boreholes up to 400°C. The Fund also granted educational institutions within the Icelandic for the development of windmills designed for Icelandic conditions. Körfuknattleiksfélag Ísafjarðar Völsungur Fylkir Þór Akureyri Seafood Cluster ISK 5 million to fund collaborative educational ÍBV Special Olympics – Íþróttafélag fatlaðra UMFÁ activities, policy making and the preparation of an action plan to attract young people to take up studies in this field. The outcome has been a new website www.verkefnamidlun.is, Sports teams and other UMFA-Afturelding Fimleikafélagið Höttur Stjarnan HK ÍA designed to bring together companies and students in projects beneficiaries UMFG ÍSÍ Ungmennafélag Selfoss relating to Icelandic fisheries and increase recruitment to the sector. 44 Global Compact Global Compact 45 Íslandsbanki Íslandsbanki, Kirkjusandi, 155 Reykjavík, Iceland Tel.: +354 440 4500 For more information, please visit our websites: www.islandsbanki.is/english/about-islandsbanki/corporate-social-responsibility/
