6th AAIB Communication On Progress (COP) Report July 2013 Created by AAIB’s Sustainability Unit CEO STATEMENT Dear Stakeholders: In 2012, the world economy was ability to consistently achieve the affected by the economic slowdown in highest growth and profitability possible both developing and established for over a decade and its vision to economies alike, which led to a become Egypt’s leading Financial continued rise in unemployment rates in Group. The Bank takes pride in most of these countries. maintaining its distinguished brand persona over the years. In 2012, its The aftershocks of the global financial efforts were recognized for the 5th crisis are still being felt across the world, consecutive year by ‘Superbrands’, especially within the Euro zone. which presented it with “The Best Brand Additionally, public debt continued to 2012” Award. rise in most developed economies. The Bank holds the belief that its staff The extended transitional period the are its most valuable asset, which drives country is undergoing has taken a toll on its continued successes. The Bank the Egyptian economy as a whole. emphasizes on developing its staff’s skill However, despite the turbulence in the set, which is an integral part of The Egyptian market, GDP growth in Bank’s strategy. Hence, it focuses on FY2012 reached 2.2% by year-end, as investing in them, since they represent opposed to 1.8% during the previous The Bank’s future leaders. In 2012, The year. The banking sector remains on Bank hired 146 employees; it also places solid financial ground, in terms of focus towards attracting, training fulfilling its commitments to its motivating, and retaining its high caliber customers and healthy financial staff. Moreover, The Bank has only a indicators. Capital adequacy reached 1% turnover rate which is the lowest approximately 15.7% during the year, turnover rate in the Egyptian finance surpassing Basel II capital requirements. sector. AAIB’s branding revolves around the concept of value creation, backed by its 1|Page CSR and Sustainability The Bank continues to hold a deep founded and launched in 2007, the We commitment towards Social Owe it to Egypt foundation is Responsibility. It believes that brands considered the Bank’s flagship CSR should go beyond seeking profit by project. In 2012, The Foundation instigating a positive impact on all dedicated its efforts towards public stakeholders. hospital development in Egypt. The Foundation’s vision is to raise the level The Bank is proud to announce its 10 of medical services in public hospitals to years of strategic Corporate Social reach international levels of excellence Responsibility (CSR) that has positively in medical care; thus, it launched several impacted the society and community in initiatives and programs that were Egypt. The Bank began adopting the successfully implemented. concept of CSR in 2002 and launched several programs in two main areas: The year 2012 witnessed economic and Health and Education. As of 2005, The political challenges on both the local and Bank joined several worldwide international fronts. However, despite organizations that aim towards spreading the turbulence within the country, which Human Rights awareness as well as had very limited ramifications on The allocating and organizing resources for Bank due to its conservative policies and environmental and community ability to adapt to changing market development. The Bank strategically conditions, we are confident in the integrated Sustainability across its daily positive growth potential present in the operations, setting an example for peer Egyptian economy and its banking institutions. It also plays an integral role sector. Whatever obstacles the future in spreading awareness by regularly presents us with, our vision and forwardpublishing its CSR and Sustainability looking strategy will allow us to activities, in order to encourage both overcome them. local and global financial and educational institutions to participate and We have every confidence that the cooperate in making a difference in banking sector will maintain its standing Egypt. The Bank became a pioneer in as a pillar of the Egyptian economy, establishing concept of CSR and aiding in its swift recovery and placing Sustainability in the financial sector Egypt in its worthy position as a regional under the title “Sustainable Finance”. financial hub. 2|Page The JOURNEY : 2002-2012 Since 2003, AAIB has shown keenness on playing an effective role in unique initiatives that aim at creating and developing sustainable impact for surrounding communities, locally, regionally as well as globally. In this, AAIB succeeded to position itself as the trendsetting Bank in Egypt among the financial sector in social responsibility and sustainability. Now, AAIB seeks to institutionalize its hand on experience in sustainability to advocate “Sustainable Finance” among banks in Egypt. 3|Page HIGHLIGHTS Since 2004, AAIB’s Sustainability Unit has which acts as the guideline for four main opted to take several frameworks to assess principles, human rights, labor rights, antipractices and keep-thetrack. These corruption and environment; and finally the frameworks are the “Equator Principles” “London Benchmarking Group” which which act as the main guidelines for social measures the corporate community and environmental risk assessment; UNGC investment of the companies’ spending. practices for an entire duration of one full year, from July 2012 to June 2013. This year’s report represents a clear Emerging from AAIB’s mandate it has been structure for AAIB’s strategic and organized a year of collaboration and cooperation. Sustainable Corporate Responsibility AAIB & ECRC/UNDP A STRATREGIC PARTNERSHIP Towards PUBLIC ADVOCACY This year witnessed a strategic partnership United Nations Development Programme with the UN Global Compact Focal Point in (UNDP) to promote Sustainable Finance Egypt, namely the Egyptian Corporate among the Financial Sector in Egypt. Responsibility Center (ECRC) and the Mission: Building a platform for the Egyptian Financial Sector to promote Sustainable Finance in Egypt. The two-year duration partnership entails the following goals: 1. Promoting UN Global Compact & 4. Developing a national model for Sustainability standards relevant inclusive banking, an appropriate to the Financial Sector that enhance business and delivery model, that responsible and inclusive finance; serves all excluded sections of the and to establish Egypt as a society, rural and urban. trendsetter in Sustainable Finance. 5. Practicing Policy Advocacy. 2. Supporting banks in Egypt to join frameworks (Equator Principles, Global Compact, PRI, London Benchmarking Group….etc.). 3. Developing Blue print (Guiding Materials) for Sustainable Finance 4|Page AAIB SHARING its “BEST PRACTICE” in GLOBACL COMPACT YEARBOOK In 2012 – another highlight has been made on Education, promoting the bank’s academic competition for excellence in banking and finance, namely the Arab African International Bank Award. As well as the Bank embedding environmental and social risk assessment within its credit risk operations, since joining the Equator Principles in 2009. 2013 – was never less of importance and significance, whereby AAIB gave special focus and attention to Corporate Governance. This is to emphasize AAIB’s keenness on maintaining its credibility and transparency within the reporting process and presenting key facts to the public. For three consecutive years, AAIB has been recognized in 2011, 2012 and 2013 as “Best Practice” Financial Institution in CSR, in the Global Compact Yearbook. Highlighting every year an area of best practice comes within the Bank’s belief in sharing experience as means of promoting Sustainability and annual highlights. In 2011 – AAIB addressed its focus on health and education through sharing its foundation for social development; We Owe it to Egypt, the first of its kind worldwide. 5|Page AAIB was the only financial institution from Egypt to attend Triple Bottom Line Investment Conference in New York which takes place on the 17th -18th June, 2013. The conference is an opportunity that offers finance professionals a global perspective on a comprehensive range of ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) and Impact Investment topics, covering all asset classes. TBLI (Triple Bottom Line Investment) offers access to the largest network of thought leaders in the sustainable finance industry. Rio+ 20: AAIB’s Global Commitment to Sustainability Believing in collective efforts to bring development and solicit initiatives for the global development and sustainability goals, AAIB has announced its commitment to the MGDs in the year 2012. The commitment is that “Arab African International Bank” aims at embracing sustainability as part of its brand and business operations; and promoting the concept of “Sustainable Finance”, highlighting the benefits, impact and challenges of “Sustainable Finance” worldwide. This target is supported by the entire AAIB offices located in the region; Egypt, UAE, Jordan and Lebanon. Commitment Target(s) & Year 2022 Target: To promote the concept of “Sustainable Finance among Financial Institutions in MENA Region. Details 1Develop and comprehensive model for Sustainable finance practice. 2Educate Financial Institutions about “Sustainable Finance” . 3Create and Establish networks and partnerships to enhance the main goal. 4Exchange best practices and successful role models. 5Establish “Forum” for creating awareness and enhancement of Sustainable Finance. 6|Page HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS 7|Page I. We Owe it to Egypt Foundation VISION MISSION  Pool patriotic resources towards To be the national drive behind a establishing focused centers of significant impact and sustainable excellence in health and education. development in health and education  Establish core processes and in EGYPT. stakeholder involvement to achieve and sustain development. Scope The We Owe it To Egypt’s Foundation was established to contribute in advancing health and education in Egypt as the two major pillars for development in any country. In this, the foundation adopts the public hospitals with deteriorated conditions and that requires the Corporate Social Responsibility role for improvement. The Foundations contribution in the public hospital upgrading and renovation is in forms of infrastructure, medical facilities and human capital development. Over the past six year, the “WOITE” has spent an average of Eighteen Million Egypt Pounds to achieve the main objective of the foundation in turning the public hospital into centers of excellence. 8|Page 2012 During the past year, the Foundation spent a total of Two Million and Nine Hundred Egyptian Pounds on continuing two projects which started in the year 2007 and one new project which started in 2012 as follows:  Since 2007: Japanese Specialized Pediatric Hospital (Abou El Reesh)  2007: National Cancer Institute  2013: Abou El Reesh Mounira (New 9|Page 2013 This year the foundation has added on more project emerging from its keenness on being part of the national driven strategy. This year the “WOITE” Foundation’s team in cooperation with the AAIB’s Marketing team launched a strong internal communication campaign to engage employees as major stakeholders in the Foundation’s mission. The campaign used some creative methods such as: The “300” Campaign This campaign illustrates the role of each “300” pounds donated to the Foundation and how it participates in making major change. The amount goes to surgeries and critical operations for kids on the waiting list. 10 | P a g e THE MACHINE PROJECT It is a project that contributes in upgrading the database of patients. This project saves time, efforts, patient’s history and track records that contribute in patients recovery and defining the proper treatment. THE WAITING LIST It is a list of duties that employees can contribute to the Foundation through. DONATIONS COMMITTEE A volunteering committee that consists of Bank employees and hospital doctors in order to collect direct donations from employees’ payroll. SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook, Youtube and Twitter groups to communicate and update all stakeholders. The Foundation Facebook Group: https://www.faceboo k.com/#!/WOITEGYP T?fref=ts 11 | P a g e FIRST REGIONAL AWARD Proudly, the Foundation’s efforts were recognized during the ‘Arabia CSR Network’ Awards Ceremony in 2012, where it was presented with an award for ‘Best CorporateNGO Collaboration’. The Bank received the award in recognition of its pioneering efforts in establishing the first Social Development Foundation of its kind, ‘We Owe It to Egypt’; a Foundation dedicated to raising the levels of education and healthcare in Egypt. 12 | P a g e AAIB’S CONTRIBUTION to THE BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION OF EGYPT (BCFE) “ZUMBA PINK PARTY FOR THE CURE” For the second time in Egypt, This event entailed the Zumba Event international Zumba instructors from the which is a one day Zumba dance Pink U.S., Portugal, Japan, and Costa Rica, Party event for Cure, attended by partner up with the Breast Cancer Women only. The performance for Foundation of Egypt (BCFE) Zumba Party took place in a closed area in organizing Zumba Pink Party for the for women only and the event ensured Cure. The party aims at raising that women of all economic strata are awareness of Breast Cancer, as well as targeted. promoting overall women's health. 13 | P a g e AAIB SUPPORTS HEALTHY LIFESTYLE BANK EMPLOYEES JOINNING 1ST SPORTS FESTIVAL IN EGYPT, EL FIT As each has the right to an adequate level of living for health and well being, the AAIB has sponsored a full day event to promote awareness on health. The day has given the chance to all employees to bring their families and spend a day in an open area and exercise with specialized teams. The venue has presented several booths to present different sports’ tools and equipment that one can use at home or closed areas to help develop their wellbeing. fitness festival gathering fitness communities and enthusiasts in one day A fusion between fitness and in Egypt to create health and fitness entertainment introducing fitness as a awareness, and educate people on a sport and skill that anyone can acquire, more active and healthier lifestyle. A ELFIT Fitness Festival is Egypt’s FIRST one day event on the 23rd of February AAIB partnered with top gyms promoting their services & quality in healthier lifestyle. The event took place at Smart Village 6th of October, the soccer field of Smart Club 14 | P a g e AAIB’S SOCIAL AND SPORTS COMMITTEE (SSC) The Social and Sports Committee (SSC) The committee is compromised of top organizes, schedules and advertises managers, as well as junior and senior social, cultural, recreational, and sports staff members from the bank. Some of events throughout the year for the bank the major events handled by the social staff community. This year the and Sports Committee include the committee has assumed broaden scope following: for the employees to follow during the political instability and violent events.  Annual Football Tournament  Annual Ramadan Gathering This committee was established in the  Mid-year vacation trips year 2010 from AAIB’s employees who  Tickets to music concerts and volunteer their time and effort to manage football matches the committee. The committee’ members  Staff offers for fitness centers represents various managerial levels in  Staff offers for Showtime and the bank; the juniors and the middle Orbit TV channels management contribute to the committee which meet on regular basis to manage The committee has been working hard to the committee, suggest new plans and satisfy all staff needs and meet their employees-engagement events. expectations across the year. Moreover, the committee has shown cooperation These events create a bonding culture and flexibility in responding to staff among the employees. Moreover, they inquiries. boost the motivation to come back to work with a positive attitude and productive spirit. 15 | P a g e MEASURING CORPORATE COMMUNITY INVESTMENT (CCI) With a relative stability in the Egyptian community spending compared to the Economy since the new president’s year before. This is to record a total inauguration Arab African International spending of Four Million and Three Bank (AAIB) has managed to sustain its Hundred Thousand Egyptian pounds in development activities. Consequently, 2012 reflected as shown below in the AAIB has measured its Corporate distribution of expenditure across Community Investment (CCI) for the various activities/sectors. year 2012 to show slight change in the In the year 2011, AAIB has Education and dispersed its CSR budget and 2011 Young People Health efforts on Health and Environment, followed by Economic Education, Arts and Culture. AAIB Development Environment has managed to spend minimal management cost and logistics. Arts/Culture The Pie Chart shows the total Social Welfar spending on different aspects. Education and In the year 2012, AAIB has spent 2012 Young People mostly its CSR budget on Health Health and Social Welfare. This is a Economic strategic Focus for AAIB to satisfy Development a national need after the Environment revolution. The Pie Chart shows Arts/Culture the CSR focus on Health that reaches around 80 % of the Social Welfar budget. Emergency Relief 16 | P a g e The year 2011 witnesses a major For AAIB, the LBG Report is not a sole spending on the “Education” and documentation that presents the annual “Health” sectors which reflects the spending and expenditure on different significance of these sectors as main sector and activities; but rather a pillars for development in Egypt. The method for AAIB to define its CSR bank is contributing to reforming health strategy and to measure the length and and education through the “We Owe It depth of its impact on the community to Egypt’s” foundation which will be and its core banking function. discussed later in details. While the year 2012 witnesses a shift on AAIB-CSR strategy to align with the National strategy for Welfare after the Revolution. 17 | P a g e ANTI-CORRUPTION 18 | P a g e Stop – Comply – Apply Initiative A main reason that revolutions have taken place in different countries on the globe, is the corruption involved in all aspects in life. After January’s revolution, Egyptian people stood up to protest and demonstrate against corruption that permeated in all institutions and at all levels. In 2011 the Sustainability Unit launched a successful initiative in cooperation with compliance department for Anti-Corruption internally and externally; the initiative addressed the following:  Compliance policies & CBE regulations are located on the AAIB Blog.  A Compliance Manual was posted on the banks’ internal blog for employees’ reference. It is relevant to all AAIB staff, and defines customer-employees relation.  A simple desk kit to remind employees of simple Compliance steps. 19 | P a g e AAIB’s Engagement with EJB-HVS ACT: SME’s Anti-Corruption In the year 2012 the AAIB joined the Egyptian Junior Business ACT initiated by Siemens Egypt to fight corruption in the private sector. Among the private sector EJB_HVS ACT For Anti-Corruption institutions, AAIB will be an incentive provider for Small and Medium Enterprises The initiative has three different spheres of (SMEs) to fight corruption and maintain PHASE ONE: Companies’ Commitment to the Antiinfluence and pledges: Corruption Standards at the Highest Governing Body high transparent and credible. The initiative focuses on SMEs Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Egypt represent the PHASE TWO: Implementing Standards Provisions and greatest share of the productive units of the Emphasize Company’s Ethics and Compliance System. Egyptian economy, the current national policy directions address ways and means of PHASE THREE: Evaluation of the Standards’ developing the capacities of SMEs. The Small Implementation and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) have usually been perceived as a dynamic force for sustained economic growth and job creation in developing countries. 20 | P a g e ENVIRONMENT 21 | P a g e AAIB’s Employees Campaign: Good Morning AAIBians With the Sustainability Team growing in number and responsibilities, the Sustainability Unit started considering a deep integration for all stakeholders’ in the daily Sustainable practices. EMPLOYEES COMMUNICATION CAMPAIGN: Good Morning AAIBians Since 2003, AAIB’s CSR and Sustainability internal awareness of CSR and efforts were successfully sound in practices Sustainability among AAIB employees. In targeting the community. However, this, AAIB-Sustainability Team launched minimal attention on CSR awareness the “Good Morning AAIBians” Initiative among AAIB employees has been attended creating awareness through daily messages equally. As such, one of the major goals of about sustainable living tips, and life the Sustainability Unit in 2013, was to quotes to bring a more positive culture bridge the communication gap internally within the overall organization. through creating initiatives to raise high Goal and Objectives  To start engaging AAIB employees with sustainability as a concept.  To raise the awareness on how to live in a sustainable manner.  Close the gap between AAIB positioning in Sustainability and the level of knowledge of AAIB staff, noting that branding should start from within.  AAIB as a workforce to become impactful members in the society. 1 Tone of non-recycled printing and office papers uses 24 trees. Try printing on both sides. Just adjust your printing settings when printing. Use paper efficiently and live sustainably. 22 | P a g e 23 | P a g e AAIB’s Employees Campaign: EARTH DAY Earth Day is an annual event, celebrated on April 22, on which events are held worldwide to demonstrate support for environmental protection. It was first celebrated in 1970, and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, and celebrated in more than 192 countries each year. The first Earth Day, family had participants and celebrants in two thousand colleges and universities, roughly ten thousand primary and secondary schools, and hundreds of communities across the United States . On this day, AAIB was in charge of creating awareness among employees. The awareness was executed in a creative way whereas the Sustainability Team distributed environment relevant items to engage employees on preserving the environment. Some of the distributed items are plants, environmental-friendly shopping bags, and low-electricity consumption lambs. 24 | P a g e AAIB: The First Carbon Footprints Report in Egypt The year 2013 witnesses the Arab African International Bank as the first bank to measure its carbon emission and consumptions. The reports measured the banks’ consumption for water, fuel, electricity and paper consumption. In achieving its end goal the project presents the Carbon offsetting which are a financial instrument used to measure carbon emissions produced by an organisation. The carbon emissions are “offset” by purchasing carbon credits. The money used to purchase carbon credits is used to fund projects like composting, which reduces CO2 in the atmosphere (a major cause of green house gas). When the carbon “purchased” equals the carbon emitted, the organisation is carbon neutral. The report is undertaken in cooperation with Soil & More as a carbon off-setting company that invests in sustainable agriculture and water management in developing countries. Soil & More has provided compost offsetting for companies like Mobinil and has been selected as one of three companies to provide carbon offsetting for the 2010 World Cup. AAIB: Joining EP Outreach Working Group Annually, AAIB submits a short and precise reporting that presents all projects lending operations’ assessment under the equator principles. This year, AAIB decided to take a comprehensive approach in revolting its approach to the Equator Principles and not limiting to reporting but extends to integrate stakeholders in the principles acquaintance process. In the year 2012 AAIB joined the Equator Principles task force through the Outreach group. The bank joined the group which is concerned for communicating and reaching banks in the Middle East and North African Region. The group constitutes other EP members such as Barclays, BMCE, Credit Agricole 25 | P a g e CIB, First Rand, Societe Generale, Standard Bank; the group leader is Standard Bank. The group’s major function is: These sub-Working Groups develop and implement strategies to communicate, support and train, in cooperation with multilateral institutions and development agencies/banks, other financial institutions in all regions of the world which undertake project finance and could benefit from adopting the EPs (ongoing). In this, the AAIB decided to reform on three different dimensions :  Comprehensive Reporting This year the report will present AAIB’s successful path in adopting, executing and reporting on Equator Principles. The report will illustrate on: 1. The Equator Principles adopting process, 2. Efforts Joined with the International Finance Corporation to train Middle and Senior Management 3. Policies and Procedures formulated by an international consultancy for AAIB’s for EP endorsement and reporting  Release of EP 3rd Draft Across the year 2012, the EP administration has been working on drafting and releasing the EP polices and principles third draft in accordance with the EP members inquiries and recommendations. In a previous stakeholders’ dialogue between the Equator Principles members that concluded a set of requests and recommendation for the EP policies and procedures in order to suit different industries. Despite that EP was created for Financial Institutions, the polices should comply with other industries (Corporate Clients) who receive lending from banks.  EP Committee and Taskforce The EP task is an internal committee which consists of members from EP relevant and involved departments who are Corporate Marketing, Risk Department, Corporate Finance and Investment Departments, and Sustainability Unit. The value-add of the committee will be in the following:  Being ahead of Regulatory Requirements. In the next coming years, the commitment of the Equator Principles will move from an being option to be an obligation.  Advancing with the Global Movement: Over the past two years, the number of EP signatories has significantly increased from 56 to 78 members. The EP are now adopted by various financial institutions globally such as Barclays plc, Citigroup, HSBC Holdings plc, NSGB and Mizuho Corporate Bank. 26 | P a g e  Positioning AAIB through Creating an Industry Move: Broadening traditional risk assessment process to embrace social and environmental risk measures within the banking operations, will emphasize further on AAIB’s adoption of the EP since 2009 within the Egyptian financial sector. 27 | P a g e STAKEHOLDERS’ DIALOGUE 28 | P a g e AmCham Debate CSR initiatives have taken off in Egypt in the past decade, most notably in the years since the revolution. While intentions might be good, there is debate on whether such initiatives have delivered impact. It has been about ten years since practitioners began speaking about CSR but what has been achieved? What is the role of CSR in this critical time? Did CSR fail to deliver an impact on Egypt? AmCham’s CSR Committee, in in bringing the CSR in to an impact on collaboration with Ekne3ney Shokran Egypt. The debates started with the CSR’s (Youth Initiative that aim at communicating four pillars which are economic with CSR stakeholders ), held a special responsibility, legal responsibility, ethical debate on that topic. The debate, which responsibility, and philanthropic focused on the statement, “CSR Failed To responsibility. It is also necessary to balance Deliver Impact In Egypt,” featured panelists the interests of various stakeholders, from Ayman Ismail partner, Chairman and CEO shareholders to the community. of DMG; Hala Youssef, Former Corporate and External Affairs Manager of CARE Egypt; Inji El Abd, Sustainable Development Consultant; and Khaled Hegazy, External Affairs Director of Vodafone Egypt. The audience voted prior to the debate whether it agreed with the statement or not; 33 agreed that CSR failed to deliver impact in Egypt, while 30 disagreed. The panelists then delivered opening statements and answered questions from the audience, ranging from company-specific to countrywide. At the conclusion, the audience again voted on whether “CSR failed to deliver impact in Egypt” in order to measure whether the panelists swayed the audience. In the end, 33 agreed and 42 disagreed, the audience left more optimistic about the impact of CSR initiatives in Egypt than when they arrived. In its continuous dialogue with its stakeholders’, the AAIB has engaged in the debate as one of the CSR pioneers in Egypt and region, emphasizing the role of the Financial Sector as part of the private sector 29 | P a g e Responsible & Inclusive Business Aligning Profitability with Social Purpose A small roundtable debate among businesses and Non-profit organizations on the major function of Corporate Social Responsibility in the past few years and the expected role in the coming years after the revolution. The argument was raised to highlight the CSR as a double sided-coin, it can profitable and ethical for the organization at the same moment. However, the debate was to emphasize on the role of the corporate on practicing the CSR within the organization’s core businesses in order to ethical and profitable. The Non-Governmental and Non-Profit actors had a different view to start and a need from the private sector they had to raise. They emphasized the necessity of private organizations playing role in the community development besides their seeking profitability. The debate presented some successful role models in CSR in Egypt such as AAIB, Dar El Oyoun (Eyes) Hospital, FinBi Financial & Risk Management Services and Mobinil Tele-Communication. Stakeholder’s Update on GRI by ECRC Annually, the Local Global Compact Network hold a meeting and bring together local Global Compact Members. This year the meeting raised the significance of KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) in the corporates’ annual sustainability reporting. The meeting gave an overview for the structure and the technique for the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) reporting, with major focus on G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The meeting was followed by a short workshop for the GC Local members to learn and experience the GRI reporting, structure and indicators. The workshop distributed the GRIs manual and illustrated the report template to facilitate for new reporting corporate the G4 format. The aim of G4, the fourth such update, was simple: to help reporters prepare sustainability reports that matter, contain valuable information about the organization’s most critical sustainability-related issues, and make such sustainability reporting standard practice. G4 was developed to increase emphasis on the need for organizations to focus the reporting process and final report on those topics that are material to their business and their key stakeholders. This ‘materiality’ focus will make reports more relevant, more credible and more user-friendly. This in turn, will enable organizations to better inform markets and society on sustainability issues and matters. 30 | P a g e Renewable Energy Exhibition In a national driven initiative from the private sector to solve a public challenge of shortrunning electricity, a renewable energy exhibition took place to present a solution for the national impasse. As market movers and shakers the exhibition is among the private sector tools to create an industrial move in the field of fuel and energy; the exhibition came in a critical time where the country started to suffer an infrastructure dispute due the growing population in number and consequently in needs. The exhibition presented solutions for coroprates as huge energy consumption organizations, and individual solutions for family houses and buildings. 31 | P a g e GLOBAL RECOGNITION 32 | P a g e Regional Arabia CSR Network Award After pioneering Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability in Egypt for the past ten years, Arab African International Bank closed the year 2012 yielding its efforts towards with a regional award from Arabia CSR Network in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The Award is a regional recognition for Arab African International Bank as “Best Corporate-NGO Collaboration” to embark on AAIB’s effort in Health and Education through the “We Owe It To Egypt’s” Foundation. AAIB is the first and only bank in Egypt and the Region to receive an Award from Arabia CSR Network. 33 | P a g e Global: Best Practice The Global Compact Yearbook (published since the 2000) has contributed much to spread the practices of the UN Global Compact Four principles (Labour rights, Human Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption) worldwide. Since 2011, AAIB has been the first financial institution from Egypt to represent its case in the Global Compact Year Book. The year 2012 witnesses AAIB’s case as “Best Practice” among Financial Markets for the second year successively. This year AAIB has presented its distinguished path in Corporate Governance as a way to Sustainable Finance. In this, an article has been drafted by the Sustainability Unit in cooperation with the Vice Chairman Technical Office; whereby AAIB is recognized by the Global Compact’s advisory Board as “Best Practice” financial institution in CSR & Sustainability. 34 | P a g e 35 | P a g e
