UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Providing quality education for disadvantaged communities, particularly girls, remains a focus area in Pakistan Petroleum Limited’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme. Students during morning assembly at Government Girls High School, Miana Mohra Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare and basic civic amenities for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development employees. During 2012, two town hall meetings were arranged at head office. Benefits Organizational Surveys Performance The company provides its staff Performance with competitive remuneration packages as well as strives to PPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational facilitate enabling working surveys, enabling the company management to review and environment with ample capacity adopt best practices from benchmark companies. This development and career proactive approach helps in continuous improvement of progression opportunities systems and procedures. 4In line with the Companies Profits 4PPL participates in various countrywide Human Resource (HR) (Worker’s Participation) Act 1968, benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and emergent PPL contributes five percent of its trends. The findings enable the company to align its HR system net profit to the Workers with leading companies and consolidate best practices already Participation Fund. followed by the company. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4PPL follows the Employees Old 4During 2012, PPL undertook an external review of its Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, organizational structure and growth pattern in line with the contributing five percent of company’s shortand long-term business strategy to bridge the minimum basic salary to EOB gap between strategy, operations and human resource base. institutions with employees’ Later, a workshop was organized to develop a road map for PPL participation of 1 percent. to deliver on its production and growth targets. Subsequently, the company’s management structure was re-organized to align 4The company pays Statutory to its corporate strategy. This involved change/ shift in staff Bonus under Section 10-C of the responsibilities in line with their experience and skills for West Pakistan Industrial and enhanced productivity. Commercial Employment 4The company sends its head office staff on regular field visits to (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 seek their opinion and suggestions for work-related as well as Annual Settlement improvements. Besides, posting of staff between fields and head Bonus to non-management staff. office, on a rolling-basis, has been further streamlined during the 4Annual Leave Fare Assistance is last two years. To this end, a number of staff was moved from given to non-management staff in head office to fields and vice versa to enrich their experiences. addition to monthly remuneration. 4PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ renovation 2 Industrial Relations and Employees and purchase of vehicle. 4The company offers 13 scholarships to children of ACTIONS permanent workers, with four scholarships for post-intermediate and professional and 9 for postFair Investigation Procedures matriculation education on an annual basis. Performance 4Free bachelor accommodation PPL protects employee rights, ensuring equitable treatment along with necessary utilities is given to field-stationed staff. and opportunity for all to voice their views. 4 The company has an effective policy for redressal of staff 4Gratis Hajj and Umrah facilities are grievances, if any. provided to workers. 4 Based on laws relevant to its various locations, PPL follows the 4PPL provides pick-and-drop Standing (Orders) Ordinance 1968 for official reprimand of staff. transport facility to women staff. 4 4 The company regularly organizes town hall meetings for staff to 4For senior executives and women share concern and issues in an open communication with the employees, the company provides management. The forum also provides an opportunity to a nutritious and balanced lunch management to share company’s progress and challenges with facility at the head office. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Employee Recognition 4 Company management and staff celebrate religious and cultural festivals as well as national days. Performance PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to recognize and reward high standards of performance and enhance staff motivation. Preventing Forcible 4 Performance Excellence Awards are given on an annual basis to Displacement of employees in recognition of their outstanding achievements in both tangible and intangible categories. The company recognizes Individuals and rewards individual efforts for extraordinary performance, innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity gains and Performance complexity reduction. The scheme also sets out to establish role models within the organization that other employees can emulate. Due to its strict adherence to prescribed laws, PPL has never 4 PPL considers human capital its premium asset and had a case of forcible acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 years, displacement of employees. through annual long service awards. 4 The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in appreciation of their services. Employment Policy for Handicapped and Disabled People Pakistan Petroleum Limited Healthy Entertainment 4 PPL follows the Disabled Persons (Employment and for Employees Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 and ensures employment of Performance handicapped personnel. PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities 4 In line with the Workmen and entertainment for staff. Compensation Act in matters 4 PPL encourages sports among head office and field employees related to disability, alternate job such as Annual Inter-location Cricket Tournaments. Besides the assignments are given to company has teams for various sports such as cricket and table disabled staff. tennis that participate in contests/ matches with other organizations. 4 PPL has a dedicated Exploration Library that subscribes to leading industry journals to enhance staff’s knowledge. 4 PPL has established Data Management Centre to facilitate technical staff for easy access to information. 3 Employee Safety and Security 4 Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest trends ACTIONS and information. 4 The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 57th year Safe Working of publication regularly reports on company activities and Conditions industry-related news. Since January 2011, the Urdu version of Progress has been initiated to increase reach and update staff Performance and stakeholders who were otherwise not able to get first-hand Employee safety and security is information due to language barrier. one of PPL’s top priorities. The 4 PPL maintains a fully-equipped health and fitness facility to keep company has dedicated Security its employees mentally and physically fit. Head Office Sports and Health, Safety and Club remains available for staff recreation during lunch break or Environment (HSE) departments after working hours. The club at Sui Gas Field (SGF) also has a to ensure hazard-free working jogging track, badminton, tennis and squash courts and a conditions and has taken the swimming pool for staff use. Besides, the company has proper following initiatives to help indoor games/ recreation facilities at all field locations. The protect its employees from risky company also organizes indoor games competition among the situations and conditions: head office employees. 5 4 Safety alerts and travel advisories 4 PPL organizes musical and other cultural programmes for its are sent regularly to employees. employees. 4 Employees are provided personal UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress protective equipment (PPE) and clothing according to the nature of their job. 4 Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per HSE requirements at head office and all field locations. 4 HSE awareness and training sessions are held regularly in English and Urdu on fire fighting, incident investigation and 4 ACTIONS Health reporting and permit-to-work system. Besides, safety talk is regularly shared with staff, through local portal, highlighting Healthy Environment safety measures for common and emerging issues. 4 Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the for Employees head office and field locations. 4 HSE procedure on ‘Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment Performance and Management’ is developed and distributed to all PPL’s goal is to support a safe and concerned. Field HSE representatives provide training to all healthy workplace by enhancing concerned for conducting risk assessment of routine and staff health and well-being project activities at PPL locations. 4 Periodic check-ups at all field 4 Head Count System in the form of T-Card is being implemented locations are carried out for fire at all PPL fields and drilling sites. As a quick and accurate extinguishers, fire alarms and estimation of personnel’s location at various field sites, the Tsprinklers. Card boards are already in use at Kandhkot, Mazarani, Adhi, 4 Assessment of Occupational Pakistan Petroleum Limited Chachar and Hala fields. Health, Safety and Environment (OHSE) performance against identified Key Performance Employee Travel Safety Indicators, including Loss Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) for the Performance year, PPE compliance by management, non-management PPL regularly arranges training programmes on defensive and contract staff in routine and and evasive driving. Awareness programme on road sense project activities and and safety has been initiated for company staff. implementation of annual work 4 Any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or plans, is undertaken through employee complaints regarding transport are reported to the regular monitoring and conducting Administration Department for necessary countermeasures. awareness sessions. 4 All company vehicles are regularly inspected for fitness/ 4 In line with the company’s efforts tuning/ service at designated workshop/ garage. to ensure safety and hazardous4 Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers free environment for both staff and and employees using company vehicles. A policy is in place to contractors through bind staff to wear seat belts. implementation of HSE 4 All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, procedures, it has achieved 0.3 domestically or internationally. LTIF in 2012 which is well below the industry benchmark. 4 Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company vehicles. 4 The company has chalked out an Occupational Health Surveillance 4 First aid boxes and fire extinguishers are placed in all company vehicles. programme to ensure healthy environment for employees by keeping a check on work-related illness/ diseases. The programme will be implemented after necessary capacity building and fulfilling procedural requirements. 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Basic Health Facilities Performance PPL extends a comprehensive health plan and medical 5 Corporate Social Responsibility PPL stands committed to policy to employees and their families. The company has community development qualified doctors for providing medical consultation and through provision of education, treatment in the head office and field locations. healthcare, infrastructure, 4 The company provides medical assistance to all employees, livelihood generation and postincluding their immediate family, and pensioners as per medical policy. disaster rehabilitation and has allocated minimum 1.5 percent 4 PPL maintains a city clinic in Karachi, providing services in two shifts, to ensure easy access for employees and their families. of its pre-tax profit for CSR Besides, PPL has a full-fledged hospital located within the activities. premises of the SGF. At other company fields and locations, The company spent around Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, Chachar and Hala fields, proper Rs. 1,100 million for CSR arrangements for emergency medical care are in place. initiatives during July 2011 to 4 PPL follows the Factories Act – 1934, Mines Act – 1923 and June 2012 and about Rs. 445 Oil and Gas (Safety in Drilling and Production) Regulations – million during July 2012 to 1974, which include employee personal hygiene, environment, March 2013, which is over Pakistan Petroleum Limited emergency medical assistance and periodic medical and above its minimum checkups. commitment. 4 Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by company doctors and guest consultants for informing and updating staff on preventive measures and treatment of ACTIONS common diseases, including high blood pressure and obesity, and outbreaks such as dengue. Education 4 Exgratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged sickness. Performance 4 Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. As its key CSR priority, PPL promotes educational facilities for rural communities, especially around the company’s operational areas, to improve their quality of life. 4 The company has been providing quality education to children of company employees and local communities at Sui Model School (SMS) since 1957. SMS was upgraded to girls’ college in 2009. Currently, the college offers education to 37 girls and the school caters to over 2900 students both boys and girls. 4 To promote a reading culture at the local level, PPL has constructed public libraries at various towns, especially those where the company initiated exploration efforts. To this end, the company constructed and furnished a public library in Kalat together with computer 7 laboratory at a cost of Rs. 1.537 million. The facility was completed in 2012. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 The company earlier constructed and operationalized the firstfor construction of hostel and ever Computer Training Centre and Library (CTCL) at Sui in messing facility. In 2009, PPL’s 2010 for general public. PPL engaged Kalsoft, an Information Board of Directors approved 12 Technology company, to operate the centre. So far, more than annual scholarships for six years 200 local students, in three batches, have completed threefor deserving students from month basic computer course. Since January 2011, CTCL has District Dera Bugti to study at offered a six-month Certificate in Information Technology (CIT). BPS. During 2012-2013, the 240 students, 60 in each batch, have completed CIT during fourth tranche of scholarships January 2011 to December 2012, bringing the total number of was provided to BPS students computer literates to nearly 500, trained through CTCL. bringing the total number of Besides, CTCL also houses a reading area where books and beneficiaries to 48. selected magazines are provided. Over 600 residents have 4 PPL regularly provides furniture, been registered as regular library visitors. stationary and other relevant 4 The company provides free-of-cost transport facility to items/ equipment to schools students of Taaleem Foundation Grammar School (TFGS) and near its operational areas to Federal Government (FG) Public School, Sui. support their curricular and co4 In order to encourage competent and professional teachers from curricular activities. To this end, other areas to teach at TFGS, PPL has constructed a staff hostel the company supports within the TFGS premises. Moreover, PPL has constructed operational expenses of its two additional classrooms at TFGS to address the issue of large adopted schools in District classes due to high enrolment rate. The hostel and classrooms Kambar Shahdadkot: Pakistan Petroleum Limited were built with an investment of around Rs. 35 million. Government Primary schools in Ghazi Khan Chandio and 4 PPL regularly provides scholarships for students residing around Ghaibi Dero. During 2012-2013, its operational fields, especially in District Dera Bugti, to enable PPL provided Rs. 1.591 million them to acquire quality education at renowned institutions. To to meet the operational this end, a scholarship programme was initiated in 2005 to expenses for these schools. support both boys and girls pursuing higher professional education in renowned universities/ colleges across the country. 4 PPL has constructed three Later in 2009, the scholarship programme was expanded for primary schools in Kandhkot, students living around other producing assets. To date, the near its operational field. These higher professional education scholarship has benefited more schools are run by The Citizen’s than 80 students in District Dera Bugti, among those 37 have Foundation (TCF). As part of the completed their studies, and about 35 students in districts Memorandum of Understanding Kashmore, Sanghar, Gujjar Khan and Kambar-Shahdadkot. (MOU) signed between the two organizations, TCF will ensure Higher Professional Education Scholarship, provision of quality education to excluding District Dera Bugti children from the local District No. of Scholarships communities while PPL will Kashmore 10 provide the cost for operation, construction and other expenses Sanghar 02 besides continuous monitoring Kambar-Shahdadkot 03 on progress. The company has Adhi 05 created an endowment fund Total Awardees 20 worth Rs. 83 million for construction and operationalization of these 4 A four-year scholarship programme for secondary and higher schools over a period of 10 secondary students of Balochistan has commenced in 2012. years. The schools became Under this programme, 40 scholarships are provided for a operational during 2011 with an study programme from grade IX to XII on an annual basis to encouraging enrolment of nearly students already enrolled at any renowned and well-reputed 300 students. To date, the total educational institution across the country. number of students has 4 The company is supporting Balochistan Public School (BPS) in increased to about 500. Sui since the mid-2000. BPS provides quality secondary 4 The National Outreach education to local boys from grade VII to XII through a Programme (NOP) was launched residential facility, latest teaching and learning resources and in 2001 by the Lahore University 8 qualified teachers. Initially, PPL provided about Rs. 6 million for of Management Sciences renovation of the school building and provision of books and (LUMS) to provide financial uniforms for students. Later, Rs.14.108 million was provided assistance towards study for a UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress bachelor’s degree for high-achieving matriculation and intermediate students across Pakistan. PPL signed a MOU Healthcare Initiatives with the university to create an endowment fund for the NOP to finance two deserving students from PPL’s operational areas, Performance particularly Balochistan, each year for a period of four years, The company has provided bringing the total number of students to eight. During 2011extensive medical facilities in 2012, two students from Balochistan were inducted at LUMS some of the most remote regions for a four-year degree programme. The company bears the of Pakistan through building admission and tuition fee together with accommodation and and assisting hospitals, rural messing facility with an annual cost of Rs. 1.85 million per health/ mother and childcare scholar. centres, mobile dispensaries and 4 A new scholarship scheme for students of Balochistan and medical camps. Khyber Pukhtunkhwa (KPK) under National Talent Hunt 4PPL runs a fully equipped Sui Programme of Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Field Hospital (SFH) at SGF Karachi has been initiated. The scheme will cater to three since the early 1960s. The students each from KPK and Balochistan for the first year and hospital provides free-of-cost one student from each province during subsequent years until medical facilities to a large 2019-2020, who qualify the entry test and secure admission at number of local patients, in IBA. Only two students qualified for the scheme from KPK addition to PPL field staff. during 2012-2013. The total expenditure for a four-year degree programme for each student comes to about Rs. 2 million, 4 A fully equipped mobile medical dispensary (MMD) weekly visits Pakistan Petroleum Limited including admission and tuition fees, accommodation and more than 12 villages around messing, stipend and purchase of course material. SGF to provide free healthcare 4 To promote education, especially in remote areas, PPL has facilities, including treatment of made contribution/ donations and provided support to the common diseases, X-Rays and following institutions, including: minor procedures, to locals residing in the area. The Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2012March 2013 dispensary refers cases for further investigation and (Rs. in millions) Annual scholarship for female students 0.886 treatment to SFH. studying at TFGS 4 PPL in partnership with NED University of Engineering & Technology, Karachi 0.028 Government of Balochistan for a symposium (GoB) has constructed a 50-bed National Centre for Excellence in Geology, University 0.100 PPL Public Welfare Hospital in of Peshawar for a conference Sui Town to cater to a large Professional Educational Foundation for fund 0.06 number of patients in Sui who raising carnival could not be reached despite Shaheen Karachi Grammar School 0.025 having SFH and MMD. The land Greenwich University for sponsoring Deevan-e-Sufi 0.15 is provided by GoB who will also Tabani School of Accountancy for Gold Medal 2012 0.85 run the hospital. PPL has invested nearly Rs. 270 million Rashid Publisher for purchase of books 0.10 for construction. The company Government Girls Degree College, Khuzdar for setting-up 0.70 will furnish the hospital and a computer lab provide basic equipments at a Government Girls High School, Barkhan for refurnishing 0.50 cost of about 50 million. Besides, of school building PPL has committed to hire 10 Government Primary School Ghazi Khan Chandio for 0.0091 specialists and provide medicines construction of an academic block worth Rs. 10 million on an annual Government Girls Elementary School, Takra Mohra for 0.546 basis. The hospital will have the construction of an academic block necessary facilities such as Government Girls High School, Dhumali for construction 2.510 gynaecology and obstetrics, of an academic block emergency and operation Government Girls Junior Model High School for 3.268 theatres. The facility will shortly construction of a multipurpose hall be operational after hiring of staff PPL-Tameer-e-Millat Primary School, Nushki, for 1.625 and procurement of equipment. 9 construction of school building 4 PPL provides free medicines to Rural Health Centre, Sui on a monthly basis. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4The company operates MMDs for local communities living around Mazarani and Kandhkot Gas fields. Enhancing 4PPL holds bi-annual free-of-cost surgical eye camps around its Livelihood operational areas in Sui, Adhi, Kandhkot, Mazarani, Chachar and Hala fields for treatment of ophthalmic diseases. PPL is Opportunities among the few companies that hold surgical camps as only eye testing facilities are provided at such camps organized by Performance other organizations. Besides, PPL also holds free-of-cost PPL realizes that changing the medical camps for critical epidemic/ contagious diseases such fate of marginalized communities as scabies around its producing assets. is better addressed through 4PPL adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple Merger creating livelihood options on a Centres at Turbat and Panjgur in Balochistan and Kandhkot in sustainable basis. The company Sindh in 2005 for four years. The company further committed has invested substantially in to support these centres for another four years until 2013/ engaging people, both men and 2014 at a cost of nearly Rs. 11 million. The centres extend women, in earning livelihoods free-of-cost diagnosis and treatment for leprosy, blindness and through sustained sources of tuberculosis to local communities. income. 4In order to strengthen research for prevention and early 4 The company has been diagnosis of Thalassemia, PPL is supporting the District supporting operational cost of Government Badin in Sindh to develop Thalassemia Women Handicraft and Welfare Diagnostic, Prevention and Research Centre (TDPRC) at Centre (WHWC) at Sui since Pakistan Petroleum Limited Thalassemia Care Centre. The company has committed to 2006. The centre, currently run provide Rs. 13 million for construction, equipment and by Pakistan Army in the FG development of laboratory and library for TDPRC. Currently, Public School’s premises, the centre is being constructed. provides skill learning 4To support viable community healthcare projects and services, opportunities for young local PPL has provided support/ donations to various institutions, women who could not complete including the following: their formal education and are interested in enhancing their income potential. A purpose-built Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2012March 2013 facility has been constructed by PPL at a cost of nearly Rs. 32 (Rs. in millions) District Headquarters Hospital, Dera Bugti for purchase 0.176 million within the TFGS of fully equipped ambulance premises, to be run by a Poor Patients Aid Society, Civil Hospital 0.10 renowned civil society Karawan-e-Hayat, Karachi 2.496 organization Taaleem Children Cancer Hospital 2.00 Foundation (TF) working in Jinnah Post-graduate Medical Centre for construction of 5.00 Balochistan. PPL is also a ward for tuberculosis furnishing the facility and providing relevant equipment Rural Health Centre, Daultala and Public Dispensary, 0.286 Mastala for furniture & fittings and material. The centre has a daycare facility for participant Mobile dispensary, Mastala for medicines 0.171 mothers to look after their Town Municipal Administration, Kandhkot for purchase 10.776 children while they attend of suction & jetting unit classes. Presently, WHWC is Association for Children with Emotional and 0.2 being handed over to TF for Learning Problems commencement of operations. 4 PPL is extending infrastructure and maintenance support for Technical Training Centers (TTCs) in Sui and Daultala since the 1990s. The courses offered at these centers include automobile, electronics, carpentry, welding and plumbing. 10 Besides, PPL is supporting 15 top graduating students of TTCSui to pursue diploma level UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress studies in recognized polytechnics across the country through tanks, storage tanks, pump provision of scholarships on an annual basis. The scholarship houses and pumping machinery covers admission and tuition fee together with boarding and together with provision of messing facility. To date 35 students have benefitted from the independent electrification scholarship since 2009. system for operating the 4 In 2011, the company established a Women Vocational pumping station. Training Centre (WVTC) in Mastala near its Adhi Field to 4 To provide free-of-cost potable facilitate women who want to increase their income potential water to Ghaibi Dero (GD) town by learning new skills. The centre is run by Help in Need, a and its surrounding villages near non-governmental organization. PPL constructed and Mazarani Gas Field, PPL initiated furnished the facility together with providing resource material a water supply scheme using a and operational expenses for three years at a cost of Rs. 7 bowzer facility in 2010. Since the million. The centre focuses on training women in tailoring, area is prone to frequent embroidery and cooking. Besides, WVTC also runs a basic underground water pollution, the adult literacy programme for participants. A play area with a potable water is brought from a trained baby sitter is also available within the centre’s safe source, which is some 25 premises to facilitate participating mothers. To date, over 350 kilometres away from town, and women from surrounding communities have been trained stored in two storage tanks built in by WVTC. the centre of GD from where it is 4 To provide further skills enhancement opportunity to youth in collected by nearby communities. Sui, District Dera Bugti, PPL extended scholarships to 13 Some 3000 people are benefitting Pakistan Petroleum Limited candidates holding a Diploma in Associate Engineering to from the facility. The company obtain one-year technical training from National Fertilizer provides maintenance, supply and Corporation-Institute for Engineering and Technology (NFCsalaries at an annual cost of about IET), Multan during 2013-2014. The scholarship will cover Rs. 2.0 million. tuition fee, meals and accommodation. The company has 4 PPL recently completed a water invested about Rs. 4 million for this initiative. supply scheme for residents of villages located close to Shoran town in District Kachhi, where PPL had an exploration block Infrastructure Development Dadhar, which was later relinquished. The village Performance residents were facing acute PPL recognizes that provision of meaningful, durable water shortage, resulting in loss infrastructure is a key to development and sustained of livelihood. Completed at the economic growth, especially in the far-flung areas of the cost of Rs. 17 million in 2012, the country. The company’s business takes it to the remotest scheme will deliver both drinking and usually the disadvantaged areas of the country, where it and irrigation water, benefiting has focused on developing infrastructure and civic some 4000 users. amenities, including roads, bridges, culverts, water supplies 4 PPL has installed 24 pressure and construction of basic facilities, not only for its own use pumps and two Rod Kohi but also for local communities. systems to provide potable water 4 The company has recently built two new link roads in Sui town and store rain/ flood water for at the cost of around Rs. 6 million to facilitate communication irrigation, respectively, for for local residents and staff. communities residing in various 4 PPL provides free-of-cost gas and water supplies to over villages and towns in District 40000 residents in Sui Town and villages around SGF. An Lakki Marwat. The company has average of 4 to 5 MMscfd free gas is provided at an invested nearly Rs. 5 million for approximate cost of Rs. 156 million and more than two million the water supply scheme. gallons of drinking water is supplied daily through Khewali 4 To facilitate residents of Fateh Pumping Station situated 55 kilometers away from the town at Khan town in District Dera Ismail an annual cost of Rs. 200 million. Khan, the company is building a 4 Due to line losses and pilferages on the PPL water supply line, water supply scheme with an the Sui Town residents’ needs were not fully meet. To address investment of Rs. 3 million. On this issue, PPL in partnership with GoB, who is the major completion, the scheme will 11 stakeholder in the project, has undertaken a new water supply benefit over 7000 people. So far, system for the town. With a contribution of Rs. 135 million, the 90 percent work on the scheme company is funding the construction of trunk lines, overhead has been completed. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 To address water shortages in villages adjacent to its exploration communities in partnership block, Jungshahi, in District Thatta, Sindh, PPL has committed to with a local development install 50 deep hand pumps. In the first phase, the company has organization. Currently, installed 21 hand pumps at a cost of Rs. 3.268 million. development initiatives are in Remaining 29 pumps will be installed during the second phase. progress at three union councils in Taluka Kandhkot, District Kashmore, focussing on infrastructure development/ Post-disaster Relief repair of educational, healthcare, agricultural and water supply facilities together with training of locals, where Performance In times of national emergencies, PPL has always provided required. support to victims of disaster-hit areas through substantial • To support rain affectees in donations in cash and kind. Moreover, the company has also 2011, PPL contributed Rs. 20 moved a step forward to invest in long-term rehabilitation of million to PMFRF together with affected communities. distribution of relief goods 4 PPL established and operationalized a Rehabilitation Centre in amounting to over Rs. 15 Bagh in 2006 for the October 8, 2005 earthquake victims, million among affected needing prostheses and orthoses treatment. The centre is communities in Sindh. The managed by Chal Foundation and extends physiotherapy and company also organized free Pakistan Petroleum Limited counselling services for physical and psychological medical camps at various management of the disability besides provision of limbs to locations in affected districts affectees. Since 2010, PPL has created an endowment fund that benefitted about 6000 worth Rs. 24 million to support the centre’s operational cost for people. three years. • In 2012, the company 4 During 2010 to 2012 when different parts of the country were committed Rs. 50 million for hit by heavy rains that also led to severe floods in 2010, the relief of rain-hit communities in company moved forward to generously support affected Sindh and Balochistan. Besides communities. providing Rs. 10 million to • In 2010, the Board of Directors approved Rs. 100 million for PMFRF, relief goods amounting flood relief, of which Rs. 20 million were donated to Prime to over Rs. 33 million were Minister’s Flood Relief Fund (PMFRF). The company distributed among affected distributed relief goods amounting to Rs. 30 million among communities. Free medical affectees, particularly around operational areas. Besides, camps were also organized PPL also established free medical camps and operated around PPL’s Kandhkot Gas MMD, benefitting over 6000 patients. The remaining Rs. 50 Field, benefitting 3000 million was earmarked for rehabilitation of affected affectees. 12 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Performance The company has formulated a diverse, need-based social welfare policy. With a minimum pre-tax profit of 1.5 percent, PPL’s CSR initiatives go well beyond obligatory requirements to support the disadvantage communities, particularly living in rural settings. To ensure optimum onground implementation and impact, PPL works through government, local civil society, non-governmental organizations and communities. 4 The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy Award instituted by the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy for eight consecutive years from 2004 to 2011. 4 To support organizations delivering social welfare, healthcare and other services to the needy, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during Apri 2012-2013 Pakistan Petroleum Limited (Rs. in millions) World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Pakistan for Earth Hour (EH) 2013 0.10 Karachi Boat Club for Inter-school Regatta 0.125 Commissioner Karachi for construction of Shireen Jinnah Terminal 3.0 Environment Protection Agency (EPA) – Bahawalpur for World Environment Day 0.05 Management Association of Pakistan’s (MAP) 28th Excellence Award — Fund 0.50 raising cricket tournament Pakistan Institute of Corporate Governance 0.474 Engineering Review for 2 Engineering Review Award nd 0.10 Society of Petroleum Engineers and Pakistan Association of Petroleum 1.50 Geoscientists for Annual Technical Conference 2012 Society of Petroleum Engineers – NED University of Engineering and Technology 0.075 for a seminar on Occupational Safety and Engineering Management St. Patrick's Cathedral for fundraising cricket tournament 0.01 British Women Association for grand charity bazaar 0.05 Petroleum Institute of Pakistan for World Gas Conference and Shale Gas Seminar 0.535 Sindh Welfare Association for Deaf for fundraising walk, International Deaf 0.060 Women’s Day & cricket tournament Pakistan Tennis Federation for training camp 0.450 Working Women Welfare Trust for a task group session 0.020 Distinguished Secretaries Society of Pakistan for 41st anniversary gala 0.070 Civil Services Academy Alumni, Sindh 0.300 Pakistan Eye Bank Society 0.100 Islamabad Cricket Club of Blind 0.100 Pakistan Management Institute, Karachi for Pakistan Chapter Symposium 2012 0.100 Asghar Ali Shah Memorial Sports Foundation 2.0 Farid Publishers for publishing three books of Ahmed Naveed 0.100 The Pakistan Parsi Collegiate Association 0.015 Ziauddin University for debate competition 0.030 All Pakistan Music Conference for Annual Festival 2013 0.100 Commissioner Sibi for Sibi Mela 0.500 Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan for CFO Conference 0.350 13 National Forum for Environment & Health for 5th CSR summit 0.20 Hissar Foundation for fundraising event 0.10 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 14 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 4 PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free ETHICS from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. 4 In compliance with Oil & Gas ACTIONS Regulatory Authority’s directives to implement ‘Protection Against Harassment of Women at Adherence to Highest Corporate Values Workplace (PAHWW) Act 2010’, the company took the following Performance measures: PPL’s vision, mission and values are testament to the • Circulated brochures on salient importance the company places on corporate ethics. As features of the Act, including such, the company expects its employees to adhere to the instructions on compliance, to following core values: all employees. 4 Recognizing that leadership, empowerment and accountability • Company’s harassment policy are essential for corporate success was prominently placed on the 4 Pursuing the highest standards of ethical behaviour and PPL website and portal. integrity • A three-member committee, 4 Considering people as the most important resource including a women staff, was Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 Valuing creativity and innovation constituted to address staff grievances. 4 Committing to excellence in all spheres of performance • Awareness sessions for staff 4 Advocating team spirit and work were organized on PAHWW 4 Respecting environmental imperatives and striving for its Act 2010 and PPL’s conservation harassment policy at head office and SGF. 4 Any suspected violations or actions that create hostile or Code of Conduct offensive work environment such as sexual harassment or Performance insensitive comments Ethical commitments and values remain the centre piece of concerning gender, religion, PPL’s Code of Conduct, compliance to which is mandatory race, disability or age are for all employees. promptly reported to management that ensures 4 The Code of Conduct for directors and employees were revisited by the Board of Directors in line with the changes in appropriate actions in line with the Code of Corporate Governance of Securities and Standard Operating Exchange Commission of Pakistan. The revised Code of Procedures. Conduct further stresses on professional behaviour from 4 Violations of the Code of directors and employees. The revised code was disseminated Conduct are viewed seriously across PPL for compliance. and have often resulted in 4 All incoming employees and trainees sign and submit an disciplinary actions and, in some undertaking to ensure clear understanding and acceptance cases, led to termination of and uphold the company’s Code of Conduct. service. 15 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company’s operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between management and workers. 16 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Industrial Relations ACTIONS 4 The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. 4 All terms and conditions of employment of workers are Freedom of Association reviewed bi-annually and discussed in a friendly Performance environment with CBA. After bilateral negotiations, a The company believes in the freedom of opinion and handsome increase in wages expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a and other allowances are paid to congenial and equitable working environment as per law: them through settlement. 4 The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, wherein 4 Policies on salaries and employees are free to join any trade union of their choice. allowances as well as other 4 PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers benefits such as medical, leave Union, of which most workers are members. and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA every two years. 4 The Collective Bargaining Pakistan Petroleum Limited Collective Bargaining agreement is concluded through Performance bilateral negotiations. The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent 4 The company has not witnessed (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment any strike, legal or illegal, or for workers at all field locations. lockout during the last five years. 4 The CBA together with stewards and union members, 4 No cases of unfair labour coordinates with management to improve working conditions practices have been filed by the and redress job-related issues. union. 4 Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled 4 The company provides special amicably with CBA representatives. leave to CBA union/employees for appearance in court cases, if 4 Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the it is party to disputes. union’s suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 17 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 18 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees 4 Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. 4 Exit notice period for workers is 30 days and for management, ACTIONS professional and technical staff is 90 days. Procedure for Preventing 4 Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective Under-age Employment measures, if necessary. Performance The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. Record of Checking 4 All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Minimum Wage Rate and above) category, in accordance with the law. 4 To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are Against Regulated confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, Amount educational certificates or Form ‘B’ issued by the National Database and Registration Authority. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Performance The company keeps its wage policy in line with governmental directives to ensure fair corporate governance. Procedure for Preventing Forced Labour 4 All workers in the company (both permanent and contract) are Performance employed above the minimum The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced wage rate as specified by the labour. government and paid competitively in accordance with 4 Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of market norms. service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work. 4 Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws. 19 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth opportunities without any discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 20 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Recruitment 2 ACTIONS Employees Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance diversified workforce PPL’s employment policy provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee Performance discrimination. As a leading employer and 4 PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal responsible corporate citizen, opportunity to women employees. PPL provides an enabling 4 Women employees are placed at various levels in the environment for professional organization, ranging from non-management to senior growth, with equity, security and management positions. human dignity, irrespective of 4 The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. Pakistan Petroleum Limited standard screening processes based on merit and job 4 PPL has a diversified workforce suitability. and does not discriminate on the 4 There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women basis of race, colour, gender, employees. religion, disability or family status in the recruitment, training or 4 To further emphasize the equitable role of working women and advancement of its employees. address their issues at workplace, the company marks the International Women’s Day and International Working 4 Minorities are given special Women’s Day. Dedicated sessions are organized for women holidays in accordance with employees to increase awareness about their role and their religious festivals to responsibilities and address their issues. ensure an open and moderate culture and environment across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance 4 Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 21 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 22 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Environmental Management environmental studies carried out for these operations address local environmental issues and comply with legal requirements and company's HSE standards together with meeting stakeholders’ expectation, including environment, wildlife and forest authorities. Health, Safety and Environment 4 Monthly environmental monitoring is carried out through Performance 4 PPL’s HSE Policy recognizes its management’s an external laboratory for commitment to the health and safety of its employees, compliance with local regulatory contractors and visitors ensuring environmental requirements. Environmental conservation in all company operations. The policy has reports are communicated to been revised in 2012 to provide further emphasis on concerned EPAs through the Self ‘embedding green practices throughout its business Monitoring and Reporting Tool activities to ensure sustainability’. The policy also stresses (SMART) programme. on proactive HSE risk management, complying with local HSE laws and maintaining communication with all stakeholders. The policy is displayed at prominent locations Pakistan Petroleum Limited at the head, regional and field offices and can be accessed Environmental Aspect through the company’s website: http://www.ppl.com.pk 4 Environmental management has been given a top priority in Impact Analysis running business operations. PPL has a well-defined HSE Management System developed in line with internationally Performance recognized ISO 14001 — Environmental Management 4 The company has devised System (EMS) and Occupational Health and Safety Environmental Aspect Impact Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001. The system provides Analysis (EAIA) procedure for all a continuous assessment and monitoring process against operational activities at its fields/ standard parameters to ensure the highest level of safety exploration blocks in line with the and minimal damage to surrounding natural environment. international EMS and OHSAS 4 PPL is an active member of Pakistan Petroleum Exploration standards. EAIA helps in and Production Companies Association and participates in its proactively identifying, evaluating HSE committee meetings. These meetings bring together potential environmental hazards representatives of leading oil and gas companies and provide and taking appropriate a forum to discuss key areas such as latest industry practices precautionary control measures to and use of technology in HSE Management System. mitigate environmental impacts. Environmental Studies Precautionary Measures Performance 4 Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment Performance Impact Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently 4 Noise monitoring and abatement undertaken for all development initiatives, including drilling is ensured for safe working and seismic operations and projects, in compliance with the environment in high noise areas. Pakistan Environmental Protection Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim For this, enclosures, sound to identify potential environmental impacts at development barriers and PPE are provided, sites and advise mitigation measures accordingly. These as appropriate. studies are submitted to relevant provincial EPA for 4 To control accidental leakage, approvals. Once approved, IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark adequate control arrangements for regular internal and external monitoring against such as barriers and spill control suggested mitigation measures. kits are available at all 23 4 Independent Environmental Monitoring during seismic and operational areas. Besides, drilling operations in environmentally sensitive areas is carried designated teams are trained to out through reputed specialized consultants to ensure that handle incidental spills. Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL ensures proactive acceptance of its responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives with a focus on operational excellence. The company is committed to raising environmental awareness for staff, suppliers and dealers through encouragement of ecofriendly practices. 24 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Awareness Raising 2 Environmental Responsibility ACTION Enhancing Environmental Awareness ACTIONS Performance Eco-friendly practices 4 Awareness sessions and trainings with special focus on environment and sustainability principles are regularly held to Performance apprise staff on emerging environmental issues. In addition, PPL is gradually moving towards HSE column ‘Safety Talks’ and bulletin boards are effectively eco-friendly practices to minimize utilized, to promote environmental conservation. damage to natural resources through its regular operations to 4 ‘Sustainable Energy Management’ as part of the corporate support company’s commitment HSE procedure was promulgated in 2011 leading to towards sustainability. The implementation of energy conservation programme at all fields. following green practices are The programme started off with collecting baseline for energy adopted by PPL: consumption pattern at each field. During 2012, inventories Pakistan Petroleum Limited were recorded for electricity, gas, fuel and water consumption 4 Light-Emitting Diode (LED) to achieve set targets against the baseline. technology is used in several projects instead of conventional 4 Following the energy conservation campaign initiated by the bulbs. LEDs present many management, SGF observed Energy Conversation Day on advantages over incandescent July 14, 2012 to create awareness about conservation, light sources, including lower particularly individual responsibility, among staff. Besides energy consumption, longer displaying promotional material, all unnecessary lights (except lifetime, improved physical safety and security lights) and appliances at the field were robustness, smaller size, and switched off as a collective symbol to save energy. faster switching. 4 PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking Zone’ 4 As a result of replacing and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. conventional lighting fixtures with The non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and LEDs at head office and locations. implementation of Sustainable 4 PPL is an active corporate member of the Pakistan Chapter of Energy Management programme World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The at all locations, PPL saved company works with other corporate partners to bring together Rs. 1.3 million during 2012. organizations in Pakistan to adopt business practices based 4 Tree cutting is avoided during on sustainable development principles. seismic activities and site 4 PPL is a corporate member of leading environmental restoration is simultaneously organizations, including WWF, and participates in various carried out for even minor events and campaigns organized by them. PPL was a sponsor removal of flora/ vegetation for the EH 2013 organized by WWF. All company locations through green teams. observed EH with unnecessary lights switched off during the 4 Tree plantation campaigns are given hour. The company has also been an associate of undertaken at company-operated Karachi Water Partnership. fields and exploration assets to off-set emissions and improve ambience. 4 For all drilling operations, waterbased mud, which is known for compatibility with natural soil, is preferred over oil-based mud that requires special treatment for disposal. 25 4 Use of biodegradable explosives during seismic surveys. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 Electronic communication together with duplex printing is all staff in accordance with the promoted for official purpose to reduce paper usage. guidelines provided in the HSE 4 ‘Burn Calories Not Electricity’ campaign was initiated at PPL’s Management System for head office to encourage use of stairs instead of elevators to eliminating hazards. support energy conservation and improve health and fitness of 4 13 fields and facilities, including employees. Promotional stickers were displayed at point of Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani and use. Chachar fields, Sui Field Gas Compressor Station, Sui Production, Sui Field Engineering, Sui Stores, Sui Evaluation of HSE Performance Hospital together with Drilling Operations, Design and Construction, HSE and Projects departments have been certified Performance 4 The HSE Executive Committees at field and head office, for ISO 14001 EMS and comprising field management and senior management, OHSAS18001. While Sui regularly evaluates activities at various company locations, Purification is also certified for provides feedback and monitors compliance. OHSAS18001. 4 Internal audits of departments/ fields are carried out in line with 4 PPL got the Occupational Safety, the annual HSE audit plan to assess implementation of HSE Health and Environment Award Management System and performance. In addition, external in 2012 by Employers' Pakistan Petroleum Limited audits are also carried out to verify compliance to ISO 14001 Federation of Pakistan in EMS and OHSAS 18001 certifications. HSE inspections, spot response to its improved HSE checks and suggestion forms are utilized with participation of performance. 26 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL realizes the importance of emerging environmentfriendly technologies to reduce its carbon footprint 27 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies hazardous waste and oily sludge recovered from operations. Moreover, composting of food waste is also carried out. 4 All company-operated fields are ACTION registered with the Federal EPA under SMART programme for Waste management and monthly testing through external emission control laboratory and reporting of emissions against NEQS parameters. Performance 4 Emissions from all equipments at The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental company facilities are controlled impact of its operations through the use of innovative through in-house maintenance technology. Besides, PPL is focussing on adopting/ programmes and end of pipeline embedding environment-friendly technology in all new solutions. project designs. 4 Process water is contained in 4 PPL has a well-defined waste disposal and management ponds lined with pit line for procedure, which is effectively implemented across the evaporation. Alternatively, waste company. This includes waste segregation at source, water evaporator and forced minimization, recycling and reuse, safe handling and disposal draft evaporation systems are Pakistan Petroleum Limited of hazardous waste as per standard environment-friendly also utilized for treating effluent procedures. Effective arrangements such as landfill and water in order to eliminate soil incinerators are employed for safe disposal of waste, besides and ground-water contamination. acquiring services of specialized contractors for disposal of 28 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 29 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Employees 2 ACTION External Interface Credible Disclosure Code of Conduct of Information to Performance Investors and The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, Stakeholders including bribery and extortion. 4 All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the Performance time of joining. 4 PPL ensures transparency in 4 All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or business transactions and rejects other payments intended to influence business decision or any business practice, which may compromise fair judgment. deem improper. 4 All financial reports are properly 4 No employee can give money to obtain business for the audited by external auditors. company or receive money for giving company business to an external agency. 4 PPL’s Annual Report 2011 was Pakistan Petroleum Limited chosen as the best report among 4 All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, the five selected companies from contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have a the Fuel and Energy sector and business relationship with the company. was adjudged runner up across all 4 Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. sectors by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan and 4 All employees are required to declare their assets on a yearly Institute of Cost and Management basis. Accountants of Pakistan. The Annual Report 2011 also received the ‘Certificate of Merit’ in the Manufacturing Sector category by the South Asian Federation of Corporate Governance Accountants. 4 Quarterly briefing on financial Performance statements is given to management. 4 PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance 4 Meeting of PPL’s Board of Directors with regulatory and legal requirements. is held on a quarterly basis. 4 The company uses internationally acceptable accounting 4 Media/ press briefings and standards to maintain transparency. interviews are given on demand. 4 All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly 4 Consultative meetings with CSR partners are held for social recorded in the books of the company. development initiatives. 4 The company complies with regulations of the Security and 4 The company ensures timely Exchange Commission of Pakistan. payment of taxes. 4 Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s 4 Checks such as annual declaration annual reports. of assets, notifying the company in 4 No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. case of receipt of gifts above a certain value, hospitality and 4 All business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. potential conflicts of interest are in4 Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out for built into the system to preempt all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures corruption. and ensure course correction, if required. 4 Similar checks and balances are 4 PPL secured the prestigious MAP’s 28th Corporate Excellence built into organizational processes, Award in the ‘Oil and Gas and Utilities sector’ for the fourth governing procurement, materials consecutive year. PPL’s performance was accredited by MAP, and personnel in accordance with the Manual on Delegation of following a detailed review not only of the company’s 30 Authority and Public Procurement management systems and policies and procedures but the Regulatory Authority, a public sector efficacy of their implementation. entity to monitor procurement in a transparent manner. 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pk
