Communication on progress 2013 Statement of continued support In an increasingly global world and an equally international market, the need for guidelines and common values becomes ever more apparent. We seek to use our skills in areas that help keep the wheels of society running smoothly and create conditions that enable people to improve their lives. When working with projects and partners, we always do our best to apply solutions that are sustainable, economical, and just plain sensible. The 2011 acquisition of Public Architects A/S and the ongoing integration process of the two original companies’ work culture and employees have led us to work actively with the company’s core values. In this process, we have been strengthened in our conviction that Gottlieb Paludan Architects is on the right path, focusing our design and consulting expertise on the types of common facilities needed to support well-run communities and on environmentally and socially sustainable architectural solutions. We still find that membership of the UN Global Compact initiative supports and expresses our aspirations in this regard, and we wish to contribute to the improvements that the initiative embraces. We therefore proudly give our continued support to advance the goals and principles behind the UN Global Compact. Kristian Hagemann CEO, Architect MAA Gottlieb Paludan Architects Communication on progress 2013 • Introduction • Focus • Key concerns Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S Kalvebod Brygge 30 • Projects 1560 København V • The four focus areas T 4171 8200 W gottliebpaludan.com CVR 1835 5949 • Measuring outcomes Introduction Gottlieb Paludan is an architectural firm that is rooted in the Scandinavian style of architecture and the region’s particular social model, and our history stretches back more than a century. We mostly work in Denmark and the rest of Scandinavia, focusing mainly on assignments and projects related to utilities and infrastructure – common functions that form a crucial part of the operational framework for every well-run modern society. During the processes that have followed the acquisition of Public Architects, we have identified 4 key values that will constitute the base for our future work: • Public spirit • Innovation • Accountability • Beauty The four values are accompanied by a set of qualities and personalities that will act as guidelines for the way we conduct our work. New railway station Langeskov, Denmark Focus Accountability We want to leave behind a world, better than the one we were handed down our selves. In our view, creating sustainable solutions for the world and for the client as well as for our own business must be an integrated aspect of what we do. A history that goes back 100 years also obliges us to think of the next 100 years, in terms of energy, climate challenges, and economics. The text above is an excerpt from the result of Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ recent work with identity and company core values. The text itself and the key value and mind set it represents – Accountability – strongly suggests that the focus for Gottlieb Paludan Architects within the UNGC’s ten principles continue to lean strongly towards environmental and social sustainability. The environmental and resource-related consequences of the firm’s activities continue to be systematically monitored to limit adverse affects, with special emphasis placed on our external services and Planting Ørestad, Denmark construction projects. Further, we also systematically seek to limit the environmental footprint from our own office operations. Gottlieb Paludan Architect’s Environmental Plans for internal and external impacts are used for managing our environmental efforts, and to ensure efficiency. These plans are evaluated once a year by senior management and appropriately adjusted. Key concerns Public spirit We create change by thinking new thoughts, and by offering new ways of solving the challenges that societies face today. We know that our way of looking at things, combined with our professional expertise, can bring new ideas to the development of our societies and to the field of energy and infrastructure. We have the mental resources to think beyond our own interests, and we are always prepared to take part in the public debate about the right priorities in the development of our societies. Spurred by another of our core values – Public spirit – we have continued to pursuit both business opportunities and development projects with environmentally and socially sustainable profiles. In 2012, this has resulted in a continuation of our involvement in R&D projects in biogas production. As for infrastructure, we have further enhanced our focus on projects supporting public transportation, and also on the promotion of bicycle culture and related projects. Accessibility has been strengthened as a focus in 2012 – both our District cooling station Copenhagen, Denmark project portfolio and our internal competencies within the field have been strenghtened. 2012 has also seen the unfolding of a new strategy for climate adaptation, rainwater handling and SUDS solutions in our department for Landscape and Planning. And finally, Gottlieb Paludan has strengthened its environmental expertise, and its focus on renovation and transformation issues. Projects Since our previous COP-report, we have particularly focused on the following project areas: Biogas projects We have continued and concluded our work with the R&D project, initiated in 2011 in collaboration with the Realdania Foundation and other advisors. The project has resulted in 7 model projects which have been evaluated by a jury of experts, thereby creating a set of tools and experience-gathering available to others for the design and integration of biogas plants into the open, rural Danish landscapes; a technology that is predicted to boom in the coming years, and which will have a significant visual impact on the landscape. Climate adaptation, rainwater handling and SUDS solutions – In the light of the recent years’ increase in heavy rain in our part of the world, the department for landscape and planning at Gottlieb Paludan Architects has strengthened its focus on developing creative, architectural solutions and gathering skills and know-how in this field of expertise. We have successfully sought to engage in business projects and R&D in the area – and most recently, we have in late April applied for a Anaerobic digestion facility Korskro, Denmark business phd-project on the subject in collaboration with Ramboll and the University of Copenhagen. Wayfinding and accessibility – For many years accessibility has been an area of expertise for us and with the employment of architect and wayfinding phd. Solvej Colfelt, we have sought to further broaden our skills in this area. One aim is to influence the design of large public institutions in a more including direction – not least inspired by our recently concluded work as client consultants for the Disabled Peoples Organisations Denmark, which has resulted in ‘the most accessible building in the world’, so named by the client. Already we are implementing solutions for such a project at Glostrup Hospital outside Copenhagen. Projects Furthermore, since our latest COP-report, Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ Rie Ollendorf has been stationed in Ghana for two periods to advice the Ghana Society of the Physically Disabled in their effort to create a national standard for accessibility for the country’s building industry. Renovation and transformation – Recycling and reuse is far more sustainable and also far more economically feasible in our field of work than the waste-producing ways of the last century. With this in mind, Gottlieb Paludan Architects has enhanced its focus on renovation and transformation of building structures. We have even initiated a business phd-project on the subject in collaboration with the School of Architecture at the Royal Danish Academy for the Fine Arts and with the University of Copenhagen. The Green Power Island project, which has been carried out in collaboration with Risø DTU, the Danish national laboratory for renewable energy, and The Pig City project, focusing on future animal and vegetable farming based on closed nutrition loops and synergies of crops both continue to develop and create interest, currently at a Developing accessability standards in Ghana Accra Central Station slightly slower pace. The four focus areas Human Rights Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that supports the principles regarding both Human rights and Labour. We take care to uphold the basic principles of general human rights for everybody through all our work. Labour Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that supports the principles regarding both Human rights and Labour, including the prevention of child labour, forced labor and employment discrimination. All employees have the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Environment Anthropogenic climate changes and their impact on our world require the inclusion of new methods and new ways of thinking in the field of architecture. Our work is driven by our belief in the sound business sense of increased focus on ethics, sustainability and holistic thinking, Foot and cycle bridge Odense, Denmark and our goal is to continue the promotion of greater environmental responsibility through our work. We continue to develop our tools and expertise in this area and 2012 saw Christina Tolstrup, head of sustainability design at Gottlieb Paludan Architects, qualifying as a certified DGNB consultant. Anti-corruption Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ main activities lie in Denmark and Scandinavia which are traditionally topping Transparency International’s list of least corrupt countries. We never encounter corruption in our daily work and will continue to oppose any signs of it. Measuring outcomes During the last reporting period, Gottlieb Paludan has made significant Nonetheless, we have harvested a significant result of our acquisition of progress on the following issues: Public Arkitekter A/S in 2011: Due to the concentration of a larger work force in one common office, we have been able to lower our electricity Expanding focus on environmentally friendly project areas Gottlieb consumption remarkably. Between the fiscal years of 2010 and 2012 we Paludan Architects continues to benefit from the 2011 acquisition have reduced our per-capita electricity consumption by 39%. of Public Architects A/S in terms of possibilities to gain and develop expertise with regard to the facilities needed to support a well-run society, and our commitment and ability to focus on the environmental aspects of such projects. Strengthened areas include the subjects mentioned on the previous pages as well as public transportation, bicycle transport and accessibility. Investments in environmentally sustainable development projects These investments have continued, and Gottlieb Paludan have completed the biogas R&D project which was started in 2011 in collaboration with the Realdania Foundation. We have established one business phd-project regarding transformation of worn-down suburbian and industrial areas and buildings and we have applied for another business phdproject concerning rainwater handling and SUDS. Furthermore, we have continued the development of two significant projects with strong renewable energy profiles: Green Power Island and The Pig City project. Due to organizational restructuring the measuring and oversight of two traditionally significant elements in our reporting are lacking in quality this year: This goes for our Own environmental impact and our Environmental screening of new projects. During the period since our Cyclist, Copenhagen, Denmark last COP, the focus on these processes has been less methodical and therefore it is difficult to conclude anything certain about the success ratio. However, a newly developed quality management system, will soon be put into place and is expected to significantly improve methodology and oversight of these processes. This should definitely reflect in next years’ COP-report.
