SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 PTC “BIOPROTECT” LTD CONTENTS: MESSAGE FROM CEO BIOPROTECT……………………………………………………..3 INTRODUCTION………………………………………………………………………………..4 OUR COMMITMENT TOWARDS EMPLOYEES…………………………………….……4-5 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT…………………………………..………………………….5-6 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY……………………………………………………….6 2 | BIOPROTECT S o c i a l R e s p o n s b i l i t y R e p o r t MESSAGE FROM CEO BIOPROTECT I am pleased to announce the publication of the fifth report of sustainable development of Bioprotect, which summarizes our actions implemented during 2012, and the starting point in defining responsibilities for the coming year. For Bioprotect, corporate social responsibility is an intrinsic part of everything we do and regardless of economic circumstances we remain an active supporter of the policies of responsibility. We have objectively analyzed our performances this year and we can safely state that Bioprotect is a citizen-company by constant involvement in various projects with a positive impact on the community, adherence to standards of business conduct, and maintain a transparent dialogue with customers, employees, suppliers and state authorities. In order to meet our customers’ needs, the company is constantly developing innovative products for farmers, using good agricultural practices, facilitating their activity in obtaining better results and providing a real profit. Bioprotect will try and continue to be attractive to customers and responsive to the expectations of other audiences of interaction, which is the best way forward to achieve excellence in business.. 3 | BIOPROTECT S o c i a l R e s p o n s b i l i t y R e p o r t INTRODUCTION As a signatory of the Global Compact, we are committed to implement the ten principles of sustainable development in human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption through our Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. Bioprotect, through everything it accomplishes in social purposes, it engages ethically and contributes through transparent and responsible business practice in sustainable development, social cohesion, while improving the quality of life of employees and of the communities in which they operate, thus demonstrating that it is a responsible company . OUR COMMITMENT TOWARDS EMPLOYEES The success and viability of Bioprotect is largely due to its employees, their professionalism and experience. Our goal is to provide employees with a safe and attractive working environment. Bioprotect consistently respects national and international laws and regulations to comply with the principles set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and is committed to treating its employees properly. We believe that sustainability and business performance depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain the best and most responsible employees. We offer a fair and motivating remuneration, rewarding employees’ performances. We create a working environment in which mutual respect, integrity and trust are favoured. We encourage our employees to continuously develop themselves, in doing so, they actively participate in seminars and specialized trainings both national and international. Safety of our employees is extremely important to us and therefore we provide training to all employees regarding safety at the time of employment and 4 | BIOPROTECT S o c i a l R e s p o n s b i l i t y R e p o r t annually thereafter. Health of our employees is a precious commodity and an important resource for us. Personnel benefit of medicines at work. Last year some of the employees have received sheets for treatment in sanatoriums in the country and for employees working with pesticides may be permanently purchased dairy products. Bioprotect wants to keep the dedication of its employees as human relationships extend beyond professional boundaries. Members of the company regularly participate in various events, celebrations, organized by the company to maintain a positive attitude, not only in labor-friendly, which facilitates consolidation of free communication and collaboration among the company's staff. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT CSR and humanitarian campaigns conducted in 2012, had an approach aligned with the mission and values of Bioprotect. We attended a number of initiatives focused on supporting disadvantaged members of the communities where the company operates. We are glad that we managed in 2012 to bring some light on the faces of underprivileged children in orphanages from the village Popenchi and Community House Hansca. Children received clothes, school supplies and candies. Bioprotect continued involvement in cultural and artistic life by co-sponsoring the concert 2012 World Tour on 08 June 2012 with the participation of all time legendary Spanish singer Julio Iglesias. The company offered its employees the opportunity to enjoy every beat and verse of his famous songs and an exceptional show. We have been proud sponsors of the organization among jubilee concert My years, my destiny of Master Anatol Dumitraş, concert dedicated to the 30 years of activity anniversary. 5 | BIOPROTECT S o c i a l R e s p o n s b i l i t y R e p o r t Also we contributed in organizing the Festival of Poetry and Song Dumitru Matcovski , during 20-21 October 2012 in the second edition, held in Vadul Raşcov. Also in 2012 we wanted to be there for the elders of the Association for Education Străşeni, Neoumanist elderly Day, marked on October 1. Bioprotect came to the permanent placement center for the elderly ( Sunrise and Spectrum ) with food, hygiene products and towels for elders in a difficult situation and poverty and have no hope. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Bioprotect company recognizes that sustainable development depends not only on good relations with employees and the community, but also the ability to set new standards for environmental protection responsibility. We all want a healthy life and a healthy and ecologically balanced environment and therefore we are concerned with everything that surrounds us. We are committed to our activities so that our impact on the environment to be as small as possible. The company encourages the spirit of volunteerism. We wish to acknowledge employees on environmental and social issues. Hai Moldova! was the most ambitious ecological voluntary, aiming waste cleaning and raising awareness about the importance of responsible behavior towards the environment. Thus, on 12 May 2012 Bioprotect employees, equipped with bags and gloves, started the fight against waste, this time in the park Lunca Gîştei from Rīşcani district. We cleaned with about 111,300 people, and regardless of the collected bags, simply being out there for such an action, we have contributed to the protection of nature and we have demonstrated that we are there for the community and responsible towards the environment. 6 | BIOPROTECT S o c i a l R e s p o n s b i l i t y R e p o r t
