CSR Report 2013 © UNICEF Myanmar / 2012 Love today, Love your life. 【Ideal Vision】 Editorial Maintain a Policy sound management system Lion views its CSR Report as an important tool that is continuously CSR Communication Tools allowing the Company to communicate its CSR initiatives by trusted andsociety draw on stakeholder opinions while furthering corporate activities. The CSR Report 2013 was prepared taking into account the following points. ・Since 2011, CSR activities have been systematized in accordance with ISO 26000, an international standard concerning social responsibility. The CSR Report is also complied following trend. Since the 2013 version, this report contains major CSR issues specified on the basis of the seven core subject of ISO 26000, and medium-term objectives and major indicators for each issue. ・Third-party reviews by outside experts have been included to provide an objective assessment. CSR Report Reference guidelines The purpose of the CSR Report is to communicate what ・The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) means to Lion and Japanese Ministry of the Environment to outline Lion’s CSR activities. It provides an overview ・The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006) of the of the Lion’s approach to CSR and describes activities Global Reporting Initiative carried out during 2012. Contents covered in greater ・ ISO26000: Guidance on social responsibility issued by detail on the Company website are marked with URL . Japanese Standards Association Coverage Lion Corporation, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd., Lion Business Service Co., Ltd., Lion Hygiene Co., Ltd., Lion Trading Co., Ltd., Ipposha Oil Industries Co., Ltd., Lion Packaging Co., Ltd., Lion Engineering Co., Ltd., Lion Field Marketing Co., Ltd., Lion Logistics Service Co., Ltd., Lion Cordial Support Co., Ltd., Issua Co., Ltd., Lion Dental Products Co., Ltd., Lion Akzo Co., Ltd. (Regarding the environmental data, overseas group companies are included in addition to the above domestic companies.) Period Covered Website (CSR Section) January 1 to December 31, 2012 The aim of the CSR section of Lion’s website is to (Some part of the activities includes that of 2013.) ensure timely and appropriate disclosure of information required by customers, experts and all other stakeholders. As well as providing more detail than the CSR Report, the website is also designed for greater visual appeal. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ CONTENTS Contents…………………………………………… 01 Corporate Data………………………………… 02 Message from the Management…………… 04 Special Features: Eco Vision 2020 …………… 06 Lion and CSR………………… 10 Basic Approach / Foundation for Business / Business Activities / Promotion of CSR Activities / Value Chains and Important Issues /Objectives and Performance of CSR Organizational Governance…… 18 Basic Approach / Corporate Governance System / Risk Management / Establishment of Internal Control Systems / Promoting Compliance Human Rights……………… 20 Basic Approach / Frameworks to Ensure Respect for Human Rights / Contact for Consultation and Internal Reporting Eco Leaflet (Japanese only) Labor Practices……………… 21 Basic Approach / Human Resource Development / Human The compact Eco Leaflet explains Lion’s environmental Resource Diversity / Promoting Work-Life Balance / Employee activities to customers and all other stakeholders Health Management / Safety and Disaster Prevention in a straightforward manner using diagrams and Initiatives illustrations. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/eb.pdf The Environment…………… 26 Basic Approach / Environmental Guidelines / Environmental Management Structure / Environmental Management System / Legal Compliance / Overview of Environmental Impact of Lion’s Business Activities / Environmental Accounting / Eco-efficiency / Environmental Communication / Pollution Prevention / Sustainable Use of Resources / Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Biodiversity Conservation Fair Operating Practices……… 34 Basic Approach / Frameworks to Ensure Fairness of Business/ Initiatives for Value Chains / Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Consumer Issues …………… 36 Basic Approach / Appropriate Information Provision / Approach to Safety and Reliability / Enhancing Information Provision to Customers / Information Security/ Responding to VOC (Voice of Customer) / Considering the Environment from a Product-Oriented Perspective / Environmental Lion 120 Eco Stories (Japanese only) Considerations in Product Composition Development / “3Rs” for Reducing Containers and Packaging The Company’s environmental conservation activities in addition to the manufacture of products conscious of Community Involvement and …… impacts on water and the environment, ranges widely from Development 42 academic and research support to promoting environmental Basic Approach / Activities of Lion Foundation for Dental activities in collaboration with our customers. The Health / Educational Activities for Hand Washing and Gargling / Conservation Work / Supportive Activities in the Great East Company compiled our environmental activities and useful Japan Earthquake Disaster Areas /Community Activities information for our customers into a booklet. Third-Party Review……………………………… 46 URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/er.pdf Lion’s Responses / Editorial Note…………… 47 CSR Report 2013 01 【Ideal Vision】 Corporate Maintain a sound Data ● Trend of Earnings management system Corporate Name Lion Corporation Net Sales (million yen) that Address is continuously 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130400,000 8644, Japan trusted Foundation byOctober society30, 1891 350,000 338,236 321,947 331,100 327,500 335,171 300,000 Capital ¥34,433.72 million (as of December 31, 2012) President Itsuo Hama 250,000 Employees Consolidated: 6,006 200,000 Non-consolidated: 2,442 (as of December 31, 2012) 150,000 Net Sales Consolidated: \335,100 million 100,000 Non-consolidated: \254,300 million (as of December 2012) 50,000 Plants Chiba Plant (Ichihara City), Odawara Plant 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) (Odawara City), Osaka Plant (Sakai City), Akashi Plant (Akashi City) Operating Income Research Hirai (Edogawa-ku), Honjo (Sumida-ku), Odawara (million yen) Facilities (Odawara City) 12,000 11,169 Sales Offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka 10,036 10,500 10,000 8,277 8,000 7,213 ● Net Sales Breakdown by Business 6,000 Consumer Products Business ¥266.04 billion 4,000 Oral Care Products ¥52.91 billion Beauty Care Products ¥20.37 billion 2,000 Pharmaceutical Products ¥37.19 billion 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) Fabric Care Products ¥80.59 billion Living Care Products Ordinary Income ¥21.85 billion (million yen) Other Business ¥53.10 billion 14,000 Industrial Products Business ¥49.78 billion 12,183 12,000 11,795 11,145 Overseas Business ¥59.17 billion 10,000 Others 8,564 ¥29.79 billion 8,000 7,603 Adjustment ※ ▲ ¥69.62 billion 6,000 Consolidated Net Sales ¥335.17 billion ※ Intra-segment and inter-segment sales 4,000 2,000 ● Location of Overseas Group Companies 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012(year) Net Income South Korea (million yen) CJ Lion Corporation 7,000 China 6,041 Lion Daily Necessities 6,000 Chemicals (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 5,465 Thailand Taiwan 5,000 Lion Lion Chemical Industry (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 4,077 4,235 Corporation Hong Kong 4,000 (Thailand) Ltd. Lion Corporation (Hong Kong) Ltd. 3,040 Malaysia 3,000 Southern Philippines Lion Sdn. Bhd. Peerless Lion Corporation 2,000 Malaysia Singapore Lion Eco Lion Corporation (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 1,000 Chemicals Sdn. Bhd. Indonesia 0 P.T. Lion Wings 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) 02 CSR Report 2013 ● Main Lines of Business Advanced oral care products to help customers stay healthy Oral Care Products Main Product Categories Toothpastes, toothbrushes, mouthwashes, and other dental products Hair and skin care products for health and comfort of body and mind Beauty Care Products Main Product Categories Shampoos, conditioners, hair-styling products, hair-nourishment treatments, hand soaps, body washes, men’s cosmetics, and antiperspirants A well-rounded range of brands to meet growing self-care needs Pharmaceutical Products Main Product Categories Consumer Products Business Analgesics, combination cold medicines, gastrointestinal medicines, antidiarrhoeals, eyedrops, tonics and nutrients, anti-inflammatory poultices, acne medications, insecticides, and prescription drugs Fabric Care Products Offering you products you can trust to keep your clothes clean and smelling fresh Main Product Categories Laundry detergents, fine clothing care products, pre-care products, bleaches, fabric softeners, and maintenance products Living Care Products Products useful for clean and comfortable living and dining Main Product Categories Dishwashing detergents, household cleaners, and cooking aids Gift Items, Mail Orders Custom products tailored and mail order products suited to meet individual needs Main Product Categories Novelty items, gift items and mail order items Always bearing our motto, “contributing to the global environment,” in mind, the Company meets Industrial Products Business Chemical Products the needs applying high technical capabilities and high functionality products based on interface science. Main Product Categories Surfactants, fatty acid nitrogen derivatives, fatty acid methyl ester and its derivatives, electro-conductive carbon black, Palm tree fatty acid ester electrical Electro-conductive carbon black and Industrial cleaners and subjected and various industrial cleaners insulation oil and application examples application products (packing materials for materials (precision component (environment-friendly transformers) electronic materials including ICchips) including LEDs) CSR Report 2013 03 Message 【Ideal from the Management Vision】 Maintain a sound management system We are steadily moving forward that is continuously trusted by society to realize “Vision 2020.” Lion formulated the new management vision entitled are “qualitative growth of domestic businesses,” “quantita“Vision 2020,” aiming to “ be a company that creates value tive expansion of overseas businesses,” “development of for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment,” “be a company that is new business value,” and “enhancement of organizational advanced in the area of environmental responsiveness,” and learning capabilities,” have steadily moved forward. We, a “be a company that continuous to take on challenges, therefore, believe that we have been proceeding in the creates, and learns.” The company decided to develop a correct direction. 3-year plan with 3 phases in order to achieve “Vision 2020.” For the fiscal year 2013, we will commit ourselves entirely to In 2012 we started the first phase “V-1 Plan (Vision 2020 the achievement of financial targets by overcoming the Part-1),” the Medium-term Management Plan. greatest challenge of recovering domestic profits. Achieving For the first year of the “V-1 Plan,” the goal for sales was these targets will establish an important milestone to attained, but unfortunately, operating profits fell below the achieve “Vision 2020.” target because seasonal products stagnated due to unseaIn addition, we will strive to realize the new management sonable weather and sales promotion expenses increased vision and seek CSR management by incorporating CSR in due to stiff competition. However, the measures carried out management together with the driving force of business under the four strategies supporting “Vision 2020” which activities. Representative Director, and Chairman Representative Director, President and Executive Officer 04 CSR Report 2013 Creating future value by consistently safeguarding health, comfort, and the environment for people each and every day Aiming at being a company that creates activities of “today for each person,” but also through our products, we will deliver to our customers Lion’s value for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment proposes to reduce environmental burdens for “today for Lion has worked to provide superior products and each person” through not only our business activities but services that are helpful in the daily lives of people taking also our products. We will receive empathy through “health,” “comfort,” and “environment” as our business delivering this proposal to our customers and strive to fields. tackle global environmental issues across the board in In 2012 in Japan we investigated consumers’ hygiene collaboration with our customers. awareness and proposed new value in the hygiene field such as liquid detergent for clothing which removes unseen dirt based on prevention and anti-fungal agent Aiming at being a company that continues for the bathroom. Furthermore, in the health field, our to take on challenges, creates and learns mail-order business for products such as functional I aspire to make the organization of Lion “a group with foods, which started in 2007, reached the scope of every employee conscious of participation in manage10-billion-yen. In the future, we will continue to work on ment and with the courage to take on new challenges the creation of clean, healthy, and comfortable lifestyles across the board” in order to realize “Vision 2020.” In and make new proposals toward a valuable future by 2012, we set forth a code of conduct, which encouraged offering new products with high added value and transemployees who were creative and tried hard with risk mitting innovative information. awareness, and introduced a personnel system, which We have also created clean, healthy, and comfortable would evaluate and recognize those who attempted and lifestyles overseas especially in Asia. In China, Thailand, completed difficult tasks. and Malaysia our production and distribution systems to I directly talked about my ideas at all the business offices meet expanding demand for toothpaste and laundry and factories, and I continuously communicate with our detergent were successfully enhanced and improved. We employees. In 2013, I started my blog “Hama’s Eye” on have been promoting oral care educational activities such the Intranet to directly send messages in my own words as dental health care activities and sanitary practices about the direction the company is taking, as well as my through hand washing at kindergartens and elementary thoughts. schools in Japan. We will contribute to the improvement In order to achieve the important goals of “Vision 2020,” of lifestyles of local residents by extending the activities all of us from the top management to every employee to children in Asia. will share such goals and continuously attempt hard tasks with courage; we will be an evolving organization, which Aiming at being a company that is advanced wisely learns from its successful and unsuccessful experiences. in the area of environmental responsiveness Since the 1960s, Lion has been engaged in finding the solutions to water environmental problems such as Aiming for CSR management bubbling in rivers and eutrophication in lakes utilizing For a company to continue to be trusted in society, it is advanced technological innovations. Since the 1990s, necessary to incorporate CSR into management. Lion when global environmental issues became more serious, announced its participation in the “UN Global Compact” we have continued to develop technologies from the in 2009, and engaged in CSR activities under the 10 viewpoint of harmony with the environment and efficient principles in 4 fields including “Human Rights,” “Labour,” use of resources. When we established “Eco Vision “Environment,” and “Anti-Corruption.” The CSR promo2020,” we considered our role to deal with the main tion department, which has been lead directly under the global environmental issues such as “Realization of a Low president since 2012, has eagerly worked on the activiCarbon Society,” “Realization of a Sound Material-Cycle ties using the international standard of social responsibilSociety,” and “Harmony with Nature.” We set integrated ity “ISO26000.” After understanding the requirements and advanced goals to work on the reduction of environfrom society, we matched them to our management mental burdens at all the stages from the procurement of challenges, specified the major CSR issues for CSR, and raw materials for Lion products to the use and disposal of set the medium-term objectives. Going forward, we will those products by our customers. In order to achieve also set priority issues for the overseas groups and these goals, the whole company set those goals after proceed with our efforts while listening to the voices of many detailed discussions. Not only through the business our stakeholders. CSR Report 2013 05 Special Features 【Ideal Vision】 Maintain Our a sound environmental initiatives toward 2020 Eco Vision 2020 management system that is continuously trusted by society E nvironmental initiatives by Lion As a household consumer products manufacturer, Lion’s management takes environmental issues very seriously. We were one of the industry’s pioneers in developing products that take the aquatic impact of the product on the environment into consideration, during as early as the 1960s when the issue of foam in rivers started to appear. Continuing this tradition, we are committed to mitigating the environmental impacts in all stages of our activities, from procuring the raw materials to foreseeing the use and disposal of a product by consumers. Since 2001, we have been running “the medium-term environmental plan for the three years,” promoting environmental activities with concrete goals and the year 2012 was the final year of the plan set out in 2010. R eview of “the medium-term environmental plan for the three years (2010-2012)” We met our CO2 reduction target for the business activities area thanks to the more compact packaging of washing powder products, the review of our manufacturing efficiency and our thorough push for energy-saving activities. The targets for logistics and overseas locations were also achieved, as well as for chemical substance management, environmental management structure enhancement, awareness promotion and PR. However, the targets in waste management and water use reduction were not met. We will review and analyze the cause of this underachievement with refreshed determination to push the agenda forward. Keys: Achieved ○ Not achieved Results Related Categories 2012 Target pages Principal measures during 2010 -2012 Achievements Reduce energy-derived Reduce energy-derived CO CO2 emissionsfrom 2 emissions Reviewed laundry detergent production ○ from business business activities activities moreor by 30%byor30% more compared Efficiency, more compact packaging and (33% reduction compared to 1990) p32 compared to 1990 to 1990 promoting energy-saving activities CO2 Reduce specific energy consumption in Increased use of bigger trucks, improve○ ＊3 Emission logistics by 1% or more on average each ment in loading efficiency in transportation (1.6% reduction from the previous year) p32 year Reduction Reduce the CO2 emission rate at overseas Conserved energy by reviewing production ○ ＊3 production sites by 1% or more on average conditions p32 each year (3% reduction from the previous year) Promoting the recovery of more valuable resources from waste Reduce total waste generation by 55% or more compared to 1990 (the target was unmet due to the degradation of the material recovery p30 market, disposal of disaster-affected goods, disposal of cooling water for gas (49% reduction compared to 1990) Waste emissions due to incinerator shutdowns, and the increase of waste from production line due to the increased production of detergent raw materials) Reduction Implement Lion’s waste recycling policies in Achieve Zero Emission ＊1 status group-wide p30 affiliated companies (unachieved in 1 office) Effective Use of Reduce volume of discharge by 20% or Reduce in-process washing water p31 Water Resources more compared to 2005＊2 (unmet target due to increased number of washing and increased volume of washing water at specific sites) (12% reduction compared to 2005) Reduce total PRTR substance emissions by Reduction by reviewing manufacturing ○ Chemical conditions and completing new chemical p30 45% or more compared to 2005 ＊2 notification under revisions to the law (54% reduction compared to 2005) Substance Management Reduce volatile organic compound (VOC) Introducing VOC recovery systems and ○ p30 emissions by 75% or more compared to 2000 improve product composition (82% reduction compared to 2000) Environmental Carry out environmental management according Publishing data from overseas sites, set and ○ －－ Management to the PDCA cycle manage targets regarding CO2 emissions Structure Identify and perform accounting for environEnhancement mental liabilities Understanding the environmental liabilities ○ p27 Environmental Endangered species protection activities Awareness and Continue promoting Eco Lion activities and power conservation in summer ○ p32,33 Communication ＊１ Our deﬁnition of Zero Emission ＊２ The achievement was computed using the objectives 99% or higher recycling rate, excluding residues for the substances prior to the revision of the law. from recycling, for total waste generated. ＊3 In addition to the objectives for 2012, the target for the 3 years was also achieved. 06 CSR Report 2013 I n Setting “Eco Vision 2020” In 2011, we published “Vision 2020,” our new management vision for the year 2020. One of its cornerstones is ‘to be an environmentally advanced company.’ For that reason, we clarified the areas and activities of the company’s involvement, reflecting the challenges we face now with regard to the global environmental issues. 1. Global Environmental Issues Despite concerted international efforts to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, it is predicted to increase from Global warming 23 billion tons (2000) to 34 billion tons (2020), with the worrying consequence of accelerating global warming. Shortage and Water is vital for all living creatures. The demand for water is predicted to increase from 4 trillion (2000) to 5.2 uneven distribution of resources trillion cubic meters (2025) and shortages of water are increasingly apparent in the world. With 30 million species on earth, it is said that we have been losing 40,000 species every year since 1975. Loss of biodiversity Before, the rate was about 1000 species a year, therefore the rate of extinctions is clearly increasing. Source: Ministry of the Environment, Annual Report on the Environment, 2. Areas of involvement and our action the Sound Material-Cycle Society and the Biodiversity in Japan 2010 By promoting ‘Green Innovation’ that supports our strategy of “Vision 2020” and making new discoveries, we contribute to realizing a ‘Low Carbon Society,’ ‘Sound Material-Cycle Society’ and ‘Harmony with Nature’. ❶ Realizing a Low Carbon Society Challenge Emissions of greenhouse gases from industries in advanced countries are decreasing while emissions from households are on the rise. Our actions Through the use of more plant-derived raw materials and the reduction of oil-derived plastic packaging, we aim to reduce greenhouse gases generated by households using our products to promote the shift to a low carbon society. Carry out continuous efforts to reduce greenhouse gases generated by our business activities. In overseas operations, set and work towards the targets for greenhouse gases reduction, through our business activities and products. ❷ Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society Challenge Serious shortage of water resources, maximum usage of recycled resources. Actions Through the reduction of water use in our business activities, waste reduction (promotion of Zero Emissions) and wastewater discharge reduction (recycling factory wastewater discharge), as well as offering products that require less water at home, we promote the shift to a recycling-oriented society. In overseas operations, we address and work towards the phased reduction of waste and water use through our business activities and products. ❸ Harmony with Nature Challenge Take biodiversity and aquatic environment into consideration throughout the whole life cycle of a product. Actions We aim to procure raw palm oil from sustainable sources. We engage in water resource conservation activities. ❹ Awareness and Education in the Society As well as aiming to achieve the targets on above agendas, ❶ to ❸, we promote awareness on these agenda and encourage behavioral changes in society. Realizing a sustainable society ❶ Realizing a Low Carbon Society ❷ Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society ❸ Harmony with Nature <Target items> <Target items> <Target items> CO2 reduction in domestic sites Water use and wastewater discharge Procurement of plant-derived oils that reduction in domestic sites take biodiversity into consideration CO2 reduction in overseas sites Waste reduction in domestic sites. Conservation of biodiversity CO2 reduction in households Water use reduction in households <Main measures> <Main measures> <Main measures> Developing products that use less water Use of sustainable plant-derived Use of plant-derived raw materials raw materials (carbon neutral) Use of plant-derived raw materials Promotion of sustainable material (renewable raw materials) procurement practice Reduction of plastic container and packaging Better use of rain water Biodiversity conservation activities Container and packaging material Water resource conservation ❹ Awareness and Education in the society reduction by the 3Rs activities Awareness and Education Awareness and Education Awareness and Education Contribute to reducing environmental impact through our Best use of plant-derived products that are designed to ‘Today for each person’ raw materials CSR Report 2013 07 【Ideal Vision】 LMaintain ist of aTargets sound management system of “Eco Vision 2020” that is continuously Categories Targets for 2014 Targets for 2020 trusted by society Turnover unit basis Turnover unit basis Greenhouse gases (domestic) Within the Reduction of 23% reduction (compared to 2010) 34% reduction (compared to 2010) 1 greenhouse gases from 40% reduction (compared to 1990) 49% reduction (compared to 1990) company business activities (Absolute quantity: 39% reduction (Absolute quantity: 40% reduction compared to 1990) compared to 1990) Realization of Low Carbon Society Turnover unit basis Turnover unit basis Outside the Reduction of 4% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) 2 greenhouse gases from 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 53% reduction (compared to 1990) company post-use products (Absolute quantity: 48% reduction (Absolute quantity: 41% reduction compared to 1990) compared to 1990) Greenhouse gases (overseas) Within the Reduction of 3 greenhouse gases from Manufacturing unit basis Manufacturing unit basis company business activities, 1% reduction year-on-year 1% reduction year-on-year overseas Outside the Reduction of greenhouse gases from 4 －－ Reduction of 100 thousand tons annually company post-use products, overseas Turnover unit basis Turnover unit basis Within the Reduction of water use 9% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 5 in business activities 30% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) Realization of Sound Natural-Cycle Society company (Absolute quantity: 29% reduction (Absolute quantity: 23% reduction compared to 2000) compared to 2000) Water Turnover unit basis Turnover unit basis Outside the Reduction of water 14% reduction (compared to 2010) 17% reduction (compared to 2010) 6 usage at household 43% reduction (compared to 2000) 45% reduction (compared to 2000) company using our products (Absolute quantity: 39% reduction (Absolute quantity: 33% reduction compared to 2000) compared to 2000) Waste Zero emissions within Zero emissions in all domestic produc7 the company Zero emissions in all domestic offices tion sites Waste water Recycle of factory 95% wastewater recycle at multiple 8 －－ wastewater discharge factories discharge Procurement Procurement of Harmony with Nature 9 plant-derived oils that Obtain RSPO＊ Supply Chain certification All palm oil purchased to be RSPO take biodiversity into and start purchasing certified oils certificated (2015) consideration Biodiversity Energize biodiversity 10 Carried out in all Lion’s unit factories Carried out in all domestic sites conservation activities Awareness and Education Environment aware50% increase of consumer participation Doubling the amount of consumer Education in 11 ness and education for in our awareness activities (compared to participation in our awareness activities consumers 2010) (compared to 2010) ＊ RSPO : Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil the society ＊ RSPO: Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 08 CSR Report 2013 V oices of Outside Stakeholders In order to set relevant objectives with regard to our environmental challenges, consultations with specialists from environmental NGOs were conducted. Consultations with environmental communication specialists were also held in order to share and achieve our objectives together with customers and consumers (dialogues were held between November and December 2012). 1. Theme: Our New Environmental Objectives “Eco Vision 2020” Extracts of the comment provided by Mr. Yasushi Hibi Managing Director, Conservation International Japan Lion’s new environmental objectives “Eco Vision 2020” are of a high standard in terms of its coverage and progressiveness, making good use of quantitative assessments. However, as for the objectives and targets for overseas operations, I expect the company to review and improve them to set more challenging targets, including the absolute quantity targets, even for the initiatives during ongoing period. Lion is in the position of influencing the behavior of consumers. It is important to keep communicating with them such as through their products. 2. Theme: Environmental Communication Extracts of the comment provided by Ms Minako Oishi Board Member Chairperson, Environment Committee It is important that communications from the company to consumers is easy to understand with concrete facts. It was felt that the assertion of ‘the product is eco-friendly because it uses plant-based raw materials’ is not sufficient as an explanation. When using an environmental label, it is important that the label includes information that consumers do not know and are not aware of.. It is desirable to set out criteria covering all the stages of ‘the life of a product,’ not only a part of it. Consumers can only change their behavior once they are convinced. It is a role and a responsibility of an enterprise to communicate information that leads to consumers’ choice, such as the fact that the use of RSPO certificated oils contributes to conserving biodiversity of forests. I hope Lion will continue to carry out its environmental awareness campaigns at schools. P ost-consultation Notes These consultations were valuable opportunities for us in learning the opinions of the specialists outside our organization. Firstly, we confirmed that our new environmental objectives “Eco Vision 2020” satisfy a good level. We were also given advice for future efforts such as setting additional targets for initiatives even during ongoing period. We learned that more engagements in environmental initiatives were expected not only in Japan but also overseas, which made us determined to further pursue these activities. We were also given the advice that by enhancing communication with consumers through environmental labeling etc., we could inspire the consumers to behave in environmentally friendly ways. We have re-affirmed that it is one of the company’s important roles to contribute to realizing a sustainable society by enhancing communication and we will further strengthen our commitment. CSR Report 2013 09 Lion and CSR 【Ideal Vision】 Business Maintain a sound Activities Supporting Clean, Healthy, management system Comfortable that is continuously and Sustainable Life trusted by society Basic Approach The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced based on the company motto and the management to the Company’s founding spirit of “working for philosophy, Lion has contributed to sustainable the benefit of people and society.” development of society through conducting business With the robust foundation for business established activities under the management vision. Sustainable corporate and social development With the aim of sustainable Foundation Business corporate and social for Business Activities development, Lion determines its CSR targets and conducts Management relevant activities, always Vision responding to requests from society through dialogue with its stakeholders. ● Company Motto/Management Philosophy ● Management Vision and Plan The Company Motto and Management Philosophy are determined We promote business activities following the new management by inheriting the Company’s founding spirit, as well as the Lion vision and corporate message determined in 2011 as our Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines, corporate direction until 2020. which were formulated to achieve the concept of the motto and URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/vision.htm management philosophy. Each of Lion’s employees behaves and conducts CSR activities in accordance with all of these concepts. Foundation for Business Company Motto Lion Corporation positions “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love” as fundamental to its management, and thus contributes to the enrichment of the happiness and lives of people. Management Philosophy 1 We bring together the power of our personnel, the power of our technology and the power of our marketing, as we provide superior products that are helpful in the daily lives of people. 2 We respect the “Spirit of Tenacity and Creativity” that we have maintained since our founding, as we continue developing our business. 3 We deeply appreciate all those who extend their valuable support to us, as we prosper together through sincerity and mutual trust. 10 CSR Report 2013 Business Activities Lion and CSR Business activities supporting clean, healthy, products for daily life, as well as promotions and comfortable and sustainable life are the basis educational activities. A new corporate message was of Lion’s corporate social responsibility. Since its formulated in 2011 under the slogan of “life. love. foundation, Lion has long been a culture bearer for Lion,” we will conduct business activities for both oral health and cleanliness, making proposals for physical and mental health and comfort, aiming to making good habits through the provision of useful be a company, which creates a valuable future. Oral Hygiene Business Organizational Oral hygiene is Lion’s core area of business. Over the make proposals based on new values, focusing on Governance years, we have contributed to the improvement of the relationship between oral hygiene and systemic people’s living habits by developing many dentifrices health, which has been revealed in recent years. with new functions throughout the eras, and have Meanwhile, in Asia, we will promote awareness and disseminated the correct knowledge about tooth education of oral health, aiming to be No.1 in the and oral hygiene. For the future, we will strive to oral careof the business field. Human Rights Completion Odawara Plant Functions added in response to people’s needs, Clinica (for prevention of cavity) as well as Awareness and Education of oral health Lion Dental Clinic for Children Completion of the Odawara Plant Tooth brush and toothpaste donations to communities in Asian Dentor Clinica countries (for prevention of pyorrhea) (for prevention of cavity) Lion Dental Clinic for Children Lion Toothpowder A supplement picture book that Tooth brush and toothpaste Labor Practices comes with the product (This is the donations to communities in Asian Charity coupons printed on the back Dentor The Dentor Systema series root of educational activities about White & White countries of the packet(the root of Lion’s social (for prevention of pyorrhea) (for prevention of periodontal disease) action program) oral health for children) (Development of laminated tubes) Toothpowder(1896~) Founding Lion Growth (1913~) Mass Production (the 1960s~ and 1970s) Expansion (the 1970s ~ onward) Future A supplement picture book that Promoting Charity oral health/ coupons printed on the back Starting educational comes with the productactivities (This is theExpanding the market, and Responding to diversifying oral The From oral Dentor Systema to systemic health healthseries of the packet(the root of Lion’s social root of educational activities about White & White (for prevention of periodontal disease) The root of social action action program) make to oral tooth health brushing habits developing (Developmentworld-class for children) products of laminated tubes) health issues with more scientific From Japan to other Asian programs for children research countries Founding (1896~) Growth (1913~) Mass Production (the 1960s~ and 1970s) Expansion (the 1970s ~ onward) Future Promoting oral health/ Starting educational activities Expanding the market, and Responding to diversifying oral From oral health to systemic health The Environment The root of social action to make tooth brushing habits developing world-class products health issues with more scientific From Japan to other Asian programs for children research countries Culture of Cleanliness and Environmentally-friendly Business Through supplying many kinds of detergent, are currently tackling global environmental issues including laundry detergents and soaps, Lion has including those relating to water, thus we will make helped instill a culture of cleanliness in society from further efforts for establishing a sustainable society. the days when notions about cleanliness were weak Fair Operating until the present day. In product development, we Practices KireiKirei KireiKirei Education of cleanliness and Medicated Liquid Hand soap Medicated Foaming Hand Soap measures for the global environment KireiKirei KireiKirei The ”Beat” brand laundry detergent Medicated Liquid Hand soap Medicated Foaming Hand sold Soapin Korea Consumer Issues Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap (Japan’s first plant-derived soap) Dash The ”Beat” brand laundry detergent Spark sold in Korea Lipon F (earned the top recommendation of the Japan Food Hygiene Association) Lipon Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap (Japan’s first fatty alcohol-based (Japan’s first plant-derived soap) synthetic detergent) Dash Spark Lipon F Shokubutsu-Monogatari Manual on standard home laundry procedures (earned the top recommendation of Murin TOP (Plant Story) Educational activities to make TOP NANOX (Education on laundry procedures) the Japan Food Hygiene Association) hand washing a habit Community Involvement Early Notions Hygiene Lipon Reform Response to Water (Japan’s first fatty alcohol-based Response to Petroleum Food Poisoning Cases Raise Water Resources and For About Hygiene in Post-war synthetic Japan Environment Issues detergent) Resources Issues and Resource Needs for Disinfectants Water Use Reductions the (1891 ~ 1940s) (1950s) Manual on standard home laundry procedures (1960s ~ 1980s) Conservation (1990s) Shokubutsu-Monogatari (1990s ~ 2000s) Combating Odors (2010s) future Murin TOP (Plant Story) Educational activities to make TOP NANOX (Education on laundry procedures) hand washing a habit and Development Promoted awareness Contributed to Responded to various Amid an increase in Launched medicated Released Establishing Early Notions about washing with Hygiene Reform eradication of Response water to Water environment issues Response to Petroleum awareness of reducing Food Poisoning Cases Raise soaps Water Resources “TOP NANOX” and sustainable For society About Hygiene detergent parasites with aJapan in Post-war Environment occurred asIssues which the use Resources use Issuesresources, of fossil and Resource Needs for Disinfectants Developed Water Use mixed Reductions with the Contributing to a (1891 ~ 1940s) (1950s)detergent for neutral (1960s of ~ 1980s) synthetic detergents Conservation (1990s) expanding (1990s ~ 2000s)activities educational uniquely-develop future Combating Odors (2010s) clean lifestyle in both dishes and became popular plant-derived products for children ed cleaning Asia Promoted awareness Contributed to Responded to various Amid an increase in Launched medicated Released Establishing vegetables ingredients about washing with eradication of water environment issues awareness of reducing soaps “TOP NANOX” sustainable society detergent parasites with a which occurred as the use use of fossil resources, Developed mixed with Contributing to a neutral detergent for of synthetic detergents expanding educational activities uniquely-develop clean lifestyle in both dishes and became popular plant-derived products for children ed cleaning CSRAsiaReport 2013 11 vegetables ingredients Lion and CSR 【Ideal Vision】 Maintain Aspiring foraa sound New Concept of Hygiene and Health management Lion’s new management system vision for the future, “Vision 2020” defines the company ‘creates value for lifestyle and that is continuouslythe future.’ spiritual fulfillment long into With this in mind, we continuously seek what we can do day after day as well as research into solving anticipated trusted by society social issues, working towards expanding the scale of our business to meet the demands of more people. In order to offer products that contribute to everyday wellness for everybody, Lion Group is pursuing various types of research. Our ‘Behavioral Science Research Institute’ is working hard to respond to consumer requests for ‘a safer and more comfortable everyday life,‘ by identifying the needs and developing products to satisfy those needs. What can Lion do to make an ordinary day 1 just a little bit happier? Our Behavioral Science Research Institute is In order to create new value, seeking clues to answer this question by closely monitoring people’s everyday lives. we must identify Not only analyzing questionnaires and sales genuine needs. data, we seek out unidentified anxieties and dissatisfactions, which people have not even It is important to find noticed themselves, by closely following Noriko Hara volunteer survey participants’ lifestyle or using Director Customer Insight Research anxiety and dissatisfaction, approaches based on psychological studies. Lion Behavioral Science Research Institute which you do not even realize you have, and provide products From these investigations that closely observe that address these issues. consumers, we found out that: ・they have anxiety for something that they cannot see, and ・they are unconsciously thinking that ‘inside the 2 house is clean but outside is not.’ Through our offerings of products based on the ‘Preventive Care’ concept, Lion is responding to the consumers’ needs to ‘protect families from anxiety about the invisible From various investigations, and realize an easier and more comfortable life.’ we have developed a new concept Our products are developed based on the concept of ‘Preventive Care’ of cleanliness, ‘Preventive Care.’ TOP HYGIA LOOK Bath Antimold Fogger Laundry detergent based on the concept A fumigation-type fungicide containing ‘sliver of ‘clothes get more germ-resistant every ion fog’ to kill mold-causing bacterium and time they are washed.’ prevent the growth of black mold in bathrooms. 3 Our aim is for everybody to ‘live comfortably and positively everyday with an assured feeling of safety and confidence for We are ready for the the future,’ by eliminating peoples’ anxiety about the invisible and discomfort in everyday life. needs of the future, We think it is important to eliminate small anxieties and discomfort in making the best use of the accumulated everyday life one by one, using the investigative methods we have developed outcomes of our studies. and the vast data we have accumulated. We can also predict future needs from changing trends in lifestyle identified in the studies. In order to offer products as quickly as needs appear we are already on track to develop such products. 12 CSR Report 2013 Activities in Asia We are pursuing what we do best in overseas countries as well, through the offering of laundry and oral care products as well as communication activities such as ‘Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for children,’ to keep promoting cleanliness, health, comfort and environment of the people. Expanding markets Quantitative expansion of business Overseas business that started in 1957 in Thailand has been steadily 2012 saw significant growth especially in expanding for the 55 years of expansion in Asia Thailand, South Korea, China and Hong Kong. last 55 years to We will continue to offer products that meet South Korea the different needs of 2012. We have just 2004 ～ started the trial-sale China Taiwan different localities. of toothbrushes in 1988 ～ 1963 ～ Vietnam. Hong Kong Philippines 1974 ～ Thailand 2012～ 1957 ～ ‘Systema toothbrush series,’ Malaysia Singapore a big hit in China. 1960 ～ 1982 ～ ‘NANOX,’ the No.1 product in liquid laundry detergent market in Hong Kong. Indonesia 1981～ Turnover of overseas market (100 million yen) 600 591.7 529.7 537.5 Strengthened production capabilities 500 We are strengthening our produc400 tion capabilities in various locations 0 2010 2011 2012 to meet growing demands. New ＊Turnover of consolidated companies factories for oral care products and laundry detergents have opened in Thailand and Malaysia respectively. New factory for oral care Promoting oral care habits products (Thailand) In addition to South Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore, we carried out ‘Oral Health Event Lion Eco Chemicals (Malaysia) where factory extension works is underway to of Tooth Brushing for children’ in Philippines increase production of methyl ester and China in 2012. sulfonate (MES), an environmentally friendly surfactant. For related information, see p43 Topics Environmental activities in CJ Lion (South Korea) ● Korea’s Green Management Award ● Eco Environmental Brand Award Korea Green Management Awards are prestigious environment-related Our ‘Cham Green,’ a dishwashing detergent product that is gentle for awards organized by South Korea’s Ministry of Knowledge Economy hands was awarded the Eco Environmental Brand Award (organized (currently the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) and Ministry of by Korea Brand Management Association), in recognition of its Environment. The company environmentally friendly received awards in recognicomposition such as tion of the ‘promotion of biodegradability, as well environmentally conscious as the use of raw practices that start from materials that produce everyday life’ of all stages fewer greenhouse gases. of activities from product planning to marketing. Award Ceremony Award Certificate Award certificate CSR Report 2013 13 Lion and CSR 【Ideal Vision】 Promotion of CSR Activities Maintain a sound management Since system Lion Group Companies’ Responses 2011, we are promoting that our CSRis continuously activities based on the trusted ISO 26000, bythe society global social 1 2 3 4 5 responsibility standard. ListenConfirmation / Importance Hearing for group Setting goals Operating across ing to, and incorporating the evaluation evaluation companies the entire Group of our response of each item opinions of, third party organizations, we confirm and evaluate our responses and evaluHeadquarters and Domestic Group Companies ate the importance of each item. Through consultations with the group companies, we Overseas Group Companies will set our goals and operate them in the entire Group. Value Chain and Important Issues Among the various ongoing activities the company is pursuing, the ‘Important issues’ and ‘Primary Opportunities to Dialogue with Stakeholders’ identified in the consultation hearings, in compliance with the ISO 26000 procedure, are laid out below in each stage of the value chain, from ‘Procurement of raw materials,’ ‘Major initiatives undertaken by Lion,’ ‘Use by consumers,’ and ‘Society/Environment.’ Procurement of Major initiatives raw materials undertaken by Lion ・Human resource development/revitalization programs ・Establishing good working environments ・Promoting employees health management Opportunities Enhancing social contribution programs Important issues Creating group-wide CSR management structure, Establishing and communicating the human rights policy, Enhancement of group-wide management of chemical substances, Risks Promoting CSR procurement Promoting information security Enhancing the group-wide quality assurance system Enhancement of group-wide occupational health & safety management system Primary Business partners: observation of raw material supplier plant p35 Employees: Labor-management meeting p21 Opportunities to Business partners: Lion-kai General Meeting p35 Dialogue with Stakeholders Shareholders/Investors: Interaction with directors at ＊ Human rights due diligence: Steps that an organization must take in order to recognize, prevent and deal with negative influences on human rights. 14 CSR Report 2013 Achievements in 2012 In 2012, we investigated our ongoing CSR activities and identified important issues. The investigation was carried out by relevant divisions in the headquarters, checking more than 200 items specified in ISO 26000. On-site visits are being made for the items requiring on-site checks, which includes the overseas group companies. Using the outcome of the investigation as well as accounting for world CSR trends, we accounted for our company’s unique business characteristics, potential risks, opportunities and considered implications, to establish the important issues. These included the establishment of the CSR management structure, the promotion of human resource development and revitalization programs, the promotion of CSR procurement working together with suppliers, the active communication of information useful for daily life and educational activities, and the enhancement of social contribution programs in health and comfort areas. Ongoing efforts In 2013, we will especially focus on two priority areas of establishing the ‘CSR management structure’ and ‘promoting CSR procurement.’ We will also set the medium-term objectives (see p16-17), aiming to establish a group-wide management structure including the overseas operations. Use by consumers Society/Environment Communication of information useful for daily life and educational activities Offering of products and information that contribute to the development of a sustainable society Progressive environmental activities in health and comfort areas reconsidering the business continuity plan, promoting compliance/ internal control systems human rights due diligence ＊ pollution prevention Customers: Customer support p39 Local communities: Plant tour p45 Environment: participating in environmental events & Environmental-related dialogue with communities p29 ordinary general meeting of shareholders & Participating in IR events CSR Report 2013 15 Lion and CSR 【Ideal Vision】 Maintain CSR Objectives a sound and Achievements management Incorporating the feedback system from the consultation hearings, the Lion Group has clarified the vision and set the mediumthat term CSR is continuously objectives for 2014, the same target period as the Medium-term Management Plan, with regard to the core subjects specified in ISO 26000. trusted by society By managing and reporting the yearly goals and achievements, we will push the activities forward. Core subjects Ideal Visions Important issues Medium-term objectives (2014) Objectives for 2012 Disseminate the Lion Group Charter Maintain a sound Create a draft version of revised Lion Group C for Corporate Behavior management system Corporate Behavior as part of the CSR policies Organizational as a CSR policy that is continuously 1 Establish the group-wide CSR Governance trusted by the management structure Set objectives/KPIs and manage Identify issues from CSR investigation in accord society progress with ISO 26000 procedure Create and disseminate human Strengthen human rights contents in Lion Gro 1 rights policy －－ Establish Charter for Corporate Behavior Human framework for Strengthen the framework securing Rights respecting human respect for human rights rights 2 Human rights due diligence Disseminate information regarding the Disseminate information through a hotline hotline and strengthen the advice and whistle-blowing framework Implement human resource Formulate personnel system necessary for achi development/revitalization programs “Vision 2020” Change the Human resource development/ awareness of 1 Labor revitalization programs employees Carry out diverse human resources Carry out diverse human resources promotion Practices through raising promotion programs programs (female, re-hired) morale and motivation Achieve the requirements for the Next Promote and manage progress of the Next Ge 2 Establish good working environments Generation Support Act Phase 4 Support Act Phase 4 Action Plan Action Plan Contribute to a Environ sustainable society as Promote and manage progress of Formulate “Eco Vision 2020,” the new environ ment an environmentally 1 Progressive environmental activities “Eco Vision 2020” mediumand long-term plan advanced company Fair Promoting social responsibility Carry out supplier CSR questionnaires Review and create revised version of CSR proc Operating activities throughout 1 Promoting CSR procurement and offer its feedback to suppliers. system Practices the value chain Offer products and information Promote and manage progress of Formulate “Eco Vision 2020,” the new environ Pursuing 1 that contribute to sustainable “Eco Vision 2020” mediumand long-term plan customer development Consumer satisfaction by creating safe and Communication of information Enhance the provision of information Provide information regarding everyday life usi Issues that contribute to healthy and trustworthy and websites, such as the ‘Wellness Research products 2 useful for daily life and educational comfortable life according to lifestyle activities and life stages and ‘Meisters of Daily Life’ Co-existence and Promoting oral hygiene activities Promote children’s tooth brushing education p co-prosperity with Promote children’s brushing teeth Community society and Enhance social contribution (expansion of participating schools) education program Involvement communities/ programs in health and contribute to the 1 comfort areas (environmental and development of programs to be dealt with Promote hygiene programs Development society in health, under “Eco Vision 2020”) Promote children’s wash-hand & Promote children’s wash-hand & gargle progra comfort and gargle program environment areas Among the important issues, agenda driving regimens are already in place in the categories shown on the opposite page on the right, based on the PDCA cycle for further improvement. We understand enhancing initiatives within the overseas group will be an issue in the future, and we plan to set up goals as the need arises based on the results of consultation hearings. 16 CSR Report 2013 Evalu Main Achievements in 2012 ation Objectives for 2013 Related Pages harter for Creation of a draft version of new Lion Group Charter for Publish and disseminate revised version of Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior ○ Corporate Behavior Implement e-learning program regarding the revised Group Charter for Corporate Behavior 14-19 ance Completion of domestic CSR survey and identification of CSR issues ○ Set objectives/KPIs up Creation of a draft version of new Lion Group Charter for Publish and disseminate revised version of Lion Group Corporate Behavior ○ Charter for Corporate Behavior 19-20 Disseminate information through a hotline 97% response rate of Compliance Awareness Survey ○ Understand human rights initiatives at suppliers’ sites Revision of personnel management system to promote changes in eving Populate the new personnel management system employees’ behaviors to be more challenge-oriented ○ 21 Implementation of Global Human Resources Enhancement Program Formulate and implement a training framework Initiatives by the Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee Female employees’ subcommittee: organized career forum etc. to Implement diverse human resources promotion understand work of different divisions ○ programs (for females, re-hired, temporary and agency 22 Re-hiring of retired workers’ subcommittee: revised the workers) framework to facilitate re-hiring neration Promote and manage the progress towards the Next Implement the presentation of Childcare support programs ○ 23 Generation Support Act Phase 4 Action Plan mental 6-9, Completion of formulating “Eco Vision 2020” ○ Promote and manage progress of “Eco Vision 2020” 26-33 Revise the Procurement Principles urement Creation of revised draft version of Procurement Principles and Finalize and publish the Supplier CSR Guidelines ○ 34-35 draft version of Supplier CSR Guidelines (preliminary title) Carry out supplier CSR questionnaires and offer its feedback to suppliers mental 9, Completion of formulating “Eco Vision 2020” ○ Plan to strengthen environmental communication 40-41 ng events Creation, accumulation and communication of daily life informaEnhance provision and accumulation of information Center’ tion through “Meisters of Daily Life” Regular offering of daily life information on the company’s website ○ that contribute to healthy and comfortable life 38 according to lifestyles and life stages Information exchange type events for consumers rogram Promote children’s tooth brushing education program Promotion of Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for children (647 ○ (expansion of number of participating schools, 42-43 schools participated. 322 schools in 2011) locations and overseas locations) Promotion of children’s wash-hand & gargle hygiene program at m kindergarten etc. (ran ‘Defeat Germs Campaign’ at 1,512 ○ Promote children’s hand-washing education activities 44-45 kindergartens where 265,447 children participated. Visited 28 (expansion of visiting locations) locations in Tohoku region hit by earthquake in 2011) Organizational Governance Review of Business Continuity Plan, Promotion of compliance/ Internal control systems 19 Labor Practices Promotion of employees’ health management, Enhancement of the group-wide occupational health & safety management system 24-25 Environment Pollution prevention, enhancement of the group-wide chemical substance management 30-31 Consumer Issues Enhancing the group-wide quality assurance system, promotion of information security 36-39 CSR Report 2013 17 Organizational Governance 【Ideal Vision】 Maintain a sound management system that is continuously trusted by society Lion Headquarters Basic Approach two external auditors) who satisfy the criteria as independent officers, as dictated by the “Lion Corporation Standards Regarding the Independence Lion’s top priorities for corporate governance are of External Directors/Corporate Auditors*” and as dictated by the Tokyo increasing management transparency, improving the Stock Exchange. In addition, regular meetings are held between the efficiency of supervision and decision making, and president and all external directors to exchange information. ensuring compliance. By strengthening and improving Furthermore, a Management Evaluation Committee run by outside experts its corporate governance system, Lion aims to enhance was set up in October 2003 to ensure that evaluations and opinions of the its corporate value. committee members regarding general management issues such as the concept of the corporate governance system, directions of business and Corporate Governance System product development, and the view of CSR by outside experts are reflected in management. In order to increase the objectivity and transparency of Lion has adopted a system of executive officers in order to strengthen compensation for directors, etc., “Compensation Advisory Committee” managerial decision-making and executive functions. Supervision of consisting of external directors was set up in December 2006. management is conducted through a corporate auditor system. Since The countermeasures for mass purchase of the company’s shares, etc. January 2012, we have enhanced our governance systems, separating (takeover defense measures) were introduced with the approval obtained supervision and execution of management. at the ordinary shareholders meeting in 2009 and the 3-year continuation Supervision and monitoring of management was enhanced with the was approved at the 2012 ordinary shareholders meeting. installation of four independent directors (two external board directors and ＊The “Lion Corporation Standards Regarding the Independence of External Directors/Corporate Auditors” URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/pdf/independence.pdf Model of Corporate Governance System Shareholders Meeting Senior Executive Board of Directors Corporate auditors Management Evaluation Reporting Committee Proposals (Supervision of management) Auditing (Legality audit) Monitoring Basic policies for mediumDecisions on execution of (Operational audit) Auditing to long-term manageimportant business matters ment plans and other Supervision of directors’ Opinions Committee major corporate Reporting executive performance and advice strategies Supervision of executive ofﬁcers on legal Opinions and advice on legal compliance and compliance Accounting auditors management policy Reporting Delegation Reporting Auditing Compensation Advisory Recommendations on director compensation (Internal controls Auditing Office Environmental Action relating to Executive Committee financial reports) Promotion Committee Reporting (Execution of operations) Committee (Legality, validity, CS/PL Committee and efficiency audits; compliance Departments (Performance of operations) progress audits) Disaster Prevention Meeting (Business, manufacturing, R&D divisions, and functional departments) Pursue customers’satisfaction Ensure fair trade Build trust relationships Promote social action with shareholders and investors programs Auditing Create fair and comfortable Protect personal information working environments Strengthening of legal compliance and ethics Corporate Ethics Committee Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior; Behavioral Guidelines ＊Report on Corporate Governance URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/pdf/abo_gov.pdf 18 CSR Report 2013 Risk Management Promoting Compliance Lion and CSR Lion has appointed the Director Responsible for Risk The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the Management who exhaustively controls and supervises director responsible for corporate ethics, works to the risk of the whole Lion Group. As for the risk foster compliance awareness within the Lion Group. management of the environment, quality responsibility, The basis for compliance is the Lion Group Charter and accident and disaster in particular, each committee for Corporate Behavior. This is distributed in pamphlet discusses countermeasures in advance and the form to all people working for the Lion Group and Organizational executive committee deliberates if necessary. Each is publicly available via the Lion’s website. An annual factory was certified to ISO14001 and eagerly works program of employee awareness surveys and regular Governance on quality management and environmental protection. educational activities is also implemented, the latter In the case where physical emergencies such as including e-learning, lectures by outside speakers, and natural disasters and accidents arise, in accordance various training courses conducted at each workplace with the Emergency Response System, we collect and according to rank. information, make decisions on policies and measures, In 2012, in addition to the consent to the Lion Group Human Rights and investigate causes; and report to the Board of Charter for Corporate Behavior, e-learning provided Directors. training regarding the insider trading regulations With regard to the Business Continuation Plan (BCP), against illicit trading, harassment at work, and countermeasures such as backing up headquarters information security. functions, substituting order-receiving functions, alternative production in case of plant shutdown, and Compliance Awareness Survey Labor Practices stocking products to enable the continuous supply of products were implemented. All Lion Group employees are asked every year to complete a compliance awareness survey. Findings are reported to management and feedback is provided Establishment of Internal Control Systems to individual divisions in order to communicate issues within the same workplace or company. This The Environment Systems and provisions have been put in place to contributes to the maintenance and strengthening of ensure the appropriateness of Lion Group operations compliance systems. in accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the The fiscal 2012 survey (conducted in March 2013 Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act*. with a 97% response rate from around 4,000 With regard to systems for evaluating and auditing employees) drew opinions on a range of issues internal control over financial reporting, as prescribed including problems with work environments. in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, Lion Fair Operating and the Lion Group have been establishing controls at the company-wide and business-process levels since Percentage of Employees Who Received Survey Feedback Practices July 2006. In December 2008, the Board of Directors 0 20 40 60 80 100（％） passed a resolution on the “Internal Control Policies 2008 Regarding Financial Result Report.” 72.5 ％ 26.5 ％ 1.0 ％ Evaluations of internal control effectiveness are carried 2009 80.3 ％ 19.3 ％ 0.3 ％ Consumer Issues out by the Auditing Office, which reports findings to the president and corporate auditors, as well as on a 2010 87.7 ％ 12.0 ％ 0.3 ％ regular basis to the Board of Directors. Areas requiring 2011 improvements are communicated to the appropriate 90.5 ％ 9.2 ％ 0.3 ％ divisions and the progress of improvements are 2012 91.6％ 8.1％ 0.3％ verified. In 2012, Lion’s internal control over financial reporting was deemed effective. A report on internal (Fiscal year) Community Involvement Feedback received Not received No response controls was submitted to the Prime Minister in March 2013 together with the Company’s Securities Report. and Development ＊Basic policy of Internal Control Systems URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0501f.htm CSR Report 2013 19 Human Rights 【 【Ideal 目 指Vision】 す 姿 】 Maintain framework Establish a sound management for respecting system that is continuously human rights trusted by society Basic Approach respecting human rights and eliminating discrimination, and the extent to which they are conscious about human rights. In addition, we have Lion has stipulated, “Respect for Human Rights” and “Compliance a system in place to confirm the facts and deal with them through a with all laws and regulations, observing the spirit of international reporting system, which is also available to our business partners. rules” in the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior. Moreover, As for our future approach to strengthen the human rights due diligence the Behavioral Guidelines refers to the refusal of child labor and process, we believe that it is important to establish a strong relationship forced or compulsory labor, equal employment opportunity and fair with suppliers of raw materials and the CSR procurement system is treatment of employees, and human rights of suppliers. In 2009, we currently under review. For related information, see p34-35 declared our intention to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In the future, we will step up the description Contact for Consultation and Internal Reporting regarding human rights in the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior to clarify our attitude conscious about human rights. An internal and external reporting system, the AL (All Lion) Heart Hotline＊, has been set up by the company as a point of contact for employee consultation for instances of nonFrameworks to Ensure Respect for Human Rights compliance they have discovered but they could not or should not report the violations through normal channels. A Lion believes that it is important to improve the system which figures out, pamphlet distributed to all employees, including temporary reports, corrects, and follows the effect of the company’s activities on employees, informs them about the system and the rules for human rights from the perspective of human rights due diligence. use, such as instructions for making contact and prohibition We provide our employees with e-learning for regular training courses of unfair treatment of employees using the system. Business of the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, and make them partners can also use the hotline, and contact information is thoroughly understand the importance of respecting human rights available on the Company’s website. regarding sexual harassment and power harassment. We also conduct In 2012, there were seven instances of consultation or compliance awareness surveys to our employees every year to confirm reporting, but no instances of grave misconduct were found the compliance with the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior. and all the cases were addressed and sorted out. Furthermore, we confirm that human rights are respected under the Lion ＊AL Heart Hotline Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines at each URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/hotline.htm stage such as employment, evaluation and treatment. AL Heart Hotline – Consultations and Notifications (2012) For our customers, we comply with our own “product management Power harassment behavior 2cases Customer response issues 1cases system” and aggressively pursue safety and functions on our products; Personnel/labor management issues 1cases Other 3cases we also make efforts to produce displays, which are clear and easy to read and understand, considering “the vulnerable” such as the elderly The System of “ALHeart Hotline” and children, by preparing the “labeling manual.” In the studies involving Consulter/Informer (employees within Lion Group or business partners) human subjects carried out in the process of product development, Report contents Consultations and Seeking solutions / Resolving problems Consultations and Feedback of consultation/ Feedback Notifications Notifications we set forth, respecting the Helsinki Declaration, the “regulations for Internal Contact notification External Contact (general manager specialized in implementation of human study” in order to place top priority on the corporate ethics) Report results of (lawyer) safety of subjects and ethical considerations and conduct clinical studies Reporting Instruction investigation and countermeasures under the regulations. Chairman of the Corporate Ethics Committee Board of Directors Reporting For our business partners, we have released the Procurement Principles, which shows that we consider the social responsibilities such as human Chairman of the Corporate Ethics Committee rights when conducting procurement. Through questionnaires for CSR Set up as needed procurement, we check whether our business partners have policies for The Ethics Evaluation Committee (consisting of external experts) 20 CSR Report 2013 Labor Practices 【Ideal 【 目 指 す 姿 】 Vision】 Change the awareness Lion and CSR of employees through raising morale and motivation Career Forum Organizational (Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee) Governance Basic Approach Type of Human Resources Expected by the Company Leaders who lead strategies and achieve steady results Valuing the Lion’s founder’s idea of “Employees are partners Managerial positions, who have the ability to instruct and support in the Company,” Lion respects the individuality and subordinates, and highly-professional specialists to realize assignments. personality of all employees and helps them to hone their Employees who are able to solve their issues by themselves and Human Rights skills and abilities and stay healthy in body and mind. perform their tasks Fair Personnel System Frameworks for Developing Tenacity In 2013, Lion introduced a new personnel system to make an organization that challenges across the board based on the Code of In 2013, we introduced a new target management system Conduct. We encourage our employees to challenge and appreciate designed to develop individual abilities and activities into results Labor Practices those who do challenge. A framework has been in place to increase for the organization. the understanding and motivation of each employee through When individuals set up challenging targets, repeatedly conduct feedback from interviews with superiors and self-assessment. effective communication, and test hypothesis to achieve targets, then PDCA (plan-do-check-act) can be quickly cycled on-site. Promoting Amiable Labor-Management Relations Furthermore, in addition to basic training, we provide the “self Operating under a union shop agreement, Lion has development programs” such as “Lion Challenge Cup” which endeavored to build upon amiable labor-management allows employees to present self-initiated group research directly The Environment relations, in which employees and management are to Lion executives, and a variety of competence development proactively conducting activities such as reporting on opportunities through the “elective training” for the employees business conditions and exchanging opinions about working who are interested. environments at labor-management meetings. Global Human Resource Development Human Resource Development In order to continuously develop global human resources capable of international business and to promote globalization, we introduced the Fair Operating Corporate Culture of Challenges, Create, and Learn “global human resources enhancement program” for young and midPractices Innovation from the power of individual employees has career employees in 2011. Participants of this program attend training for sustained Lion’s business activities. Lion will continue to build about 7 months in Japan and overseas. its corporate culture by developing human resources who Domestic training programs are composed of basic knowledge about always try to overcome problems and create new value. the Lion Group’s business and overseas general education with the aim of fostering business viewpoints. Meanwhile, in overseas programs, Framework to Strengthen Abilities of Individual Employees Consumer Issues participants visit a foreign country for a short term to directly learn about Together with the introduction of a new personnel foreign culture, and then experience practical work at overseas affiliated system, Lion newly defined the type of human resources companies for a month. At the same time, by going to language schools that is desired by the company. To develop such human etc., participants master language skills to leverage their specialty as well resources, we conduct a “leader development program” as communication abilities to understand different cultures. From amongst and “management training” for managerial positions, these participants, individuals active in the field of international business Community Involvement “training by job position” for non-managerial positions, have already emerged. and “specialized training” for each function. We have Furthermore, we have the “overseas retail and distribution sector study tour” for sales personnel at managerial levels, and foster measures such as and Development also introduced a system where employees with especially advanced knowledge and skills were recognized as “overseas academic conference presentation” mainly for research fields. “Specialists” as well as encouraging our employees to ＊List of main training systems URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/development/ improve their specialty by continuous efforts. CSR Report 2013 21 Labor Practices Human Resource Maintain a soundDiversity The center receives inquiries via telephone and e-mails from Lion employees (including employees dispatched to affiliated management system Lion has made efforts for promoting human resource diversity in companies) and temporary employees and conducts interviews, that light of the ismajor continuously changes in the composition of the workforce and and provides appropriate advice and information regarding trusted by swiftly the need to respond society to changes in the business environment. their career. We have given advice to about 120 employees The Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee was set up in total; and according to a survey on those employees, their in 2010, which plans and formulates personnel measures for satisfaction level is high and there are positive changes in their promoting the active participation of diverse human resources. consciousness and behavior. Offering an Opportunity to Gain Knowledge about Employing People with Disabilities Jobs in the Company (Holding a Career Forum) Lion wants employees to be able to fully apply their talent This is the measure proposed by the Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee regardless of their disability. Not only do the immediate for the purpose of supporting career development for young employees. In July superiors of disabled employees provide care in the form of 2012, a career forum was held to offer employees an opportunity to gain knowledge consultation, we also have a support mentality established about operations of positions/departments to which many employees requested a at Lion, to which everyone in the workplace subscribes. transfer so that they would be able to set their future visions easier. Revision of Re-hiring System of Employees upon Retirement The employees who currently worked or used to work in financial/legal departments In 2006, Lion began re-hiring employees who reached or household products planning departments (marketing) attended a symposium the mandatory retirement age. The criteria were revised and those who currently worked in such departments explained what the in April 2012 to incorporate suggestions from the departments or jobs there were like. The forum was highly appreciated: as high as employees. The company seeks to increase motivation 90% of the participants said immediately after the forum that it was satisfactory; and of both re-hired and current employees through the 4 months after the Forum about 70% said their awareness and behavior changed improvement of the working environment that allows reregarding career development. hired employees to work in conditions similar to full-time employees. This includes the re-hiring of all applicants, changing duties during the contract period, and awarding performance-based bonuses. Furthermore, explanatory orientations and re-hiring interviews with superiors are conducted three years before the retirement age. The rehiring rate per retired staff in fiscal 2012 was 76%. Improvement of the System for Re-hiring Former Employees A career forum was held Lion has introduced a scheme to re-hire former Implementation of Measures for Women Promotion (Career Development) employees, aiming to allow them to be active again using their various experience gained from their The company believes that we should support career development career, lifestyle and expertise. for women at each life stage to promote their success in their careers. We will continue to support them by utilizing the “career Voices from Participants plan sheet,” which enables women to design their midand longterm career plan by themselves, and eventually with the company’s Akiko Kawashima, Production Engineering Research Center “virtual role models,” which is currently being developed using the I attended the activities of the Diverse Human Resource persona scenario method (a marketing method). Promotion Committee. This is because I wanted to think Support for Transfer of Couples Working for Lion about a plan, which would develop my strengths by simulating my own future life stages such as childcare or Lion has systems that support households of couples, who both work for Lion. When one partner is transferred within Japan or overseas, nursing care, and to provide tools, which could be shared with prior registration the spouse can choose from the following three among the employees with similar options: 1) accompany the transferred spouse while putting his or her needs. I completed my career plan own career on hold; 2) leave the Company to accompany the spouse sheet, which would make the most on the premise of being re-hired within five years; or 3) change his or of my abilities after discussions her own work location to the place where the spouse was transferred. with outside advisors or other participants. Use of the sheet Employee Motivation Consultation Center enabled me to clearly understand Lion has the Employee Motivation Consultation Center, which my midand long-term targets. helps employees develop a positive approach to their careers. 22 CSR Report 2013 Promoting Work-Life Balance symposium by the employees with childcare experiences was held; Lion strives to build an environment where employees can work a workshop of thinking about future careers of the participants Lion and CSR dynamically and deliver results, whilst placing value on balance using the career plan sheet; the close role models for childcare were between work life and private life. shared; and a woman network was established. In 2013, in addition to the management of long overtime up Next Generation Support until now, Lion develops better working environments through Act Phase 4 Action Plan strict controls on working hours under the new personnel Period: April 2011 to February 2015 “Kurumin” logo system and the implementation of a labor-management project, recognizing support for Organizational the next generation which improves business efficiency and reduces overtime labor. Goal 1 Have seventeen or more male employees take Support for Childcare and Nursing Care childcare leave during the action plan period. Governance →11 male employees took childcare leave. Another Lion has proactively worked on reinforcement of measures for one of sales representative division took has been taken the leave for a year from March 2012. childcare and nursing care. As a result of childcare-related support Goal 2 In 2011, raise the age of child applicable to enhancements and making the programs known to employees “Exemption from overtime for childcare” from in line with an action plan based on the Act on Advancement “three years old” to “under primary school age.” Human Rights of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, the →The new system was introduced in June 2011. Goal 3 In 2011, modify “Child sickness leave” to allow ratio of female employees taking childcare leave has been 100% employees to take the leave by half a day. in recent years. The number of male employees taking childcare →The new system was introduced in June 2011. leave has also increased, even among varying job types. Goal 4 Within the period of the action plan, implement measures The action plan is formulated through joint deliberation by labor for supporting employees to strike a good balance between work and childcare from viewpoint of career development. and management, as well as consultation with employees who →A presentation of childcare support programs including a symposium Labor Practices are parents. Since April 2011, activities have been promoted in by the employees with childcare experiences was held in 2012. accordance with Phase 4 action plans. Goal 5 In 2011, introduce an overseas transfer support system for married couples both working for Lion. Support for Childcare and Nursing Care →The system for domestic and overseas Maternity leave ・Paid leave from six weeks prior to birth to eight weeks after birth transfer was introduced in June 2011. Birth Special leave Goal 6 Within the period of the action plan, introduce ・Two days paid leave (bonus leave) a telecommuting system for employees meeting (childbirth by spouse) requirements prescribed by the Company. ・Up to 18 months leave until the child is three years →Introducing on a trial basis in 2012. The Environment Childcare old (paid leave for the first successive two weeks) ＊Next Generation Support Act Phase 4 Action Plan leave ・Additional childcare leave for fathers after using URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ childcare leave within eight weeks of their child’s birth Employees Data (non-consolidated) Childcare Reduced hours ・Up to two hours/day reduction in the for childcare workday until the child finishes first grade 2010 2011 2012 Regular Male 1,873 1,842 1,828 Exemption ・Employees with a child under primary school employees Female 583 597 614 from overtime age can be exempted from overtime work Male 49 47 51 ・Employees with children under primary school age may New employees Fair Operating Female 25 23 24 Child sickness take paid child sickness leave by half-day units (paid leave) Re-hired Number of people 147 142 137 leave ・Five days/year for one child or ten days/year for two or retirees % 5.6 5.8 6.0 Practices more children that are preschool age Temporary employees (number of people) 255 289 295 Nursing care ・Up to 93 days available to nurse each Female employee ratio (%) 23.7 24.5 25.1 Leave and reduced hours child as necessary combining nursing care Female Number of people 34 37 42 for nursing care leave and reduced hours for nursing care managers % 5.1 5.5 6.2 Nursing ・Five days/year for one child or ten Nursing care Disabled Number of people 44 43 42 Consumer Issues days/year for two or more children leave employees % 1.8 1.8 1.8 provided by day for nursing care Male 3 4 6 Accumulated leave ・ Use accumulated annual paid leave that has Childcare (nursing of close expired (up to 60 days) for nursing a close relative leave users Female 35 25＊ 29 ＊In addition to the above, a system enabling restriction of work hours for childcare relative) or nursing care purposes has been introduced in accordance with the law. Male 0 0 0 Reduced working ＊In  addition to the above, a system enabling restriction of work hours for childcare or nursing care purposes has been introduced in hours for childcare Female 48 49＊ 49 accordance with the law. Community Involvement Average overtime per month (hours) 9.9 11.2 12.0 Presentation of childcare support programs from the Perspective of Career Annual paid leave used (%) 51.9 54.1 46.2 A presentation of childcare support programs was held to support Leaving a job with in three Number of people 5 1 1 and Development career development for the employees during life stages where years of entering Company % 2.6 0.5 0.5 ※ “New employees” includes new employees hired mid-year. motivation could be decreased. The meeting was productive: for ※ Data as of December 31 of every year example, an explanation of the supporting system was provided; a ＊ Data was modified after scrutiny. CSR Report 2013 23 Labor Practices Employee Age 35 Health Seminar Maintain a Health soundManagement Lion has held overnight hands-on seminars called “LIS21 management system Based on the concept that employees’ good health as a (Lion life innovation seminar 21)”every year since 2001 for that is continuously management foundation to support sound corporate growth, employees aged 35. We found that participants of this seminar trusted Lion by society has conducted a variety of measures such as lifestyle habit have a higher degree of awareness of lifestyle habits and that improvement, oral health, mental health for the employees’ health they were able to hold back weight gain five years after the management and improvement. Especially as a part of our detailed seminar. As we confirmed health management activities, each employee receives consultation that the establishment of by industrial physicians and nursing staff after health checkups. We good health habits while still follow the Guideline for Health as our core basic principle. young leads to prevention of diseases later on, the seminar Guideline for Health has been effective to raise “Life. love.” means valuing one’s entire life. We desire our employees’ awareness of to be of help for people each and every day. This health. goal would be achieved foremost on the premise of Walking as part of LIS 21 “health.” The good health of our employees who are the Company’s partners is not only the foundation of Changes One Year After LIS21 Participation happiness of our employees and their families, but also Participants No. with changed lifestyles % the foundation of management, which supports healthy corporate growth. Management and employees will 2007 86 79 91.9 work together to conduct proactive initiatives toward 2008 91 82 90.1 maintenance and promotion of good health, aiming to be a healthy and vigorous company which can 2009 91 89 97.8 contribute to people each and every day. On the basis of 2010 96 87 90.6 this idea, we will conduct health management activities in compliance with the guidelines shown below as well 2011 57 54 95.0 as with various laws and regulations, while fully taking into account privacy protection. Dental Prophylaxis Program （ALOHA＊） 1. Improve health management ability While employees recognize their own responsibility for We have focused on the improvement of oral health by health management, the Company provides support incorporating dental checkups into the annual health checkups for the improvement of individual employees’ health for all the employees since 2002. In our activities collaborating management skills through organizational and ongoing health management activities. with the Lion Foundation for Dental Health, not only did we improve the employees’ oral health, we also successfully 2. Create a comfortable working environment demonstrated that periodontal disease had relevance to The Company ensures the employees’ good health through the creation of a comfortable working metabolic syndrome. In the future, we will continue these environment where they can work with ease and trust, activities and enhance our approaches to the prevention of and pays attention to employees’ health conditions so periodontal disease and metabolic syndrome for the employees. that they can perform their duties with vitality. ＊ALOHA 3. Promote activities for the future All Lion Oral Health Activity Making use of Lion’s features and insights, the Company strategically promotes health management activities with Mental Health Initiatives an eye towards the future, from oral health to systemic With our Mental Health Basic Policy established in 2004, Lion has taken health. proactive measures for the mental health of our employees, aiming to create a working environment where each employee can work with Enacted January 2012 vitality. Consultation after checkups helps each employee feel secure Organizational Approach to Health Management in terms of mental health-care. In addition to in-house consultations Lion has conducted health management activities after provided by industrial physicians, nursing staff, psychiatrists and clinical discussions at a joint session called “Health Management psychologists, we contract with an independent organization for Promotion Committee” attended by the personnel manager providing telephone consultation and counseling for employees. who is also responsible for health management of the company, Other than the consultation after checkups, a stress level check test the health insurance society, and the health support office. is available for all the employees, which is used for their self-care. The company seeks even more effective health management Furthermore, we have continued approaches to organizational through the PDCA management based on the analysis of mental health care; for example, as a measure to make the workplace present data, extraction of issues, and setting of approaching comfortable, we provide feedback of the stress level compiled and themes. In the future, we will continuously make improvements analyzed by section/department, which is utilized for managerial and accumulate the know-how of industrial health. training by full-time industrial physicians. 24 CSR Report 2013 Safety and Disaster Prevention Initiatives Response to emergencies Lion has proceeded with the preparation for various Lion and CSR Based on the principle of “safety first,” Lion has established its unique natural disasters including the earthquake that directly “Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention management system” for hits the Tokyo metropolitan area and has enhanced group companies including domestic affiliates, which added its own disaster prevention schemes. In 2012, to address the disaster prevention measures to the “Occupational Safety and Health issues from the emergency drills conducted in 2011, we Management System” of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. modified our earthquake manuals established by the We set up a Disaster Prevention Meeting, which consists of representatives whole domestic group and each zone. We held in 2012 Organizational from production, R&D, administrative as well as sales divisions, where the drills such as safety confirmation drills, evacuation employees and managers strengthen and improve measures for safety drills, disaster leadership drills, firefighting drills, and Governance and disaster prevention in cooperation. Through the meeting, companyjoint drills with municipal firefighters; and we confirmed wide policies, targets (zero serious accident and disasters), annual plans the effects of those drills. and achievements are managed and promoted. At each business location, the Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Number of Work Accidents (excluding commuting accidents) Committee organized in accordance with laws, and mainly promoted Human Rights (cases) activities such as resolving issues unique to each business location, and 20 reflecting employees’ opinions. In addition, a chairperson of the Disaster Prevention Meeting audits individual business facilities on a regular basis. 15 16 14 Occupational Safety 10 10 11 In 2012, the number of accidents decreased to 11 from 12 6 8 Labor Practices and the number of lost time accidents decreased to 3 from 5 7 7 5 5, compared to the previous year. However, in a plant of one 2 of our domestic affiliates, a serious accident happened with 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) a person falling through a gap of a safety fence put up in Lion Domestic affiliated companies its production plant. Lion had been involved in continuous improvements and had strictly complied with laws and regulations through the safety diagnosis of facilities made by Work Accident Frequency Rate ＊ in Production Division The Environment （％） outside safety officers and a systematic risk assessment after 1.2 the accident. However, the company has further stepped up 0.88 safety measures by sequential improvements of safety fences 0.9 0.84 0.85 0.72 0.72 and handrails in all of the plants of the domestic group. In the future, in order to make the workplace even safer, we 0.6 0.74 0.71 0.71 will reduce risk by investigating whether the structures of 0.67 facilities in all the domestic plants meet our “safety design Fair Operating 0.3 guideline for facilities” and making improvements. Practices 0.00 0 Safety of Facilities 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) Lion Chemical industry in Japan After the explosion of other company in September 2012, we implemented an investigation on reaction facilities for self-reactive ＊Frequency rate: … Number of people suffering lost time injuries / Total working hours substances, etc. and management conditions of hazardous materials Consumer Issues (unit: million hours) at our domestic plants. As a result, we confirmed that operational For labor accident severity rate of production division, see the control was exercised based on the clear management criteria. website below:  URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/prevention/ In the future, we will continue safety management including operation control and facilities management and will work on Hours without Accident at End of 2012 (Accumulation) (Unit: ten thousand hours) sound safety of facilities by ensuring inspections and maintenance Research Division Production Division on facilities and systematically promoting facility maintenance from Community Involvement a long-term viewpoint. Hirai Honjo Odawara Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi 819 86 114 348 386 292 159 Number of Facility Accidents/Disasters and Development 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 0 0 0 0 CSR Report 2013 25 The Environment 【Ideal Vision】 Maintain a to Contribute sounda management sustainable society system as an that is continuously environmentally advanced trusted by society company Presentation at the environmental events Basic Approach Environmental Management Structure In 2011, we announced “Vision 2020,“ our new Lion has established an Environmental Action Promotion management vision. As the Company-wide policy to aim at Committee comprising members from production, administrative, becoming an “Environmentally advanced company,“ which sales, R&D as well as headquarters staff divisions, in order to is included in the Vision 2020, we formulated “Eco Vision coordinate cooperation on environmental management by all 2020” as the new environmental objective. We will work employees. The committee reviews Company-wide business on environmental awareness for customers and reform their activities from an environmental protection perspective and conducts through our products, in addition to achieving the takes steps to ensure legal compliance and setting of voluntary targeted values with the aim of “Realizing a Low Carbon standards and targets in addition to ascertaining progress. Society,“ “Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society,“ and Environmental Management Structure “Harmony with Nature.” For related information, see p6-9 Executive Committee Environmental Action Promotion Committee Chairman : Director in charge Environmental Guidelines Secretariat : CSR Promotion Department, Environmental Conservation Office Members of Committee : Lion’s Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of Chiefs of production, administrative, sales, R&D and headquarters staff divisions the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, which states: “We shall play a positive and active role in creating Company-wide Manager of environment management (Chief of Environmental Conservation Office) a sustainable society, harmonizing economic development and environmental protection.” In 2013, we revised the Production Division Administrative / Sales R&D Division Guidelines, in accordance with the formulation of “Eco Manager of environment Division Manager of Manager of environment management environment management Affiliated Vision 2020.” It more clearly expresses our attitude for (General manager of management (General manager of companies production management corporate management “Realizing a Low Carbon Society,” “Realizing a Sound department) (General manager of general affair department) department) Material-Cycle Society,” and “Harmony with Nature,” as Each plant Each office Each laboratory well as the stance of efforts overseas. Environmental Guidelines (4)Developing Environment-Friendly Products Lion will act voluntarily and proactively to reduce its environmental burden to the Continue aggressively with product development in tune with Lion’s global environment in all processes of business activities from the development own “Lion Eco Standards,” and in light of lifecycle assessments. of products to the procurement of raw materials, production, distribution, sales, (5)Reducing Environmental Impact Together with Business Partners use by customers, as well as disposal. This will be done with due consideration to Strive to reduce environmental burdens at all stages from purchase through provision of products to customers, in cooperation “realizing a low carbon society to prevent global warming,” “realizing a sound with suppliers of materials, outsourcing contractors, and sales material-cycle society with maximum usage of recycled resources;” and “harmony companies. with nature to conserve people’s health, natural ecosystems and biodiversity.” (6)Coexistence with Nature Conduct business activities while taking into account biodiversity (1)Aiming for a Sustainable Society and air and water environments, and proactively address natural Promote an environmental management system, and through ongoing environment protection activities. maintenance and improvement of that system, protect the global (7)Enhancing Environmental Protection Activities Based on environment. Uniform Understanding of the Guidelines (2)Complying with Legal and Other Requirements Disseminate the Guidelines to all Lion employees, including those Comply with the system of legislation, regulations and arrangements of its affiliated companies, raise an awareness of environmental pertaining to environmental protection, and establish and implement protection among them and bolster environmental management voluntary standards of conduct. activities throughout the entire Lion Group. (3)Setting and Verifying Implementation of Environmental Objectives and Targets (8)Promoting Disclosure of Information Correctly understand the environmental impact of corporate activity, Seek to maintain and promote communication with stakeholders and as far as technically and economically possible, establish objectives involved in Lion’s businesses. These Environmental Guidelines are and targets for improvement, while at the same time formulating, freely available to anyone upon request. implementing and regularly verifying the status of implementation of an environmental management program. Revised January 1, 2013 26 CSR Report 2013 Environmental Management System Executive Environmental Audit The director of the board responsible for CSR, who chairs the Lion and CSR The purpose of Lion Group’s environmental management system is Environmental Action Promotion Committee, carries out executive to identify, evaluate and rectify adverse effects on the environment environmental audits covering plants of Lion and affiliated associated with our business activities, products and services, and companies on a regular basis together with safety audits. to facilitate ongoing improvements in our environmental protection In 2012, we implemented executive environmental audits for Lion activities. Ongoing improvements will be achieved through the Osaka Plant and Lion Akzo Yokkaichi Plant, and confirmed that implementation of the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle in line with their environment management was maintained adequately. Organizational the Environmental Guidelines. Systems for environmental management and reporting activities have Governance been enhanced with the aim of global environmental responses. Data on overseas affiliated companies is available on our website. ＊Environmental Management System URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/guide/ ＊Data on environmental burden of affiliated companies’ plants (overseas) Human Rights URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/overseas.pdf Status of ISO 14001 Certification Lion acquired ISO 14001 certification covering all its plants in Executive safety and environmental audit July 2001. Certification was reviewed and extended by the Japan Management Association Quality Assurance Registration Legal Compliance Labor Practices Center (JMAQA) at three-year intervals, in May 2010. Through a maintenance examination taken in 2012, it was verified that the frameworks to maintain management systems were properly Lion complies with all environmental laws, ordinances operated, conforming to requirements of the standard. Based and other regulations, and we ensure thorough on the results of the examination, continual improvements management according to our own independent are made to management systems and environmental standards. protection activities based on audit results. Also in relation to Waste treatment contractors must satisfy criteria The Environment plans of affiliated companies in and outside Japan, Lion has stipulated in waste management regulations in order obtained ISO14001 certifications, and operated environmental to be selected by waste supervisors at each site. The management systems in compliance with ISO14001. premises of waste treatment contractors are inspected ＊ISO14001 on a regular basis to verify conformity to the criteria. A global standard governing voluntary environmental efforts by organizations In the past, we have used equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB). This equipment has been managed securely in line with legal requirements, Fair Operating and gradually disposed of through Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO). Wastewater is constantly managed to ensure that Practices statutory limits on wastewater are observed. This involves improving the reliability of wastewater processing facilities, strengthening and ensuring management Consumer Issues during processes, and conducting emergency drills. Adjustments are also being made to frameworks in line ISO14001 Certificate of Registration with revisions to related laws — namely, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, Act on Promotion of Global Internal Environmental Audits Warming Countermeasures, Act on Confirmation, etc. Employees who are qualified as internal environmental of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances Community Involvement auditors after undergoing appropriate training routinely in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to implement internal environmental audits to verify total the Management Thereof and Act on the Evaluation conformity to ISO14001 requirements and conduct of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their and Development management reviews. Individual departments take Manufacture, etc. responsibility for rectifying any non-conformity and There were no infringements resulting in a fine or other reporting improvements to a responsible general manager. penalty during 2012. CSR Report 2013 27 The Environment 【Ideal Vision】 Maintain a of Overview sound Environmental Impact of Lion’s Business Activities management system that is continuously trusted by society Energy Emissions into atmosphere Total energy usage 44,594 kL CO2 emissions 96,411 tons (crude oil equivalent) （△6,936） （3,286） In Japan NOx emissions 42 tons In Japan Electricity 92,689 million Wh （△4,021） （△11） SOx emissions 26 tons Other fuels 20,752 kL （ 1） (crude oil equivalent) （△4,223） 25 tons PRTR chemical substances （△1） Overseas Total energy usage 41,222 kL CO2 emissions 95,166 tons （11,112） Overseas (crude oil equivalent) （△4,878） NOx emissions 6 tons （△20） SOx emissions 72 tons （ 31） Emissions into water Materials Wastewater 721,000 m 3 （18,000） In Japan Raw material 338,000 tons 12 tons In Japan COD (household articles only) （ 23,000） （ 1） (LION Group) 74,000 tons PRTR chemical substances 0 tons PRTR chemical substances （△7,000） （ 0） Wastewater 186,000 m 3 Overseas （△5,000） COD 7 tons （ 0） Water resources Waste Water used 1,248,000 m 3 Total waste generation 9,032 tons （△51,000） （754） In Japan Tap water used 425,000 m 3 Recycled waste 7,916 tons In Japan （5,000） （1,495） Industrial water used 823,000 m 3 Final waste disposal 173 tons （△56,000） （△12） PRTR chemical substances 196 tons Overseas Water used 687,000 m 3 （△66） （2,000） Total waste generation 4,774 tons （196） Overseas Recycled waste 2,496 tons （307） Final waste disposal 2,171 tons （△130） Logistics Logistics In Japan CO2 emissions 18,674 tons （△129） Products Customers Water used In Japan Waste packaging 36,308 tons （△495） In Japan Water used 688,523,000 m 3 Overseas Waste packaging 7,838 tons （205） Figures in parentheses indicate change from previous year 28 CSR Report 2013 Environmental Accounting Lion and CSR (million yen) Each year, we tabulate and disclose environmental Category Principal activities Investments Expenses protection costs, environmental protection benefits, Pollution prevention 47 263 and economic benefits (actual benefits) associated Business area Global environmental protection 272 3,887 with environmental protection activities of the costs Resource recycling 0 392 entire domestic Group companies based on Ministry of the Environment guidelines. Eco-friendly products 1,648 5,314 Organizational (Tabulation period: January – December 2012) Upstream/ Containers and packaging recycling -546 downstream costs As for the environmental protection costs in 2012, Governance Administration costs ISO14001 registration, Environmental education 0 633 investments and expenses increased respectively R&D costs Development of eco-friendly products, etc. 230 1,347 by approximately 2.2 billion yen and approximately Social activity costs Environmental improvement measures, Donation 0 32 12.4 billion yen. This is because we newly invested in production facilities for super-compact liquid Environmental Tax imposed on pollution performance, etc. 2 8 remediation costs laundry detergent as more production switched Human Rights Domestic Lion Group Total 2,199 12,422 from powder to liquid laundry detergents. Eco-Efficiency Lion calculates eco-efficiency every year according to Eco-Efficiency and Environmental Impact Value the following formula to evaluate the efficiency of （%）Environmental impact value (compared to 2005) Eco-efficiency Labor Practices 150 356 400 corporate activities in terms of environmental impact. 370 399 375 376 Efforts are then made to improve eco-efficiency. 100 300 91％ 83％ 79％ 83％ 83％ Outcome of business activity 200 (net sales) Eco-efficiency ＝ 50 Environmental impact value 100 (calculated using LIME) 0 0 2012 (Year) The Environment 2008 2009 2010 2011 ※ Environmental impact value: The environmental damage expressed in monetary terms calculated using a Japanese life cycle impact assessment Eco-efficiency Environmental impact value method based on endpoint modeling — LIME. ※ E  nvironmental impact value is calculated using the LIME2 integrated coefficient list (July 1, 2010 version). Environmental Communication Participation in Environment-Related Events Eco First Companies Association Activities Lion wants many people to know about its The Eco First Companies Association*, an independent Fair Operating Practices environmental activities. At Eco-Products 2012, one organization run by companies recognized by Japan’s Ministry of of Japan’s largest environmental exhibitions in which the Environment (MOE) as front-runners in environmental action, we participated for the sixth time, we introduced held a “Ecotowaza (Eco Proverbs) Contest about humanand our efforts for reducing environmental burdens earth-friendly energy“ supported by the MOE. Winning entries with a large-sized lift-the-flap book, and made a were commended at the venue of “Eco Products 2012.” Consumer Issues presentation on water environment conservation The Association held the “Environmental Message EXPO2012” activities and initiatives for biodiversity. open widely to the public, in which environmental activities of We also participated in environment-related participating companies are announced, summarized in a message exhibitions held in areas near our business consisting of approximately 13 letters. It also conducted activities in locations, including the Sumida Environment Fair collaboration with the environmental administration, for example, 2012 and the Ecomesse in Chiba 2012. participating in “Eco-Life Fair 2012” hosted by the MOE. Community Involvement ＊Eco First Companies Association … URL http://www.eco1st.jp/ and Development CSR Report 2013 29 Lion’s exhibition booth at Eco-Products 2012 Presentation at “Environmental Message EXPO2012” The Environment 【Ideal Vision】 PollutionaPrevention Maintain sound sites have already achieved zero emissions. However, as one production site that handles ammoniac sludge, which generates management system Total Waste Generation by Lion Group odor during disposal, has not achieved zero emission, the target that is continuously for 2012. Therefore, zero emission for the entire domestic Group In 2012, total waste generation of the domestic Group companies trusted by society increased from a year earlier due to the disposal of products damaged companies could not be attained. We will focus on attaining zero emissions status in the entire domestic production sites by 2014. by the disaster, disposal of waste gas cooling water arising from the cessation of incinerator, and the increase in waste from processes due to Final Waste Disposal (domestic Group companies) the expansion of detergent materials production volumes. Accordingly, (tons) 7,580 8,000 （100％） while decreasing total waste generation by 49% compared to the level 7,000 of 1990, we failed to achieve the target of a 55% reduction or more 6,000 compared to the level of 1990. We will strive to reduce more waste 5,000 generation, through improving and reviewing production processes. 4,000 Total Waste Generation (domestic Group companies) 3,000 Keidanren Voluntary Action Plan 2015 Target (tons) 2,000 830 20,000 17,646 （11％） 291 202 185 173 1,000 （100％） （4％） （3％） （2％） （2％） 0 1990 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) 15,000 Final Waste Disposal (overseas Group companies) (tons) 2,500 2,399 9,032 2,302 2,171 10,000 8,432 8,278 （51％） 2,082 8,111 （46％） （48％） （47％） 2,000 1,500 5,000 1,000 500 0 1990 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) Total Waste Generation (overseas Group companies) Production Activities Conscious about Air and Water Quality (tons) 5,000 4,774 4,577 Lion also implements voluntary initiatives for reducing emissions 4,364 of chemical substances that cause air pollution, including nitrogen 4,000 3,780 oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), particulate matter, and volatile organic compounds (VOC). We also strive to reduce COD with 3,000 improvement in reliability of wastewater processing facilities and periodical maintenance. 2,000 Data on management of chemical substances, including notifications in compliance with the PRTR system is summarized in site reports for each business location*, and available on Lion’s 1,000 website. In 2012 in Japan, we reduced total PRTR substance emissions and VOC emissions respectively by 54% compared to 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) the 2005 level (target was set with substances determined before the revision of law), and by 82% compared to the 2000 level. As a Final Waste Disposal by Lion Group result, we achieved the 2012 targets for both of them (reduction by In 2012, the domestic Group companies reduced final waste 45% or more compared to the 2005 level, and reduction by 75% disposal by 98% compared to the 1990 level. Accordingly, since or more compared to the 2000 level). 2007, we have continuously attained the target set by Keidanren We will continue to work on measures to reduce total PRTR (the Japan Business Federation), a reduction of 89% or more by substance emissions (a target was set with substances determined 2015 compared to the 1990 level. after the revision of law) and VOC emissions respectively by 15% or All of Lion’s four plants also attained zero emissions status in more, and by 25% or more compared to the 2010 level, in 2014. 2002, and have maintained that status since then. ＊Site Report URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/ Among domestic affiliated companies, 5 of 6 production 30 CSR Report 2013 Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances＊ Effective Use of Water Resources Chemical substances are indispensable for people to lead comfortable Lion keeps a constant close watch on water usage and Lion and CSR and fulfilling lives. Failure to properly manage chemicals, however, wastewater volume and works to reduce water usage can result in accidents that put human health and ecosystems at through cyclic use and lower environmental impact. In Japan, enormous risk. In addition to compliance with related laws and while we took measures to reduce the use of in-process regulations, Lion strives to ensure strict management of chemical washing water, we failed to achieve the target in 2012 of a substances at all stages from product development through to use 20% reduction or more compared to the 2005 level. This is and disposal in accordance with our own independent standards. because the usage of in-process washing water increased Organizational ＊Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances from a year earlier due to the impacts from higher production URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/prevention/ volume of products that use more washing water, which Governance Lion’s Chemical Substance Management resulted in only a 12% reduction compared to the 2005 level. Product Development Production Transportation Use and Disposal Further efforts will continue to be made for protecting water resources through process improvement, as well as the reuse of recycled plant effluent. Safety verification Measurement Provision of safety Provision of and management of and reduction of information during information on In addition to a reduction in water usage in business activities, Human Rights chemical substances chemical transportation safety and handling contained in raw substance of chemical products we will work to reduce water usage by customers using our materials releases products at home through the development of water-saving products. Sustainable Use of Resources Water Usage, Wastewater Volume, and COD＊ (domestic Group companies) （1,000m3）Water usage / Wastewater COD (tons) Switching from Petroleum to Botanical Resources 2,000 100 Labor Practices Methyl ester sulfonate (MES) and methyl ester 1,509 ethoxylate (MEE), unique surfactants developed 1,500 1,414 1,320 1,337 75 1,299 1,248 by Lion, are raw materials of detergents derived from renewable plants, which can contribute to the 1,000 50 820 757 reduction of CO2 emissions. 690 730 703 721 27 After use, microbes in the environment decompose 500 21 25 The Environment surfactants including detergents into CO 2 and 12 10 11 12 Water. As plants grow up, absorbing CO2 in the 0 0 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) atmosphere, when surfactants made from plantWater usage Wastewater COD based ingredients are decomposed, they do not release any additional CO2 into the atmosphere (they Water Usage, Wastewater Volume, and COD* (overseas Group companies) are carbon neutral). We will continue to work on the （1,000m3）Water usage / Wastewater COD (tons) 1,000 20 use of plant-derived materials. Fair Operating 900 800 Carbon Neutrality 684 687 15 Practices 700 637 600 558 Light Energy CO 2 No increase in total CO 2 500 10 Photosynthesis 11 400 7 7 6 O2 300 204 190 5 200 172 186 Consumer Issues 100 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) Water usage Wastewater COD Plant-based ＊ Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): ingredients An indicator of water contamination measuring the amount of oxygen required to oxidize and break down organic substances in water. Released into air Community Involvement Green Purchasing Green purchasing of office supplies used by and Development Product made from employees Company-wide is being advanced by plant-based ingredients expanding the list of available items. The green Biodegradation purchasing ratio in 2012 was 81% (82% in 2011). CSR Report 2013 31 The Environment 【Ideal Vision】 Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Reducing CO2 Emissions after Product Use Maintain a sound Lion focuses on ways to reduce CO2 emissions generated management Reducing CO2 Emissions system from Business Activities after product use through its product-related research and that is continuously development activities. Specifically, we have worked on Lion worked to reduce CO2 emissions through persistent trusted bymeasures energy-saving society in addition to making laundry replacing petroleum-based surfactant ingredients with plantdetergent more compact, a review of production process by based ingredients that do not lead to an increase in CO2. the Production Division, and introduction of energy-saving →関連情報p□□参照 For related information, see p.31 equipment during facility renewals. Furthermore, the entire Combining emissions from business activities and emissions Company including Administrative & Sales Division and generated after product use, our total CO2 emissions R&D Division advanced activities relating to the Challenge decreased 52% in 2012 compared to the 1990 level. 25 Campaign – a national movement for the prevention Accordingly, we attained the target of a 50% reduction of global warming promoted by Japan’s Ministry of the compared to the 1990 level, of which we assured the Environment. However, as CO2 emission factor in relation to Ministry of Environment as an Eco First Company. electric power of each electric company increased due to a We will strive to reduce both CO2 emissions from business prolonged shutdown of nuclear power plants, CO2 emissions activities and emissions generated after product use, in 2012 increased from a year earlier, while decreasing 33% including overseas Group companies. compared to the 1990 level. On the other hand, the target Total CO2 Emissions Derived from Business Activities and for 2012, a reduction by 30% or more, was achieved. Products (domestic Group companies) (tons) We will aim to reduce CO2 emission per unit sales by 23% 350,000 319,385 compared to the 2010 level (39% compared to the 1990 （100％） level on an absolute quantity basis) in 2014. 300,000 While CO2 emissions overseas increased year on year with 250,000 the expanded production volume, we attained a year-on175,834 163,548 174,551 200,000 154,035 year 3% reduction of the CO2 emission basic unit. We will （51％） （55％） 144,915 （48％） continue to strive to reduce the CO2 emission basic unit by 150,000 （45％） 57,810 69,198 57,624 1% or more every year. 51,790 100,000 CO2 Emissions Reductions and Targets (domestic Group companies) 143,551 (tons) Energy-derived CO2 emissions 50,000 105,738 105,353 93,125 96,411 150,000 100 ％ 0 1990 2009 2010 2011 2012 125,000 73％ Product-derived CO2 emissions CO2 emissions from business activities 100,000 65％ 67％ 61％ 60％ 75,000 143,551 Initiatives in Logistics 105,353 96,411 50,000 93,125 Lion works to reduce CO2 emissions and specific energy 25,000 consumption through efforts to improve logistics efficiency, such as improving the transport-loading 0 1990 2010 2011 2012 2014 2020 (year) rate and implementing joint deliveries with other target target manufacturers. We are also pursuing modal shifts from CO2 Emissions Reductions (overseas Group companies) truck transportation to transportation by rail or ship. (tons) Energy-derived CO2 emissions In 2012, the modal shift rate for all traffic volume was 125,000 22.6% (19.9% in 2011), and 72.1% (66.3% in 2011) for long-distance transport over 500km. 100,000 95,166 As a result, we reduced our total CO2 emissions from 81,887 84,054 74,151 logistics by 0.7% from the previous year to 18,674 75,000 tons. Furthermore, with a reduction of specific energy consumption by 1.6% from a year earlier, Lion's 50,000 target of a year-on-year reduction of 1% or more was 25,000 achieved. We will continue to make efforts for reducing CO2 0 emissions in logistics, with the goal of reducing specific 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) energy consumption by 1% or more year on year. 32 CSR Report 2013 Biodiversity Conservation Lion and CSR Approach to Biodiversity Conservation Lion has assumed a leading role in tackling water environmental issues such as pollution and eutrophication of waterways linked to the use of detergents, and has considered biodiversity conservation at each stage from raw material procurement to disposal. We will make efforts putting first priority on the consideration of biodiversity and the water environment. Surveying Environmental Impact Organizational Governance As almost all of Lion’s products end up being discharged into rivers, streams and other waterways after use. We assess this during the development stage to confirm that it is safe for the environment. In order to check that the environment has not been harmed, we also participated in surveys on the concentration of four kinds of surfactants in rivers near Tokyo and Edogawa River Osaka, as well as in ecological risk assessments Arakawa Chisuibashi Human Rights Tamagawa River (four times a year), which are implemented by the Japan Soap and Detergent Association. Thus far, studies have found that the risk of wildlife Kanamachi Hamura Seki Sasame Bridge being harmed is extremely low. As surfactants “MES” and “MEE” are Tokyo metropolitan area substances developed by Lion, we have Labor Practices Tamagawara bashi investigated and assessed the concentration of these in the same public water areas, and Denenchofu Seki verified that their impacts on ecological systems Hirakata Ohashi are immaterial. Lion is not the only organization engaging in Yodogawa River Osaka Sampling points safety assessment and confirmation. Besides The Environment acquiring and applying the latest information River water sampling points and technology available in Japan and ＊The latest data of river environment monitoring by Japan Soap and Detergent Association URL http://jsda.org/w/02_anzen/3kankyo_15.html overseas, we disseminate our own information, contributing to safety advancements. Biodiversity Conservation Activities at Each Business Location Alongside business activities, Lion engages in activities like the protection of rare species. Employees participate in these Fair Operating activities as volunteers, and that experience makes them more aware of environmental matters as they go about their jobs. Practices Consumer Issues Breeding of Sakawa River System Killifish Construction of a Biotope Support for Sea Turtle Protection The Odawara Plant registered with On the premises of Chiba Plant, Under the guidance of the nonprofit a propagation program for the employees completed the construction organization Sea Turtle Association of Community Involvement endangered Sakawa River system of Chiba LEOTOP , a handmade Japan, Osaka Plant plays a lead role in killifish in 2003 and breeds the fish Biotope . They also challenged to activities to protect the endangered on the plant premises. do rice planting and harvesting with loggerhead sea turtle. and Development the aim of creating Satoyama, an undeveloped woodland near populated area, in Chiba. CSR Report 2013 33 Fair Operating Practices 【Ideal Vision】 vision】 Maintain a social Promoting sound management activities responsibility system that is continuously throughout the value trusted chain by society society, and continuously develop mutually beneficial Basic Approach businesses, it is necessary to share information on CSR In the Lion Charter for Corporate Behavior, Lion prescribed to the activities between the business partners and for Lion to compliance with all laws and regulations, observing the spirit of initiate the activities. international rules; compliance with public rules; fair, transparent As market demand for palm oil used for environmentally and free competition, and fair trade; and sustain a healthy and friendly surfactants MES,” which is plant-derived normal relationship with political and administrative organizations. detergent material developed uniquely by Lion, has been In the Behavioral Guidelines, the Company has also stipulated increasing, we have recognized that it is a priority issue for the respect of others' intellectual property rights and banned for us to procure and substitute more raw materials with the inappropriate acquisition or use of information or rights, and sustainable palm oil. compliance with relevant laws and regulations by suppliers. The Lion Charter for Corporate Behavior and the Behavioral Promotion of CSR Activities with Business Partners Guidelines are available on our website for inside and outside In line with its Purchasing Activity Principles, Lion procured stakeholders. In 2009, we declared our support for the ten raw materials and finished products appropriately. principles of the United Nations Global Compact to clarify our Lion also promoted the development of a supply attitude conscious about anti-corruption. chain management system. In 2008, we formulated the Procurement Principles＊, clarifying social and Frameworks to Ensure Fairness of Business environmental considerations. In 2009, we asked The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the director domestic and overseas business partners to acquaint responsible for corporate ethics, makes an effort to foster themselves with the Procurement Principles and complete compliance awareness within Lion. →For related information, see p19 a questionnaire. Considering it important to fulfill social responsibilities together Through the questionnaire, we required business partners with our business partners with a shared commitment to coand Lion to share CSR information and expertise, as well existence and co-prosperity, we have disclosed the Procurement as cooperate mutually in order to enhance efforts we have Principles stipulating appropriate and rational transactions in made thus far. Now, we are preparing CSR guidelines and compliance with relevant laws, regulations, and social norms, as reviewing systems to work with the business partners. well as procurement in consideration of social responsibilities such ＊Procurement Principles URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/policy as global environmental conservation. We also implement a survey on CSR procurement in order to Lion's Value Chain confirm whether the business partners have policies in relation to the establishment of healthy and normal relationships with Raw material manufacturers political and administrative organizations and promotion of business in consideration of the environment . Furthermore, a (Raw materials hotline for business partners is in place. However, we know our Manufacturing procurement) Lion and affiliates partners (Manufacturing) approaches to the business partners are not necessarily adequate. (Distribution) Initiatives for Value Chains For our value chain CSR initiatives, we consider Wholesalers enhancing our alliance with suppliers of raw materials (Sales) and manufacturing partners to be one of the important issues. In order to mitigate negative effects Retailers of our business activities on the environment and the 34 CSR Report 2013 Aiming for Sustainable Procurement of Palm Oil Fair Transactions with Manufacturing Partners Production volume of palm oil is steadily increasing Manufacturer selection, transaction conditions, pricing Lion and CSR due to the high productivity and the ability to harvest and other criteria are determined through fair and throughout the year. Downsides to the development of transparent discussions. Maintaining and developing fair new plantations, however, are the clearing of tropical and friendly ties with manufacturing partners based on rainforests and the shrinking of wildlife habitats. coexistence and co-prosperity allows us to deliver higher In an attempt to resolve such problems, Lion has been quality products to customers in a timely manner. a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Conformity with the Act Against Delay in Payment Organizational (RSPO)＊ since 2006. In 2012, the Oleo chemical plant of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors is of Lion Chemical Co., Ltd., which is where palm oil is ensured through employee training. Related personnel Governance delivered to, acquired a supply chain certification of participate in outside seminars on an ongoing basis and RSPO, and started to use palm oil certified by RSPO. provide feedback to the others inside the Company in Aiming to switch completely to palm oil certified by an effort to disseminate correct information. RSPO by the end of 2015, Lion will work to procure Teaming Up with Competitors on Delivery more sustainable palm oil. Human Rights Lion teamed up with competitors in 1989 to establish Planet CERTIFICATE Logistics Co., Ltd., for conducting joint deliveries to wholesalers. RSPO SCCS CERTIFICATE CODE: CU-RSPO SCCS-826807 The philosophy behind joint delivery is, “Cooperate on systems, Based on an audit according to the regulations stated in the RSPO Supply Chain Certification compete in the store.” Manufacturers compete fairly in stores, but Systems, version November 2011 and a signed contract, Control Union Certifications herewith certifies that the facility(s) listed below are found to be in compliance with the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems, version November 2011. This guarantees that the criteria for processing RSPO certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil through one or more of the supply chain models as stated in the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems have been met. cooperate on logistics in order to cut logistics costs, improve the Certificate holder information Company Name: LION CHEMICAL CO., LTD. OLEOCHEMICAL DIVISION RSPO member number: 4-0012-06-000-00 Company Address: 22-1, BANNOSUCHO, SAKAIDESHI, KAGAWA 762-0064 Contact manager*: Mr. MINEO KAWASE quality of logistics, and address environmental issues. At the end of Contact Email: mkawase@lion.co.jp RSPO registered parent company of which the certificate holder is a subsidiary (If applicable): Company name: RSPO member number: * Contact details of management representative responsible for overseeing the certification process Labor Practices Validity of certificate starts: Validity of certificate ends: Date of first RSPO certification: 20/12/2012 19/12/2017 20/12/2012 2012, 18 manufacturers were participating in the joint deliveries. Fixed schedules, fixed volumes, bulk delivery, orderly systems Issued by Control Union Certifications. Meeuwenlaan 4-6, P.O. Box 161, 8000 AD Zwolle, The Netherlands. Tel: 0031 (0) 38 426 01 00. Certifier: Markus Fertig Date: 20/12/2012 and standardization, all achieved through joint delivery, also lead Certificate no: C826807CU-RSPO SCCS-01.2012 Signature of certifier: On behalf of the Managing Director. Control Union Certifications is accredited for ISO/IEC Guide 65:1996 Approved by the RSPO for RSPO SCCS on 03/06/2010 Storage tanks for certified to operational improvements and efficiencies within wholesale Page 1 of 2 oil at Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. operations. RSPO Certificate ＊RSPO （Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil） Working with Wholesalers The Environment URL http://www.rspo.org/ The foundation of Lion’s distribution policy is coexistence and co-prosperity with wholesalers. We RSPO Certificate hold general meetings of the “Lion-kai” forum to RSPO established eight principles and 39 criteria explain the Company’s business, marketing, and sales required for sustainable palm oil production, strategies, as well as through opinion exchange to including “environmental responsibility and promote common awareness of one another’s roles in conservation of natural resources and biodiversity,” increasing customer satisfaction. As of February 2013, “responsible development of new plantings” and Fair Operating 241 wholesalers were members of the Lion-kai. “responsible consideration of employees and of Practices individuals, and communities affected by growers and mills.” Only palm oil, which is produced in a way that fulfills those principles and criteria, is certified as sustainable palm oil. Consumer Issues Lion-kai General Meeting Evaluating Raw Material Suppliers from a CSR Perspective Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Lion has always sought to establish reciprocal relationships of trust with suppliers. In recent years, As a basic policy related to intellectual property, Lion we have responded to the growing requirement for has stipulated the following provision in the Behavioral CSR procurement by focusing on human resource Guidelines: “We strive to create, appropriately protect, Community Involvement development and sending employees to participate in and proactively use intellectual properties, respect seminars on purchasing and procurement. intellectual property rights of others, and avoid We also carry out observations of raw material supplier improper acquisition and use of the rights.” and Development plants at suitable intervals. Suppliers are selected after We established a department specialized in intellectual taking into account social considerations in addition to property to check that the rights are properly used safety, environmental adaptability and quality. without infringing the rights of others. CSR Report 2013 35 Consumer Issues 【Ideal Vision】 vision】 Maintain customer Pursuing a sound management satisfaction bysystem creating that is continuously safe and trustworthy trusted by society products Educational event with Meisters of Daily Life Basic Approach Appropriate Information Provision Lion carries out quality assurance activities at all stages, from the In order to provide information customers need in very beginning of the product creation process until customer an unbiased and appropriate manner, we have a consumption of our products, in order to provide products that will system in place through which several departments satisfy our customers. Specifically, by identifying key requirements check the labeling of products and advertisements. for each stage of corporate activity — product planning, product development, manufacturing, sales, and responding to Labeling in Local Language customers — we are constantly pursuing new heights of customer To facilitate customers’ accurate understanding about satisfaction. the features of our products, we indicate usage and During product planning, valuable opinions received from ingredients in the local language, in compliance with customers are well understood to identify customers’ needs. laws and regulations of the sales area. During product development, the quality of developed products is verified in respect to seven parameters such as function and performance. Furthermore, we endeavor to provide clear, easy-toreadlabeling for customers. During manufacturing, quality is managed within each process, and products that have passed inspections are shipped with data identifiable for each lot, which is effective for after-sale management. Thai Korean Chinese A variety of information is relayed through explanations about our Labeling of KireiKirei Hand Soap products and providing samples to wholesalers and retailers. Flow of Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinion Customer satisfaction maximized Customers Customer support Management Developing safe, high-quality products 1 Product planning 2 Product development 3 Manufacturing 4 Sales Customer opinions and market survey findings are Products are developed by translating Raw materials and processes are Product information is communicated in reflected in planning in the form of quality objectives quality objectives into technical managed to lead manufacture of an accessible manner to ensure that will ensure customers are fully satisfied. parameters for design quality. products with consistent quality. knowledge about features and usage. All employees acknowledge customer satisfaction as the starting point for realization of a happier lifestyle. By responding to customer opinions and making ongoing improvements to products, Lion creates products that heighten the satisfaction of customers. 36 CSR Report 2013 Developing of Safe, High-Quality Products Lion and CSR 1 Product planning Designing products that will give customers greater satisfaction Customer Analysis/ Planning Discussion/approval opinions deliberation proposals Product Planning Meeting Preparing product Executive Committee proposals Organizational Marketing research Market analysis ・Marketing research findings Governance Customer research ・Concept ・Target quality level Human Rights 2 Product development Building safety and quality into products Deliberation on contents and Deliberation on and Outcome of development containers checking of labeling is approved after discussion Verification of quality Production Engineering Meeting Labor Practices ❶Function/Performance Outcome of development is approved after discussion. ❷Usability ❸Safety Product Planning Meeting ❹Product stability ❺Environmental friendliness Commercialization of product is approved after discussion. ❻Appearance (including design) Executive Committee ❼Compliance with laws and self-imposed standards Commercialization of product is finalized. The Environment Quality Verification Meeting Process Safety Verification Meeting When starting development, the On completion, the Safety assurances for suitability of quality objectives and suitability of the manufacturing matters deemed crucial to developed product is processes are verified. development are verified. verified. 3 Manufacturing Verifying quality in mass production Fair Operating Practices Preparations Manufacturing Storage (shipment) Consumer Issues Verification of Quality evaluation in trial manufacturing Quality is managed Products are managed to raw material quality Verification of marketability in each process. ensure freshness. 4 Sales Providing information on product quality Community Involvement Information is provided to Information on products is wholesalers and retailers made available via displays, and Development to ensure communication samples, and newspapers, of product features and television, website and other usage to customers. media. CSR Report 2013 37 Consumer Issues 【Ideal Vision】 Approach Maintain a to Safety and Reliability sound Enhancing Information Provision to Customers management system Lion evaluates the safety of raw materials and safety In order to support our customers’ healthy and that is continuously during product use to ensure that our customers can comfortable life, through Lion’s website and other trusted be at ease when by society using our products. tools we provide lifestyle related information as well as information about how to use our products. Safety of Raw Materials “The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories,” a Use of raw materials is allowed only after verifying new point of contact for life-related information safety, and only after implementing sample established in August 2011, provides opinion evaluations and a supplier survey in order to ensure leaders and other relevant people with information specific quality. Before use, raw materials undergo on health and living according to their life-stage and quality inspections using parameters and testing life-style through seminars and events. methods according to category—drugs and food; quasi-drugs and cosmetics; or miscellaneous. Safety During Product Use Considering our customers’ various usage styles as well as our vulnerable customers, Lion conducts safety evaluations Educational Activities to of products based on a policy of averting risk through Provide Living Information product design. by Meisters of Dairy Life Evaluations check sheets are employed to confirm whether We c re a t e , a c c u m u l a t e a n d p ro v i d e l i v i n g safety has been achieved through product design, ranging information, for example, by periodically answering from “normal use” cases to “mistaken use” cases. Even customer’s questions on the website by four for “irregular use” cases, we evaluate whether risk has Meisters of Dairy Life with expertise on oral care, been minimized and whether the risk is acceptable. The health care, laundry and cleaning. evaluation results are reflected in product safety, for example with inclusion of sufficient warnings on labels where necessary. Scope of Safety Confirmation Unforeseeable and Information provided by the Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories Reckless use unreasonable usage ＊Website of the Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories:  … URL http://kaiteki.lion.co.jp/ Foreseeable usage, but defying accepted norms Lower risk to acceptable (overly excessive use, or use level and provide warnings Irregular use for purposes very different to Information Security those intended) Usage not as intended by Lion but Lion has established a number of guidelines and Mistaken use which must be regulations to prevent information leaks. They are expected Required Safety a basic policy of our information management, Assurance information management regulations, privacy Usage as intended Normal use by Lion regulations, information security regulations, and guidelines for the management of information technology and equipment. For the appropriate practice Guidance and advice from after simulating various situations of information transmission by employees using social of use is provided through our Quality Verification Meetings, media, which is recently spreading, such as social which comprises of members from related divisions. The network services and blogs, “Lion Group Social Media aim is to prevent damage caused by product use and lapses Policy＊” and basic rules were established in 2012. in the safety confirmation process. Employees also undergo e-learning programs each year In preparation for product trouble possibly occuring, to enhance their awareness for the prevention of leaks. we have in place an internal system to quickly take ＊Lion Group Social Media Policy URL http://www.lion.co.jp/smp.htm countermeasures such as product recall. 38 CSR Report 2013 Responding to VOC Fostering a Culture of Utilizing Customer Opinion Lion is working to foster a corporate culture whereby all employees Lion and CSR VOC＊from our customers is recorded in a privacyconsider and act from the customer perspective. protected database, and after personal information In 2012, for the purpose of learning the importance of thinking is removed, it is then made available to the entire from the customer’s perspective, newly-appointed directors and midcompany via an information sharing system in order to career researchers, planning division employees and a division that make further improvements and develop new products. conducts research and studies human behavior(142 in total) fielded VOC deemed to have an especially strong influence telephone calls from customers. Also in the seminars for promoted Organizational on customer satisfaction is reported to management employees, 113 employees learned the importance of thinking from as a VOC daily letter, in an effort to grasp customer the customer’s perspective through discussions based on customer Governance perspectives, through quick deliberation and consultations. Customer opinions are reported at regular meetings implementation of solutions mainly by planning of individual departments in an effort to share information. divisions. In 2012, 241 VOC daily letters were issued. We will press ahead with efforts to reform the awareness of ＊VOC employees in order to deliver products and services created from the Voice of Customer customer’s perspective. Human Rights ＊Customer Support URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/ Improvement Case Based on Customer Opinion Flow of Response to Customers Improving a Container of Top Precare for Stains on Collars and Sleeves VOC Boards of Directors, Product development and Improvement daily An inside plug with sponge to apply liquid detergent evenly Corporate Auditors, Customer Support Inquiries letter Comments and on collars and sleeves is used for Lion’s Top Precare for Stains Executive Officers Labor Practices Customers Requests on Collars and Sleeves. After finishing detergent, the bottle can be reused by opening the inside plug and refilling with VOC detergent. However, we received customer complaints that all Reply Action meeting the detergent spilled because the inside plug came off with Entire Company the transparent cap when it was turned to apply the detergent after a refill. The Environment Therefore, we marked inside plugs with Data Information ▲, and bottles with ▼ in order to enable base sharing system customers to confirm that the inside plug Flow of voice is fastened, and added a warning label. Overview of Inquiries and Complaints During 2012 Around 117,000 inquiries and complaints were received Fair Operating Warning on labels Product with marks in 2012 (a 122% increase from 2011). Since January 2011 ＊Casting customer opinions into shape when a toll-free consultation line was opened, products Practices URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/voice/ labeled with the toll-free number of the consultation line have been launched into the market. Accordingly, Recall Status for Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray with the increased number of inquiries by telephone, the Voluntary recalls of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray for number of entire inquiries received expanded. Consumer Issues Flying Bugs and Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray for Overall, 79% were inquiries about product usage, Creeping Bugs have been implemented since August outlets selling Lion products, product safety and so on; 27, 2007, in response to fire incidents. 11% were product complaints, relating for example to As of February 28, 2013, the rate of recalled products dissatisfaction with effects after use or flavor and scent; was 45.7%, or 1.48 million products. Please make 9% were related to product problems, such as damage sure to return these products if you have any. to flooring caused by detergent. We will make efforts for Community Involvement creating the environment in which customers feel easy Contact number for Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray returns: about consulting, and quickly responding to consultations Toll-free Phone : 0120-670-225 with sincerity. The number to call can be found in List of Hours : 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (except Saturdays, Sundays, and Development Inquiries＊ on Lion’s website. public holidays, year-end new-year period, and summer ＊List of Inquiries holidays) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/contact CSR Report 2013 39 Consumer Issues 【Ideal Vision】 Considering Maintain a sound the Environment from a Product-Oriented Perspective management Lion established the Lion systemEco Standards to quantitatively material procurement; (3) manufacturing; (4) logistics; (5) that assess ouris continuously environmental impacts at each stage from the household use; and (6) disposal. In this way, Lion develops procurement of raw materials to the disposal of products, products, considering the environment in terms of the product trusted by society from the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) perspective. The composition (contents), as well as containers and packaging. Standards define an “eco-friendly product” as a product that In order to lower the impact of products on the global satisfied the criteria of at least one area of evaluation based environment throughout their entire life cycle as much as on a quantitative assessment of environmental impact in the possible, Lion is earnestly committed to the development of following stages: (1) raw material procurement; (2) packaging eco-friendly products and information provision. Areas and Criteria of evaluation for the Lion Eco Standards Stage Evaluation area Evaluation criteria 1 Raw material Use of plant-based raw materials ● Percentage of plant-based raw materials in composition of organic substances is 50% or more. procurement Use of sustainable raw materials ● Biodiversity-conscious materials are used. Use of recycled materials ● Recycled materials including plastic are used. Packaging Use of sustainable materials In case of paper board, the use rate of pulp made from waste paper, 2 material forest thinnings, or wood of certified forests is 94% or more. Use of plant-based materials procurement Use of biodegradable materials ● Plant-based and biodegradable resins are used. Energy savings and reduction of water usage ● Used amounts of energy, water, and chemicals, and discharge of drainage and wastewater during manufacturing 3 Manufacturing Reduction of chemical substances use and waste volume during manufacturing are reduced 20% or more compared with those of existing products. Reduction of waste 4 Logistics Compact size, high concentration ● A product is downsized or concentrated by 20% or more compared with existing products. Energy savings during use (power savings) ● Energy consumption in use is reduced 20% or more compared with existing products. 5 Household Organic substance release per use ● Organic substance release per use is reduced 20% or more compared with existing products. use Reduction of water usage (water savings) ● Water usage in use is reduced 20% or more compared with existing products. Reduction of packaging and refill availability ● Packaging and wrapping materials use reduced 15% or more compared with major products in the market. 6 Disposal Reuse and recycling of packaging, other ● Weight of pouches and bottles for refills are 50% or less of net weight. ※ The Lion Eco Standards does not explicitly require materials that do not contain hazardous chemicals or have good biodegradability because these matters are obvious minimum requirements. Percentage of Products Satisfying the Lion Eco Standards Environmental Considerations in Product Composition Development The percentage of products manufactured by Lion (excluding Lion is promoting the development of product components that pharmaceuticals) satisfying criteria for at least one Lion Eco Standards meet environmental challenges such as global warming prevention area of evaluation is 65% of all items, or 81% in terms of sales value. with the use of plant materials, and water environment protection Eco-Friendly Product Ratio and Percentage of Sales by using biodegradable materials and reducing water usage each （%） time. Prime examples of this approach are the development of 100 methyl ester sulfonate (MES) and methyl ester ethoxylate (MEE). 83 81 80 82 82 81 80 71 For related information, see p.31 60 Lion was the first in the world to carry out the industrial production 60 63 63 66 65 55 59 of MES, which is used in TOP Platinum Clear and other Lion 40 powdered laundry detergents. 20 MEE, which even in small amounts has high detergency, is used in 0 TOP NANOX and other liquid laundry detergents. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) % of sales % of products ＊Excellent features of MES URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/ 40 CSR Report 2013 “3Rs” for Reducing Containers and Packaging Reuse Lion and CSR Lion actively promotes the implementation of the “3Rs” (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) as a container and Expanding the range of refill products packaging material reduction initiative. The Lion Eco Standards provide for container and Using refills means the original plastic bottles for packaging reductions, prescribing related criteria under products can be re-used several times. Containers of stages of packaging material procurement, logistics refill products also use less material than the original and disposal. containers, and they are lighter and smaller, helping to Organizational reduce the amount of waste generated by households. Container and Packaging Material Usage by Lion Governance (tons) 80,000 67,720 64,642 567 60,841 57,817 56,442 486 472 440 436 60,000 11,140 Human Rights 9,789 Metal 8,252 7,678 7,525 Glass 15,283 13,533 11,700 10,147 8,867 Paperboard 40,000 Refill products Recycle 26,072 25,538 24,838 24,412 23,466 Corrugated fiberboard 20,000 Labor Practices 14,658 15,296 15,579 15,139 16,148 Plastic Use of recycled materials 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) Use of recycled resins PET resin recycled from plastic drink bottles Reduce constitutes 20% or more of material for containers of dishwashing detergents. Measuring spoons for The Environment powder laundry detergents is made partly from Smaller Products and Innovations in Container Design recycled resin. Lion is working to reduce container and packaging material usage by increasing the concentration of products such as laundry detergents, fabric softeners and dishwashing detergents as well as by making containers smaller. In 2012, total container and packaging material usage Fair Operating decreased by 1,375 tons from a year earlier. Although plastic usage increased due to the expansion in laundry Practices Product containers made using recycled PET resin liquid detergent, the decrease in the usage of other materials surpassed this amount. Use of paper made with recycled pulp Lion will continue efforts to reduce container and packaging material usage through making smaller products White paperboard made with recycled pulp is used for Consumer Issues and innovative container designs. containers and packaging for such products as toothpaste Making Products Smaller and detergents. It is stated clearly on powder laundry Higher concentrations enable detergent containers that the recycled pulp content is smaller containers at least 70%.Corrugated boxes used for transporting Container weight products have 94% recycled pulp content. Community Involvement and Development Product containers made using recycled pulp CSR Report 2013 41 Community Involvement and Development 【Ideal 【Ideal Vision】 vision】 Maintain aand Co-existence sound co-prosperity management system with society and communities/ that is continuously contribute to the development trusted by society of society in Health, Comfort and Environment Areas Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children Basic Approach Since its foundation, under the corporate philosophy of “comfort,” we have mainly conducted “Oral Health Promotion “contributing to the society through our business activities,” Lion Projects” and “Education activities for Hand Washing and has worked on social action programs, effectively using the Group’s Gargling,” which directly link to business activities. In conjunction business resources, with the goal of enriching the happiness and with “Eco Vision 2020,” we have also tackled three environmental lives of people, as well as achieving the sustainable society. To this goals, “Realization of a Low Carbon Society,” “Realization of end, we have regarded “health,” “comfort,” “environment,” and a Sound Material-Cycle Society,” and “Harmony with Nature” “regional contribution” as priority areas. In terms of “health” and through business and social contribution activities. Lion’s social and environmental contribution activities For Clean, Healthy, and Comfortable Life Environment (Eco Vision 2020) →p6～9 Regional Contribution Oral health promotion projects Realization a Low Carbon Society Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society Activities at business locations Use of plant-derived Reducing Water →p31 usage/Wastewater →p31 LDH oral health Beautification activities raw materials (Cleaning up, etc.) activities Seminars, Kidzania ＊1 Reducing CO2 →p32 Reducing Containers →p41 Science Classes →p42～43 Emissions and Packaging Meister Plant tour Academic support ＊1 →p45 Harmony with Nature (Lion Award) activities Sustainable procurement of plant-derived oils →p35 p38← Biodiversity Conservation Activities →p33 Activities to support the disaster-hit areas the “Make Tohoku Well and Active Again” support project Education activities for Hand Washing and Gargling Protection of Water Resources (Chase Away Germs! Rally, Education activities to make Forest Maintenance Activities Promotion of Rainwater Utilization →p44 Tooth brushing counseling room) UNICEF campaigns (Lion Forest in Yamanashi and Odawara) a habit of washing hands Supporting academic and civil activities ＊3 love, Ishinomaki →p44(Japan Water Award, Japan Society on Water Environment) (educational activities to make a habit →p45 (KireiKirei) (Chase Away Germs! Rally) Chura action ＊2 →p44 →p44 of washing hands and tooth brushing) ＊1 Kidzania, Lion Award ＊3 Protection of Water Resources Supporting water environmental researches and civil activities URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/conservation/ ＊2 Chura action (“Chura” means beautiful or clean in a dialect of the Okinawa prefecture of Japan) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/communication/ Activities of Lion Foundation for Dental Health Three LDH Projects Under the consistent philosophy of “returning benefits １．Oral health promotion projects from corporate activities to society” since its founding, ・Activities to promote and provide education about oral Lion has been conducting oral care promotion and health for all life stages education activities since 1913. The Lion Foundation for ２．Research and investigative projects Dental Health (LDH) was founded in 1964 under the ・Investigating and studying the importance of oral health in preparation for an increase approval of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and was in healthy life expectancy, and providing recognized as a public interest incorporated foundation by information on findings obtained through the Cabinet Office in 2010. LDH continues to contribute to individual projects and activities to experts society in the front line of oral health, leading to a better and consumers. quality of life for all people, by maintaining and improving ３．Educational and training projects ・Providing a variety of seminars and lectures the dental and oral health of ordinary citizens through for health supervisors and dental experts the three projects shown right, in cooperation with dental associations, universities, government authorities and other ＊Oral care diffusion and education activities URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ parties. Lion has provided full support for these activities. 42 CSR Report 2013 Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children Enjoyable learning materials with DVD (Two kinds) The purpose of the Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for LDH produced DVDs for kindergarteners (and their guardians) Lion and CSR children, which has been ongoing since 1932, is to foster and for 5thand 6th-grade children, with which they can learn schoolchildren’s awareness of health, including the importance about dental and oral health in a fun manner. of dental and oral health, as well as tooth brushing. It is held in The DVDs were developed as educational material for teachers Tokyo every year during the period of “Dental and Oral Health who provided education about dental and oral health to Week” (former Japan’s Dental Health Week) from June 4 to 10. kindergarteners and their guardians, as well as elementary In 2012, a live Internet video stream of the 69th Oral Health school children. The DVDs contain the expertise about health Organizational Event of Tooth Brushing for Children was broadcasted to a total and tooth brushing guidance cultivated by LDH. We intend of 647 elementary schools including participating schools from to contribute to the improvement in dental and oral health of Governance all over Japan, as well as Asian countries (China, Korea, Hong more people by promoting the use of DVD learning materials. Kong, Singapore, and the Philippines) from the main venue at Japan Dental Association Hall in Ichigaya, Tokyo. Approximately 38,500 schoolchildren participated in this international event. As a part of health education, they learned about healthy Human Rights gums for an hour while having fun. Enjoyable learning materials with DVD ＊ Enjoyable learning materials with DVD (LDH Website) URL http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/material/material_b.htm Selected Social Contribution Activities by LDH (2012) Labor Practices Children participating in the Oral The stage of main venue (Japan Health Event of Tooth Brushing Dental Association Hall) Oral health activities for mothers and children for Children LDH supports child-rearing through oral health activities for expectant mothers, Academic Contribution infants, kindergarteners and their parents. 197 locations, 200 occasions In 2011, designated as a research organization to Participants: 7,979 small children, receive an academic research subsidy from the Research The Environment 2,626 parents/guardians Promotion Bureau of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Oral health activities for school children Sports, Science and Technology, LDH became able to LDH provides direct guidance activities for promote joint research with a wide range of universities schoolchildren and their parents/guardians, and and public institutions. In April 2012, two research supports the activities of health supervisors. themes were adopted as subsidized science research 426 locations, 527 occasions Participants: 39,914 school children,1,105 parents/ projects, including a three-year joint research project with guardians, and 1,129 health supervisors the Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University. LDH Fair Operating Oral health activities for adults (Occupational health) intends to promote research that can make academic Advice is provided to workers, principally Practices and social contributions. relating to periodontal disease prevention Holding of Seminars and oral health care and promotion. 268 offices, 545 events LDH holds various kinds of seminars on the latest dental Recipients: 31,360 information and other topics for dental hygienists. Consumer Issues Especially, Lion New Year Seminar,” which is held in Oral health activities for the elderly January every year, was in its 22nd year in 2012. Under LDH provides support for maintenance the theme of aiming to extend healthy life-span,” four of oral functions so the elderly can maintain their own teeth. lecturers talked about the roles of dental hygienists for 44 locations, 45 events each life stage. Participants: 1,165 Community Involvement Examination and Treatment Highly specialized and high quality examinations, treatments and preventive and Development dentistry activities are provided in line with the concept of risk control. Lion New Year Seminar Recipients: 11,637 at Sendagaya Tokyo in January 20, 2013 CSR Report 2013 43 Community Involvement and Development 【Ideal Vision】 Educational Activities Maintain a sound for Hand Washing and Gargling Conservation Work management system コミュニティへの Since Lion has been deeply and constantly involved with water 参画及び発展thatits is foundation, Lion has contributed to the development continuously of a culture of cleanliness and hygiene in society through its through washing. We believe it is our responsibility to trusted products by society and educational activities. Succeeding them, we have protect the water environment such as delivering ecoworked on educational activities for hand washing, gargling, friendly products. To this end, we proactively conduct the and disinfecting through products of KireiKirei series. forest maintenance activities at Lion Forest in Yamanashi to protect water sources, and activities to promote and educate KireiKirei Germ Buster Project about the use of rainwater, a familiar water resource. Germ Buster Project is an approach to foster Forest Maintenance Activities at Lion Forest in Yamanashi hygienic habits of hand washing, gargling, and disinfecting through products of KireiKirei in Since 2006, regarded the Lion Forest in Yamanashi as a field order to have people lead a healthy life every day. for raising environmental awareness among employees, The Chase Away Germs! Rally is implemented for Lion has conducted forest maintenance activities with the kindergarteners to help them develop habits of hand aim of preserving biodiversity, preserving forests as sources washing and gargling from an early age. We deliver of water, and revitalizing local communities. In 2012, 112 to kindergartens nationwide kits containing check employees in total participated voluntarily in the forest stickers and leaflets for hand washing and gargling, maintenance activities including three ordinary sessions and KireiKirei Medicated Foaming Hand Soap, and gargle a session as part of a new employee seminar. medicine. With them, the kindergarteners check 2012 Rainwater Utilization Idea Contest whether they could wash hands and gargle well in a fun manner, and learn With the aim of having junior high and elementary school preventive measures against students nationwide think about the importance of water, cold and flu. In 2012, the 2012 Rainwater Utilization Idea Contest was held again. rally was implemented at The contest consisted of four categories: essays, posters, 1,512 kindergartens with research projects, and slogans, with 6,328 entries in total. 265,447 kindergarteners. In March 2013, the commendation ceremony was held for seven grand prix winning works at Hirai Research Institute. Logo of Germ Buster Project The school incentive award was also presented respectively to an elementary school and a junior high school, which both Campaign for Expanding a Circle of Kirei over Asia sent many excellent works to the contest. In order to improve hygienic habits of Asian children, we donate part of the proceeds from the sale of KireiKirei series to UNICEF. Since 2010, when we started the donation, a total of 26,361,570 yen has been donated as of the end of 2012. The donated funds have been used for the construction of water and hygienic facilities and activities to promote hygienic habits at 32 elementary schools in Myanmar. As the result of those efforts, children The grand prix winning works have gotten into the habit of washing their hands after in the poster category Elementary school student's work (above) going to the toilet and before meals. Consequently, the Junior high school student's work (right) numbers of children who suffer from diarrheal diseases and die from the diseases are expected to decrease. Children washing hands with soaps The commendation ceremony of 2012 Rainwater Utilization Idea Contest © UNICEF Myanmar / 2012 before meal 44 CSR Report 2013 Supportive Activities in the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster Areas Community Activities Lion and CSR Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, Lion provided a total Major social contribution activities in communities of the equivalent to ￥350 million in relief donations and supplies Sending researchers of our research institute to those affected by the disaster. Moreover, Lion supported its in Hirai, Edogawa Ward, Tokyo to science experiment classes for elementary school children employees to participate in volunteer assistance programs in the affected areas. (75 employees participated during the period from 2011 to 2012.) Organizational Since six months after the disaster, we have also implemented the Make Tohoku Well and Active Again support project Governance in three prefectures, Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima, using our business resources. We conducted the following activities: Tooth Brushing Counseling Room by dental hygienists of LDH (the Lion Foundation for Dental Health) at kindergartens, etc.; the Chase Away Germs! Rally (held at 100 places including 13 places visited Human Rights by the caravan in 2012) to develop hand washing and gargling Inviting children from children's nursing home habits at kindergartens; and the KireiKirei Nationwide Visiting Team in Tokyo to have them enjoy Sumida River Fireworks Festival from the office rooftop to Encourage Enjoyment of Books Campaign (held at 46 places in 2012) to establish hygienic habits through picture-story shows. As part of the project, Lion started support activities for Ishinomaki City in Miyagi Prefecture, an area that is closely tied with Tomijiro Labor Practices Kobayashi, the founder of Lion, focusing on: 1) caring for children; 2) supporting creation of communities; and 3) supporting economic restoration. Lion's employees carried out educational activities for hand washing and tooth brushing at 15 places including childcare centers in 2012. In addition, regional products fair at our three Holding a tooth brushing seminar for business locations in Tokyo, and rugby classes for elementary and members of women's societies near our Osaka Office The Environment junior high school students in Ishinomaki were conducted. Also in 2013, we will continue to support employees to participate in volunteer assistance programs in the affected areas, and conduct the Make Tohoku Well and Active Again support project. Fair Operating Implementing clean up activities in neighboring Practices areas of each office Educational activity for hand washing at a childcare center Consumer Issues Community Involvement Cleaning up the seaside park near our Fukuoka Office Plant Tours in 2012 and Development Ishinomaki Marché (regional products fair) Plant Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi Total Number of tours 73 140 72 72 357 ＊Lion's Approaches to reconstruction from the Great East Japan Earthquake URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/reconstruction/ Participants 1,431 3,621 2,048 2,080 9,180 CSR Report 2013 45 Third-Party Review 【Ideal Vision】 3. Collaboration with Employees Maintain Following a I sound last year will make third-party comments on Lion Corporation’s “CSR Report 2013” (hereinafter referred to as “the CSR The most important management resources to achieve business management system Report”). I received necessary explanations on the content of the CSR objectives are the employees. The Lion Group’s basic CSR approach is that is continuously Report and the company’s approaches to CSR at a meeting with the that the Group contributes through its business activities to cleanliness, trusted by society health, and comfort of the society; and to realize the idea, it first responsible officials of the CSR Promotion Department. explains the measures for the employees using figures. Especially the 1. Approaches to the Environment toward 2020 way in which the associated data is shown in chronological order In the feature of the CSR report, the fiscal 2012 targets and can be appreciated. I believe that in the future, the expansion of achievement levels of each environmental item are released as a employee data will first help employees understand the benefits and summary of the new mid-term three-year environmental plan. CO2 strengths of the Group. The increased disclosure of this information emissions were reduced by 33%, which means that the target for to consumers will further improve the understanding of the Group’s reducing the 1990 level by at least 30% was achieved despite a higher increasing corporate value. Regarding employee data, a downward CO2 emission coefficient due to the nuclear power plant shutdowns trend is observed in the acquisition rate of paid leave, so I hope to see in Japan. The targets for reducing waste and water were not achieved improvements made in this area. due to reasons such as product damage and an incinerator shutdown as explained in the CSR Report. 4. Approach to Value Chains Eco Vision 2020 was developed along with the new management Companies that run a business have relationships with many social vision with specific and quantitative targets based on visions such organizations from raw material suppliers to consumers. Therefore, as the realization of a low carbon or a sound material-cycle society, the business objectives and the CSR activities should be considered in and harmony with nature. Through these activities the Lion Group connection with these relationships. In this regard, the CSR activities has made a commitment to become an environmentally-advanced are explained in relation to the value chains in the CSR report. In company to realize a sustainable society, which can be highly particular, the detailed explanations about the management of raw appreciated. I expect that the company will gain higher confidence material suppliers from the CSR perspective and the consumer issues, from society during and after the next fiscal year by releasing which included safety measures, were appreciated. All botanical the achievement levels of these targets and demonstrating the resources are planned to be switched to palm oil, which is recognized contribution to a sustainable society where the economy and the as an environmentally friendly product. I recommend that the environment coexist. Environmental information on the overseas company should provide a clear explanation about the details, such as Group companies was disclosed in response to my previous review. the purpose and content of this change. I believe that in the future, the report should also include CSR information with the range of disclosed information clarified from the The need for non-financial information including the CSR information perspective of control and influence. alongside the financial information is growing. Moreover, the stakeholders such as investors and consumers are eyeing its role 2. Clarification of CSR Activities to supplement the financial information. I believe that the clear The Lion Group has set the CSR targets on the basis of ISO26000, publication of the company’s approaches to social responsibilities and which is the International Standard of the social responsibility. This their objectives and achievements will help enhance communication year the 2012 CSR achievements of activities and objectives for 2013 with society to win its understanding, which will become a basis to were disclosed in the CSR report. Specific targets for each core subject support sustainable development of the Lion Group. Note: This review is not intended to express opinions regarding the accuracy and of ISO were established and evaluated with the pages containing completeness of the content of the CSR Report. explanations; such arrangement allows comprehensive and clear understanding of their activities. As for the organizational governance Yoshito Nakamura structure that exerts influence on other subjects, only individual Certified Public Accountant factors such as governance or risk management are separately Adjunct Instructor of Toyo University Adjunct Instructor of the Open University of Japan explained. I expect that explanations will be made in connection with Auditor of the Kawasaki City Council of Social Welfare Auditor of the Supporting Organization of JOCV CSR activities. Auditor of Foundation for Accounting Research of Construction Industry 46 CSR Report 2013 Lion’s Responses Since the company’s foundation in 1891, Lion has contributed to protecting the environment through the use of our products as well the realization of a clean, healthy, comfortable, and environmentally as creating new value. Approaches to CSR in collaboration with our friendly life under the Company Motto, “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love.” In clients/vendors have only just begun, but we will steadily continue these order to expand such businesses in Asia, CSR should be incorporated activities in the future. into the management controlling the whole Group. On the other hand, the power of the employees who courageously We have proceeded with the evaluation of the whole Group’s CSR attempt to tackle difficult issues is essential for our CSR management activities to establish a system which administers the Lion Group’s aims. The innovations induced by each employee have continued to CSR activities. This report shows that progress was made on the support the company. In the future, we will develop a good working identification of important issues and the determination of mediumenvironment, work on human resource development and utilize diverse term targets. In the future, we will work through substantial discussions human resources. to organize a system, which ensures the on-site PDCA cycle of It is one of the important social responsibilities of our company to hypothesis,” verification,” and execution as core steps. strengthen and enhance the CSR activities and clearly communicate this The third party review appreciates the disclosure of important CSR information outside the company. We will communicate information issues, targets and achievements, which enables the comprehensive about our approaches to CSR via the CSR Report and the website, and and clear understanding of our activities. In the future, we will release fulfill our responsibilities by meeting the demands of the times. the target attainment levels and disclose our progress. For the “Eco Vision 2020,” the demonstration of our willingness to contribute to a sustainable society by setting concrete and quantitative targets was evaluated. In order to achieve the targets, we will strive for technological development to reduce environmental burdens at every Itsuo Hama Representative Director stage from raw material procurement to product disposal, and keep and President Editorial Note Since 2011, Lion has systematized its CSR activities in accordance with ISO26000. Regarding progress in this area, this Report carries important issues and targets specified under the seven core subjects of the ISO. We showed the ideal visions, medium-term targets, and the 2012 targets, achievements and evaluations of each subject in a list to clarify the whole picture, and tried to make the Report easy-to-read and comprehensible. The feature article is about the Eco Vision 2020 as our advanced environmental initiatives which is one of the CSR issues. Not only did we communicate our target values and activities, we also explained the processes for determining our targets, by providing the background context of global environmental problems, our approach to the scope that is relevant to our company, and opinions from external specialists, so that the overall picture can be understood. In the future, we would like to show the progress toward these targets and achievements, and to disclose information especially on our overseas approaches. CSR Report 2013 47 Corporate Message For more than 120 years, we have engaged in business closely related to people’ s living. In due course, we learned that the essence of happiness is to live fulfilling everyday lives and to cultivate a positive attitude. An accumulation of todays’becomes your entire life, and a part of your life happens today. Therefore, we believe that valuing each day of each person leads to valuing his or her life. Lion’ s role is to provide support for this kind of daily living. Under these ideas, we prepared our corporate message, resolving to continue to make new proposals toward our customers’valuable futures. Published : November 15, 2013 Inquiries : CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Tel: +81-3-3621-6611 Lion is selected for the FTSE4 Good Index Series, a Fax: +81-3-3621-6269 global indicator for socially Website: http://www.lion.co.jp/ responsible investment. Next scheduled publication : November 2014 In recognition of its advanced environmental initiatives, Lion has been certified as an Eco First Company by the Japan’s Ministry of the Environment.
