ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Argentina Germany OUR PRESENCE IN THE WORLD 2012 Andorra Austria www.nh-hotels.com 391 58,853 18,817 16 million Belgium Chile hotels rooms employees customers Colombia in 26 countries Slovakia Spain United States France The Netherlands Hungary Italy Luxembourg Mexico Poland Portugal United Kingdom Czech Republic Dominican Republic Romania South Africa Switzerland Uruguay Venezuela NH Paseo del Prado (Madrid) NH München Deutscher Kaiser (Munich) nhow Berlin NH Monterrey NH Grand Hotel (Berlin) (Monterrey) Krasnapolsky NH Eurobuilding (Amsterdam) (Madrid) NH Guadalajara NH City & Tower (Guadalajara, Mexico) NH Harrington Hall Hesperia (Buenos Aires) Jolly Madison (London) Tower NH Fiera Towers (Barcelona) (Milan) (New York) CONTENTS Messages from the Chairman and CEO..................................... 4 This is NH Hoteles’ seventh Corporate CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.................................................................... 5 Responsibility Report detailing the company’s approach and economic, environmental and social performance for the 2012 financial year. This report has EXPERIENCES AND SOLUTIONS.............................................................. 7 been produced in accordance with the guidelines set out by the G3.1 Guide to the Global Reporting Initiative, being graded as A+. MAIN FIGURES ...........................................................................................11 The Report has also been subject to an independent review by KPMG in relation to the reliability of the information reported OUR SUSTAINABLE APPROACH ............................................................15 and the monitoring of reporting rules. Reported indicators table and our fulfilment is available at the end of this report. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ................................................................. 20 This report and the previous ones are published in digital format and are available at http://corporate.nh-hoteles. es/en/corporate-responsibility-andENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE...................................................... 32 sustainability/csr-report SOCIAL PERFORMANCE ......................................................................... 39 We want to hear your opinion Please, send us your comments and suggestions on this report by e-mail to corporateresponsibility@nh-hotels.com or through the form included in our Corporate Website AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS............................................................. 54 http://www.suopinioncuenta.es/index_en.html ROADMAP AND PRIORITIES FOR 2013................................................ 56 INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT............................................ 57 CONTENTS 3 CHAIRMAN I am pleased to introduce the Company’s 2012 Annual Report, which outlines NH Hoteles’ international shareholder and business partner. Our strategic alliance with HNA will performance along the economic, environmental and social dimensions last year and translate into business opportunities for NH in the years to come. introduces the events taking place in the early part of 2013. I would like to thank all of our shareholders, partners and customers for their support Last year was marked by an especially adverse economic environment that was and the confidence they have placed in the Company’s new direction. Also my thanks particularly unfavourable in the main markets where the Company operates. For this to all of the Company’s employees in a complex year, whose constant commitment and reason, NH Hoteles went to significant lengths to adapt its organisational structure to hard work is crucial for NH’s future. this reality and to secure the refinancing of its debt. Lastly, in light of the changes in the composition of the Board of Directors in the early Towards the end of the year, the Group articulated a new corporate governance months of 2013, on behalf of the Company I would like to specially thank our outgoing model, designed to enable more efficient oversight of the Company’s highest-level directors and welcome the newcomers. management and governance duties, while facilitating the focus on a more productive business management. In relation to 2013, we are working intensely to make the Group more solvent so that it can service all its commitments, finance its business plan and reinforce a growth strategy designed to place NH Hoteles in a global leadership position. Along these lines, I am Rodrigo Echenique Gordillo pleased to inform you of the effective investment by the HNA Group, a benchmark Chairman of NH Hoteles CEO Since joining the Company at the end of 2012, I have had the chance to see the Group’s The roadmap for achieving our goals entails the re-launch of the NH brand and its performance first hand and come to understand its strengths and enormous potential. hotel portfolio by building well-defined product segmentation; revising the portfolio to adapting it into the current and future needs; reinventing the consumers’ experiences Despite the adverse economic climate prevailing last year, the Company continued to and solutions; reinforcing the online sales channels; improving our management tools show its ability to innovate and respond to new guest demands, rolling out free Wi-Fi to make us more competitive; and, lastly, specifying where the Company wants to be access worldwide in the rooms and communal areas of all the Group’s hotels. and in what form. Against this backdrop, due to current uncertainty and out of a sense of responsibility, I would like to thank everyone who is in any way related with our Group. Thanks NH Hoteles decided to recognise a series of impairment charges that resulted in a to your commitment, especially of the employees who have displayed exemplary particularly bad earnings performance. These charges however will allow us to rise to dedication and constant effort, we are working hard to add value to the Company the challenges to come from a more realistic position. in 2013 by transforming NH Hoteles into a unique experience of which we can all feel proud. Keenly aware of the effects of the prevailing recession, all of the Company’s teams are working with intensity, rigour and enthusiasm to add value to our strengths. A broad and diversified portfolio of hotels with prime locations in top destination markets, a varied service offering and a committed and motivated team. These are the bases on which we are building the new NH. Federico González Tejera Our vision is that whenever anyone contemplates a trip to a city for an overnight stay CEO of NH Hoteles or meeting, for business or pleasure, they first ask themselves: “Is there an NH Hotel?” NH aspires to be the “top 2 choice” for city/business travelers, offering a different product and service experience. Messages from the Chairman and CEO 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the end of 2012, the Board of Directors of NH Hoteles appointed Rodrigo Echenique Gordillo as non-executive Chairman of the Company’s highest governing body and Federico González Tejera as Chief Executive Officer. Rodrigo Echenique Gordillo is deeply familiar with NH Hoteles, having served on its Board of Directors for eight years (1997-2005). He boasts a long and rich professional trajectory, with his experience in banking, in the State Administration and presence on several boards, including the chairmanship of Vallehermoso, standing out. He is currently an independent director at Banco Santander and a nonexecutive director at Vocento and Agrolimen, S.A. Federico González Tejera has spent much of his professional career at several leading multinationals in the consumer goods, leisure and tourism industries, including Disneyland Paris and Procter & Gamble. Management Committee He has spent the last 18 years of his career abroad, working in Belgium, Sweden, Portugal and France, among other countries. With these two hires, NH Hoteles has articulated a MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (as of May 2013) new corporate governance model, splitting the roles of chairman, whose non-executive duties will centre Mr. Federico González Tejera, Chief Executive Officer on the Company’s management and governance at the highest level, and chief executive, with the newly Mr. Ramón Aragonés Marín, Chief Operations Officer appointed CEO focusing the Company’s business operations. Mr. Ignacio Aranguren González-Tarrío, Chief Assets & Development Officer Mr. Íñigo Capell Arrieta, Chief Resources Officer Mr. Roberto Chollet Ibarra, Chief Financial Officer Ms. Rocío Escondrillas Labad, Chief Marketing Officer Mr. Carlos Ulecia Palacios, General Counsel CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (*) AUDIT AND CONTROL APPOINTMENTS AND COMMITTEE (*) COMPENSATION COMMITTEE (*) Chairman: Mr. Rodrigo Echenique Gordillo Chairman: Mr. Carlos González Fernández Chairman: Mr. Gilles Pélisson Vice-Chairman: Mr. José Antonio Castro Sousa Members: Members: CEO: Mr. Federico González Tejera Mr. Iñaki Arratíbel Olaziregi Mr. Francisco Javier Illa Ruiz Members: Mr. Manuel Galarza Pont (representing Mr. Carlos Stilianopoulos Ridruejo (representing Sociedad de Mr. Iñaki Arratíbel Olaziregi Participaciones y Cartera de Inversión, S.L.) Promoción y Participación Empresarial Caja Madrid SA) Ms. Rosalba Casiraghi Mr. Ignacio Ezquiaga Domínguez Secretary, non-member: Mr. Pedro Ferreras Díez Mr. Roberto Cibeira Moreiras (representing Hoteles Participados S.L.) Mr. Ignacio Ezquiaga Domínguez (representing Secretary, non-member: Mr. Pedro Ferreras Díez (*) Hoteles Participados S.L.) As of December 31st 2012 Mr. Manuel Galarza Pont (representing Participaciones y Cartera de Inversión, S.L.) EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (*) Mr. Carlos González Fernández Mr. Francisco Javier Illa Ruiz Chairman: Mr. Rodrigo Echenique Gordillo Shareholding structure Mr. Ramón Lanau Viñals Vice-Chairman: Mr. José Antonio Castro Sousa of NH Hoteles on December 31ST 2012 Mr. José María López-Elola González Members: Mr. Gilles Pélisson Mr. Manuel Galarza Pont (representing Participaciones y Cartera de Inversión, S.L.) Mr. Fernando Sobrini (representing Corporación 25.09 Financiera Caja Madrid S.A.) Mr. Roberto Cibeira Moreiras 30.28 Mr. Carlos Stilianopoulos Ridruejo (representing Mr. Federico González Tejera Sociedad de Promoción y Participación Secretary, non-member: Mr. Pedro Ferreras Díez 1.44 15.75 Empresarial Caja Madrid SA) 5.65 Secretary, non-member: Mr. Pedro Ferreras Díez 5.07 5.04 6.25 5.43 25.09% Grupo Inversor Hesperia 15.75% Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, S.A. 5.04% Ibercaja Banco, S.A. 5.43% Hoteles Participados, S.L. HNA 6.25% CK Corporación Kutxa, S.L. In April 2013, NH Hoteles successfully concluded the rights issue approved by the Company’s Board of Directors to give Chinese 5.07% Pontegadea Inversiones, S.L. business group HNA a 20% shareholding (post-money). The equity issue (fully subscribed and paid) entailed the issuance of a total 5.65% Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. of 61,654,358 ordinary shares, each with a par value of €2 plus a share premium of €1.80, giving rise to a total payment of over €234M. 1.44% NH Management and Employees 30.28% Remaining capital CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 6 EXPERIENCES AND SOLUTIONS NH HOTELES 1 2 3 4 Buildings 1 nhow Berlin, Berlin Germany 2 NH Fiera, Milan Italy 3 NH Aeropuerto T2 México Mexico 4 Hesperia Tower, Barcelona Spain EXPERIENCES AND SOLUTIONS NH HOTELES 7 5 6 9 11 7 8 10 Rooms Lobbies 5 NH Jousten, Buenos Aires Argentina 9 NH Bogotá 93, Bogota Colombia 6 nhow Milano, Milan Italy 10 NH Porta Rossa, Florence Italy 7 NH Príncipe de Vergara, Madrid Spain 11 NH Ribera del Manzanares, Madrid Spain 8 NH Zandvoort, Zandvoort The Netherlands EXPERIENCES AND SOLUTIONS NH HOTELES 8 12 14 15 16 13 17 Gastronomy Meeting Rooms 12 Restaurant Vermeer, Amsterdam The Netherlands 15 NH Lingotto, Turin Italy 13 Santceloni, Madrid Spain 16 NH Tropen, Amsterdam The Netherlands 14 Terraza del Casino, Madrid Spain 17 NH Constanza, Barcelona Spain EXPERIENCES AND SOLUTIONS NH HOTELES 9 NH Olomouc, Olomouc Czech Republic “NH is synonymous with REINVENTING THE NH EXPERIENCE quality, impeccable and personal guest service, and Our target at NH Hoteles is to continuously reinvent the customer experience according to 4 commitments: healthy culinary options across We Deliver: ensure the customer what is to be expected to find, because NH Hoteles provides, always and in all its hotels, the all of the hotels we run” expected services. Eloísa Fernández, We Care: look after, listen and indulge the customer, paying special attention to the details taken into account. Housekeeping Manager NH Calderón We make things Easy: before and during the reservation process, at the check in at the hotel, in the service request, during the stay, at the check out and afterwards in the relation with NH Hoteles by loyalty programmes. We have the ability to Surprise: knowing what a guest/consumer likes but does not ask for, providing ‘soul’ to our hotels in order to make the stay become an ‘experience’. EXPERIENCES AND SOLUTIONS NH HOTELES 10 MAIN FIGURES NH Hoteles has a portfolio of 391 urban and resort hotels, with 58,853 rooms in 26 countries across Europe, America and Africa. Its prime locations in top city destinations make it one of the leading hotel chains in the European business travel segment and an increasingly prominent player in America. nhow Berlin, Berlin Germany Breakdown of rooms BY country Europa (December 31st 2012) 353 hotels AmErica 51,477 rooms 10 3 14 36% Spain 36 hotels 17 countries 3 2 3 18% Germany 7,134 rooms 14% Italy 11% The Netherlands 8 countries Africa 18 3% Belgium 2 hotels 3% Mexico 3% Argentina 242 rooms 36 11 2% Austria 1 country 10% Others MAIN FIGURES 11 NH HOTELES PORTFOLIO BREAKDOWN (dECEMBER 31ST 2012) 2012 RESULTS: MARKED BY PRUDENT TOTAL LEASED OWNED MANAGED Franchise IMPAIRMENT CHARGES Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Due to the sharp deterioration in the economic climate in TOTAL NH HOTELES 391 58,853 220 31,868 83 13,820 81 12,643 7 522 southern Europe, NH Hoteles posted a recurring net loss of €66.9M in 2012, compared to a loss of €9.1M in 2011. As a result EUROPE of adverse economic trends, particularly in Spain and Italy, the Spain 171 20,677 93 10,712 16 2,428 56 7,108 6 429 Group tested the recoverable value of its assets on the basis Germany 59 10,438 54 9,438 5 1,000 of its business plan, deciding to increase asset impairment Italy 52 8,239 32 5,300 15 2,280 5 659 provisions to €268M. As a result, the Group registered a consolidated net loss of €292M. Note that these impairment The Netherlands 35 6,509 16 2,441 18 3,988 1 80 provisions do not imply any cash outlay whatsoever. Belgium 10 1,550 2 434 8 1,116 Austria 6 1,183 6 1,183 Hotel activity and real state Switzerland 4 521 3 399 1 122 Turning to the Group’s hotel business performance, NH Hoteles France 3 556 2 397 1 159 managed to keep its occupancy rate steady at 2011 levels; Czech Republic 2 579 2 579 however, revenue narrowed by 3.4% due to hotels sold in 2011, United Kingdom 2 321 1 121 1 200 which make up close to the half of the decrease in sales, as Portugal 2 165 2 165 well as the slowdown in the meetings, conventions and events segment, a drop in restaurant takings and a decline in the Romania 2 161 1 83 1 78 average daily rate (ADR). Hungary 1 160 1 160 Luxembourg 1 148 1 148 The business climate deteriorated in Spain and Italy in the Slovakia 1 117 1 117 last quarter of the year relative to the first nine months and the business travel segment was affected by the adverse Poland 1 93 1 93 economic climate engulfing these countries, prompting Andorra 1 60 1 60 significant underperformance by secondary cities relative TOTAL EUROPE 353 51,477 214 30,981 63 10,934 69 9,040 7 522 to the main urban destinations. The Benelux Business Unit gained momentum in the last quarter of the year: despite AMERICA downward pressure on prices, the Company managed to increase its market share. The occupancy rate in this Business Argentina 13 2,049 11 1,524 2 525 Unit improved by 1.1% across comparable hotels in 2012, Mexico 13 2,040 5 689 4 681 4 670 although the ADR narrowed by 3.4%. Dominican Republic 3 1,261 3 1,261 The Central Europe and Americas Business Units were the Venezuela 3 1,147 3 1,147 Group’s top-performers in 2012. The occupancy rate in United States 1 242 1 242 Central Europe rose sharply, as did pricing in all German Colombia 1 137 1 137 cities, with Munich and Berlin standing out. Trends in Latin Uruguay 1 136 1 136 America were mixed. Whereas Argentina was affected by the decline in demand from two of its core issuer markets Chile 1 122 1 122 (Spain and Brazil), Mexico posted a stellar performance, TOTAL AMERICA 36 7,134 5 689 19 2,842 12 3,603 0 0 registering growth in RevPar (revenue per available room) of over 10%. AFRICA South Africa 2 242 1 198 1 44 0 0 Revenue in the real estate business rose 30% to €22.1M, up from €16.9M in 2011. Deeds were exchanged on a total of 25 TOTAL AFRICA 2 242 1 198 1 44 0 0 homes for an amount of €10.7M, compared to €1.5M in 2011. MAIN FIGURES 12 NH HOTELES: AN INTERNATIONAL PLAYER 100% of the rooms opened and contracts signed last year were arranged under management contracts. The Group opened four new hotels in 2012, adding a total of 673 new rooms; it also extended a resort complex in the Dominican Republic by 180 rooms and signed agreements for the upcoming management of five new hotels that will add 908 rooms to the Group’s portfolio. Among the new openings, the chain’s debut hotel in the Slovakian market and the urban hotel in the Dominican Republic stand out. Hotel rooms, 1996 2012 4,130 4,235 Compound annual growth rate: 13.4% 6,146 6,892 3,658 Spain & Portugal 7,082 8,276 Germany 8,239 Benelux Italy 2,325 8,002 8,289 8,207 2,552 Latin America 2,279 5,531 4,563 Rest of the world 4,401 750 8,123 6,559 6,982 10,704 10,438 7,540 2,164 10,061 965 8,867 9,512 8,610 7,962 760 21,142 20,842 12,481 13,890 14,665 10,617 11,570 6,948 8,199 Hesperia Tower, Barcelona Spain 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 Breakdown by rooms (December 31st 2012) MAIN FIGURES OF THE NH HOTELES GROUP AS AT DECEMBER 31ST 2012 NH HOTELES, S.A. P&L ACCOUNT (€ million) 2012 2011 2012/2011 22 Hotel Revenues 1,288.0 1,339.2 (3.8%) OPEN HOTELS DURING 2012 Real estate sales and other 22.1 17.0 30.3% HOTELS CITY COUNTRY ROOMS TOTAL REVENUES 1,310.13 1,356.21 (3.4%) Now Larimar Garden Dominican 55 Punta Cana 180 GROSS OPERATING PROFIT 411.12 454.28 (9.5%) View (extension) Republic 23 EBITDA 118.16 164.15 (28.0%) Dominican NH Punta Cana Punta Cana 66 EBIT 5.5 45.17 (87.8%) Republic NET RESULT before minorities (66.9) (9.1) (635.5%) NH Gate One Bratislava Slovakia 117 Non recurring EBITDA (40.2) 38.2 (205.1%) Czech NH Prague Praga 442 Republic 55% Leased Other non-recurring items (185.0) (22.9) (708.4%) NH Ourense Orense Spain 48 23% Owned NET RESULT including (292.1) 6.2 (4,785.2%) TOTAL NEW OPENINGS 853 22% Managed non-recurring activity MAIN FIGURES 13 PERFORMANCE OF OPENINGS AND INCORPORATIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT By number of rooms Organic Growth Acquisitions One of the other important strategic initiatives in 2012 was the continued streamlining of Hesperia Incorporation NH’s hotel portfolio: the chain exited 10 establishments and cancelled two lease arrangements. 2012 KEY MILESTONES 8,999 Successful completion of the refinancing process 7,456 Following the pertinent negotiations with its creditor banks, NH Hoteles officially culminated its refinancing process. The new notarised agreement was signed by all 33 banks holding 3,048 2,718 100% of the debt subject to refinancing. The 2,329 2,445 2,101 1,926 transaction implied the refinancing of €729.8M 1,416 1,008 853 of corporate bank debt and another €75M of debt at the Italian subsidiary level. Hesperia Bilbao, Bilbao Spain 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 New appointments and corporate governance model NH Hoteles reformed its corporate governance model by appointing a new non-executive to Exit from non-core hotels chair its highest governing body and a new CEO, Hotels exited by the NH Group in 2012 thereby splitting these roles and duties. HOTELS COUNTRY ROOMS Organisational transformation NH Trier Germany 215 NH Hoteles overhauled its entire organisational Hesperia London Victoria United Kingdom 212 structure at a vigorous pace, aligning the business model with its multinational reality, Hesperia Gelmirez Spain 138 emerging consumer trends and its unwavering NH Praha Radlicka Czech Republic 134 commitment to efficient management. The Group’s comprehensive overhaul was kick-started NH Mercader Spain 124 with the introduction of various plans designed NH Condor Spain 78 to tackle its business development and sector leadership from a position of strength, while Hesperia Sport Barcelona Spain 63 cushioning the consequences of the lingering NH Venus Sea Garden Resort Italy 59 global recession which remains particularly virulent in some of the Group’s core markets. The Hesperia Patricia Spain 44 Company focused its efforts on responding to Hesperia Carlit Spain 38 the challenges thrown up by the sector in terms of efficiency, sales strategy, technology, quality TOTAL EXITS 1,105 standards and its online presence. MAIN FIGURES 14 OUR SUSTAINABLE APPROACH NH Hoteles develops its business integrating the responsibility of being sustainable in all the processes, in the economic, environmental and social context, within a constant innovation to meet our commitments towards our stakeholders. MISSION To offer sustainable, consistent and efficient hotel services for our customers, shareholders, partners, employees and society in general. We aspire to lead the tourism sector in sustainable development and inspire others. VisiOn To enhance the time that our customers spend with us by heightening their experience and contributing to a more sustainable world. NH HOTELES VALUES People focus Innovation Environmental Responsibility NH Aeropuerto T2 México, Mexico City Mexico Business Sense BENEFITS AND OPPORTUNITIES OF SUSTAINABILITY IN NH HOTELES Innovation Savings and Commitment and Stakeholder Brand Long-term competitive Engagement Differentiation Planning The NH Sustainable advantage Club and the Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy enables Our sustainable focus Corporate Volunteering for The reduction of us to ensure an active collaboration with Customers, increases brand value Responsibility Development environmental Employees, Suppliers and Society in order to achieve and makes us stand implies integrating Cooperation, several consumption sustainable development objectives. Initiatives such in the market, being a vision with times awarded with significant as NH meeting moments, where we offer the chance a commercialisation a greater due to its strength operational cost to offset carbon emissions, Christmas for Everyone, lever in the Corporate perspective and and originality, are savings on water, in a particular vulnerability moment, in which for the Client and Consortiums analysing, not benchmark projects energy and gas which first time customers and residents from our hotels segments which only the quarterly in the industry and enable us to improve in Spain were involved, or the solidarity donation at already assess the financial results, pioneers in sustainable our competitiveness the check out show our customers’ awareness on our supplier’s responsible but also the innovation. without reducing. sustainability commitment. commitment. long-term impact. OUR SUSTAINABLE APPROACH 15 DIALOGUE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS In NH Hoteles’ sustainability management, the dialogue with our stakeholders is crucial, and that means all the stakeholders with whom the company is involved and integrate the value “ecosystem” of our business. In this sense, we are committed with our shareholders, customers, suppliers, environment, employees and society, and we report relevant information to each of them, with indicators enabling to asses and carry on the defined approach with all of them. According to its commitment towards each group of interest, the Company fosters several channels for discussing and answering the different needs and challenges raised. 2012 Shareholders Customers Employees Suppliers Environment Society CR Master Plan Specific corporate webs Satisfaction Surveys Meetings and workshops Participation in events and forums Communication and publication of information Joining Code of Wifree Responsible Successful Conduct Up! Campaign Purchases accomplishement Training For the Highlighted in 2012 (disabled of the 2008-2012 People Customer collaborators Environmental Corporate Alliances Assessments rate 8.6) Strategic Plan Volunteering This Report is the seventh edition of NH Hoteles’ Corporate Responsibility Report, elaborated annually since 2006, a document which reflects the evolution and consolidation of our sustainable approach as a strategic pillar of our management. Once again, in 2012 has an application level of A+ from the reporting standard of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). CORPORATE INTRANET INNOVATIONS There have been created sections which positively increase the website usability, such as “Apps”, “For your daily tasks”, “For your Interest”, and Employee’s Benefits, as well as static and rotating banners to communicate significant news and campaigns. Also in 2012 it was created the Social Media section, a new one aiming to involve more the employees in campaigns and competitions, and the space was divided in corporate and local contents in order to optimize its organization. Corporate website OUR SUSTAINABLE APPROACH 16 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY NH HOTELES CODE OF CONDUCT MILESTONES Since 2011, NH Hoteles has a new Code of Conduct, binding on all employees, Board members, Changes on Corporate Governance shareholders and suppliers. It also incorporates an appointing a new Chairman and a new CEO, anonymous procedure for reporting complaints of a way of splitting into two their functions and alleged breaches of the Code, receiving in 2012 a responsibilities within the Group. total of 6 complaints. Inclusion in the sustainability stock exchange To promote the Code of Conduct dissemination index FTSE4Good after December 2012 among the employees, in the Intranet there is revision. FTSE4Good is one of the global a Practical Guide available, which details the barometers for assessing environmental, ethical, rules and values of the Code in an illustrative social and corporate governance performance way, as well as including a FAQ document, of companies. considering aspects such as its binding nature, the confidentiality while processing complaints New functions and applications of Quality and the anonymity of the channel. Focus On-line, platform monitoring customer satisfaction and enabling to answer to their Training on the Code of Conduct needs. Answering to customers’ suggestions, in In 2012 the implementation and dissemination 2012 we provided free WiFi in all the rooms and of aspects defining our ethical behaviour have common areas in the Company’s hotels. been carried on by the development of an on-line training on the Code of Conduct in order to Successful results of the 2008-2012 bring it closer to employees and help them to Environmental Strategic Plan, reflecting know it better. the efficient performance on the issue and establishing NH Hoteles position as benchmark The training is available in six languages and has company on sustainability for the hotel industry. educational and interactive content, exercises to facilitate the understanding of principles governing Launching of the corporate training the behaviour and the actions of every employee, programme New Heights, targeting to prepare information on anonymous channels for complains every hotel manager on key issues to face short and a test to self-assess the level of acquired and mid-term challenges. knowledge. Training is compulsory and from time to time a follow-up is organized in order to ensure Up! for the People social action initiative is it is fulfilled by all the staff. consolidated, after training 441 young Spanish people at risk of exclusion and disabled people, more than 900 volunteer employees involved and 8,367 donated rooms in 2012. On-line training on the Code of Conduct OUR SUSTAINABLE APPROACH 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM NH Hoteles has the 20112013 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, implemented through annual action plans. 20112013 Master Plan Strategic Lines Providing comprehensiveness and multidimensional character to every action on Corporate Responsibility Foster global Social Action positioning the NH Hoteles brand as “Social Innovator” Support Corporate Volunteering as social action and internal standing vehicle. Promote sustainable innovation as brand differentiation and standing reinforcement mechanism. Intensify responsible and sustainable NH communication as support for global dialogue, particularly with employees, customers and society. Internal Organization The Corporate Social Responsibility Department is dependent on the General Secretary. The General Secretary is a member of the Steering Committee and reports to the CEO. In order to ensure correct implementation and coordination in the different Business Units, there is a CSR manager in each one of them who heads up the management, and channels all of the information, doubts, ideas and initiatives which emerge in each region. NH Gate One, Bratislava Slovakia Global Compact Since 2006, NH Hoteles is member of the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles,as a reference framework for designing the strategy and managing Corporate Responsibility. Likewise, the current Code of Conduct of NH Hoteles includes the fulfilment of international and sectorial ethical commitments, comprising Global Compact’s Ten Principles. In 2012, and like each year, the Company issued its annual Progress Report through a public letter signed by the Chairman. This contains all the initiatives and outstanding results of the year. OUR SUSTAINABLE APPROACH 18 GLOBAL FRAMEWORK INITIATIVES AND ALLIANCES As a global company, NH Hoteles manages its business according to corporate values On the path to lead the tourism industry in sustainable and its standard of ethics and conduct, as development NH Hoteles has several partnerships, which well as it ensures the rigorous fulfilment become strategic alliances: of the legislation in force in each country. In particular issues such as real estate International Tourism Partnership (ITP) management, the Company operates in Global platform bringing together the leaders in sustainability accordance with the law, with a process in the tourism sector. In 2012 it is highlighted NH Hoteles’ for reviewing the classification of shortinvolvement in the following projects and working groups: listed plots and the conformity of business licences when signing new contracts. In the relationship with local governments, NH Hoteles always acts independently of any political power, maintaining transparency with the different public and Youth Career Iniative. NH Hoteles takes part in Mexico DF administrative institutions. in this alliance for training and professional development of disadvantaged young people in 15 destinations. Relationship with governments In the relationship with local governments, Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI). Co-creators, NH Hoteles always acts independently together with 23 of the main international hotels chains, of of any political power, maintaining this methodology enabling to calculate the carbon footprint NH Grand Hotel Krasnapolsky, Amsterdam The Netherlands transparency with the different public and and standardize it. It was tested in 5 of our hotels. administrative institutions. Club de Excelencia en Sostenibilidad In 2012, government subsidies were “At NH Hoteles we work Business association composed by 22 big companies obtained, principally for building hotels hard every day to take care supporting sustainable growth. It has joint working groups and golf courses in Sotogrande and of our guests. Our pride in on environment, human resources, ICT and Sustainability or Donnafugata, to the value of €19,718. Corporate Governance. being their hotel of choice For more details, please check the 2012 means that our enthusiasm Financial Statements Report. never flags” Risk management Javier Friera, The risk control system over Company Director NH Eurobuilding activities includes those financial, strategic Juntos por el Empleo (SPAIN) development, business, operational, environmental and regulatory risks. It NH Hoteles joints the commitment on improving the job access has been integrated the risk map in a of the most vulnerable sectors in Spanish society, fostering proprietary management software, also collaboration among the business sector, the public sector used for processes and procedures. The and organizations from the third sector. It is led by Accenture implemented improvements to mitigate Foundation, Compromiso Empresarial Foundation and SERES the operational risks include developing Foundation. This initiative aims to share, integrate individual the control in the Company front tools and efforts and develop key projects to jointly work and have a the incorporation of non-existent controls. collective impact. OUR SUSTAINABLE APPROACH 19 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE NH Hoteles is in an ongoing quest for acquiring the needed capacities to carry forward its business in an efficient way and aiming to lead the industry. In times of general recession in the global economic context, and with a significant impact in our operational areas, this approach becomes already more important to face economic sustainability. This allows the Company to answer more efficiently to its shareholders, keep on providing innovative services to its customers and keep a proactive relationship with suppliers in order to make alliances in difficult moments and carry on looking for joint solutions. SHAREHOLDERS NH Hoteles works to build a trust relationship with our shareholders, strongly committed to FTSE4Good transparency, particularly on availability and access to relevant information in a full and Sole Spanish Company reliable way. inc luded in 2013 in the sustainability stock Hesperia Tower, Barcelona Spain At the end of 2012, the share capital of NH exchange index FTSE4Good Hoteles was represented by 246,617,430 after being reviewed in bearer shares, each with a par value of €2, fully 2012. This index is one of the barometers for subscribed and paid up. All these shares are assessing environmental, ethical, social and admitted to trading on the Electronic Market corporate governance factors and it means a of Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia and Bilbao recognition for NH Hoteles commitment in its Stock Exchanges and have equal voting and Corporate Responsibility strategy. dividend rights. According to CNMV communication on 12 April 2012, the syndication agreement As par t the Company’s commitment between Banco Financiero y de Ahorros towards transparency and responsibility, has and Caja de Ahorros y Monte de Piedad de reported for the fifth consecutive year to Siri Zaragoza, Aragón y Rioja (Ibercaja), signed Company (Sustainable Investment Research in December 2009, will be automatically International) and Eiris (Ethical Investment extended for yearly periods, excepts if one Research Services), both dedicated to assess of the parties complains. On the contrary, social responsible investments and to analyse the agreement signed in December 2009 sustainable performances of companies. between Caja Vasca Kutxa and the company Hoteles Participados expired on 31 December 2012, according to CNMV communication on 20 December 2012. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • SHAREHOLDERS 20 COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Norwegian Pension Fund increased its share in NH Hoteles The Norwegian Fund increased its share Shareholders’ Corner in the Company from 2.24% in 2011 to In 2012 the platform launched the year before 2.40% in 2012. Among the policies taken is consolidated, increasing the interactivity with into account for this decision, it may be shareholders and investors and optimising their stressed our environmental performance, access to key information on different Company areas. the involvement of all the stake holders in the Code of Conduct, the sustainable Electronic Shareholders´ Forum innovation measures and the successful Social Action strategy. Permanent information and par ticipation tool facilitating communication with shareholder which has been implemented due to the entry into force of the Spanish Law 12/2010 of 30 June, modifying, among other legal provisions, the Law on Accounts Audits SHAREHOLDER CLUB and actions within the tax, labour and market-opening scopes in order to foster investment and job creation, Initiative to reward shareholders with exclusive and the Law on Stock Market. Even if the regulation benefits. Shareholders earn 6% worth of credits provides it is compulsory to create such Electronic for all the billed items (1 credit = €1), which they Forum in order to promote communication to can exchange for free accommodation and shareholder previously General Meetings are held and catering services. Shareholders´ reservation line Shareholders’ General Meeting 2012 to be used as vehicle to publish proposals intending to is, also, an exclusive service including direct be presented as additional to the agenda, applications reservations, extended check-in times, superior to subscribe them, initiatives to reach the needed rooms, exclusive promotions, Check In Express, percentage to exercise minority rights or requests of NH World online and special equipment in the voluntary representation, NH Hoteles makes this Forum room, among other benefits. and the above mentioned characteristics available to shareholders, keeping it operational throughout the year and not only for General Meetings call. Shareholders’ General Meeting MAIN SHAREHOLDERS AND On 29 June 2012 the Company’s Annual General INVESTORS INDICATORS Meeting was held on first call, attending 72.61% of 2011 2012 social capital. Nº of nationwide entities that issue NH Hoteles analysis reports 10 10 Events with investors Nº of international entities that issue NH Hoteles analysis reports 11 10 2 events with investors and 49 meetings with shareholders and investors were held this year, less Nº of shareholders and investors telephone queries answered 874 624 than last year. In 2011 investors showed a high interest in the Company due to the announced capital increase Nº of meetings with shareholders and investors 137 49 agreement with the Chinese group HNA, unlike 2012, which has been a year clearly marked by the efforts to Nº of analyst follow-up reports 135 122 re-financing the Group’s debt. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • SHAREHOLDERS 21 CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction is NH Hoteles’ priority and, therefore, QUALITY FOCUS NEW our aim is facilitating the processes, keeping transparent actions, ensuring the quality of care and service and FUNCTIONS constantly innovate to meet customer expectations. Quality Balanced Scorecard (QBS) EXCELLENCE IN QUALITY Tool that enables linking the customer satisfaction results with other business variables, such as employee productivity In 2012 both quality management tools from NH Hoteles or income, and look for best practices in get consolidated: order to increase customer satisfaction and Company efficiency. Quality Focus, channel of dialogue with customers enabling to position Mystery Guest the service and the quality as Company’s strategic aspec ts, In 2012, the results of 367 audits giving NH Hoteles competitive carried out by the Quality Department advantage in the market and making it easier for at NH Hoteles using the Mystery Guest employees worldwide to get involved. methodology were integrated in the platform Quality Focus On-line to Quality Focus On-line, software determine whether the service meets the allowing to get to know customer standards and follows the procedures assessments in all the hotels, to defined by the Company. Furthermore, gather all that information in a 79 Mystery Guest visits were made to sole platform and to get reliable competing chains to monitor new trends statistics showing the satisfaction level to set up on-going in providing hotel services. NH Porta Rossa, Firenze Italy improvement plans. In 2012 more than 228,000 surveys were collected, with 2011 2012 an average global rate of 8.1 over 10, making the Company Nº Visits 290 367 one of the best rated in the industry. Location, cleanliness and service are the most appreciated elements according Score 7.08 7.73 Top Rated Hotels to NH Hoteles’ guests. The hotels NH Palacio de Tepa, rated 9.0, NH Porta Rossa, rated 8.9, nhow Berlin, rated 8.8 and Grand Hotel Convento di Overall Score of NH Hoteles 2011 2012 DIF. Amalfi, rated 8.8, have become the favourite ones according General Satisfaction (*) 8.0 (from 0 to 10) 8.1 (from 0 to 10) + 0.1 to travellers because they offer No Surveys 105,135 89,985 15,150 additional services and have innovative spaces. No Scores (NH Surveys+ external pages) 211,577 229,809 + 18,232 Value for Money Scores 7.5 7.7 + 0.2 (*) Including NH Hoteles’ internal surveys and external pages scores. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • customers 22 New Surveys Before, During and After the Stay In 2012 the cycle of customer opinion registration “I am delighted to be part of is completed by including a satisfaction survey on the reservation process and while the stay is NH Hoteles. It is important for taking place through QR codes in different hotel me to work day in and day out areas. Thanks to this service, customer can answer to make sure that our guests from their mobile phones questions related to enjoy an unforgettable stay services and products, meeting rooms, etc. The with us” satisfaction surveys have also been extended to Bookers to assess group reservations, lounges Rahwa Bumba, and catering services managed by external companies. Deputy Hotel Director NH Frankfurt Airport NH University Training NEW HEIGHTS Training programme relating to the Company’s new project on hotel managers development, through which already 323 participants have been trained in 17th editions, on key issues to face NH Hoteles challenges. This training is QF International New Team aimed to prepare participants, targeting service In 2012 the international team dedicated to quality, managing the Quality Focus On-line the Project Quality Focus is created. Its main tool, focusing on the interpretation of hotelobjectives are leading the Quality Focus level information in order to design Action Plans programme on a Business Unit level and analyzing to report an improvement and better results. the behaviour of every hotel based on Quality Focus On-Line results. QR Code Project (BIDI) A new project allowing to complete the NH GUEST SERVICE information stored in Quality Focus and manage, in a centralised way, from Quality Focus On-Line, The NH Hoteles Customer Care Department the information obtained with the surveys made carries forward in its relationship with customers, through QR codes (BIDI). changing from a reactive contact to a proactive one. In this way, guests who expressed a disagreement to the Company are contacted and so is contacted, in a proactive way, everybody else who was not satisfied with the service and communicated it in the internal surveys. During 2012 a total of 13,705 guests were contacted, 10,029 of them directly and 3,676 were received through the Guest Service Department. Those contacts allowed us to introduce 29,408 codified comments in the Quality Focus On-Line tool in the rated hotels, thus increasing customers trust and building relationship with them. NH Gran Hotel Provincial, Mar del Plata, Buenos Aires Argentina ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • customers 23 FIVE-STAR CUISINE From the beginning, experimentation and care have been two principles for NH Hoteles and it has daily indulged the taste in its almost 400 establishments, as well as in its revolutionary cuisine concepts. From breakfast time until late evening having ‘drunch’ with Gin&Chicken, we pay special attention to palate. Evidence of this is the molecular cuisine of Spanish talents such as Paco Roncero, Óscar Velasco, Javier Loya or Enrique Martínez, as well as other great chefs’ creativity from the NH house, such as Juan Carlos Mateus from NH Bogotá 93. Michelin Stars The new edition of the 2013 Michelin Guide, published in 2012, compiles 5 stars awarded to different NH Hoteles establishments. One of the hotspot there would be La Terraza del Casino, having Paco Roncero (2 Michelin stars) as executive chef and manager, and Santceloni, with two Michelin stars and lead by Óscar Velasco. Vermeer Restaurant, located in NH Barbizon Palace (Amsterdam) and lead by chef Christopher Naylor, has also been awarded 1 Michelin star. NH Palacio de Tepa, Madrid Spain The 5 Michelin Stars of the Group: Christopher Naylor, Óscar Velasco and Paco Roncero Avant-garde cuisine Berlin-based chef Patrick Rexhausen from Fabrics restaurant, designed by Karim Rashid and located by the lobby of nhow Berlin hotel, offers modern cuisine with a German-French touch and the highest quality. NH Antiox Breakfast, innovation and health “I am forever trying to forge Estado Puro new contacts and not to lose In 2012, NH Hoteles has implemented in all its Business Units NH Antiox Breakfast, having sight of the competition in a NH Hoteles carries on reinventing the traditional “tapas” concept in two of its Estado Puro its room service version in Room Apetit, constant search for new ideas establishments in Madrid, lead by Paco Roncero and which provides a selection of products that that have the ability to surprise, having an interior design of iconic peineta hair comb combined help to fight premature ageing of add value and take us another and a clear vintage touch developed by James&Mau. the skin, protect the cardiovascular system step forward” and strengthen the immunological system. Paco Roncero’s high-tech Workshop Thomas Rettig, Room Apetit F&B Manager nhow Berlin Located in the Casino de Madrid, it has been conceived as a research lab to develop creative talent The guest may comfortably enjoy from for the design of new dishes, as well as a connected his or her room a healthy and innovative training room for the best cuisine masters exchanging experience on traditional room service. knowledge. A livinglab provided with an “intelligent Culinary proposal in an original and table” and an integrated showcooking area, which appealing presentation which goes for allow to interact with the guest. quality and health. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • customers 24 NEW SERVICES CAMPAIGNS AND PROMOTIONS Wifree In 2012 the Company focused on getting to know the preferences and the purchasing behaviour of those who trust Considering that for NH Hoteles quality and customer its brand and the remaining travellers for fun or business. The satisfaction are priorities, the Company constantly improves its marketing email activity resulted in an exponential growth proposal in order to meet their demands and keeps ahead of due to the significant offers generation for each market, them. Therefore, from August 2012 and in answer to customers´ segment and period, fostering as well cross-selling in its demands, NH Hoteles provides free Wi-Fi in all the rooms and hotels worldwide. common areas in its hotels. Seasonal Campaigns “Free WiFi is become one of the main demands from “Wake up to the Summer buzz” was launched through our our guests and it’s more and more important in their own channels and intermediaries, highlighting European reservation decisions. Although NH Hoteles has had this destinations in Spain, Italy, Benelux and Central Europe as free service for a long time in its lobbies, we wanted to well as Resorts. Likewise, “400 ways to beat the Winter” extend it also to the rooms and common areas so guest allowed to communicate a wide range of plans based on the feel at home and they can get in touch with their families Company’s great presence in Europe. or work in such a comfortable and efficient way as if they were in their own office”. Unique experiences Launching significant local offers which, recalling customers’ preferences, provided unique experiences such as a To communicate the launching of Wifree, several online and romantic or culinary stay, attending the marathon in Vienna, offline media campaigns were developed. Touch screens and enjoy the landscape on the Dutch seaside or a stunning advertising panels were placed in some Spanish train stations. It Resort in Cadiz. was also elaborated a campaign together with Iberia, delivering more than a million advertising postcards in the lunch trays during intercontinental flights from Madrid and Barcelona. NH Meeting Moments Launching this concept, based on simplicity, trust and care, intends to achieve the ultimate expression LOYALTY AGREEMENTS of customer experience in any event or meeting taking place in In 2012, the co-marketing area looked for the best our hotels, during its whole cycle. Meeting moments provides strategic partners, being significant the partnership in customers with an excellent range on catering services as well: Italy with 20th Century Fox and activities relating to from rooms to offer a tasty coffee-break and lunch-time meetings art exhibitions and concerts, together with the Il Sole to avant-garde cuisine restaurants. 24 Ore group. NH Event Tool In Spain an agreement with CEPSA was signed CEPSA, rewarding customers with hotel nights through the Online tool simplifying and optimizing events and congresses exclusive promotion in 2,000 service stations. In organization, independently of their size or reservation times. It Germany and Benelux agreements were held with the gives the possibility of managing multi-hotel operations, booking gym chain Fitness First to offer a differential value rooms in several hotels in one or many cities and countries. It also proposal for customers who stress the importance of provides the opportunity to create a personalized website. well-being. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • customers 25 SPONSORSHIPS AND SPECIAL ACTIONS NH Hoteles and Sports NH Hoteles and Culture Golf and Sailing Instituto Cervantes NH Hoteles promotes sport activities NH Hoteles signed in 2012 an agreement for guests who are golf and sailing with Instituto Cer vantes, turning this lovers. In 2012 were organised way into the first hotel chain to join the renowned events such as the second Institute’s prestigious Circle of Friends. This edition of NH Resorts National Golf agreement, signed o promote Spain’s image Circuit, having its last venue at Hotel around the world, will foster both parties’ NH Almenara in Sotogrande and the international profile and will spread their participation of more than 1,200 fans commitment to culture. from all over Spain, and the 2nd NH Resorts Circuit for J80Monotypes, starting in October 2012 and ending Mario Vargas Llosa NH Short Story Award in June 2013. In 2012 was held the 14th Edition of this 2 NH Resorts Circuit for J80Monotypes nd renowned award supported by the most recent Hípica Sotogrande attended the Spanish-speaking Nobel Prize in Literature. first edition of Madrid Horse Week, through Santa María Polo Club, wellThis biannual prize targets to support current known due to its Polo International writers and to encourage literary creativity in Tournament, held every summer in Spanish language and literature as a form of Sotogrande and bringing together entertainment and culture. several international personalities. Agreement with the Spanish Film Academy Davis Cup The Spanish Film Academy and NH Hoteles The International Tennis Federation signed a strategic collaboration agreement (ITF) and NH Hoteles extended in whereby both entities undertake to promote 2012 the sponsorship of Davis Cup by Spanish films and give maximum exposure BNP Paribas for a further three years, to the Seventh Art, both national and showing the Company’s commitment internationally. to sport. The international profile of A part of the agreement focus on supporting this competition makes NH Hoteles’ the main film-related events the Academy will participation as a global sponsor of organize in 2012-2013. the Davis Cup for almost nine years an essential tool for communicating the NH Hoteles’ brand through a single message to millions of spectators in more than 170 countries over the five continents. NH Hoteles and the Spanish Film Academy ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • customers 26 ON-LINE MARKETING In spite the macroeconomic problems of 2012, the e-commerce Mobile Apps achieved a growth of 4% compared with 2011. In 2012 apps for iPhone, Android and iPad have been developed, implementing a new improved interface with SEM & SEO a “Reservation Guide in 3 Steps” as the SoLoMo (“Social, In 2012 a new specialized team in SEM and SEO areas has been Local & Mobile”) strategy where customers can find incorporated to position NH Hoteles brand in web and mobile hotels closed by and see the comments on TripAdvisor. environment of Google, Bing, and Yahoo. This strategy enables Furthermore, adaptations for iPhone 5 and Passbook have to optimize the bran presence in search engines. been made, being NH Hoteles the first company in the industry making an adaptation of this exclusive Apple Retargeting app. In all the versions are also integrated the NH Hoteles A retargeting programme was launched in order to contact loyalty programmes. users who left the NH Hoteles website without making any reservation. NH World Redesigned In 2012, NH Hoteles redesigned the loyalty programme Online Partner Marketing NH World website with a more appealing image and an The Company has signed agreements with Trivago, Kayak, exclusive area where members can check their credit Trabber, fostering the Affiliate Marketing area so related balance. It was also developed a mobile app providing its companies publish NH-designed spaces in their websites in members all the functions they are used to. order to redirect potential consumers to the commercial website. CENTRAL RESERVATION OFFICE Mobile Marketing NH Hoteles’ Commercial Website in Russian New tool allowing to send information to customers in a In 2012, NH Hoteles launched several mobile campaigns aimed fast and efficient way. Customers can received by e-mail to increase apps downloads and the reservations generated the information about hotels they check while searching through them. As a consequence of these (for country, city and hotel) once they have chosen dates, campaigns, the Company achieved the number of rooms and the number of adults and children. This first ranked position on free downloads tool may send information to customers in eight different at Apple Store in the General and Travel languages and it allows that companies see the agreed rates categories. and rates with promotional codes. NH Hoteles Mobile Web Now NH Hoteles customers may enjoy in their mobile phones the main functions WEBSITE USABILITY AND NEW they can find in the website. This new RUSSIAN DOMAIN improved and simpler version has been awarded several recognitions and the NH Hoteles website is settled, after its launching in 2011, Mobile Marketing Association and and it extends its scope to more than 25 countries, making it Interactive Advertising Bureau took it more attractive and fulfilling the best practices on usability as an example, including it in its mobile and conversion to appeal and promote NH experience. Due efficiency guide. to the increase on Russian customers, NH Hoteles has also added a new domain in Russian to make the reservation process easier for them because only 20% of them understand a different language. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • customers 27 SOCIAL MEDIA: EXPERIENCES 2.0 NH Hoteles aims to consolidate the close relationship it NH Day maintains with its customers by globally strengthening its Global commercial action supporting the Summer campaign and social media strategy, including general interest topics such involving all the Business Units. For almost two months, rooms were as sports, arts, cinema, music and travel, and promoting given away through Facebook, what resulted in thousands of visits to relevant events. Thanks to these actions, by the end of the the hotel factsheets. year, the NH Hoteles community 2.0 had grown by 37.66% in Twitter followers, and 20.65% in Facebook fans. By the Customer Care 2.0 end of 2012 the Company almost had 100,000 followers in Facebook, Twitter and Instagram globally. During this year, NH Hoteles carried on its Customer Care on social media before, during and after the stay. Among all the services, it This year it has also been stressed a greater content is particularly relevant the complaint management during the stay, generation on a local level, characterized by the development reinforcing the customer care during the stay. This allows increasing of new profiles and platforms in Mexico, Colombia and customer satisfaction and is an important link towards loyalty. Venezuela, in order to keep the global vision as well as to strengthen the local contact. Commercial support An important activity was channelled from the social media, boosting Micro Story Award within the Mario Vargas reservations support. Likewise, the social presence of NH Hoteles Llosa NH Short Story Award continued redirecting quality traffic to the commercial website. Withing the 14 th Edition of the Mario Vargas Llosa NH Short Story Award, NH Hoteles launched in 2012 a micro story contest in the Spanish-speaking social media (Spain, PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING Portugal, Andorra and America) to strengthen its bond with the on-line community. Participants had to write a story Personal information is handled using compulsory standard on 140 words, reinventing a character from Vargas Llosa’s processes which ensure the fulfilment of the appropriate security books in the 21st century. The prize was attending to the measures. Furthermore, in the NH Hoteles Code of Conduct is award ceremony at Casino de Madrid, along with the Nobel defined the respect of all Company employees for the legislation Laureate himself. on personal data protection when they handle data concerning customers, suppliers, shareholders and employees themselves. The Davis Cup Contest forms enabling customers to exercise their right to data protection The Davis Cup and NH Hoteles share values such as are published on the NH Hoteles Intranet and they are accessible to motivation, achievement, competitiveness, teamwork and all employees who require them. the meeting of cultures. Thus, the Company sponsors the event since 2004 and during the most recent edition NH NH Hoteles strictly fulfils applicable legislation on data protection Hoteles held a global contest making available for followers and, in this sense, during 2012 the biannual audit on data protection a Facebook app and activating the hashtag #NHDavisCup in in Italy and Spain was finished. At the end of the year, we had only Twitter. From these platforms and the microsite daviscup.nhreceived one complaint concerning the use of personal data in hotels.com the Company encouraged fans to send messages promotion campaigns, which was successfully solved. of support to their favourite teams or players. The winners of the contest won tickets for the Davis Cup MAIN CUSTOMER INDICATORS Final in Prage and enjoyed the chance of attending the gala dinner with the teams in the final. The prize included 2011 2012 accomodation in the recently opened NH Prague. Likewise, Mystery Guest Hotel Visits 290 367 during the final some messages sent by the fans were shown to share them with the players. The success of the action Nº of Assessments (NH Surveys + external pages) 211,577 229,809 raised brand profile and positioned NH Hoteles as official Nº of NH Surveys to customers 105,135 89,985 sponsor of the Davis Cup. Nº of Customer Care Communications 17,696 13,705 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • customers 28 NH Eurobuilding, Madrid Spain SUPPLIERS NH Hoteles considers its suppliers to be key stakeholders for consolidating OUR SUPPLIERS the commitment to develop sustainable and innovative solutions. NH Hoteles believes that it is valuable to foster a close, accessible and strong SIGNING THE CODE OF relationship with partners and, therefore, the Company strives to optimize In 2012, NH Hoteles worked with a total of 21,892 national CONDUCT and international suppliers, with an annual purchasing resources and to implement tool facilitating bilateral communication. Since 2012, NH Hoteles Code of volume (cost + investment) of €403.4M. 79% of this volume accounts for the Spain, Portugal, Central Europe and Benelux Conduct is incorporated in every approved agreement from the PROCUREMENT POLICY UPDATE Business Units. Purchasing Department. In 2012, in One of the principles of our Corporate Procurement Policy is total 224 Codes were signed, reaching In 2012 the Procurement Policy has been updated in order to capture the to offer equal opportunities and promote local purchasing an aggregated figure of 1,218 signed current processes and procedures as well as keeping and highlighting the in every region NH Hoteles operates. In 2012, the local Codes, 22.5% more than in 2011. The role of service to the inner customer. The roles, improvement levels and purchasing volume represented 84% of approved purchases, invoicing volume from suppliers having purchase restrictions of each agent taking part in the action, have also 4% less than in 2011. For supplier type, 77.8% is included in signed the Code in 2012 amounts to been redefined, standardizing criteria and stressing the relation to other operational costs and services, which is 63.77% of the total €43,521,421, which is 10.8% of the areas in the Company. The Department’s Code of Conduct has also been purchasing billed volume. yearly total invoicing. replaced by the Corporate Code of Conduct. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • SUPPLIERS 29 SUPPLIERS BY BU ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT COPERAMA, FIRST PROCUREMENT PLATFORM IN THE INDUSTRY In 2012 we carry on assessing the environmental commitment and respect of our suppliers, a system governing corporate tenders the During 2012, Coperama has consolidated its whole year. position as the first procurement platform in the hotel industry in Spain. With an In collaboration with the Environmental Department, NH Hoteles average growth rate of 3 new members per 7,237 carries on using the Eco-design questionnaire and tests each week and an increment of 42% compared candidate under a category system, similar to the European label to 2011, it closed the year with a total of 596 5,179 of energy rating, Energy Star, assessing the company internal customers, which means 47,312 rooms. Having environmental management and product efficiency and innovation. a portfolio of more than 300 suppliers, Coperama meets the 3,565 3,023 2,888 As a novelty in 2012, all the assessments have also been integrated in needs on F&B, OSE and FFE of all its establishments, managing the Suppliers Registration Process in our e-Platform for Purchases. an annual purchase of around €250M for all its members. SPAIN & CENTRAL BENELUX AMERICAS ITALY Actions and tools PORTUGAL EUROPE NH SUSTAINABLE CLUB I Coperama Congress was held in 2012 to analyse current trends and join forces in strategy, format, logistics, Innovation workshop with suppliers, reaching its 5th year in 2012 and still an sustainability, training, innovation, products and technology. important dissemination channel for sustainability, as well as the space where Purchase Volume BY BU sustainable measures are jointly developed in order to keep NH Hoteles as Launch of the E-Catalogue, which will allow to turn the a model and benchmark on responsible tourism. During the last six months product search into purchase orders, facilitating the process 3 of the year, its target started to be redefined in order to adapt it and align it to and optimizing the communication between customers and 30% Spain & 17 the new Company’s strategy and the needs of the new Environmental Plan. suppliers, and the e-Billing, so providers can send electronic Portugal bills to every Coperama establishment, free of charge and 24% Central Europe 30 without using paper. 18% Benelux, France Environmental Projects Consolidation 18 and United Kingdom The R&D&I Lab is born, a space enabling customers and 17% Italy Use of LED technology, low energy lamps and other eco-efficient suppliers to share knowledge and jointly work to develop 8 8% Corporate electrical appliances. products and services targeting an increasing in efficiency 24 3% America Replacement of absorption minibar refrigerators for low energy ones. and productivity of the hospitality industry. Manufac ture of highly consumed produc ts with oxoImplementation of an e-sourcing platform. biodegradable materials, such as amenities, pens, room keys and laundry bags. Encouragement of use of the electric car in Madrid using it along Suppliers BY service type our lifts maintenance routes and installing recharge points in some E-SOURCING PLATFORM parking spaces. 16 For the second year in a row, use of linen certified by Oekotek In 2012 an e-sourcing platform has been developed and it allows 78% Operational and Ecolabel. to make standardized sourcing, strengthens monitoring on bids, 6 costs and services gives more transparency to purchases and enables bigger savings. Bottle cork recycling campaign in 200 of our European hotels, 16% Food and beverage being warmly accepted by our employees and customers. 6% Furniture, Global agreement to acquire new TV, with a model enabling high refurbishment and energy savings and minimum environmental impact. 78 equipment ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • SUPPLIERS 30 CLICK NH’BUY PRIORITY TARGETS FOR 2013 Our supply management system, Extending the procurement model to all the Company’s purchase Click NH’Buy, was consolidated categories, applying criteria established in the new Procurement Policy and as sole used tool in Spain and Italy stressing the collaboration between the Purchase area and the remaining during 2012. In 2013 it will start its internal and external agents taking part in these processes. implementation in Benelux and Central Europe and it is expected Consolidating Click NH’Buy in Spain and Italy, and extending it to Benelux to end up during the last quarter of and Central Europe as a way to homogenize the supply, incorporating more the year. modern systems to manage the back office in the interests of expense transparency and better global management. In the Business Unit Spain, where the tool is fully consolidated, a total 43 Extending and consolidating Coperama to carry on providing our of user suppliers has been reached, internal customers the best possible procurement terms. with an invoicing volume of €48,393 (39.8% of the total of invoices from Supporting greater transparency and rigour on procurement, through suppliers). In Italy, where the projects the e-sourcing platform that will gradually be implanted during 2013 in all started the last quarter of 2012, the Business Units. there are already 6 user suppliers and an invoicing volume of 459 (1% Redefining the role of NH Sustainable Club, as support to achieve the NH Ourense, Orense Spain of the total). targets of the new Environmental Plan and of the Company’s global strategy. Active participation in We are All Sales and Cobranding, global programmes of the Company focusing internal customer service which With the aim of sharing their best business generate contacts between the NH Hoteles Commercial and Marketing practices and learning from each other, Department and the approved suppliers in order to generate business NH Hoteles and Coperama took part in opportunities (room nights, dinners, congresses, etc.). the Benchmarking 2012 Canal Horeca programme, by AECOC, targeting to analyze the service level and the commercial relation MAIN SUPPLIER INDICATORS among manufacturers, intermediaries and food service operators to identify potential 2011 2012 improvements. Volume of suppliers managed 23,866 21,892 Annual volume of purchases (expense + €447.8M €403.4M investment) SATISFACTION OF INTERNAL Nº of suppliers who have signed the Code of Ethics 994 1,218 CUSTOMERS Amount invoiced by suppliers who have signed €40,523,738.19* €43,521,421** the Code of Ethics % Turnover of suppliers who have signed the In 2012, the Purchase Department took part in Code of Ethics 9%* 10.8%** the Global Best In Class Programme to know the assessment and satisfaction level the other Level of internal customer satisfaction *** 3.15 N/A Company areas have on the services they provide. Nº NH Sustainable Club suppliers 40 40 The results from this programme enabled to identify improvement points and to set up an * Turnover of suppliers who signed the Code of Ethics in 2011. Action Plan focused on improving the satisfaction ** Turnover of suppliers who signed the Code of Ethics in 2012. level of our internal customers. *** Biannual survey planned for the end of 2013. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • SUPPLIERS 31 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE NH Hoteles’ sustainable and innovative approach, integrated in the whole business cycle, is defined by MANAGEMENT SYSTEM its commitment towards efficiency and respect for the The Environmental Department has a system environment. The Company develops eco-efficient to follow up and monitor environmental initiatives based on an important research task, working indicators collecting monthly data from all together with suppliers in order to find efficient and the hotels. These are analysed each quarter innovative solutions, as well as training employees and to assess target fulfilment and identity raising awareness among our customers. improvement opportunities. Likewise, an indicator report is prepared and sent to the SUCCESSFUL ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THE 2008-2012 all managers of the Business Units and hotel ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGIC PLAN managers. The consumption ratio per guest In 2012 the Company’s sustainable performance results and night is used as standard throughout the went well beyond the targets settled in the 2008-2012 whole chain in order to measure and report. Environmental Strategic Plan about 20% reduction of consumption, carbon emissions and waste generation. Audits and certifications This was possible thanks to the involvement of the Since 2008, NH Hoteles conducts regular senior management, all employees and the customers environmental audits to check the efficiency themselves. levels and the fulfilment of corporate environmental standards. This has enabled us Since the Environmental Plan implementation, NH Hoteles to identify improvement opportunities in our has invested more than €10M to fund environmental actions, facilities and action plans to increase energy NH Gate One, Bratislava Slovakia 54% of them invested in making more efficient the hotels. efficiency in recent years ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGIC PLAN 2008-2012 “Smart metering” A new e-platform launched in some hotels for an easy reading of energy and water consumption, remotely and Energy consumption CO2 Emissions Water Usage WASTE GENERATION* on-going, for every hotel in the Company, which in the future will allow resources usage optimization. -25.1% -44.2% -30.5% -34.1% Reduction of the energy Reduction of the CO2 Reduction of the water Reduction of the waste consumption ratio released ratio usage ratio generation ratio per guest/night per guest/night per guest/night per guest/night * Waste: estimated data ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 32 Hotels kg CO2/CN kWh/CN 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 0 10 20 30 40 50 Cork2cork 200 Ecomeeting 315 2007 14.5 2007 48.0 Eco-Label Towel 391 13.7 47.0 Certificated hotels: ISO 14.001, 2008 2008 ISO 50.001, Green Key 110 Software control environmental CARBON FOOTPRINT indicators 391 13.0 44.0 2009 2009 ENERGY CONSUMPTION* Annual efficiency energy audits 270 Low consumption equipment 9.9 41.2 325 2010 2010 * Water and energy usage taken from bills and meter reading systems. Green energy purchased 169 2011 8.7 2011 37.1 Renewable energy installed 96 -44.2% -25.1% Standarised temperature controls 391 2012 8.1 2012 35.9 Consumption reduction per year CO2 Emisiones Charging electric points 39 Water saving devices installed 277 Heating startup according to Plan 389 Low consumption lights 320 Cooling startup according to Plan 391 kg/CN l/CN Recycled oil 270 New procedure linen 2.5 200 & towel change 391 1.5 2 3 3.5 4 4.5 0 100 300 400 ** Estimated data ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES IMPLEMENTED 2008 2012 (Number of hotels) Environmental e-learning education 350 Amenities oxobiodegradable 391 2007 4.1 2007 300.0 Oxobiodegradable Pen 391 2008 4.0 2008 267.00 Biodegradable laudry bags made of potato starch 391 Printer cartridges recycled 299 3.5 240.04 WASTE GENERATION** 2009 2009 WATER CONSUMPTION* Electronic equipement recycled 300 3.0 223.70 Environmental Principles 391 2010 2010 Cardholder electrical cutting 235 2011 2.7 2011 217.30 Eco paper FSC certification 391 Carbon calculator available 391 2.7 -34.1% 208.5 -30.5% to clients 2012 2012 Energy and water consumption data according to each year comparable hotels and published in its corresponding Corporate Responsibility Annual Report NH Hoteles is the first global “We want to celebrate with you the accomplishment of hotel chain obtaining the ISO 50001 certification, the most important rule on Energy Management Systems. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • MANAGEMENT SYSTEM the Environmental Strategic Plan” 33 2012 RESULTS ENERGY EMISSIONS En 2012, the energy* consumption-cutting measures in place managed to lower the Since 2008, the carbon footprint of NH Hoteles fell by 44.2% and 4.4% compared to 2011. consumption ratio per guest/ night by 1.2% compared to 2011. Since 2008, the energy consumption has been reduced by 25.1%. Energy consumption CO2 EMISSIONS 2011 2012 DIF VS 11 2011 2012 DIF VS 11 2011 2012 DIF VS 11 2011 2012 DIF VS 11 kWh / kWh / Kg / Kg / kWh kWh ton ton guest night guest night guest night guest night NH Global 540,400,326 538,479,846 -0.4% 36.4 35.9 -1.2% NH Global 125,645,600 121,151,676 -3.6% 8.5 8.1 -4.4% BU Benelux, United BU Benelux, United 73,755,950 72,578,258 -1.6% 43.3 41.6 -4.1% 18,588,150 18,392,490 -1.1% 10.9 10.5 -3.6% Kingdom, Africa & France Kingdom, Africa & France BU Italy 92,652,245 89,762,261 -3.1% 41.8 41.1 -1.6% BU Italy 30,346,115 28,632,281 -5.6% 13.7 13.1 -4.2% BU Spain, Portugal & BU Spain, Portugal & 187,198,698 187,322,751 0.07% 32.4 33.1 2.2% 21,639,489 18,552,733 -14.26% 3.7 3.3 -12.4% Andorra Andorra BU Central Europe 140,127,295 142,651,008 1.8% 33.9 32.5 -4.0% BU Central Europe 40,396,423 40,765,850 0.9% 9.8 9.3 -4.9% BU America 46,666,138 46,165,568 -1.1% 45.6 45.7 0.2% BU America 14,675,422 14,808,323 0.9% 14.4 14.7 2.2% BU Resorts 55,646,965 52,930,803 -4.9% 36.2 34.5 -4.8% BU Resorts 10,206,268 8,887,340 -12.9% 6.6 5.8 -12.8% WATER WASTE The water* usage per guest ratio was lowered by 3.9% in 2012. Since the launch of the plan, a Globally, estimated waste generation per guest/ night (kg.) has been reduced from 4.1 in 2007 usage reduction of 30.5% has been achieved by the installation of aerators, double-flush tanks (baseline) to 2.7 in 2012. and usage reduction devices on showers and sinks. Water Usage PAPER 2011 2012 DIF VS 11 2011 2012 DIF VS 11 In 2012 NH Hoteles carried on with the ongoing actions to manage to reduce paper usage in m3 m3 Litres / Litres / the Company. guest night guest night NH Global 3,094,601 3,003,722 -2.9% 217.0 208.5 -3.9% Business Unit Paper usage in 2012 (tons) BU Benelux, United BU Italy 750.17 389,083 386,905 -0.6% 210.0 205.7 -2.1% Kingdom, Africa & France BU Spain 173.31 BU Italy 639,710 577,708 -9.7% 301.2 276.1 -8.3% BU C&EE 85 BU Spain, Portugal & BU Benelux 44 1,044,476 991,816 -5.0% 199.5 193.2 -3.2% Andorra Mexico 10.05 BU Central Europe 738,674 775,038 4.9% 178.6 176.7 -1.1% South America 7 BU America 282,658 272,255 -3.7% 309.9 297.6 -4.0% Total 1,069.53 BU Resorts 648,916 630,172 -2.9% 408.5 396.8 -2.9% * Energy and water consumption data according to the standards of comparability defined by the Company. Hotel comparable percentages from 2012: Energy and emissions: 81%. Water: 78%. Water usage taken from bills and meter NH Hoteles establishments obtain water from mains supply networks. No dangerous substances reading systems. are dumped at our hotels, residual water is managed via the mains drainage systems, which perform N.B.: Resorts are regarded as a separate category on account of their unique nature and their data is processed the appropriate treatment depending on the application of the local environmental regulations. independently. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • 2012 RESULTS 34 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION NH Hoteles has a long history on sustainable innovation. Sustainable mobility “I am proud of working in a Currently, there are 82 recharge points for electric vehicles in company committed to the Blue Efficiency Project Europe, a service free of charge for our clients and suppliers. environment and industry leader To achieve the greater efficiency, NH Hoteles develops At NH Berlin Friedrichstrasse we have a sustainable mobility on energy management thanks maintenance services enabling to optimize facilities and point available for our guests, where they can rent bikes, incorporate state of the art technology, as well as supporting segway platforms and hybrid or electric vehicles. to the 2008-2012 Environmental the use of alternative energy in supply base and in selfPlan. This inspires us to develop generated solutions. Wood with environmental certification projects looking to achieve new Our nhow Berlin hotel has more than 10,300 m2 of wood from challenges on energy efficiency”. Green rooms sustainable forest management with PEFC (Programme for In 2012, all the hotels of the chain implement a variety of ecoEndorsement of Forest Certification) certification. Samuele Primiceri, efficient solutions which allows us to position our rooms as Engineering, Maintenance the most innovative in the market from an environmental point Eco Lifts OTIS & Environment Manager of view. Technology which implies an energy savings of 1,200 kWh/ Central Office BU Italy year compared to traditional electric lifts and carbon emission Ecomeeting savings of 1,200 kg per hotel/ year. Innovative concept promoting a respectful usage of energy resources when organizing events and enables to offset CO2 Cork2cork released emissions. In 2012 NH Hoteles held 136 carbon Pioneering initiative in the European hospitality segment neutral events. collecting and reusing bottle corks used in the Company (around two million corks per year). After been processed, Relamping Project the corks can be reused to make panelling and insulation In the first stage, a million conventional bulbs were replace by materials reducing the need of artificial heating and airlow energy ones and, in the second stage, LED technology was conditioning in the buildings. Since the launch of the project implemented in all the hotels, representing 70% reduction in till nowadays, 1,149 kg of corks have been recycled. lighting energy. Biodegradable materials NH Hoteles provides its guests with laundry bags, pens or bathroom amenities made up from a plastic additive which catalyzes the natural degradation process of materials. Towels in the rooms have the European ecological label ECOLABEL, a label assessing the product impact in the environment through its life cycle. NEW 2012-2015 ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGIC PLAN LED Technology In 2012 the new NH Hoteles Environmental Plan was Until 2012, 53,000 LED lamps were installed to replace defined, providing specific ac tions to strengthen common lamps, investing €1.2M. It is an increase of 70% in the Company’s commitment towards environment lighting efficiency, implying a saving of 18,000,000 kWh/year protection and the search of innovative initiatives in and avoiding a CO2 release of 7,560 tons. the sustainability area. The new Plan is called 20+15 aiming to achieve 15% additional reduction on water and energy consumption for 2015 and its two main pillars are Efficiency and Sustainable Innovation. NH Ciudad de Cuenca, Cuenca Spain ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 35 Led technology Rooms also use this technology, 70% less Controlled consumption energy consuming than standard lighting GREEN Each room is connected to the reservation, some services like air conditioning cannot be switched on. This also allows for tighter control over spendings ROOMS HVAC independent equipment TV and mini-bar Automatic curtains The air conditioning equipment They are both highly energy Green laundry is rated A++. It also controls When the client leaves the room, the efficient (A++ category) external air according to internal curtains close automatically, thermically The use of ecological materials and insulating the room air quality efficiency programs in our externalised laundry service are the main pillars of our “green laundry” policy Recork project Led technology We improve thermical and acoustic Rooms also use this insulation with recycled materials technology, 70% less such as cork from wine bottles energy consuming than consumed in NH FSC certified wood standard lighting This certification guarantees that the origin of the wood is both Faucet aerators ecological and sustainable The water pressure needed for taps and Tested furniture showering is lessened, which results in 40% We analyse carbon footprint on our reduction in water use furniture in order to select it according to the life cycle variable Greywater recycling Independent drain pipes collect rain and shower water that is treated before re-entering the cistern, which also Ecological paint has a double discharge system to save water. The toilet itself needs 25% less water The paint used in our hotels is environmentally friendly ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 36 GREEN CERTIFICATION PROJECT COMMUNICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY In 2012, the aim of the Environmental Plan to exceed 100 hotels with green certification has been achieved, implying more than NH Hoteles Environment Website 21,720 rooms. In 2012 NH Hoteles continues to update and add to the Environment Website the latest news on environmental Business Unit Certification Total innovation in our hotels, as well as the results achieved by our Greenkey Bronze 1 Strategic Environmental Plan. Benelux Greenkey Gold 30 Greenkey Silver 4 Employees ISO 14001 18 In 2012, 48% of NH Hoteles’ employees have participated Central Europe ISO 50001 1 in environmental training and awareness-raising programmes. Furthermore, a new campus session for commercials, Ökobusinessplan 5 hotel managers, maintenance, kitchen and housekeeping ISO 14001 3 department has been launched, with a total of 209 people Spain & Portugal ISO 50001 3 trained in 2012. Catalonian environmental licence 19 Ecoluxury 1 Suppliers Italy ISO 14001 17 The environmental commitment of NH Hoteles’ suppliers is ISO 50001 1 evaluated and working sessions are held via the NH Sustainable Club to develop new eco-efficient solutions which promote Environmental certificate in Mexico 2 sustainable innovation. Mexico Hydro sustainable hotel 1 Single environmental licence 4 Shareholders Total 110 Shareholder reports on the Company’s main results include progress made in implementing the Environmental Plan and During 2012, we continued working on the specific plan for the consequent improvements in certain financial ratios due to European Green the reduction of the business’ operating expenses. Capital 2012 implementing an environmental management plan according to the ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 rules in the Italy and Central Europe Victoria was the European Society Business Units, and the project was extended to Spain. Thanks to Green Capital 2012, as an this project, 38 hotels have achieved the ISO 14001 certification NH Hoteles actively participates in working groups and technical sessions and supports example of sustainable until 2012, which recognizes the best environmental efficiency and the respectful and sustainable use of resources. sustainable initiatives such as the global management for all European campaign “Earth Hour”, promoted by the WWF. cities. In line with this, the NH Hoteles is the first hotel chain worldwide obtaining hotel NH Canciller de Ayala in ISO 50001 certification, the most important rule on Energy Victoria signed the Green Deal, Management Systems. In 2012, the hotels nhow Berlin, nhow undertaking the commitment Milano, NH Palacio de Tepa and NH Ribera de Manzanares joined For the third year running, in 2012 NH Hoteles has reported of implementing environmental the already certified hotels. to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an independent measures in the hotel. non-profit organization that analyses companies’ environmental performance and whose indicators are In 2012, the hotels nhow Berlin, nhow consulted by different stakeholders. NH Hoteles is Milano, NH Palacio de Tepa and NH among the Spanish companies with best rating “B”, Ribera de Manzanares joined the already which places the company among the ones with a more certified hotels under ISO 50001 rule on advanced commitment with climate change and as the Energy management systems. best rated European hotel chain. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 37 COMMITMENT TO PREVENTING CLIMATE CHANGE NH Hoteles has a strong track on sustainable innovation which allows the Company to ENERGY EFFICIENCY INVESTMENT participate in the fight against climate change and go towards sustainability. Climate change At NH Hoteles we implement all technological advances that help us combine energy efficiency is a global risk and there are several initiatives and campaigns which could be implemented in with customer comfort. In 2012 we dedicated more than €3M in funding environmental actions order to reduce companies’ carbon footprint, while generating significant savings. which provide us with more sustainable, highly efficient facilities. RENEWABLE ENERGIES 2010 2011 2012 Hotels that use 2011 2012 In 2012, 169 hotels have asked for Green Energy renewable energies Environmental investments €1,839,310.99 €2,373,702 €1,238,724 certifications, joining the “Source Warranty” Cogeneration 5 5 Environmental expenses €1,162,067.00 €1,618,987 €1,873,612 modality, which guarantees that the source of the Solar panels 39 38 energy supplied comes from renewable energy TOTAL €3,001,377.99 €3,992,688.98 €3,112,336.54 District heating 37 48 sources. In 2012, and after the incorporation of Hydroelectric 11 11 18 hotels to the Green Energy modality, 98% of BIODIVERSITY ISSUES the Company’s hotels in Spain have some form Green energy 151 169 of renewable energy supply in accordance with District cooling 3 The NH Hoteles’ business focuses upon urban hotels, as such the majority of our hotels are not Directive 2009/28/EC from the European Union, located in protected areas, close to them or in areas with species under threat of extinction. Biomass 2 which represents an increase of 4% in the number However, in the area of Sotogrande (Spain), in conjunction with the government of Andalusia, Total 243 276 control and monitoring work is being carried out with regard to the wild pig, a local species of hotels using renewable energy. that has an impact on the area. Solar power On the other hand, water management in Sotogrande makes it possible to maintain the NH Hoteles has a total of 4,701.5 m2 of solar panels which represent 4,104,753 Kw of installed watering system and sprinkler distribution which leads to a reduction in water consumption, capacity in 38 hotels. In our hotels in The Netherlands, we have cogeneration facilities with an as well as the water treatment system and the cleaning of dry goods from the bottom of the installed capacity of 1,220 kWh. Despite the fact that most of our hotels are urban and centrally lake which makes it possible to increase the level of water storage in the facilities. Furthermore, located, with limited space for installing these systems, around 13% of our establishments have a tree-transplanting programme has been implemented and work on cataloguing the existing this technology. In 2012 total installed panels surface increases a 1% and generation a 0.2%. flora continues. Wind energy usage In NH Agustinos (Navarra, Spain) wind energy is used to produce electricity, up to 6Kw. Main environmental indicators This innovative aero generator was installed in 2011, and with the energy produced 60 hotel rooms could be illuminated with LED light bulbs. 2011* 2012 Energy kWh/guest night kWh/guest night Initiatives shared in the Pro Climate Forum Global 36.4 35.9 In 2012, the Environmental Initiatives Catalogue at the Forum was formed by 31 initiatives shared by the participant companies. This way experiences were shared, innovative actions were presented and Water litres/guest night litres/guest night new initiatives were promoted, with the aim of reducing the environmental impact of these companies Global 217 208.5 and promoting sustainable development through and efficient usage of energy, water and natural Waste Kg/guest night Kg/guest night resources. In 2012, NH Hoteles presented some of the most relevant initiatives such as the Environment Global 2.7 2.7 Website, the energy management certification ISO 50001, the electric bikes service and telemetry. CO2 Released Kg /guest night Kg /guest night Global 8.5 8.1 HCMI, standard to measure carbon footprint Reduction of the CO2 released per guest/night -4.4% 23 global leading hotel companies have developed a common methodology called Solar Power Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI), for measuring and standardizing carbon Solar panels (m2) 4,663 m2 4,701,72 m2 footprint. NH Hoteles is part of the working group responsible for developing this Power generated Kw 4,097,953 kW 4,104,753 kW methodology, created in collaboration with the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) *2011 data have been recalculated according to 2012 comparable hotels data. and the International Tourism Partnership (ITP). ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • COMMITMENT TO PREVENTING CLIMATE CHANGE 38 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE This approach integrates team management, through which NH Hoteles carries out its sustainable management strategy, and integrates its commitment with the communities where we operate, allowing a sustainable development at a local level. EMPLOYEES Employees are a key stakeholder in NH Hoteles’ responsibility approach. One of the Company’s main commitment is creating quality employment, in an environment that promotes training, professional development and encourages diversity of cultures and nationalities, in equal conditions and rights. As a global company NH Hoteles operates with an ethical brand, defined in its new Code of Conduct for all its stakeholders, committed to respecting Human Rights and the Principles of the Global Compact, and to compliance with international and local laws in each country where the Company is present. NH Hoteles does not permit the use of child labour or any kind of forced or non-consented work NH Ludwigsburg, Ludwigsburg Germany STAFF IN 2012 In 2012, average headcount was 18,817 employees, 3.7% less than in 2011. All Business Units have reduced the number of employees except for America, which increased its staff by 10.5%, mainly due to the management of hotels in Venezuela and the Dominican Republic. “NH Hoteles is committed to Employees per Business Unit 2011 2012 Dif. (%) society through sustainable actions and strives to achieve Spain, Portugal, Headquarters, Sotogrande 6,977 6,538 -6.3 new goals involving its Central Europe 3,762 3,680 -2.2 employees” Benelux, UK, France and Africa 3,064 2,748 -10.3 Italy 2,624 2,421 -7.7 María Dolores Flores, Director NH Santa Fe America 3,103 3,430 10.5 Total 19,530 18,817 -3.7 2012 % Over total staff Fixed contracts 2012 FTEs 10,937 56.0% *Data obtained from FTEs (Full Time Equivalents) for all kinds of contracts (open-ended, part-time, extras, temporary employment agencies), considering comparable, non-comparable and managed hotels. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 39 Employee turnover Present economic environment have contributed to a reduction of employee turnover in the Company from 3.9% in 2011 to 3.54 in 2012 with a voluntary turnover of 0.89% against the 2.65% of non-voluntary turnover. Due to a change in the calculation methodology, these data are not comparable with last year ones (voluntary turnover 1%, non-voluntary turnover 2.9%). With the new methodology, NH Hoteles wants to show a data more adjusted to reality. In order to do this, criteria when considering work leaves have been redefined, excluding temporary work leaves inferior to one month period or employee transfers between business units. % Turnover Non Voluntary Voluntary Total Business Unit Women Men Total Women Men Total BU America 0.71% 0.80% 1.51% 0.10% 0.14% 0.25% 1.75% BU Central Europe 0.81% 0.72% 1.53% 1.06% 0.66% 1.72% 3.25% BU Italy 1.67% 1.47% 3.14% 0.47% 0.43% 0.90% 4.04% BU Spain and Portugal 2.36% 1.65% 4.01% 0.24% 0.20% 0.43% 4.44% Headquarters 0.64% 0.60% 1.24% 0.66% 0.68% 1.34% 2.59% BU Benelux, UK, France and Africa 1.05% 0.82% 1.87% 0.86% 0.79% 1.64% 3.51% Total 1.48% 1.17% 2.65% 0.49% 0.40% 0.89% 3.54% Non Non Voluntary Total Voluntary Total Voluntary Voluntary Women 2,592 858 3,450 1.48% 0.49% 1.97% Between 25-40 years old 1,223 475 1,698 0.70% 0.27% 0.97% Under 25 years old 447 194 641 0.26% 0.11% 0.37% Over 40 years old 922 189 1,111 0.53% 0.11% 0.64% Men 2,042 696 2,738 1.17% 0.40% 1.57% Between 25-40 years old 1,101 400 1,501 0.63% 0.23% 0.86% Under 25 years old 406 155 561 0.23% 0.09% 0.32% Over 40 years old 535 141 676 0.31% 0.08% 0.39% Total 4,634 1,554 6,188 2.65% 0.89% 3.54% HEALTH AND SAFETY In 2012 accident absenteeism was reduced significantly compared to 2011, with 139 occupational accidents, which means a 25% reduction. Reduction of absenteeism rate Percentage of workers represented on Industrial Health and Safety Committees (IHSC). 2011 (%) 2012 (%) Accident 0.24 0.20 2012 Employees represented Percentage Headcount on IhSC Illness 2.62 2.34 NH Hoteles 3,796 1,033 27.21% Maternity 0.64 0.59 Hesperia 1,994 1,239 12.39% Total absenteeism 3.50* 3.13 TOTAL 5,790 2,272 39.24% It excludes Extras and temporary employment agencies *The possible difference with the data reported in 2011 is due to the incorporation of pending hotels data and/or depurations and corrections of the existing ones. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 40 DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT NH Hoteles has a diverse staff made up of 15,780 employees (permanent and temporary employment) of 141 different nationalities, 15.3% of whom work in countries other than their home countries. Nº % % Nº Most frequent Hiring of disabled people Country in Spain Employees Inmigrants Women Nacionalities immigrant nationality Argentina 509 6.0% 41.7% 13 Uruguayan The hiring of disabled people in Spain in 2012 meant this group Austria 290 42.6% 48.2% 47 German accounts for an exceptional Belgium 370 48.4% 55.2% 60 Moroccan 8.62% of our work force, Chile 37 2.7% 45.9% 2 Uruguayan considering job insertion in Colombia 37 25.8% 61.2% 2 Spanish / Mexican several Special Employment Czech Republic 51 6.6% 53.5% 3 Slovak Centres supplying dif ferent Dominican Republic 1,073 29.6% 29.1% 8 Spanish services, in particular FLISA and Icaria which shone for their social France 54 20.5% 48.4% 18 Spanish commitment. Germany 2,065 11.4% 54.8% 68 Turkish Employees from NH Hoteles Mexico Headquarters 405 38.1% 58.3% 25 Italian Hungary 34 5.9% 55.0% 3 Rumanian/Ukrainian Accomplished LISMI quota Italy 1,671 8.3% 43.1% 58 Rumanian Purchase to Special Direct Donation Total Luxembourg 40 97.3% 50.9% 11 French Employment Centres Mexico 766 0.3% 47.9% 4 Colombian 0.80% 0.00% 7.81% 8.62% The Netherlands 1,682 20.4% 49.4% 75 Ghanaian *Information for calculating the generated employment through Age pyramid Portugal 37 14.7% 72.4% 3 Angolan alternative measures, 2012. Law 2/2012, 29th of June, from the General State Budget 2012. 2011 (%) Romania 59 0.0% 56.3% 0 2012 (%) Sotogrande 200 2.0% 40.3% 6 Italian/British Slovakia 54 11.1% 55.6% 4 Hungarian Main 2012 initiatives in Diversity and Equality in 2012 Spain 5,053 11.2% 55.6% 72 Ecuadorean South Africa 205 11.7% 53.2% 71 Zimbabwe Reinforcement of NH Hoteles’ commitment Switzerland 125 71.8% 47.0% 23 French with Diversity and Equality through our Code of 48.3 48.6 Conduct training. United Kingdom 58 87.9% 38.9% 20 Spanish 34.9 35.5 Uruguay 45 0.0% 44.0% 0 Cultural Diversity Management initiatives. Usa 79 72.2% 50.2% 25 Dominican Follow-up of defined diversity indicators. 16.8 15.9 Venezuela 780 1.9% 30.5% 6 Colombian 15,780 15.3% 49.1% Meeting of the Annual Equality Plan Monitoring Under 25 25 40 Over 40 Committee in Spain with the trade union years old years old years old * Figures obtained from number of employees (Full Time Equivalent) with open-ended contract representatives. + Part time contract. * Data referred to employees with fixed or temporary contracts. Women in management positions Nº of Men and Women in Women in management positions management positions % 2011 % 2012 49.1% of total workforce are women, and 48.5% of them are managers, a figure above the sector average. In Spain the 2011 2012 2011 2012 figure rises to 49.5% of women managers. Global 3,211 3,070 1,562 1,490 48.6 48.5 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 41 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION NH Hoteles works to develop an internal communication that Internal Memorandums complements the corporate information with the local one to give In 2012, 66 corporate memorandums were sent, the employees close messages. classifying news per Business Unit, to keep employees informed at a local level. The Face of Our Team The campaign “Put a Face to the Name” has been carried out to Corporate intranet communicate the new appointments to all employees though videos, The section “Social Media” has been included in the banners, posters, and regular memorandums. intranet in order to involve more the employees in campaigns and competitions. The space has been Social Media divided in corporate and local contents to optimize their Channels used to communicate to all NH Hoteles employees organisation and the section “Benefits for employees” competitions such as the Wake Up Pics, the Davis Cup and other has been changed, making it more appealing and promotions. organized. Moreover, flash presentations and the updated content are also an important way of attracting We Are All Sales the attention of employees. This campaign continues to encourage employees to be NH Spotlight Newsletter and Tu Red 2.0 the first Brand specifiers. In In 2012 this bulletin was launched in 3 languages which the winners in each (Dutch, French and English)by and for the employees. period where the face for It is aimed to cover local information and personal the competition ads in the relevant information to increase the employees’ pride following period and the of belonging In Spain, Tu Red 2.0 is the internal Christmas one to boost sales bimonthly communications bulletin. in our hotels. Among the incentives the most relevant Posters one is the competition to win A part from the ones included in the hotels board, posters an iPad. NH Hoteles collected have started to be used to improve informal and visual €13M through these initiatives. communication and supporting competitions and events campaigns. Welcome Pack It facilitates the new employees desktop wallpapers and supervisors the Company “I am genuinely convinced that These remain a key factor in the communication guidelines, easy Access to our professionals’ undivided campaigns. In 2012, more than 26 images were used documents, useful brochures and summaries of Company key to generate support for the various corporate strategic support for our business aspects. There is also a HR Buddy at the new incorporations’ service, projects, showing more dynamic images. development is the lynchpin of a person from HR who acts as a mentor providing orientation, help and assistance during the first months and makes their integration the Company’s strategy” screensavers into the new working environment easier. En 2012, NH Hoteles was focused on quality and Michael Wazlawiz, customer perception. With the aim of communicating Executive Chef NH Deggendorf In The Netherlands the Introduction Package has been this approach, this message has been included in more digitalized, eliminating the printed document. The USB containing than 7,000 screensavers. the new guide is reusable, editable and environmentally friendly. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 42 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION QUESTIONNAIRE SOCIAL BENEFITS Survey to analyze internal communication, information about actions Flexible Remuneration Plan and programmes within the Company, channel efficiency and use Implemented in 2011, this Plan aims to maximize the net and areas for improvement. remuneration of employees in Headquarters, hotel managers and Central Offices in the Business Unit Spain, as well as In 2012, 89% of the hotels perceive NH Hoteles’ interest in offering health insurance, luncheon vouchers and aid for the promoting internal communication. kindergarten and rent. In 2012 the Transport Ticket and the Connected Home were negotiated in order to implement More than 70% of the hotels agree on the interest of the contents them in 2013. covered in TU RED 2.0 bulletin. International assignments Almost all the hotels have one notice board (97%), well placed (92%) and regularly updated (95%). NH International Mobility Policy governs the international mobility and fixes two types of assignments, short-term assignment, for short term needs and specific projects, and long-term assignments, which integrates long term RECOGNITION PROGRAMME Company needs and the international development of our NH Runners employees. Through NH Hoteles recognition programme, employees were rewarded for their tremendous work by giving them credits that Apart from short and long-term assignments there are also they can exchange for hotel nights and restaurants, encouraging international transfers for an indefinite period. In this case, them to travel and enjoy different NH Hoteles’ destinations. In 2012 based on an international experience and a professional NH Hoteles organized 6 recognition Programmes, awarding a career development, the employees apply for international total of 202,806 credits. positions not considered as traditional expatriation ones. Christmas Competition 936 credits In 2012 a total of 56 employees were transferred by the Company, including all three types of assignments. Jubilee Programme 82,708 credits NH Jobs section has been Recognition Programme 99,578 credits As a novelty, the figure of Global Employee has been renovated in the Corporate NH & YOU 17,856 credits consolidated, employees who, depending on Central Services Website in order to provide it with Notice board 216 credits or Business Units offices, live abroad. This year the Company more dynamism and include more We are All Sales 1,512 credits has 16 Global Employees. attractive contents and more Total 202,806 credits aligned ones with the Human Well-being and NH Runners Resources corporate strategy. NH Hoteles believes in sport as a pillar of people’s welfare, “The voice of NH” Awards which is why the Company invites employees to join NH Each year, the hotels assign awards to the best employees Runners. The group and the daily runs are an opportunity to according to their performance. In 2012, this programme was share good times with colleagues while doing exercise. carried out in the Headquarters and employees were encouraged to vote for the colleague who was best aligned with the Company’s In Spain there are already three groups with more than 60 objectives and standards. members in Madrid, Valencia and Barcelona. As part of this healthy initiative the Company has organized massages and “Compliment” programme well-being workshops, encouraging the employees to share A nonofficial recognition among employees which consists on a healthy habits. It has also worked with the health insurance “compliment” which they can choose and give to anther employee. company Sanitas in order to obtain the “Healthy Company” These messages help to recognize a good job or to thank a general certification. attitude. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 43 SPECIAL OFFERS FOR EMPLOYEES NH UNIVERSITY Trained employees per gender Employees receive promotional campaigns to destinations where NH In 2012, NH Hotels held 162,131 hours of training, which Hoteles is present, with offers for dinner with sea view in Lanzarote, means an increase of 19% compared to 2011, considering Spain; sauna and beauty in Capelle, The Netherlands, trip to a volcano in the new training hours measurement system, a total Catania, Italy. Through these offers local campaigns are also supported. investment of €1.10M, 9% more than in 2011. Employee Rate Based training hours have increased a 34% compared 49 Female 51 to 2011 and internal training has represented a 68% of Employees enjoy stays at almost all NH hotels at an extraordinary rate of Male the total number of hours and with the participation of €36 + VAT and 50% of the BAR (Best Available Rate) in the Company’s top 332 internal trainers. NH University has trained 24,791 hotels, plus 30% discount on products and services. In 2012, employees participants in 240 different programmes in 1,643 enjoyed 52,368 nights this way. campus sessions. On-line training participants have received an average of 3.49 training hours. It may be Amigo Voucher highlighted that all the employees have access to In 2012, employees’ relatives and friends enjoyed 134,751 nights at this an e-learning training catalogue through the NHU special rate. Betrained platform. Trained employees per age Training indicators Internal/External Business Unit 2011 2012 Difference 13 20 Headquarters 2,774 3,017 244 9% BU Spain & Portugal 10,138 15,517 5,379 53% <25 BU Benelux, UK, France & Africa 4,701 4,760 59 1% External 25-45 BU Central Europe 6,363 7,888 1,525 24% BU Italy 4,088 8,658 4,570 112% >45 BU America 4,759 7,132 2,373 50% 67 Total External 32,823 46,972 14,149 43% Headquarters 2,117 2,075 -42 -2% BU Spain & Portugal 19,144 15,748 -3,396 -18% BU Benelux, UK, France & Africa 17,765 10,075 -7,690 -43% Internal BU Central Europe 6,865 26,388 19,524 284% BU Italy 15,900 9,204 -6,696 -42% BU America 14,377 36,058 21,681 151% Trained employees per area Total Internal 76,167 99,548 23,381 31% Classroom Trainings 108,990 146,520 37,530 34% 33% F&B 3 4 1 6 23% Front Office 2011 2012 Difference 11 18% Housekeeping Headquarters 1,126 780 -346 -31% 4 33 6% Maintenance BU Spain & Portugal 11,618 7,538 -4,080 -35% 6 6% Sales 4% Administration BU Benelux, UK, France & Africa 1,631 1,709 78 5% E-learning 4% Management BU Central Europe 4,759 2,167 -2,592 -54% 18 3% SSCC BU Italy 1,301 1,633 332 26% 1% Others BU America 6,666 1,784 -4,882 -73% 23 1% Reservations Total E-learning 27,101 15,611 -11,490 -42% 1% Revenue Management Total training hours 136,091 162,131 26,040 19% **In 2012 the e-learning training hours measurement system has been changed which implies a change in the data from 2011. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 44 New Heights In 2012 NH Hoteles has reached a milestone in the development map for hotel employees. Together with JUMP, programme for potential department heads, and PDI, for potential hotel managers, the Company has launched the corporate programme New Heights, whose objective is to train hotel managers, key figures in our sector, to face every year strategic challenges. In this first edition 323 managers have been trained in 17 courses. They worked out their analysis and decision making capacity through a hotel simulator adapted to NH Hoteles‘ characteristics and needs. They also reinforced their knowledge about Revenue Management, Food&Beverage, Financial Management, Quality and Human Resources. Hotel managers, who received the highest rating in their 2011 performance, could participate in 2012 in an exclusive edition of the programme. In this edition they received training from one of the most recognized hotel schools worldwide and shared visions about the Company strategy with the Steering Committee. New Heights programme 2012 NHU Highlights Dual Training NH Knowledge Management After the success of working with this training modality in Germany, in 2012 During 2012 NH Hoteles concentrated on NH Hoteles has supported the Regional Government of Madrid with the the concept of sharing knowledge within the Company, consolidating a designed and launch of two dual training modules in Spain within the hospitality sector: tourist accommodation management and restaurant service management. 40 Employees have participants signed in these modules have started to be trained through an internally distributed training catalogue . This training is focused on skill development and it internship programme developed in 19 hotels in the Business Unit Spain. access to an enables the employees to reinforce those areas of improvement identified with the performance NH meeting moments e-learning training management system. The aim is to create value through innovation and differentiation in the MICE segment (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions and Events), by transforming catalogue through the defined product and services standards into training material, in order to Within this framework, the proposal “Working Breakfasts” is launched in guarantee that the participants interiorize them and put them into practice. the NHU Betrained Headquarters where internal experts in one hour and a half sessions share their Change management through management teams Team work, cohesion, sense of belonging are necessary competences to platform knowledge with other colleagues. These manage a growing and competitive market in constant change. In this sense, sessions are very participative and a part during 2012, NH University organized several working sessions with the from the learning it also encourages objective of reinforcing the team spirit, the collaboration, the communication, networking and allows a better knowledge the confidence, and, ultimately, the generation of a “common feeling”. of other departments daily job. During 2012, 6 of these working breakfasts have been Emergencies training organized, with the participation of 122 employees. Some of these sessions’ topics Relevant 2012 training, through which emergencies measures were given to were the refinancing of debt, brand value or more than 4,000 employees in the Business Unit Spain. 60 drills have been the new trends in our hotels. carried out in different hotels. The project has been a big step forward in the improvement of the health and safety of employees. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 45 TIME FOR YOU, REPRESENTACIÓN SINDICAL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Collective Collective Business Unit Employees covered Agreements 2012 Agreement 2011 In 2012, second year of the Performance Spain 53 51 100% Management System Time For You (TFY), Benelux, UK, France, Africa 10 11 100% the process has been simplified and it is now Italy 4 8 100% a mean of providing motivation. NH Hoteles Germany 12 12 100% conducted 1% more assessments to fixed America 23 21 100% employees, in coherence with the objective of assessing the most number of fixed employees as possible. 56% of them were not assessed mostly due to long-term sick leaves. Only 12% of employees 57% of whom were female received the top score “Excellent”. RELATIONSHIP WITH TRADE UNIONS % Assessed permanent Main employee indicators % Assessed temporary 98% 94% NH Hoteles’ collective agreements are mainly provincial, 2011 (%) 2012 (%) 100% 91% 94% 93% so the interlocution and negotiation are done from the 90% Average nº of employees corresponding hospitality business associations. However, 19,600 18,817 80% 76% 2012* 70% NH Hoteles has different company collective agreements 70% Open ended contracts 59% 56% (NH Eurobuilding, Golf Sotogrande, Hesperia Finisterre, 60% Hesperia Peregrino) in which the Company is part of Average staff turnover ** 3.9% 3.6% 50% 44% 44% 44% 40% 39% the negotiating table and, therefore, maintains regular 33% 33% 44% % Immigrant employees 16.8% 15.3% 30% 29% 38% meetings with the worker representatives. 36% 20% % Female employees 50.2% 49.1% 10% 11% The Company gives, at the request of the personnel 10% 5% % Women in managing delegates and works councils, all the documentation and 48.6% 48.5% 0% positions 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 information required by the different applicable regulations. Under 25 years old 16.8% 15.9% As part of the consultation duty in 2012 NH Hoteles had This year NH Hoteles has worked on the main approach to the contact with hotels’ trade unions and local trade union 25 45 years old 48.3% 48.6% development management of employees through three initiatives: federations as a result of disciplinary proceedings or Over 45 years old 34.9% 35.5% harassment process activation and we participate in the Talent Committees creation with the aim of agreeing on the overall Health and Safety Committees’ meetings. NHU training hours 186,404 162,131 assessment, strengths and areas to be improved among hotel managers and sales representatives. NH Hoteles wants to reinforce It has also been involved in industrial disputes due to the Nº participants in NHU 79,489 24,791 implementation of measures like a timetable change, the programmes the performance management of these two strategic areas and boost managers’ responsibility regarding talent management. transformation of open-ended contracts into open-ended Investment in training €1,009,319 €1,100,000 discontinuous contracts, the temporary collective dismissal % Performance Evaluations Elaboration of an Action Plan Manual with improvements which and the NH Hoteles’ Annual Equality Plan Monitoring. conducted (fixed FTEs) 93% 94% can be implemented to develop every competence from TFY and to establish then a practical methodology for the design of an individual In 2012 union elections were held within the renewal * FTE including all types of contracts development plan. for expiration of the term of office at NH Valladolid, ** Voluntary turnover (0.89%) v. Non-voluntary turnover (2.65%) NH Cornellá, NH Ciutat de Mataró, NH Gran Hotel, ** 2012 data not comparable to 2011 because of a change in the Internal Awareness Campaigns to highlight Time For You benefits NH Obradoiro, NH Palacio de Oriol, NH Villa de calculation methodology. which help the employees to grow professionally beyond the moment Bilbao, NH Amistad de Murcia and NH Villacarlos. when doing the performance assessment. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • EMPLOYEES 46 SOCIETY NH Hoteles’ Social Action strategy has the objective RESPONSIBLE ALLIANCES of contributing to the local development with a commitment and collaboration based on its own business. In this sense, NH Hoteles is committed Evolution towards successful responsible alliances to create responsible partnerships and networking by identifying the most efficient partners and in order to generate value through our hospitality developing long-term projects which could be services, aligned with its international Social Action replicated in other Business Units. Programme Up! For the People. Creation of responsible relationship with our NH Hoteles’ strategy Up! For the customers by designing joint actions aligned with People has evolved towards new our Social Action strategy. collaborations and areas, in line with the 2011-2013 Corporate Identification of the most efficient collaborators Responsibility Master Plan, and the biggest impact projects in order to provide consolidated as a management them with consistency and continuity. model which provides Social Action initiatives carried out in all Consolidation of our valuable relationships with all Business Units with transversal and our stakeholders. global nature. Relevant increase on the employees’ implication in Social Action projects. NH Hoteles Sprint Programme SOCIAL IMPACT INDICATORS Agreements Rooms Hotels involved with NGOs donated/year 2011 83 3,277 92 “All the hotel employees bent 2012 196 8,367 179 over backwards for the children from Menudos Corazones Trainees trained Agreements Agreements with NGOs Foundation and their families. and Institutions It is a satisfaction to give them 2011 294 15 19 affection and support in moments when they really need it”. 2012 441 38 39 Susana Rubio, Volunteers Initiatives Front Desk Manager NH Alcalá 2011 193 19 2012 907 56 2012 data include the Christmas for Everyone Campaign SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • SOCIETY 47 International training and apprenticeship programme for young Casal Dels Infants (Barcelona, Spain) people at risk of social exclusion and disabled people in our The Second year of collaboration between NH hotels. It gathers several projects and encourages the direct Hoteles and this NGO to support social activities involvement of the hotel employees who accompany and advise and initiatives in order to improve the integration them, carrying out a valuable volunteer and coaching work. of young people at risk of social exclusion. In 2012, 19 students from Initial Professional SPRINT Programme (Central Europe) Qualification Programmes have been trained in In 2012 the first edition of this programme was launched NH Hotels in Barcelona and 2 of them have been in order to cover job positions with qualified staff in the hired as maintenance assistants. Business Unit Central Europe. NH Hoteles gave a one-year employment contract to 5 young catering students at risk of Jinc (Amsterdam, The Netherlands) social exclusion from Tomillo Foundation and it was financed by Barclays Foundation. NH Hoteles’ volunteer employees NH Hoteles collaborates with this NGO born in participated with their mentors in their destination hotels, Amsterdam in 2003 providing career counselling helping them to integrate both professionally and in the city. to young people in underprivileged areas. In After the big success of this first edition, NH Hoteles, Tomillo 2012, 28 visits to hotels in Amsterdam were Foundation and the Barclays Foundation have confirmed organized to show more in depth the hospitality their commitment in continuing with the project and support business to primary students and vocational 6th Generation YCI Mexico future students. training ones (VMBO). Collaboration with the Spanish Red Cross (Spain) BATA Association (Galicia, Spain) NH Hoteles also incorporates 13 women at risk of social exclusion, The hotel Hotel Hesperia Isla de La Toja participated again in 2012 identified by the Spanish Red Cross, in a training programme as together with the BATA Association in supported-training internship housekeeping staff in 6 hotels in Barcelona. Volunteer employees programme for 5 people with intellectual disabilities. UP! For Opportunities helps attended the course provided to the women participating. Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation (Madrid, Spain) many young people from difficult Support to women victims of domestic violence Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation and NH Hoteles create a new environments. Our volunteer (Spain) opportunity for people with intellectual disabilities. 9 women, after a employees help these highly In 2012 NH Hoteles signed a commitment with the Ministry of training programme given by the Foundation, did their internship as motivated youngsters to develop Health, Social Policy and Equality to support women victims of housekeeping staff in different NH hotels in Madrid. their personal and professional domestic violence and also signed an accession convention to skills. Through workshops and Incorpora, a labour intermediation programme financed by “La Prodis Foundation (Madrid, Spain) trainings in our hotels, together Caixa” Foundation. NH Hoteles offered a student from the Promentor programme we improve their chances on (Universidad Autónoma, Madrid) a training programme for young future employment. Youth Career Initiative (Mexico) students with an intellectual disability, the opportunity of doing his NH Hoteles is the only Spanish company committed with this internship in NH Hoteles Headquarters. During his internship the student was supported and trained by several volunteer employees. Michelle Aarts international initiative together with Intercontinental, Marriot and Starwood. Each year it trains 420 young people at risk of Interim Hotel Director social exclusion in 53 hotels worldwide. In this 6th year, third in Socio-Labour integration programmes (Benelux) NH Conference Centre which NH Hoteles participates, 16 young people have been In 2012, in the Business Unit Benelux, NH Hoteles has been committed to the Leeuwenhorst trained during 24 weeks in NH hotels in Mexico. The support, socio-labour integration of disadvantaged people, offering employment to knowledge and experience of NH Hoteles’ volunteer employees 19 unemployed people, 8 of which are disabled young people from the were essential for the training. Two of the young participants following companies and organizations: In2work, Stichting Boost, Refrisk BV, have been hired as staff in these hotels. Flex Pay and Social working place of the local community. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • SOCIETY 48 NH Hoteles offers alternatives from its business to NGOs and Foundations, Our Hotel, their second home by designing sustainable initiatives that allow collaborating with society “Hospital Hotels” (Madrid, Spain) through products and services. Through the NGO Rate, which offers a 30% Through agreements with hospitals in different NH Hoteles, the Madrid Rotary Club and the discount for NGO partners, the Company collaborated in 2012 with more countries and with the help of volunteer employees, Regional Government of Madrid have signed than 160 organizations. the Company supports low-income families who have an agreement to implement the Programme to travel to other cities to receive long-term medical “Hospital Hotels”, which provides with room Make-A-Wish ® Foundation (Corporate) treatment by giving them hotel accommodation. In 2012 nights at special prices to direct relatives of these collaborations have represented the donation of patients admitted in Madrid hospitals and who Since 2005, NH Hoteles collaborates with the Foundation offering facilities more than 8,000 room nights. so that children with life-threatening medical conditions make their dream live in other cities. real. The Company has granted 90 wishes, with a total number of 361 direct beneficiaries and their relatives, always with the help of volunteer employees. Menudos Corazones (Madrid, España) Ronald McDonald Foundation (Amsterdam, NH Hoteles has been collaborating with this The Netherlands) foundation giving away over 1,000 room nights The Benelux Business Unit has signed an throughout the year at the NH Alcalá in Madrid, to the agreement with the Ronald McDonald Foundation relatives of children suffering from both congenital to provide families with hospitalized children with and acquired heart disease a room during a year at the NH Musica hotel in Amsterdam. Josep Carreras Foundation (Barcelona, Spain) The cooperation agreement signed in 2011 IRIS Hospital (Brussels) and Groningen Hospital between the Josep Carreras Foundation and (The Netherlands) Hospital Sant Joan de Déu against leukemia, is In 2012 agreements have been signed with the consolidated. Through this agreement we donate IRIS Hospital in Brussels and the Groningen CHILD’S WISH one room in NH Porta de Barcelona to patients Hospital in Holland. Through these agreements and their relatives as an additional service to the NH Hoteles hosts families with hospitalized Foundation’s Foster Homes programme. children. As a result of this agreement, the Company has donated 6,000 room nights at HOTEL SAMUR (Emergency service) (Madrid, Spain) special prices. Many of them have been directly OPERATIONS CSR TEAM DEPARTMENT GENERAL MANAGER NH Hoteles renovates the accommodation donated to hospitals. agreement for extreme emergencies with Samur Social until 2015. This confirms our commitment Anvolt (Italy) with the Madrid City Hall and with the security of Donation, in 2012, of 840 room nights in Rome all those in situations of social emergency. Since the and Milan for patients and their relatives thanks to signature of the agreement in 2009, 400 people the agreement signed with Anvolt, an association have been referred to NH hotels. which gives assistance to cancer patients. + HOTEL’S HOTEL VOLUNTEERS GENERAL MANAGER CHILD AND FAMILY SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • SOCIETY 49 Guest from the Heart (Latin America) After the big success of this collaboration between NH Hoteles and UNICEF, the Company extends the agreement carrying out the “Guest from the Heart” campaign not only in Mexico but also in other Latin American countries such as Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Chile and Uruguay. Through this initiative, the Company will collect guests donations from the hotels involved NH Mexico City, México DF Mexico in the project to collaborate with the childhood in those communities where NH Hoteles is present. Ayuda en Acción (Spain) NH Hoteles was one of the sponsors of the concert tour organized by Ayuda en Acción in Spain with the conductor Inma Shara and the Child and Youth Music Municipal Orchestra from San José de Chiquitos (Bolivia). With this initiative, which is part of the development cooperation projects in the Chiquitania region, NH Hoteles donated 30 room nights and provided the musicians and Ayuda en Acción concert their relatives with rooms for their daily rehearsals. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • SOCIETY 50 2012 marks the consolidation of the commitment of NH Hoteles’ employees with corporate volunteering projects, evolving into a diversification in three lines: General Volunteering, Coaching Volunteering and Volunteering for Development. General Volunteering It includes those solidarity volunteer actions where employees do not necessarily bring professional abilities into the projects. “You can also Sum up” UNICEF (Mexico) NH Hoteles’ volunteer employees in Mexico have donated from their payrolls almost €3,000 for campaigns developed by UNICEF in Mexico to help children. Week of Hospitality (Benelux) Meeting celebrated at the hotel NH Amsterdam Centre, where volunteer employees have assessed unemployed people on how to find a job. NH Argentina volunteer. Hospital Pedro Elizalde AVIS (Association of Voluntary Italian Blood Donors) (Italy) AVIS and NH Hoteles in Italy have organized encounters in the 30 Italian cities where NH Hoteles operates, in order to spread the culture of blood donation and the importance of adopting healthy and responsible habits. The first 2012 donation campaign was organized at NH Milano Touring, where took place the signing of the agreement and in which participated 22 volunteer employees. 2012 “Christmas for Everyone” Campaign (Corporate) “CHRISTMAS FOR EVERYONE 2012” IN FIGURES It is organized since 2007 and involves all NH Hoteles’ employees worldwide. In order to involve more stakeholders, this year we have also invited customers and residents of 5 hotels in Madrid and Barcelona Hotels and Offices: 97 (NH Eurobuilding, NH Príncipe de Vergara, NH Prisma, NH Pódium y NH Constanza) to participate by donating non-perishable food, clothes and toys Employee Volunteers: 485 to disadvantaged families. “Christmas for Everyone” Campaign. NH Prisma, Madrid Spain Beneficiary Foundations: 31 In Spain these donations were channelized by the Spanish Red Cross in order to help the most disadvantaged collectives. In Latin America NH Hoteles Donated Food: 2,600 kilos collaborated with institutions, hospitals close to the hotels. The collected toys and food was given to 10 organizations in ceremonies organized by more than Clothes / Household items: 1,500 kilos 80 volunteers. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • SOCIETY 51 Coaching Volunteering Includes those initiatives where employees, during their working hours and inside or outside the Company, put their aptitudes and knowledge at the service of training and apprenticeship programmes for people at risk of social exclusion in which NH Hoteles participates. EXIT Foundation (Spain) NH Hoteles, together with EXIT Foundation, designs projects in which volunteer employees from the Company receive a practical training on coaching and mentoring techniques before supporting and assessing young people at risk of social exclusion. Give & Gain (Madrid, Barcelona y Valencia) NH Hoteles par ticipates, for the second year, in the II International Corporate Volunteering Week Give & Gain, a reference initiative in Europe already developed in 16 countries. NH Hoteles’ volunteer employees have participated as coaches, sharing their experience and knowledge with the aim of awaking a professional interest from people at risk of exclusion. Track the Talent (The Netherlands) This programme, which started in Amsterdam in 2011, extends this year to Amersfoort and Track the Talent Programme, NH Tropen, Amsterdam The Netherlands Utrecht. Volunteer employees showed different hotel departments to 128 young people at risk of exclusion in a total of 6 hotels. Volunteering for Development Volunteering programmes based on hospitality business which improve the economic and social development by job creation, sustainable economic activities development and the contribution to eradicate poverty and improve the living conditions in developing countries. NH Hoteles provides knowledge through the volunteer employees to asses and ensure the success of these projects. Agoro Lodge Hotel-School, Ethiopia NH Hoteles, the NGO Manos Unidas and the Spanish Agency for International Development (AECID) have worked on this project since 2010 to help with the socio-economic development of the Tigray region. Apart from the previous assessment and the collaboration of two employees who traveled to Ethiopia, other volunteers from many of the company’s departments have participated remotely to make the project a reality in 2012. As part of our support to the Agoro Lodge in Ethiopia we now help to commercialize it. The visitors to our stand at FITUR 2013 had the opportunity to know further about this new initiative. “Thanks to all the volunteers from NH Hoteles for their contribution to this project the Agoro Lodge HotelSchool, which is now a reality. www.agorolodge.com NH Hoteles volunteers in the Hotel-School in Ethiopia SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • SOCIETY 52 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OTHER COLLABORATIONS The Corporate Responsibility Department is responsible for Responsible with the environment relations with the Community. It supervises and collaborates in all volunteering (Punta Cana) decisions made on social actions to be implemented via the heads Employees from NH Hoteles in Punta Cana, after a training of Corporate Responsibility of each business Unit, that channel all about waste classification and recycling, have established the information required as well as the management of the actions, to clean the beaches once a month to contribute to the in line with the Up! for the People strategy defined in Community environment preservation. Involvement. Emilia Romagna earthquake (Italy) NH Hoteles has a Management System called Solidarity Index which enables us to identify any local organizations and projects whose Volunteer employees collaborated with working hours field of work, objectives and needs fall in line with our Community and donations, collecting almost €5,000 for the Italian Involvement strategy, selecting those with whom we can collaborate. Red Cross to help the people affected by the earthquake. In turn, all the social actions carried out at NH Hoteles are gathered Campaign Helping is Possible (Mexico) in an Annual Inventory, updated every six months, that lets the NH Hoteles collected more than €4,000 for Mexican Corporate Responsibility Department track, manage and measure children at risk of exclusion, helping the education project investments, broken down to level, hotel and business Unit project of Lorena Ochoa Foundation. and global data. Health and sport day (The Dominican Social impact Republic) All NH Hoteles Business Units monitor the social impacts of NH Hoteles promotes preventive health measures among the actions Up! for the People with a System of Indicators its employees to improve their quality of life and their NH Villa de Bilbao, Bilbao Spain (KPIs) developed in 2011. First the Solidarity Index assesses the relatives one. The Company also promotes sport in order Community Involvement projects best suited to the requirements to be physically and mentally healthy. of the Up! for the People Community Involvement strategy defined by NH Hoteles, then these KPIs that measure their direct impact Fair trade commitment (Headquarters) on society are introduced. As a novelty in 2012, data traceability has been increased in order to quantify at a global level the real Low environmental impact products from Fair Trade amount of donations, the number of solidarity events and the sources in Ecomeeting, our eco-efficient meetings, and in AMIGO VOUCHER AND the vending services in Headquarters in Madrid and the number of volunteer employees who participated in the “Christmas EMPLOYEE RATE for Everyone” campaign. CRO (Central Reservations Office). In 2012, with the donation of €1 and €2 from the reservations with Amigo Voucher and Main society indicators Employee Rate, NH Hoteles 2011 2012 collected €321,869.This amount has been invested in the housing Total beneficiary entities: NGO and foundations More than 290 More than 230 and catering services, special Total community involvement projects More than 450 More than 700 tariffs and grants of the different Total community involvement investment(*) €490,987 €478,651.25 Business Units’ Social Action Total collected through friend Voucher + employee Rate €387,425 €321,869 programmes. Cultural promotion €16,715 €64,020 Total Community Investment €880,423 €864,540 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE • SOCIETY 53 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS NH HOTELES GROUP HOTELS Tripadvisor Certificate of Excellence to NH Liberdade and NH Castellar. 2012 The hotel NH Aeropuerto T2 in Mexico rated top 10 best TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence hotels in Mexico City by the Latin Trade magazine. NH Hoteles has received the 2012 TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence, an award that Hotel Secrets Royal Beach Punta Cana: acknowledges hospitality thanks to travellers’ reviews on the world’s largest travel site. Only Best 2012 Caribbean New Property and/or Renovation about 10% of all accommodations worldwide (Travel Age West). that appear on the site receive this prestigious award. It is thus a remarkable achievement for NH Golden Apple Award for its scores in satisfaction Grand Hotel Convento Di Amalfi, Salerno Italy surveys (Apple Vacations). Hoteles to make that 130 of its establishments receive this recognition of their excellence. One of the top 99 favorite Hotel Beach trips worldwide (Holiday Check). Hotel Secrets Royal Beach Punta Cana and Now Larimar Punta Cana: NH Hoteles has been rated as the best hotel company in the 12 th edition of the KAR (Key 2012 TOP + in Central America and the Caribbean (Top Companies). Audience Research) Study carried out by IPSOS. Excellent Quality of the Resort (RCI Gold Crown Resort). Golden Award for the Best Law Department in the Hotelbeds awards the best hotels in Madrid, including NH Hoteles. Legal Alliance Summit & Awards. Goethe Frankfurt Award and Die Welt Award to the best mid-range Best Mobility Strategy Project by the Mobility and hotel chain in Germany. Unified Communications Congress. Excellent Award by Trademark Italy to the Italy BU Director. Club de Gourmets Award to the Best Hotel Chain 2012. Condé Nast Traveler Award to Grand Hotel Convento di Amalfi (Italy) as the best International non-urban hotel. Sector leader in MercoEmpresas 2012 and Responsible MercoEmpresas 2012. R&D Hospitality Award in the Project Innovation category to Grand Hotel Convento di Amalfi. DINTEL Foundation Award for the best project in Contact Center and Customer Care Center. The MICE Report Award to Hesperia Tower as the Best Conference Hotel in Southern Europe. Best Corporate Annual Report in the Corporate Register Awards. Top Hotel Opening Award in the “Exceptional” category to nhow Berlin. AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 54 CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In the 12th edition of the KAR Study from IPSOS, NH Hoteles International tourism organism Global is the best rated company for the quality of our services Business Travel Association (GBTA) and customer care. In 2012 NH Hoteles was recognized as has rewarded NH Hoteles with the one of the key actors in the European vacation tourism. Gold Medal for the sustainable services it offers its guests during their business trips. Silver Blue Award by TUI Nordic to the Hesperia Lanzarote as part of Lanzarote’s offer. Award from the Spanish Confederation of Hotels and Hotel Almenara and the Hesperia Lanzarote finalists in the Tourist Accommodation (CEHAT) to the Strategic category of best resorts in Spain and the Hotel Almenara SPA Environmental Plan 2008-2012 for its contribution to finalist as the best SPA in Spain by Condé Nast Traveler. the environmental improvement where NH Hoteles operates, with innovative sustainable initiatives and the The DINTEL Foundation gives recognition to the NH Hoteles accomplishment of the established objectives. mobile marketing strategy with the DINTEL Award 2012. Greenlight for the whole hotel chain for its energy efficiency progress. NH Príncipe de la Paz, Aranjuez, Madrid Spain EMPLOYEES GreenBuilding for 5 of our hotels, such as the NH Príncipe de la Paz (Aranjuez, Madrid), as the most replicable. Best place to work from the Top Companies ranking in America. Inneo Award 2012 for our Environmental Consciousness. Presence in the 2012 MercoPersona in Spain, ranking 24th. Finalists at the Forética CSR Marketplace Award for Ecomeeting service. Finalists with the training programme New Heights at the World Hospitality Industry Awards organized by the platform Distinction of Hydro-Sustainable Hotel awarded to the Hostelco. NH Centro Histórico in Mexico by the Helvex Foundation, the water system from Mexico DF (SACM) and the European alliance for sustainable tourism ECO-TRANS. SOCIETY XIII HR MC Awards, Spain. NH Hoteles has been awarded in the “Best Practice in CSR” category for the Corporate Volunteering Project Agoro Lodge Hotel-School (Ethiopia). XIII Worldwide Hospitality Awards, Paris. Finalists in the category “Best Initiative for Sustainable Development” for Up! For Hospitality. Make-A-Wish® Foundation at the Annual Convention celebrated in São Paulo awarded NH Hoteles the Corporate Partner Award Spain for the collaboration with Up! for Hospitality during the last 7 years and the Make-A-Wish® “Star” in the Italy Business Unit. III Corresponsables Award, Spain. NH Hoteles finalist for the project Up! for Hospitality with Menudos Corazones. AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 55 ROADMAP AND Redesign the NH brand PRIORITIES FOR 2013 Improve management competitiveness Reinvent the NH Experience Redefine organizational concept Boost our online sales Review our channels assets portfolio The Group is immersed in defining a new five-year business plan, the goal of which is to make NH Hoteles the best choice for Strengthen our hotel users by leveraging its strengths and Marketing and redefining the NH experience. Commercial Area The roadmap for achieving our goals implies the following priorities for 2013: Redesign the NH brand and portfolio, building Developing an IT Plan that will deliver a significantly more a well-defined and tangible asset and service robust IT platform relative to existing infrastructure, one segmentation strategy and articulate an attractive that is kitted out with powerful information management product range tailored to the needs of any consumer tools that will make NH more agile and competitive. in any part of the world. Performance of ongoing case-by-case analysis of our Reinventing the NH experience af forded hotel portfolio, exiting structural underperformers and customers before, during and after their stays in our non-core hotels. hotels, building the new proposition based on four commitments: deliver, care, ease and surprise. Forging ahead with international expansion, weighing up growth opportunities and analysing the investment Reviewing existing sales, marketing and requirements of the Group’s emblematic and core communication plans. establishments. Our vision is that whenever anyone contemplates a trip to a city for an overnight stay or meeting, for business or pleasure, they first ask themselves: “Is there an NH Hotel?” Jolly Madison Towers, New York United States NH aspires to be the “top 2 choice” for city/business travelers, offering a different product and service experience. ROADMAP AND PRIORITIES FOR 2013 56 INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS PROFILE 2011 2012 STAKEHOLDERS 2011 2012 Portfolio of hotels CUSTOMERS Number of Hotels 397 391 Nº of “Mystery Guest “hotel assessments” 290 367 Number of rooms 59,052 58,853 Nº Scores (NH surveys + external pages) 211,577 229,809 Net income €6.2M €292.1M Nº of Customer Satisfaction Surveys 105,135 89,985 EBITDA Increase 115.10% -28.0% Communications managed by the Customer Service Department 17,696 13,705 SUPPLIERS Volume of suppliers managed 23,866 21,892 STAKEHOLDERS 2011 2012 Nº of suppliers who have signed the Code of Ethics 994 1,218 SHAREHOLDERS Annual volume of purchases (expense + investment) €447.8M €403.4M Entities which conduct analysis of NH during the year 21 20 % Turnover of Suppliers who have signed the Code of Ethics 9.0% 10.8% Nº of shareholders and investors queries answered 874 624 NH Sustainable Club members 40 40 One-to-one meetings with shareholders and investors 137 49 SOCIAL ACTION Analyst tracking reports 135 122 Nº community involvement projects over 450 over 700 EMPLOYEES Resources allocated to the Community. €880,423 €864,540 Average nº of Employees 19,600 18,817 Resources obtained from solidarity € (Employee Rate and Amigo Voucher) €387,425 €321,869 Open-ended contracts 59% 56% Beneficiary Foundations over 290 over 230 Average staff turnover* 3.9% 3.6% Nº of NH Volunteers 193 907 % Immigrants 16.8% 15.3% Cultural promotion €16,715 €64,020 % Female employees 50.2% 49.1% ENVIRONMENT % Women in management positions 48.6% 48.5% Urban hotels Under 25 years old 16.8% 15.9% CO2 emissions (Ton.) 125,645 121,151 25 45 years old 48.3% 48.6% CO2 emissions (kg per guest/night) 8.5 8.1 Over 45 years old 34.9% 35.5% Energy Consumption (kWh) 540,400,326 538,479,846 Nº of Nationalities 138 141 Energy Consumption (kWh per guest/night) 36.4 35.9 NHU training hours 186,404 162.131 Water consumption (m3) 3,094,601 3,003,722 Investment in training €1,009,319 €1,100,000 Water consumption (litre per guest/night) 217 208.5 % Nº of performance evaluations conducted (fixed FTEs) 93% 94% Waste production (kg) 41,319,219 Nº of Employee Mailbox queries 141 Waste production (kg per guest/night) 2.7 2.7 Solar panels (m2) 4,663 4,701.72 *2012 data not comparable to 2011 because of a change in the calculation methodology. Solar power installed capacity (kW./year) 4,097,953 4,104,753 INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS 57 ASSURANCE REPORT INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • ASSURANCE REPORT 58 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the 7th NH Hoteles annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report, in which the evolution in the focus and sustainable performance during the 2012 financial year wants to be reported. This edition includes the highlights of the year with regard to the sustainable economic, environmental and social management of the business and the relationships with the stakeholders. Preparation criteria The Report has been prepared based on the reporting of the most important aspects of our management and performance in 2012, in line with objectives set and commitments made to our stakeholders at the end of each section, the main specific indicators are included by ANNUAL stakeholder and at the end of this document, the chart is published containing the general REPORT indicators which enable the evaluation of the Company’s overall progress in the sustainable 2012 management of the business. We also followed the guidelines of the Global Reporting CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Initiative (GRI) and its guide for the Preparation of Sustainability Reports (version G3.1), both the Principles for defining the contents and quality of the Reports as well as compliance with the recommended content, which is listed in the GRI Indicator Table. In terms of the content reported, we consider that this report reaches GRI application level A+, including external assurance. This report summarizes NH Hoteles’ general management results during 2012, broken down by countries in which we operate. The international dimension of our business, with the incorporation of new hotels to the chain and gradual implementation of measurement systems and processes mean that, in some cases, data is reported for comparable hotels in the associated financial year. In each case, the scope of the data reported is specified for greater accuracy and comparability of the information. Balance and comparability The objective, just like every year, is to present a balanced, accurate and coherent report of our triple bottom line with emphasis on the traceability of the data and the comparability of the information of previous years and strategic projects. NH Hoteles’ new Corporate responsibility Plan 2011-2013 integrates these key issues and lets us define the courses of actions to be implemented in the respective annual plans. This Plan is updated Like every year, the heads of the different departments and those responsible for each annually and the Report-drafting process enables us to report the outcome of our management of stakeholder involvement process take part and are involved in preparing this report, and the relevant issues, the level of performance and new targets set for the following year. this ensures that what we report mirrors what matters to the strategic stakeholders and responds to their expectations. Each year NH Hoteles conducts a rigorous internal process of gathering quantitative and qualitative measurement data and information about the Company’s sustainable management and the Definition of content Corporate Responsibility indicators defined by NH Hoteles are reported. NH Hoteles has different stakeholder involvement systems that are a source of analysis of External assurance the contents of interest to different audiences. In addition to the tools described in our “Sustainable approach”, we organize specific consultations with stakeholders on a regular This year, the Report has been assured by an independent auditing firm (KPMG) and its assurance basis, and these are described in the sections on Customers, Shareholders, Suppliers, report can be found in one of the sections of this chapter. The a+ Self-assessment of the NH Hoteles employees and Society. The results of this communication allow us to keep improving our Sustainability Report has been corroborated by KPMG, and subsequently GRI has reviewed the mechanisms for identifying both needs and expectations and relevant issues to be reported whole process, assigning the report the highest possible rating A+. in the Annual Report, including tracking of the targets set in previous years and how the commitments made are answered. For further information, please go to our website http://corporate.nh-hotels.com INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • ABOUT THIS REPORT 59 CRR: Corporate Responsibility Report ACGR: Annual Corporate Governance Report N.A.: Not Applicable / N.AV.: Not Available / N.M.: No Material GRI INDICATORS STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures For partially reported Reason Profile Level of disclosures, Disclosure Location of disclosure for Explanation Disclosure reporting indicate the omission part not reported 1. Strategy and Analysis Principal 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully Pag. 4 Messages from the Chairman and CEO CRR Pag. 4 Messages from the Chairman and CEO Additional 1.2. Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Pag. 15 Our Sustainable Approach CRR Pag. 41 D-Risk Management Control System ACGR 2. Organizational Profile Principal 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Pag. 2 Our presence in the World CRR Principal 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Pag. 2 Our presence in the World CRR Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Principal 2.3 Fully Pag. 11-14 Main Figures CRR operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Principal 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully CRR cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Principal 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to Fully Pag. 11-14 Main Figures CRR the sustainability issues covered in the report. Principal 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully NH Hoteles S.A. Pag. 1 ACGR Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and Pag. 11-14 Main Figures CRR Principal 2.7 Fully types of customers/beneficiaries). Pag. 13 NH Hoteles: An International Player Pag. 11-14 Main Figures Principal 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Pag. 39 NH Hoteles Staff CRR Pag. 5 Corporate Governance CRR Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, Principal 2.9 Fully Pag. 13 NH Hoteles: An International Player or ownership. Pag. 14 Asset Management Principal 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Awards and recognitions Pag. 54-55 CRR INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 60 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures For partially reported Reason Profile Level of disclosures, Disclosure Location of disclosure for Explanation Disclosure reporting indicate the omission part not reported 3. Report Parameters Principal 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully Pag. 4 Messages from the Chairman and CEO CRR Principal 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Pag. 3 Contents last Paragraph CRR Principal 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Pag. 16 Dialogue with our stakeholders 3rd paragraph CRR Principal 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully Pag. 3 Contents, last paragraph CRR In 2012 a formal process of materiality and relevance has not been carried out for the Formalized ellaboration of the Annual Report. For the materiality and Pag. 16 Dialogue with our stakeholders Does not Report an internal process of information Principal 3.5 Process for defining report content. Partially priorization Pag. 59 About this report CRR exist collection per area has been done and also of issues to an evaluation of the key topics to be included repport from the dialogue and relationship with the stakeholders Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased Principal 3.6 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Fully Pag. 59 About this report CRR See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see Principal 3.7 Fully Pag. 59 About this report CRR completeness principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Principal 3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Fully Pag. 59 About this report CRR comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the Pag 53 Management System Additional 3.9 compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Fully Pag. 59 About this Report Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ Principal 3.10 Fully No re-statement of information provided in earlier reports acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Principal 3.11 Fully No significant changes from previous reporting periods boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Principal 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully Pag. 60 GRI Indicators CRR Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for Additional 3.13 Fully Pag. 58 Assurance Report the report. INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 61 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures For partially Profile Level of reported disclosures, Reason for Disclosure Location of disclosure Explanation Disclosure reporting indicate the part not omission reported 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement The Company does Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the not report a data Pag. 5 Corporate Governance CRR Does not NH Hoteles does not measure those Principal 4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy Partially breakdown according Pag. 17 B.1.2 ACGR exist parameters or organizational oversight. to gender or minority group membership Principal 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully Pag. 29 B.1.21 ACGR For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and Principal 4.3 gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/ Fully Pag. 21 Independent Board members ACGR or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Principal 4.4 Fully Pag. 45-46 ACGR direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Additional 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the Fully Pag. 25 B.1.14 ACGR organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Additional 4.6 Fully Pag. 40 C.6 ACGR interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the Additional 4.7 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any Fully Pag. 35 B.2.3 ACGR consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Pag. 15 Our Sustainable Approach CRR Additional 4.8 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the Fully Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct CRR status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct CRR identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Additional 4.9 Fully Pag. 18 Corporate Responsibility Management performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or System CRR compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, Additional 4.10 Fully Pag. 25 B.1.14 ACGR particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Additional 4.11 Fully Pag. 19 Risk management CRR addressed by the organization. No charters of this Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Pag. 18 Global Compact kind have been Does not No charters of this kind have been signed Additional 4.12 Partially or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Pag. 20 FTSE4 Good Paragraph CRR signed in the exist in the reporting period reporting period Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in Additional 4.13 Fully Pag. 19 Iniciatives and Aliances CRR governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. Principal 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully Pag. 16 Table CRR Principal 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully Pag. 15 Our Sustainable Approach CRR Stakeholder engagement is systematized The frequency of differently according to the tools used Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement engagement by Does not Additional 4.16 Partially Pag. 16 Table CRR and areas / business units involved. The by type and by stakeholder group. stakeholder group is exist Company does not yet have a consolidated not reported system for reporting these data Stakeholders’ needs and expectations as identified from the relationship and Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder List of relevant issues Does not dialogue with each of them are not disclosed Additional 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and Partially Pag. 15 Our Sustainable Approach CRR and main worries exist separately but are included in each section concerns, including through its reporting. separately detailed of Shareholders, Suppliers, Customers, Environment, Employees and Society INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 62 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) For partially reported Level of disclosures, Reason for G3.1 DMAs Disclosure Location of disclosure Explanation reporting indicate the omission part not reported Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Fully Pag. 11-14 Main Figures of the NH Hoteles Group Market presence Fully Pag. 2 Our presence in the World Aspects Pag. 29-30 Our Suppliers Indirect economic impacts Fully Pag. 74-75 Staff in 2012 Pag. 89 Main Society Indicators Disclosure on Management Approach EN Due to NH Hoteles' type of business, materials transformation is not Materials Not N.A. measured because it is not a critical issue and does not have a high level of impact on the activity development Energy Fully Pag. 32-38 Environmental Performance Water Fully Pag. 32-38 Environmental Performance Over 90% of hotels operated by the Biodiversity Not Not material chain are urban, with a low impact on areas of high biodiversity value Emissions, effluents and waste Fully Pag. 32-38 Environmental Performance Aspects Pag. 30 NH Sustainable Club Products and services Fully Pag. 35 Sustainable Innovation There is not record of any sanction related to environmental laws Compliance Fully and regulations in the reported period Transportation services used by NH Hoteles are not managed directly but with external suppliers. The Company Transport Not N.A. selects those suppliers based on sustainable criteria and the objective of minimising the environmental impact Overall Fully Pag. 38 Energy efficiency Investment Disclosure on Management Approach LA Employment Fully Pag. 39 Staff in 2012 Labor/management relations Fully Pag. 46 Relationship with Trade Unions Occupational health and safety Fully Pag. 40 Health and Safety Aspects Training and education Fully Pag. 44-45 NH University Diversity and equal opportunity Fully Pag. 41 Diversity Management Proprietary This information is Equal remuneration for women and men Not information confidential INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 63 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) For partially reported To be Level of disclosures, Reason for G3.1 DMAs Disclosure Location of disclosure Explanation reported reporting indicate the omission in part not reported Disclosure on Management Approach HR Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct Investment and procurement practices Fully Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct Non-discrimination Fully Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct Child labor Fully Pag. 39 Employees 3rd Paragraph Pag. 29 Suppliers 2nd Paragraph Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct In case security services are required, the Company has subcontractors NH Aspects Security practices Not N.A. Hoteles selects its suppliers attending ethical and sutainable criteria Pag. 29 Suppliers 2nd Paragraph Indigenous rights Fully Pag. 39 Employees 2nd Paragraph The Company manages these aspects through the implementation and Assessment Not N.AV. 2014 signing of the Code of Conduct for all the stakeholders The Company manages these aspects through the implementation and Remediation Not N.AV. 2014 signing of the Code of Conduct for all the stakeholders Disclosure on Management Approach SO Pag. 47 Society 1st and 2nd Paragraph and Social Local communities Fully Impact Indicators Pag. 97 Last Paragraph Corruption Fully Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct 1st Paragraph Aspects Public policy Fully Pag. 29 Global context Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct Anti-competitive behavior Fully Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct Compliance Fully Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct Disclosure on Management Approach PR Customer health and safety Fully Pag. 22-23 Excellence in Quality Product and service labelling Fully Pag. 22 NH Hoteles Global Assessment Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Conduct Marketing communications Fully Aspects Pag. 39 Employees 3rd Paragraph Customer privacy Fully Pag. 28 Personal Data Processing Pag. 29 Membership of the Code of Conduct Compliance Fully Pag. 39 Employees 3rd Paragraph INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 64 STANDARD DISCLOUSURES PART III: Performance Indicators For partially reported To be Assured Level of Reason for Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate the Explanation reported by KPMG reporting omission part not reported in Economic Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee Operating costs and Pag. 11-14 Main Figures The Company does not have these data at Principal EC1 compensation, donations and other community Partially employee compensation, N.AV. 2014 Pag. 53 Main Society Indicators the close of this Annual Report investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital among other costs providers and governments. The Company does not perform a separate Financial implications for the financial calculation of the financial Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Pag. 38 Commitment to preventing organization’s activities due implications of activities performed due Principal EC2 Partially N.A. for the organization's activities due to climate change. climate change to climate change and and to climate change. The consolidated measurement tools calculation of the whole energy efficiency investment is reported on page 72 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan The Company does not have the necessary Principal EC3 Not N.AV. 2014 obligations. mechanisms to report this information Financial assistance for tax Pag. 19 Relationship with or credit accrual, aid for The Company has not received this type of Principal EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Partially N.A. governments investments, research or financial assistance awards Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender The Company does not have the necessary Additional EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant locations Not N.AV. 2014 mechanisms to report this information of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyPrincipal EC6 Fully Pag. 19-31 Our Suppliers based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Local hiring with position The Company does not have the necessary Principal EC7 management hired from the local community at Partially Pag. 41 Diversity Management N.AV. 2015 breakdown mechanisms to report this information significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments Principal EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit through Fully Pag. 47 Society commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. The significance of the Pag. 29-31 Our Suppliers Understanding and describing significant indirect impacts in the context of Proprietary The Company does not publish this kind of Additional EC9 Partially Pag. 39 Staff in 2012 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. external benchmarks and information information Pag. 47 Social Impact Indicators stakeholder priorites INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 65 STANDARD DISCLOUSURES PART III: Performance Indicators For partially reported To be Assured Level of disclosures, indicate the part Reason for Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Explanation reported by KPMG reporting omission not reported in Environmental Materials There is no production process in which Principal EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not N.A. materials are processed in the provision of hotel services There is no production process in which Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Principal EN2 Not N.A. materials are processed in the provision of materials. hotel services Energy Pag. 34 Energy Principal EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully Pag. 38 Renewable Energies Indirect energy consumption is obtained Principal EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not N.AV. 2015 from an electricity supplier Pag. 32 Successful Accomplishment Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency of the 2008-2012 Environmental Additional EN5 Fully improvements. Strategic Plan Pag. 34 Energy Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Pag. 33 Initiatives implemented in Additional EN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy Fully the hotels between 2008 and 2012 requirements as a result of these initiatives. Pag. 35-37 Sustainable Innovation Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Pag. 35-37 Sustainable Innovation Additional EN7 Fully reductions achieved. Pag. 38 Renewable Energies Water Principal EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully Pag. 34 Water NH Hoteles establishments get their water from municipal water networks and therefore Additional EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not N.A. the Company does not have mechanisms to report this information There are not water recycling processes, the Additional EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not N.A. aim is to develop water saving systems Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Over 90% of hotels operated by the chain Principal EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Not N.M. are urban, with a low impact on areas of biodiversity value outside protected areas. high biodiversity value Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Over 90% of hotels operated by the chain Principal EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Not N.M. are urban, with a low impact on areas of of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. high biodiversity value Over 90% of hotels operated by the chain Additional EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not N.M. are urban, with a low impact on areas of high biodiversity value Over 90% of hotels operated by the chain Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Additional EN14 Not N.M. are urban, with a low impact on areas of impacts on biodiversity. high biodiversity value Number of IUCN Red List species and national Over 90% of hotels operated by the chain Additional EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Not N.M. are urban, with a low impact on areas of operations, by level of extinction risk. high biodiversity value INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 66 STANDARD DISCLOUSURES PART III: Performance Indicators For partially reported To be Assured Level of Reason for Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate the Explanation reported by KPMG reporting omission part not reported in Environmental Emissions, effluents and waste Principal EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully Pag. 34 Emissions The Company does not have the necessary Principal EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not N.AV. 2015 mechanisms to report this information Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Additional EN18 Fully Pag. 35-37 Sustainable Innovation reductions achieved. NH Hoteles prohibits the use of equipment Principal EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not N.A. that contain and/or use chloro-fluorocarbons susceptible of being released into the atmosphere NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type “NH Hoteles activity does not generate Principal EN20 Not N.A. and weight. significant emissions of this kind” NH Hoteles not perform discharges since the wastewater city hotels is managed through Principal EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not N.A. the municipalities sanitation networks, which conduct treatments depending on the application of local environmental regulations Relawted to its business, NH Hoteles has Amount of waste developed programs for the reduction in waste Pag. 33 Waste Generation (hazardous and non Principal EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially N.A. generation and increasing recycling, but has Pag. 35 8th and 9th paragraph dangerous) by type of not done remarcable composting, incineration, recovery or reuse landfill, deep well injection or storage on site There have been no significant spills in the Principal EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not N.A. reported period Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel It has not made any transportation, import, Additional EN24 Not N.A. Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of export or processing of hazardous waste transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Over 90% of hotels operated by the chain Additional EN25 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Not N.A. are urban, with a low impact on areas of high the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. biodiversity value Products and services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Pag. 30 NH Sustainable Club Principal EN26 Fully and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Pag. 35-37 Sustainable Innovation Percentage of products sold and their packaging The sale of products and labeling is not a Principal EN27 Not N.M. materials that are reclaimed by category. relevant issue for NH Hoteles business Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number There is not record of any sanction Principal EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Fully related to environmental laws and environmental laws and regulations. regulations in the reported period Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products The Company has external suppliers for Additional EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organization’s Not N.A. transportation services and does not have data operations, and transporting members of the workforce. to repport this information Overall Pag. 32 Successful Accomplishment of Total environmental protection expenditures and the 2008-2012 Environmental Strategic Additional EN30 Fully investments by type. Plan 2nd Paragraph Pag. 38 Energy efficiency Investment INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 67 STANDARD DISCLOUSURES PART III: Performance Indicators For partially reported To be Assured Level of Reason for Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate the Explanation reported by KPMG reporting omission part not reported in Employment Empleo Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Pag. 39 Staff in 2012 Principal LA1 Fully and region, broken down by gender. Pag. 41 Diversity Management Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee Pag. 39 Staff in 2012 and Employee Principal LA2 Fully turnover by age group, gender, and region. turnover Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Additional LA3 Fully Pag. 43 Social Benefits to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by The Company does not have the necessary Principal LA15 Not N.AV. 2015 gender. mechanisms to report this information Labor/management relations Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Pag. 46 Relatixonship with Trade Principal LA4 Fully agreements. Unions The minimum notice periods are Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational as specified in the legislation of Principal LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective Fully each country, with no specific agreements. corporate rule to regulate it Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Pag. 46 Percentage of workers management-worker health and safety committees that Additional LA6 Fully represented on Industrial Health help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety and Safety Committees (IHSC) programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Rates of absenteeism by The report form is that we consider most Principal LA7 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region Partially Pag. 40 Health and Safety N.A. region and gender appropriate for our business and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Programs in place to assist The Company does not have the necessary Principal LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Partially Pag. 45 Emergencies training families or community N.A. mechanisms to report this information or community members regarding serious diseases. members Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with The Company does not have the necessary Additional LA9 Not N.AV. 2014 trade unions. mechanisms to report this information Training and education Pag. 44 NH University, Training Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, indicators Principal LA10 Fully and by employee category. Pag. 44 Trained employees per area, gender and age Assistance programs to Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Pag. 45 2012 NHU Highlights support employees who are The Company does not have the necessary Additional LA11 support the continued employability of employees and assist Partially N.A. Pag. 45 New Heights retiring or who have been mechanisms to report this information them in managing career endings. terminated Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Pag. 46 Time For You, Performance The Company does not have the necessary Additional LA12 Partially Break down by gender N.AV. 2015 career development reviews, by gender. Management mechanisms to report this information Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Government data broken employees per employee category according to gender, age Pag. 5 Corporate Governance CRR The Company does not have the necessary Principal LA13 Partially down by gender or minority N.AV. 2015 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of Pag. 41 Diversity Management mechanisms to report this information group membership diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Proprietary Principal LA14 Not This information is employee category, by significant locations of operation. information INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 68 STANDARD DISCLOUSURES PART III: Performance Indicators For partially reported Reason for To be Assured Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate Explanation reported by KPMG reporting omission the part not reported in Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Pag. 19 Membership of the Code Principal HR1 Fully human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights of Conduct screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other Pag. 19 Membership of the Code Principal HR2 business partners that have undergone human rights Fully of Conduct screening, and actions taken. In 2012 the Company launched an on-line Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures training on the Code of Conduct but the Principal HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Not N.AV. 2014 Company does not have the necessary operations, including the percentage of employees trained. mechanisims to report the information Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective There is no record of such incidents Principal HR4 Fully actions taken. in the reporting period Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code the right to exercise freedom of association and collective of Conduct Principal HR5 Fully bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions Pag. 19 Membership of the Code taken to support these rights. of Conduct Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Pag. 19 Membership of the Code of Principal HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken Fully Conduct to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Pag. 39 Employees 3rd Paragraph Prevention of forced and compulsory labor NH Hoteles uses an increasingly accurate Operations and significant suppliers identified as having % of suppliers with supplier performance assessment system based significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Pag. 19 Membership of the Code of Principal HR7 Partially most significant risks N.A. on social, ethical and environmental criteria, but and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of Conduct of such incidents does not assess the % of suppliers with most forced or compulsory labor. significant risks of such incidents Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s If security services are required, in all cases are Additional HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights Not N.A. subcontractors that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of There is no record of such incidents Additional HR9 Fully indigenous people and actions taken. in the reporting period Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been The Company does not have the necessary Principal HR10 Not N.AV. 2014 subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. mechanisms to report this information Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed The Company does not have the necessary Principal HR11 Not N.AV. 2014 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. mechanisms to report this information INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 69 STANDARD DISCLOUSURES PART III: Performance Indicators For partially reported Reason for To be Assured Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate Explanation reported by KPMG reporting omission the part not reported in Social: Society Local communities The initiatives that are suited to local needs Percentage of operations with implemented local community are analized through the Solidarity Index, Pag. 47 Social Impact Indicators Pag. Information on local Principal SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development Partially N.A. which integrates the assessment of non53 3rd paragraph advisory committees programs. profit organisations and the Business Units responsibles Operations with significant potential or actual negative Proprietary Principal SO9 Not “This information is confidential” impacts on local communities. information Operations with significant potential or actual negative Proprietary Principal SO10 Not “This information is confidential” impacts on local communities. information Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for The Company does not have the necessary Principal SO2 Not N.AV. 2015 risks related to corruption. mechanisms to report this information In 2012 the on-line training on the Code of Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiPrincipal SO3 Not N.AV. Conduct was implemented, including anti2014 corruption policies and procedures. corruption guidelines Pag. 17 NH Hoteles Code of Principal SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully Conduct 1st Paragraph Public policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy Principal SO5 Fully Pag. 19 Global context development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Pag. 19 Relationship with Additional SO6 Fully parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. governments Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, There is no record of such incidents Additional SO7 Fully anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. in the reporting period Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of There is no record of such incidents Principal SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Fully in the reporting period regulations. INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 70 STANDARD DISCLOUSURES PART III: Performance Indicators For partially To be Assured Level of reported disclosures, Reason for Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Explanation reported by KPMG reporting indicate the part not omission in reported Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Principal PR1 Fully Pag. 22-23 Excellence in Quality percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts There is no record of such incidents Additional PR2 Fully of products and services during their life cycle, by type of in the reporting period outcomes. Product and service labelling Type of product and service information required by The products labeling is not a relevant issue for Principal PR3 procedures, and percentage of significant products and Not N.M. the business of NH Hoteles services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations There is no record of such incidents Additional PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service Fully in the reporting period information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Pag. 22-23 Excellence in Quality and Additional PR5 Fully surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Quality Focus New Functions Marketing communications The products labeling is not a relevant issue for the business The Company does not have the necessary Principal PR6 Not N.AV. 2014 of NH Hoteles mechanisms to report this information Número total de incidentes fruto del incumplimiento de las There is no record of such incidents Additional PR7 regulaciones relativas a las comunicaciones de marketing, Fully in the reporting period incluyendo la publicidad, la promoción y el patrocinio Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches There is no record of such incidents Additional PR8 Fully of customer privacy and losses of customer data. in the reporting period Customer privacy Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with There is no record of such incidents Principal PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Fully in the reporting period products and services. INDICATORS AND ASSURANCE REPORT • GRI INDICATORS 71 NH Palacio de Tepa, Madrid Spain 72 ITP I N T E R N AT I O N A L TOURISM PA R T N E R S H I P Santa Engracia, 120 28003 Madrid T: +34 91 451 97 18 websites OF INTEREST: Commercial website: www.nh-hotels.com Corporate website: http://corporate.nh-hotels.com Environmental website: http://medioambiente.nh-hoteles.es
