Who we Are Production house & integrated marketing communication services provider. We are your Shortcut to Media World … “The shortest path between 2 points” Direct Line consists of: Based on Direct line’s values and strategy that are matching the United Nations’ Global Compact prinMedia & Marketing Line ciples, we emphasize our commitment to all clauses Production Line included in the Global Compact hoping to gather all Audio Line efforts and initiatives carried out by all the member Mention countries out of nobleness and goodwill to serve huAll our creative teams operate at our four-story building in Free Zone, Damascus. manity as a whole. Human Rights : We are all really in need to highlight The meaning of the name “Direct Line” the importance of human respect and dignity, espeThe idea of the name “Direct Line” came from two very different but related values: cially after the hardship Syrian people had to endure Personal value: in a war where low level of morality and humanity provided. Originating from the Direct Line Management’s vision and principles in life in general… in any direct line there is transparency and honesty… and at the end of the day: “may the truth prevail” Labour: The conditions now are very suitable to Professional value: work on improving labor criteria and build healthy A direct line at work provides: the best service for the best prices. job environment which in turn will boost producA direct line takes us from the concept to its adaptation. tivity and creativity for the next period of rebuilding In a direct line, there are no “round-about ways”. the country’s infrastructure and economy. Anti-Corruption: Corruption is the reason of any Our Vision failure especially now that it has begun to effect all To become the leader in providing Multidisciplinary Creative Solutions. processes on all levels Direct line both company and employees is committed to its anti-corruption policy, which is applied Our Mission Maya Patsalides with integrity and professionalism (same as all UN We are committed to offer our clients solutions throughout the world and access to the newest techassociations and organizations) , in addition to fightnologies at an affordable price. ing prejudice in attitudes and declarations We do believe in the role of the UN and its principles We combined several integrated divisions, each operating independently, yet coordinating efficiently in supporting Syrians to rebuild their country Syria at various levels to provide high quality services and ensure customers satisfaction. and handle all community problems. We supply complete communication packages from initial concept to delivery, in all types of multiEnvironment: Focusing on this principle in all promedia and broadcast jects and investments to protect remaining environmental aspects and repairing damaged ones. We provide alternative means to the high cost of film and video production and post-production that fit our client’s needs and budgets. Our quality is the result of our dedication to constantly upgrade our technology and skills. Our Value Chroma 2D & 3D Animations/ Composing At Direct Line, our employees are our company’s most valuable assets. 3D Architectural Our work environment is nurtured in a unique way enabling creative thinking to thrive and employSpecial effects ees to develop to their fullest potential, thus delivering only the best products and the highest cusSurround photos tomer satisfaction. In order to cover all work aspects; Direct Line has recently developed a special new section Direct Line consists of 4 integrated divisions that complement and interact with each other: specialized in audio; Media & Marketing Line Audio Line Production Line Audio Line We own Studios and cooperate with leading composers, poets... Mention Dubbing Musical Identities In line with its policy of providing integrated services; and in response to local market demand; we Jingles have developed a special division of Advertising, marketing and Media. Children Songs Linear/ Flash, Break in & Break out Media & Marketing Line Theme & Mood Develops corporate identities, full range of marketing communications, and strategic campaigns with Talent VO their related promotional support based on solid marketing objectives… Enhancing Slogan Radio Ad. Corporate Identities (Logo creation & stationery adaptation…) Lyrics Brand and Message Development SFX Advertising Campaign Sound Track Brand Activities Arabic for non-native speakers Creative Concepts, Artwork, POSM In the aim of keeping up with the evolution of information and technology, and out of belief in the Media and Coverage importance of the international encounter and cooperation in the field of interactive multimedia Printing production, we have developed a special department charge of various multimedia. Social Media Research and communication campaigns Advanced Market and Marketing research Mention Marketing Planning & Execution Strategic Marketing Consulting Strategy creation, Management, Advertising, Posting, Page Optimization, Monitoring, Advanced Corporate Marketing Training Reporting) Events Participation and Sponsorship Activation Google algorithm Updates Brand Activation Structural & Code optimization Digital Marketing, Programmatic & RTB and many other tools Interactive DVD Performance Media, Photography, & live coverage Smart Advertising Devices Application Prodcution Line Colors/ Materials Application Coordinates and produces projects partially or entirely. We are equipped to carry out: TV commerApplication Development and Creation iOs and Android cials, documentary films, short films, televised series of several episodes, from production, directing… to post-production. By clicking the mouse button, you can make an interactive multimedia presentation, defining your company, including full visual and audio effects. Film, TV series, Video Clips… You can also browse through all your products and choose any information about a particular product Visual Identity in case you contact your website. TV Commercials C.G. Direct Line handles all stages of services, from the creation of the idea through its study and developDocumentaries ment ensuring the highest level of technical produce. Human Rights Directline was a pioneer in promoting for CSR (corporate social responsibility) through the launch of charitable and community projects that serve these goals; as the campaign launched by Henkel in Principal 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Germany through Persil product.”‫“كتر خيرك ليلبس غيرك‬ internationally proclaimed human right; and Directline was the one who created, implemented and supervised the campaign. Principal 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. In Direct line, all processes, procedures and policies are in consistency with Human Rights principle We take into consideration employee’s special circumstances and support them in any special financial or health difficulties, giving humanity and morality priority over anything else One of our employers has a chronic disease and we customized all situations to fit his ordeal moreover we support employees who have kids, enabling them to have enough time with their families The company also provides all support and assistance to any project aimed at serving human rights. we participated in the initiative to provide schooling and education to all eligible children entitled (when you love your country, you support its children) and produced a short film about this initiative for free. Labour Principal 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Directline also participated (manager and staff) in a specific day in ”‫ “خسى الجوع‬initiative in Ramadan, the right of collective bargaining. organized by a local NGO to prepare and distribute lunch for whom ever is in need. Principal 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principal 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principal 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Direct line is a family whose members represent all political parties, social levels and religions We support their right to having their own opinions and declaring them in free, lovely and respectful atmosphere Some of our employees are volunteer in NGO, and others are working with political parties Directline works by the sustainable development goals, especially ones related to Directline has also participated in the global campaign to stop violence against women and has the principle of gender equality. It works hard to support women and enhance their launched a series of targeted radio ads that have been broadcast on all radio stations. potential. Direct Line participated in the publication of the first annual report on sustainable development goals, which was implemented jointly by the United Nations Development Program and the State Planning Commission of Syria. Direct Line supported young talented Syrian by offering job and training opportunities; all the employees at Direct Line are over 19 years of age; 52% of them are men and 48% women During festive seasons and on special occasions, the Direct Line family takes the opportunity to celebrate collectively either in the company or outside. Hoping to have an active role in spreading positivity in the Syrian community. Directline launched SHE LEADS on the occasion of the International Women’s day, which clarifies the role of the United Nations in empowering women. The event was also documented, photographed and produced, and presented on social network platforms. Direct line believes in women’s role in building community side by side to men Since all must be equal in rights and duties, Mrs. Maya Patsalides Chairman of Direct Line was invitAnti-Corruption ed to participate in the Women’s Leadership Forum held by Bemo Bank. Mrs. Maya spoke about her Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including pioneering experience in the labor market demonstrating women’s ability to succeed and be unique. extortion and bribery. Internationally, the media being our line of business, we have noticed the huge corruption worldwide and the perilous sectarian incitation prevailing in information and TV stations. We have organized several seminars to raise awareness among our employees on the risk of corruption and fake information, making them feel that we are one and the same people living together under the roof of one and the same nation, despite our various doctrines and beliefs. All reforms sought worldwide will be doomed to failure if not initiated with confronting corruption and fighting against sectarian incitement, starting from the highest levels down to family and child... Locally: in this phase of economic prosperity, it is a must to be against any kind of corruption, and committed professionalism and limpidity in the business world to start from these rules in rebuilding process using Syrian experiences and skills and considering Syria well away from any personal benefits. In the field of humanitarian action, Direct Line participated in developing communication strategies for a number of non-profit humanitarian organizations such as the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). We have developed a communication strategy to making sure that the right messages are conveyed to the local and foreign media to ensure that the objectives of the organization are conveyed professionally in this area. Environment In the company: We offer a flexible, transparent atmosphere, as we strengthen the relationships between each other, aiming to get rid of any excuse for the corruption. Therefore we have not faced any Principal 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to kind of corruption, extortion or bribery at all during the last period. environmental challenges; Principal 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principal 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In past couple of years, so many had negative impact on the environment, such as the bombs and explosions caused by terrorists supported by governments claiming environment protection through fast propaganda. As a company, we did our best to highlight environmental issues and stand against of all kinds of pollutions and damages, so we worked on simple environment-friendly initiatives. In order to continue business in our office and protect the environment from pollution, we decided to replace a diesel-powered generator with a sophisticated inverter at a higher cost of purchase. In so doing, we have protected our staff and environment from the increased pollution, have oriented the use of power, and have worked by our modest standards, through minimizing the emission of gases and protecting the ozone layer. Thanks to the Lord’s great mercy and to “double-layered glass” we were protected from mortar splinters shelled by terrorists on the Damascus Free Zone where our company is located. After contemplating the steps mentioned above, we find that Direct Line is constantly and instinctively oriented towards conservation of the environment, always supporting any initiative to that end. Final notes We hope that the United Nations Global Compact principles have been committed to by all concerned parties to make difference in all communities, hopping that the UN can support Syria and Syrian through the following points • Working to cancel the economic blockade which obstruct the economic recovery by maintaining business level which can affect all other aspects of living. • Hiring Syrian experts and skilled people in all projects and investments which UN is involved in. • Using UN resources to spread positivity, peace and forgiveness between Syrians. To all respected and kind members of the Compact, Best Regards.
