Communication on Progress Participant Optimix Vermogensbeheer NV Time period July 2018 – July 2019 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 3 July 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Optimix Vermogensbeheer NV reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ton Schoemaker directeur Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals As an investor we don’t invest in companies that systematically offend the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights within their sphere of influence; or which are complicit in Human Rights abuses. Implementation On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics screens our investment universe and identifies companies which are non-compliant with our Human Rights criteria. These companies are excluded from our investment universe. Measurement of outcomes On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics reviews our investments during the quarter, and assesses their compliance with our responsible investment policy. The output of their analysis is used in our quarterly responsible investment reporting. Labour Assessment, policy and goals As an investor we don’t invest in companies that systematically offend the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; or which fail to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour; or which show use of child labour; or which fail to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics screens our investment universe and identifies companies which are non-compliant with our Labour Rights criteria. These companies are excluded from our investment universe. Measurement of outcomes On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics reviews our investments during the quarter, and assesses their compliance with our responsible investment policy. The output of their analysis is used in our quarterly responsible investment reporting. Environment Assessment, policy and goals As an investor we don’t invest in companies that don’t support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; or which don’t Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; or which fail to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Implementation On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics screens our investment universe and identifies companies which are non-compliant with our Environmental criteria. These companies are excluded from our investment universe. Measurement of outcomes On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics reviews our investments during the quarter, and assesses their compliance with our responsible investment policy. The output of their analysis is used in our quarterly responsible investment reporting. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals As an investor we don’t invest in companies that systematically fail to work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Implementation On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics screens our investment universe and identifies companies which are non-compliant with our Anti-Corruption criteria. These companies are excluded from our investment universe. Measurement of outcomes On a quarterly basis a specialized firm in ESG research, Sustainalytics reviews our investments during the quarter, and assesses their compliance with our responsible investment policy. The output of their analysis is used in our quarterly responsible investment reporting. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Assessment, policy and goals As an investor we’re actively looking to invest in companies that contribute to a selection of six Sustainable Development Goals, grouped into two sustainable themes: Sustainable Innovation and Clean Earth. Implementation We’ve launched two impact baskets consisting of equities of companies that contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. The first impact basket (“Sustainable Innovation”) contributes to SDGs 9, 11 and 12. The second impact basket (“Clean Earth”) contributes to SDGs 6, 7 and 13. Measurement of outcomes The two impact baskets were added to Optimix’ discretionary managed portfolios.
