ISSUED BY BPI MARKETING 01.03.19 TOGETHER WE CAN REACH FAR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Bramming Plast-Industri A/S shall endeavor, on the basis of the group’s values and vision, to operate a business that creates value for the company, employees, customers, suppliers and the surrounding community. BPI thereby assumes a social responsibility to contribute to social, economic and environmental sustainability. In 2014 BPI joined UN Global Compact, and thus complies with the ten principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report constitutes the company’s statutory statement on corporate social responsibility, cf. §99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. I. HUMAN RIGHTS II. LABOUR BPI supports and respects the Universal Declaration BPI supports and respects the principles of the UN of Human Rights and promotes human rights Global Compact and have furthermore taken the standards internally and throughout all business. Equal following steps in 2018: opportunities for all employees irrespective of gender or • Housekeeping / 5S clean-up in our factory in Poland ethnicity continue to be part of our HR-philosophy and for an organized, clean and productive workspace. humanity attitude. We hire, remunerate and promote employees on the basis of skills, competences and • Robot technology to minimize physical one-sided, performance – not according to gender, religion nor monotonic workload. race. • Annual employee satisfaction measurement and This is a non-tolerance attitude which is static and subsequent initiatives to support human well-being deeply integrated in our business culture. in all areas – production and administration. With reference to BP’s CSR policy, it is continuously • Examination of noise level and climate in canteens monitored by the company’s top and middle and in offices (AMO survey). management that all international laws and ethical • Repair of asphalt surfaces on areas with truck driving rules are complied with. for more convenient driving. No violation with the global human rights nor BPI’s • Establishment of own adjoining water reservoir to human rights policy has ever occurred in the company’s increase water supply in case of fire. history and thus not in 2018. RISKS RISKS Our Code of Conduct illustrates clearly our attempt to The labour rights risks identified are limited as BPI identify and disseminate different human rights topics has matured in a strict regulatory environment. and risks. However, our control and monitoring of local Nevertheless, safety of the employees is always top of compliance with regulations and legislation are limited mind and may come in question if we are not always to our knowledge of the impacts in our supply chain. up to date according to labour inspectorate regulations and in our internal safety committee. III. ENVIRONMENT The company engages in targeted and systematic efforts • Various measurements of environmental impact. to continuously protecting the environment through • Reduced content of harmful substances in release energy and material optimization, pollution prevention, agents. waste minimization and environmental management. • All HR-foams from BPI are now halogen free. In 2018 we took the following corporate steps: • Reduction of electricity consumption. • Complete new ventilation system at one of our major production sections/sites. • Project energy optimization for reducing electricity consumption along with external project consultant from SE Group. RISKS Lack of success in mitigating our negative environmental Just like BPI’s own, the CSR performance of the companies footprint poses severe risks for both society and the in our supply chain has an impact on the societies in which environment – e.g. by causing climate changes or other they operate. Lack of success in this could mean negative negative disturbance of the order of nature. In our role impacts for the communities. as prominent player in the field and within the specific industry a neglect or violation of environmental concerns or issues may be crucial to our entire business foundation. 2 REDUCTION OF ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION 1.963.444 kWh 1.863.639 kWh 1.713.507 kWh 2016 2017 2018 Total consumption fall for 2018 -99.805 kWh (-5%) IIII. ANTICORRUPTION An essential part of BPIs company policy as well as our Code of Conduct define that: • None of the company’s employees give or receive unjustified advantages from local or foreign public officials or employees in private companies. • No form of extortion or bribery or favoritism to or from employees or organizations is tolerated. • No violation with the anticorruption policy is observed in 2018. RISKS If this area is not managed, BPI would face legal, reputational and financial risks as well as erosion of employees’ and customers’ trust. BPI’s purchase function/department is considered the most vulnerable area for potential corruption – however, as our company never experienced any incidents of corruption we perceive the risk moderate. Full or partial neglect of the principles in the overall company policy or the Code of Conduct, or serious violation of local laws and regulations may, in its extreme, cause an interruption of the cooperation with BPI or a dismissal of the employee. The company grew up with this cultural mindset and business attitude, and it has never been necessary to set up a closer or more intensive monitoring or control of individuals or departments. The management is handling this subject with an appropriate and reasonable surveillance. To all Polish employment contracts, a specified point to impress upon our attitude and zero tolerance towards corruption has been added, and communication towards subsuppliers has been intensified. OUTCOME A large part of the above points have caused improved working environment, reduced energy consumption, less environmental impact and CO2 emissions as well as further engaged and healthier employees. Our ongoing initiatives within above fields are representing our unambiguous business attitude and adds to our track record of being a professional and fair business relation to our customers and cooperation partners. Encl.: CSR overall policy 3 BUSINESS MODEL Mission: To inspire and contribute to the development, design and production of advanced customerspecific comprehensive solutions in foam and rubber materials. We take pride in supplying environmentally-friendly products in high quality and on time. Vision: We want to be Europe’s most innovative and preferred partner. FINANCIAL CAPITAL KEY RESSOURCES Investments and production INSULATION FOAM PEOPLE Highly skilled and diverse workforce ACOUSTIC FOAM FACILITIES 2 production facilities in Denmark and 1 in Poland PARTNERVIBRATION FOAM SHIPS Dominant market leaders SUPPLY CHAIN Materials and services to support own COMFORT FOAM production 4 STRONG PRODUCT PLATFORMS and more than 300 types of foam 4 CUSTOMER VALUE PROPOSITION BPI follows a 360° value driven approach that creates and distributes value in below areas within 2 primary segments: Furniture & Design and Industry & Construction Market • Decades of market and industry experience and know-how and unique ability to advise and guide customers to advantageous decisions and superior solutions. intelligence • Ability to offer consultancy and idea generation as to both initial product as well as marketing of & the finished solution. consultancy • Highly talented, solution oriented and creative thinking consultants and industry veterans. Strategic • Forged partnerships with global industry leaders ensuring world class products and materials. sourcing • Longterm commitment from partners. • Enhanced service portfolio through collective solution responsibility. & • High mutual quality level. alliances • Cost effective supply chain. Custom• Designed and developed products individually adapted to customers identity and business. made • State of the art foam, applications and materials. products • Value for money. • Low TCO and high ROI. & design Technology• Latest and cross technology experience based on extensive know-how and regular investments based and in new innovative machinery and robotics. • Business process enhancement and cutting edge solutions. complete • Ability to deliver complete and well considered solutions with the use of own expertise and solutions other professional subsuppliers if needed. Quality • ISO 9001:2015 internationally certified company, following strict standards, processes and prooriented cedures, frequently monitored and evaluated for accuracy and effectiveness. • Tested procedures, products and materials both internally and externally. methology • High level of industry experience and best practices. & service • Local presence in priority markets. Individual • Individual systemized project development processes to ensure uniformed and controlled process attuned to customers preferred parameters. project • All processes are supported by various control elements based on needs or complexity, e.g. mgt. stage-gate model, mastercards, etc. Adaptable • Factories with high flexibility and quick response and adaption to any challenge. production • Professional, flexible partner with high service level. & • Capacity for larger projects. logistics Total concept CSR POLICY Bramming Plast-Industri A/S shall endeavor, on the basis of the group’s values and vision, to operate a business that creates value for the company, employees, customers, suppliers and the surrounding community. BPI thereby assumes a social responsibility to contribute to social, economic and environmental sustainability. In 2014 BPI joined UN Global Compact, and thus complies with the ten principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CSR is an integral part of the daily activities of the BPI group in interaction with the wish to be at the leading edge of developments in the surrounding society, as well as, at any time, to comply with laws and ethical guidelines. The CSR policy was approved by the Board of Directors and Executive Board March 2017 and is valid for the entire BPI group. BPI promotes procedures in our supply chain to ensure accountability for social and environmental conditions with positive impact on customers’ perception of BPI’s CSR commitment. BPI practices good and sensible managerial standards, and provides clear guidelines, policies and accountability for the company. UN Global Compact defines guidelines for BPI’s social responsibility. HUMAN RIGHTS BPI Supports and respects internationally proclaimed human rights. WORKERS’ RIGHTS BPI maintains good working conditions and continuously creates improvements in relation to work safety of employees and working climate. BPI believes that diversity among employees, including equal gender quotation, positively influences the working environment and strengthens the company’s culture and competitiveness. BPI maintains freedom of association, and supports the elimination of forced labour and child labour. BPI must be a workplace which employees identify themselves with and are proud of working for. ENVIRONMENT BPI’s environmental policy is based on an environmentally proper business practice, and is a natural part of the group’s objectives for product quality and production. BPI increases efficiency through continuous energy and material optimization, pollution prevention, waste reduction and environmental management. ANTICORRUPTION BPI maintains a high level of integrity and accountability, and does not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery. Approved March 2017 Board of Directors Executive Board 6
