Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Chief Executive's review CEO’s review: Raisio is an international brand house focusing on healthy food For Raisio, the year 2018 was a period of strong renewal and construction. Now the company has a clear focus: healthy food. In 2018, we built a solid foundation for our next steps. Our purpose and values defined together with our employees create the basis for all our work and guide the decision-making. In line with the strategy, we will focus on securing the growth and profitability of its core operations in 2019. Raisio’s further strengthened balance sheet enables the company to implement its long-term growth strategy. Building a united Raisio 2018, an eventful year In 2018, several separate events affected Raisio’s sales and profitability. For Raisioaqua, the second half of 2018 was exceptional as in August, the Russian authorities closed the border. The import ban of fish feeds resulted in the EBIT decrease of EUR 2.5 million on the comparison year. After the border was reopened in December, Raisioaqua continued to finalise the 2019 fish feed contracts. The Russian customers’ confidence in Raisioaqua remains very high. EBIT was affected by the planned increase in marketing costs and the challenges in the Russian and Polish consumer product markets. EBIT for the Russian and Polish operations was down by EUR 2 million on the comparison year. Raisio has identified the problem areas in these markets, carried out corrective measures and managed to turn the direction of the businesses. Exceptionally poor harvest in Finland resulted in a grain price increase of up to 60 per cent, which led to decreased profitability. The quality of the 2018 harvest was also clearly lower than in previous years. Raisio reacted promptly to the price increases of grain with price changes. Elovena Muru Oat Mince, Raisio’s new oat innovation Raisio’s most significant novelty was the new oat innovation Elovena Muru Oat Mince launched in September. The product has been very well received by consumers and it has shown its ability to grow the whole category and compete for the market leadership. Elovena Muru can be used quite in the same way as minced meat; it is ideal to anyone who wants to increase Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Chief Executive's review the share of vegetarian food in their diet. With its competitive price and ease of use, Elovena Muru is a real plant protein for all. Benecol products into new categories In the summer 2018, Raisio launched Benecol novelties into new product categories and sales channels. New Benecol snack bars are available in the UK, Finland and Poland, and Benecol Greek Style Yogurt in the UK, Finland and Belgium. Raisio increased the marketing investment to boost the sales of novelties and to gain new Benecol consumers. Furthermore, in our key Benecol product markets, we started long-term work to increase healthcare professionals’ knowledge on cholesterol and on safe, effective Benecol products proven to lower cholesterol. Our goal is to be an innovative and increasingly international brand house. Pekka Kuusniemi President and CEO Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Raisio's strategy Raisio renewed its strategy Raisio’s new strategy focuses on healthy, responsibly produced food. The strategy covers the years 2019 2021. Raisio’s goal is to be an innovative and increasingly international brand house. Raisio’s key target is to grow both organically and through acquisitions. Raisio’s goal-oriented responsibility programme is a solid part of the strategy. Strategic objectives We continue to invest in our leading and international cholesterol-lowering Benecol brand We are building oat-based value-added products to be the other pillar for Raisio’s international business operations The focus will be on the international Benecol and Elovena brands, while local brands will be reduced in a controlled manner We are a values-led company whose long-term success is enabled by skilled and committed employees Raisio’s revised strategy is based on our strengths. We identified a number of growth opportunities while working on the strategy. We have also looked critically at our opportunities and taken into account the increasingly rapid change in the operating environment Financial goals Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Financial review Financial review In 2018, several separate events affected Raisio’s sales and profitability. The most significant impacts on EBIT were the Russian fish feed import ban, planned growth of marketing costs and challenges faced in the Russian and Polish consumer product markets. Furthermore, exceptionally poor harvest in Finland together with a grain price increase of up to 60 per cent decreased profitability. Raisio promptly reacted to the situation with price changes. Raisio Group, January-December 2018, continuing operations The Group’s net sales totalled EUR 228.2 (234.6) million. Comparable EBIT was EUR 25.6 (35.9) million, accounting for 11.2 (15.3) % of net sales. EBIT was EUR 16.6 (54.1) million, accounting for 7.3 (23.0) % of net sales. EBIT for the comparison year includes sales profits of EUR 28.0 million for the Southall factory property. The Board of Directors’ dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting is EUR 0.16 per share, of which EUR 0.04 as an extra dividend. The comparison year figures in brackets Net sales Raisio Group’s net sales totalled EUR 228.2 (234.6) million. Net sales decreased primarily due to the impact of the Russian fish feed import ban and declined sales volumes in many European markets. On the other hand, sales of novelties increased net sales. The grain trade business, transferred from Raisioagro to the Northern European operations, increased net sales by EUR 5.6 million, because grain was also purchased to the cattle feed business treated as a divested and discontinued operation and it is reported as external sales. The conversion impact of the British pound on the net sales of the Group and Healthy Food Division was EUR -0.6 million. This refers to the impact that arises when the subsidiaries’ net sales in pounds are converted into euros as part of the consolidated financial statements. Net sales from outside Finland were EUR 142.1 (156.2) million of the Group’s total, representing 62.3 (66.6) per cent of net sales. Finland accounted for over 35 per cent, the UK for more than 25 per cent, the rest of Europe below 35 per cent and the rest of the world clearly below 5 per cent of the Raisio Group’s net sales. Results The Raisio Group’s comparable EBIT amounted to EUR 25.6 (35.9) million, accounting for 11.2 (15.3) per cent of net sales. EBIT was EUR 16.6 (54.1) million, accounting for 7.3 (23.0) per cent of net sales. EBIT for the comparison year includes sales profits of EUR 28.0 million for the Southall factory property. The conversion impact of the British pound on the comparable EBIT of the Group and Healthy Food Division Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Financial review totalled EUR -0.1 million. The conversion refers to the impact arising when subsidiaries’ EBIT in pounds is converted into euros as part of the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s comparable pre-tax result was EUR 24.8 (34.5), and pre-tax result 15.7 (52.7) million. The Group’s comparable post-tax result was EUR 19.3 (27.2) and post-tax result 12.1 (40.4) million. The Group’s comparable earnings per share were EUR 0.12 (0.17), and earnings per share 0.08 (0.26). Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Financial review / Key figures 2017 2018 Key figures 2017-2018 Continuing and discontinued operations 2018 2017 CONTINUING DISCONTINUED TOTAL CONTINUING DISCONTINUED TOTAL Income statement Net sales M€ 228.2 57.6 285.8 234.6 168.3 402.8 Change in net sales % -2.7 -9.1 Comparable EBIT M€ 25.6 3.6 29.2 35.9 10.0 45.9 Comparable EBIT of % 11.2 6.3 10.2 15.3 5.9 11.4 net sales EBIT M€ 16.6 16.2 32.8 54.1 -57.3 -3.2 EBIT of net sales % 7.3 28.1 11.5 23.0 -34.1 -0.8 Comparable EBITDA M€ 31.3 4.1 35.3 42.2 14.8 57.0 EBITDA M€ 31.0 16.7 47.6 68.1 -23.7 44.4 Financial income and M€ -0.8 -0.8 -1.4 -0.3 -1.7 expenses Comparable € 0.12 0.02 0.14 0.17 0.05 0.22 earnings per share Earnings per share € 0.08 0.10 0.18 0.26 -0.37 -0.11 Balance sheet Equity ratio % 81.7 73.4 Net gearing % -45.0 -39.8 Net interest-bearing M€ -119.2 -105.1 debt Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Financial review / Key figures 2017 2018 2018 2017 CONTINUING DISCONTINUED TOTAL CONTINUING DISCONTINUED TOTAL Equity per share € 1.68 1.68 Investment M€ 5.6 0.3 5.9 10.1 5.7 15.8 Raisio Group's key figures Continuing operations 2018 2017 Income statement Net sales M€ 228.2 234.6 Change in net sales % -2.7 -9.1 Comparable EBIT M€ 25.6 35.9 Comparable EBIT of net sales % 11.2 15.3 EBIT M€ 16.6 54.1 EBIT of net sales % 7.3 23.0 Comparable EBITDA M€ 31.3 42.2 EBITDA M€ 31.0 68.1 Financial income and expenses M€ -0.8 -1.4 Comparable earnings per share € 0.12 0.17 Earnings per share € 0.08 0.26 Balance sheet Equity ratio % 81.7 73.4 Net gearing % -45.0 -39.8 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Financial review / Key figures 2017 2018 2018 2017 Net interest-bearing debt M€ -119.2 -105.1 Equity per share € 1.68 1.68 Investment M€ 5.6 10.1 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Financial review / Key figures Q1-Q4/2018 Key figures Q1-Q4/2018 Earnings from continuing operations (M€) Q4/2018 Q3/2018 Q2/2018 Q1/2018 Net sales by segment Healthy Food 53.3 51.9 47.8 48.1 Raisioaqua 2.0 10.9 11.7 1.3 Other operations 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Interdivisional net sales 0.0 0.0 -0.2 0.0 Total net sales 55.6 63.1 59.7 49.7 EBIT by segment Healthy Food 8.5 7.3 6.8 8.1 Raisioaqua -1.1 0.9 0.3 -1.0 Other operations -9.6 -0.5 -0.6 -2.8 Total EBIT -2.1 7.8 6.5 4.4 Financial income and expenses, net -0.7 -0.1 -0.1 0.1 Share of result of associates Result before taxes -2.8 7.6 6.4 4.5 Income tax 0.5 -1.7 -1.4 -1.1 Result for the period -2.3 5.9 5.0 3.4 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Financial review / Key figures Q1-Q4/2018 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Financial review / Other figures Other figures Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Risk management Risk management Raisio’s Risk Management Policy defines the objectives, principles and responsibilities of risk management. Risk management focuses on preventive action. Risk Management Policy The target of risk management is to identify risks and safeguard the continuity and integrity of Raisio’s business operations, safety of products and activities, personnel and property. Furthermore, Raisio aims at anticipating and preventing events undermining shareholder value. Raisio’s risk management emphasises preventive actions and aims at the comprehensive development of risk management. The Divisions independently make operational risk management decisions. These include, for example, occupational safety, partner selection and payment terms. Raisio has a Group-wide insurance programme to manage, for example, risks related to property and continuity of operations. The management of financial risks is centralised to the Finance Department. Findings of internal control and business risks are reported to the Board as part of monthly financial reporting. Risks and sources of uncertainty in business operations As an international food chain operator, Raisio’s operations are affected by the overall economic development and consumer demand. Raisio estimates that the grocery market will remain fairly stable compared to other sectors in the company’s key markets. However, the decline in consumer purchasing power resulting from, e.g. import duties, sanctions and exchange rate changes, may pose challenges for the company’s businesses. Changes in the retail sector and intensifying competition are a challenge for the food industry too, through sales prices and sales terms in all Raisio’s main markets. Changes in the availability, quality and price of our key raw materials, such as grains, are a major challenge for Raisio’s operations. Extreme weather events linked to climate change have an impact on the grain harvest expectations, supply, demand and price. Changes in supply, demand, quality and price of other key raw materials, such as sterols and soy products, are challenges for Raisio’s operations. Extreme weather events, such as long heatwaves, are a challenge for Raisioaqua’s fish feed business in the company’s main markets, Finland and Northwest Russia. Preparing for Brexit is particularly important for Raisio as the UK is the biggest market for the Benecol products. Raisio has assessed major risks and necessary measures related to the Brexit implementation. Brexit together with possible changes in the subcontracting chain and licensing expose Benecol business, in particular, to availability, price, currency and market risks that may lead to reorganisation in order to secure the supply chain and business profitability. Changes in exchange rates have an impact on Raisio’s net sales and EBIT, directly and indirectly. They may Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Risk management also affect the utilisation rates of Raisio’s production plants through the changes in demand. Changes in the Raisio’s key currencies affect the results of the Group’s subsidiaries, largely due to the purchases of the Benecol business. Volatility in the external value of the rouble affects the export of both fish feeds and flake products. Currency conversions also affect Raisio’s reported net sales and EBIT. With the currency conversion, particularly the changes in the UK pound have a major impact as a significant part of Raisio’s net sales and EBIT are generated in the UK-based subsidiary. To ensure growth and profitability of its operations, Raisio may carry out corporate restructuring, significant investments and/or other projects that may result in significant items affecting comparability. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Operating environment Operating environment Raisio is an international brand house focusing on healthy, responsibly produced food and fish feeds. Raisio’s key markets include Finland, the UK, Ireland, Poland and Russia. Healthy Food Global phenomena, such as climate change, Earth’s limited resources, demographic change, technological breakthroughs and faster information flow have an impact on consumers’ everyday life and their purchasing decisions. This will be seen in many ways: consumers make responsible choices, invest in health throughout the life and prefer easy-to-use products suitable for busy everyday life. When choosing responsibly produced food, consumers pay attention to the whole product lifecycle: from raw materials to production, distribution and consumption, all the way to the package recycling and food waste. As the proportion of people over the age of 60 continues to grow globally, taking care of health is increasingly important. Instead of seeking for short-term solutions, consumers have a holistic approach to their health and well-being. Food is at the core of Raisio’s operations. We make responsible, healthy and tasty food for each moment of the day to make consumers’ everyday life easier. We determinedly develop our Health is #1 to consumers product range healthier taking consumers' changing needs into account. We want to be a forerunner in responsible food, and we have set ambitious goals for our responsibility work. In addition to profitable growth, our Healthy Growth Strategy 2019-2021 emphasises the commitment to healthy food and responsible business operations. Finnish grain crop Due to the exceptionally dry growth season, the Finnish grain harvest was only 2.7 million tons, which is about a third less than in a normal year. Harvest levels were clearly down also in Europe. Grain prices rose in Finland in the autumn by over 60 per cent, depending on the type of grain. In terms of quality, the 2018 harvest was clearly lower than in previous years. Raisio is able to acquire Finnish oat and wheat sufficiently for its own use. The most challenging situation is with oat as the production outcome from the lower quality harvest is clearly smaller. Exceptionally weak grain Oat is Raisio’s most used grain and its use increased from the harvest comparison year. Oat used by Raisio in its own products accounts for about 40 per cent of all oat processed in Finland for food use. Raisioaqua Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Operating environment The consumption of farmed fish is projected to grow globally by eight per cent by 2025. The EU aims to increase the production of farmed fish by five per cent annually. Finland and Sweden aim to double the aquaculture production over the next few years. Russia, too, is seeking a clear growth in the aquaculture production. In Finland, demand for domestic fish continues to increase, but new fish farming licences and licences to increase the current quotas are rarely granted. Thanks to Raisioaqua’s environmentally friendly Demand for farmed fish Baltic Blend feeds, farmers still believe in positive licensing continues to grow processes. In Northwest Russia, the Baltic Countries and Sweden, innovative feed producers, such as Raisioaqua, have opportunities to increase their business. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Healthy Food Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Financial review Financial review The Healthy Food Division’s net sales totalled EUR 201.1 (201.4) million. Net sales for Northern and Eastern Europe were EUR 101.1 (98.1) million, for Western Europe EUR 66.4 (68.2) million and for the Rest of the World EUR 33.6 (35.2) million. The Healthy Food Division’s net sales increased as the grain trade business, transferred to the Northern European operations, increased net sales by EUR 5.6 million from the comparison year, because grain was also purchased to the divested cattle feed business treated as a discontinued operation and it was reported as external sales. More than 50 per cent of the Healthy Food Division’s net sales were from the Northern and Eastern Europe, more than 30 per cent from the Benecol product sales in the Eastern European markets and the rest, more than 15 per cent from the Rest of the World business. The Healthy Food Division’s comparable EBIT totalled EUR 29.8 (39.3) million, accounting for 14.8 (19.5) per cent of net sales. EBIT was EUR 30.8 (38.4) million, accounting for 15.3 (19.0) per cent of net sales. The comparison year EBIT included the refund of pension payments of some EUR 0.7 million, paid to Raisio’s Swedish subsidiary. The conversion impact of the British pound on net sales was EUR -0.6 million and EUR -0.1 million on EBIT. The conversion refers to the impact that arises when the subsidiaries’ net sales in pounds is converted into euros as part of the consolidated financial statements. 1-12/2018 1-12/2017 Net sales, M€ 201.1 201.4 Northern and Eastern Europe, M€ 101.1 98.1 Western Europe, M€ 66.4 68.2 Rest of the World, M€ 33.6 35.2 Comparable EBIT, M€ 29.8 39.3 Comparable EBIT, % 14.8 19.5 Items affecting comparability, M€ 1.0 -0.9 EBIT, M€ 30.8 38.4 EBIT, % 15.3 19.0 Investments, M€ 3.2 1.5 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Financial review 1-12/2018 1-12/2017 Net assets, M€ 121.2 116.7 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Business review Healthy Food Raisio’s well-known brands Benecol, Elovena, Sunnuntai, Provena, Torino and Nordic offer consumers familiar favourites and innovative new products. The key markets of the Healthy Food Division are Finland, the UK, Ireland, Poland and Russia. Main events in 2018 Focus on the novelty launches Benecol novelties into new categories: snack bars and Greek Style Yogurt Elovena Muru Oat Mince, Raisio’s latest oat innovation Grain price increases promptly responded with price changes In Poland, long-lasting slide now stopped In Russia, back to premium pricing Raisio’s own sales and marketing organisation took over Ireland Raisio increased its communications on cholesterol lowering to healthcare professionals Northern and Eastern Europe (main markets Finland, Poland and Russia) In the Finnish market, the focus was on the launches of novelties. Raisio’s most significant novelties were Elovena Muru Oat Mince, Benecol snack bars and Benecol Greek Style Yogurts. At the end of 2018, Raisio focused on passing on higher grain prices to the product prices with the company’s strong brands. Comparable net sales remained at the comparison year level.As a whole, Elovena product sales remained at the strong comparison year level. Strong sales growth for Benecol products also continued. Elovena, Finland’s most Sales for the Torino brand grew significantly with the new vegetable valued oat brand pastas. The drop in sales and tightening competition in the baking category resulted in the sales decrease for the Sunnuntai brand. Nordic flakes are Raisio’s main products in Russia and Ukraine. In Russia, sales volume remained almost at the comparison year level. In euros, net sales were clearly down from the comparison year due to the negative impact of the currency. Price increases were made at the end of 2018 to meet the grain price rise. In Ukraine, strong sales growth continued with the Nordic products. In Poland, Raisio focuses on the Benecol consumer products. The organisation and cost structure have been renewed to support the company’s focus on its core business. Net sales were significantly In Poland, focus on the down from the comparison year and EBIT was negative. However, core business the worst slide has now been stopped. Raisio will continue measures to improve business profitability in 2019. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Business review Western Europe (Markets: the UK, Ireland and Belgium) In the UK, Benecol snack bars and Benecol Greek Style Yogurts were launched in the summer. Sales of the Benecol snack bars expanded to include pharmacies. In addition, sales of the Benecol products expanded into over 5,500 new retail stores. Sales in the Benecol yogurt drinks were at the comparison year level while in the Benecol spreads, sales were slightly down from the comparison year. The UK net sales were almost at the comparison year level. As planned, Raisio’s own sales and marketing organisation took over the Irish Benecol business at the beginning of September. In late 2018, the number of promotions was lower than in the In the UK Benecol comparison period, which in turn resulted in a clear net sales drop. expanded into over 5,500 Sales in Benecol spreads remained at the comparison period level new retail stores while in yogurt drinks sales decreased. In Belgium, sales in Benecol yogurt drinks and spreads were clearly down from the comparison year. Sales turned into slight growth thanks to campaigning and Benecol Greek Style Yogurts launched in late 2018. Net sales for Belgium clearly decreased from the comparison year. After Ireland, Belgium is the next priority area where Raisio aims to turn net sales into clear growth. Rest of the world The Rest of the World business includes the deliveries of plant stanol ester, the Benecol product ingredient, for the production of consumer products sold in Raisio’s own markets as well as the Benecol product ingredient sales to licensing partners. The figures for the Rest of the World business also include Raisio’s food exports to other than the company’s own main markets. Deliveries in the Benecol product ingredient for the production of consumer products sold in Raisio’s home markets slightly increased from the comparison year. Deliveries to licensing partners in the US and Asia were significantly down from the comparison period. Raisio’s licensing agreement with the Spanish partner ended at the end of 2018. In line with its new strategy, Raisio will take over Benecol product markets in Europe in case the situation with a licensing partner changes and the market is important for Raisio. As part of its strategy work, Raisio has also assessed the functionality of the current licensing model. The licensing model remains one way to provide consumers with cholesterol-lowering Benecol products in the markets where Raisio does not operate, and especially outside Europe. Raisio will continue to further develop its licensing model in 2019. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Business review Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Benecol Benecol Benecol is Raisio’s top innovation and the company’s most international brand. Millions of consumers use Benecol products daily for cholesterol lowering. Raisio is responsible for the sales and marketing of Benecol products in its own markets in the UK, Ireland, Belgium, Finland, Poland and Hong Kong, and for the sales of plant stanol ester, the Benecol product ingredient, to its European, Asian and American licensing partners. Novelties to new categories In the summer 2018, Raisio launched Benecol novelties into new product categories and sales channels. New Benecol snack bars are available in the UK, Finland and Poland, and Benecol Greek Style yogurt in the UK, Finland and Belgium. Sales of the Benecol snack bars expanded to pharmacies in the UK. In addition, sales of the Benecol products expanded into over 5,500 new retail stores. The novelty launches were boosted with advertising campaigns increasing the brand awareness and consumer interest to try Benecol. Delicious food was highlighted in the marketing communications, which inspires consumers to lower their cholesterol with tasty, convenient Benecol products. Our new marketing messaging raised Delicious food concept younger consumers’ interest and they have increased experimenting inspires to try the cholesterol-lowering Benecol products. Healthcare professionals important influencers For its key markets, Raisio set up an organisation to increase the knowledge of healthcare professionals on the importance of lowering of elevated cholesterol. The goal is to encourage healthcare professionals to recommend Benecol products to their customers as part of a healthy diet. Healthcare professionals' recommendations are of great importance to consumers with elevated cholesterol levels. Some 80 clinical trials have confirmed the effectiveness and safety of Benecol products. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Benecol Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthy Food / Elovena Elovena Elovena is Finland’s most valued oat brand. Elovena products have so far only been sold in Finland but in line with its new strategy, Raisio aims at making Elovena an international oat brand over the next few years. Elovena’s media visibility has been determinedly grown since 2017, which has made the brand and its consumer marketing familiar to more and more consumers. Elovena novelties respond well to consumer needs, and the pioneering brand has kept up with the times and is associated with delicious food. Sales in the Elovena snack biscuits increased by over 15 per cent in 2018. As a whole, Elovena product sales remained at the strong comparison year level. Elovena Feel free to eat! Elovena Muru Oat Mince, Raisio’s new oat innovation Raisio’s latest oat innovation, Elovena Muru Oat Mince, was launched in the autumn 2018. Retailers took Elovena Muru Oat Mince extensively into selections and the nationwide distribution coverage was quickly built. Elovena Muru Oat Mince, made in Finland, is a plant-based alternative to minced meat and suitable for versatile cooking. In just a few months, Elovena Muru has started to compete for the market leadership of the category. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Year 2018 / Raisioaqua Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Raisioaqua / Financial review Financial review Raisioaqua’s net sales totalled EUR 25.9 (31.8) million. Net sales decreased by almost 20 per cent on the comparison year due to the interrupted Russian exports. Fish feed deliveries to Finnish customers remained almost the same as in 2017. Finland accounted for nearly 45 per cent, Russia almost 55 per cent and the share other markets was small. Raisioaqua’s EBIT totalled EUR -0.8 (2.4) million. Fish feed export to Russia declined by almost 30 per cent on the comparison year. The decrease in net sales also meant a significant decline in EBIT. Key figures for the Raisioaqua Division 2018 2017 Net sales, M€ 25.9 31.8 EBIT, M€ -0.8 2.4 EBIT, % -3.2 7.5 Investments, M€ 1.4 3.0 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Raisioaqua / Business review Raisioaqua, a forerunner in responsibility The Raisioaqua Division includes the fish feed business. Raisioaqua is the only Finnish fish feed manufacturer. The key markets are Finland and Northwest Russia. Main events in 2018 The raw material supplier’s product did not meet the contract terms as its GMO levels were too high. This resulted in the Russian authority’s import ban from 4 August to 6 December 2018. The impacts of the GMO case were minimal and the most important fish farming customers continue with Raisioaqua. Availability and recognition of the responsibly farmed Benella fish improved. Export The fish feed season had a good start in the spring, and feed exports were up on in the comparison period. The analysis conducted by the Russian border authorities showed genetically modified soybean in some of the fish feeds made and delivered by Raisioaqua between 11 June and 10 July 2018. This is against Raisio’s policy. Genetically modified material was found in concentrations that exceeded the labelling limit established in the EU labelling legislation and the limit established in the Russian legislation. This concerned only a part of the transports while most of them were in order. The Russian authorities announced to close the border on 4 August 2018. The Russian authorities announced the end of the import ban on fish feeds and the opening of the border on 6 December 2018. The Russian border was closed four months. During the import ban, Raisioaqua could not deliver fish feeds to its Russian customers. When the import ban was lifted, the 2018 fish farming season had already ended. The soy product Raisioaqua uses in its fish feeds was supplied by a Finnish supplier whose product was against the contract and Raisio’s gmo policy. Raisio continues to negotiate with the supplier Raw material supplier’s on the damage compensation. defective product resulted in the closing of the Immediately after the border was reopened, Raisioaqua continued to finalise the delivery agreements for the 2019 season with its Russian border customers. The impacts of the GMO case were minimal and the most important farming customers continue with Raisioaqua. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Raisioaqua / Business review Finland The exceptionally long heat period in the summer 2018 significantly weakened the fish growth conditions in Finland and neighbouring regions, as the water temperature was so high that the fish stopped eating. Warm water also caused fish deaths, particularly in the fish farms of the interior regions of Finland. In the autumn, conditions for fish growth were good and the growth season was longer than usually. Due to the exceptional hot summer, the total fish production decreased by some 10-15 per cent. Raisioaqua delivered its Finnish customers nearly as much fish feed as in the comparison year and this way the Division strengthened its market position. Benella Contract producers for the responsibly farmed Benella fish have changed their production cycle so that particularly rainbow trout is available throughout the year. In 2018, Raisioaqua made a wholesale agreement with, for example, Hätälä Oy; this also expanded the availability of the Benella fish. In Finland, Kesko further intensified its Benella cooperation with Raisioaqua. The store coverage, visibility and brand awareness of the Benella fish, part of Pirkka Premium Line, significantly increased in a year. National and local Pirkka Premium Benella campaigns were conducted in the stores and media. Some contract restaurants took Benella into their selections in Finland and Sweden. For example, already some 60 restaurants in Stockholm use Benella as raw material. The Swedish retail chains Improved awareness and are also showing interest in Benella, and our work to open retail availability for Benella fish sales continues. Benella's website in Finnish and in Swedish: www.benella.fi Added value for customers with Growth Radar Raisioaqua focuses on products and services that ensure the fish welfare and production efficiency while promoting responsible fish farming. Raisioaqua also continues to use and survey new and responsible raw materials for fish feeds. Raisioaqua continued its strong investment in the further development of digital Growth Radar (Kasvuluotain) application. The application uses Raisioaqua’s strong feeding expertise and Growth Radar for easier produces added value for fish farmers by analysing their data. fish farming Growth Radar enables the optimisation of fish feeding and minimises the entry of nutrients into waterways as the application makes fish growth monitoring and feed dosing easier. Growth Radar is already in use at several fish farms in Finland and Russia. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Raisioaqua / Business review Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Responsibility Management Responsible and healthy food at the heart of Raisio’s strategy Raisio is an international company focusing on healthy, responsibly produced food. In Raisio’s products, the focus is on well-being, health, good taste and sustainable development. One of Raisio’s strategic goals is to be a forerunner in responsibility. That is why the company has set ambitious targets for its responsibility work for 2019 2023. The company’s responsibility work is guided by Raisio’s purpose: Food for Health, Heart and Earth. Read more about Raisio’s strategy. Management of responsibility risks Raisio has identified risks related to responsibility and assesses them systematically and regularly. The responsibility risk survey is updated annually. Climate change is the most significant environmental risk for Raisio. Extreme weather phenomena resulting from climate change affect energy prices as well as the quality, availability and prices of Raisio’s key raw materials, such as grains. The climate risk realised in 2018 when, due to the exceptionally dry growth season, the Finnish grain harvest was at its lowest in over 30 years and grain prices rose significantly. Grains account for about 75 per cent of Raisio’s raw materials. With its strong brands, Raisio was able to shift higher raw material costs to product prices. Raisio assumes its responsibility for climate change and aims at carbon neutral production by 2023. Raisio’s risk survey showed that major human right risks in raw materials are related to the purchase of soy, palm oil and cocoa. Raisio’s policy is to use only responsibility certified soy, palm oil and cocoa. The quality risks for raw materials and products are managed by enhancing product safety in all stages of the supply chain, from product development and procurement to manufacturing and distribution. The quality and safety of products are ensured with certifications, audits, staff training and effective processes. Raisio’s strategic focus is on healthy and tasty food. As for the healthiness of food, consumers face information overflow that Raisio identifies as a risk, Raisio communicates responsibly on nutrition and product healthiness in line with the nutrition recommendations. In terms of social and HR matters, Raisio considers workplace accidents and the stability and availability of competent workers as its major risks. Risks are managed by developing the occupational safety culture and by determinedly promoting competence management and well-being at work. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Responsibility Management Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Diverse value chain Raisio’s value chain Raisio’s value chain extends from primary food production to consumers. The company is responsible for the responsibility of its own operations. The opportunity to influence and degree of interaction vary in other parts of the value chain. Raisio’s ability and willingness to develop responsible foods and fish feeds promote the sustainable food chain. Raisio affects the beginning of the value chain, i.e., suppliers, by following its responsible procurement principles. Raisio expects its suppliers to commit to the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct concerning, for example, environmental responsibility, working conditions in accordance with international regulations, prohibition of child and forced labour, and anti-discrimination. Raisio’s largest raw material group is grains that the company mainly purchases from Finnish farmers. Some of the Group’s branded products are made by subcontractors who work closely together with Raisio. Their agreements specify, for example, the quality requirements of raw materials used. More information on Raisio’s responsible procurement practices here. Understanding consumer needs and eating habits plays the key role in the development of the product range. Raisio is closely studying consumers’ behaviour and changing needs. This way, Raisio can provide retailers with interesting, reliable branded products that correspond to consumer needs. For Raisio, it is particularly important to develop its brands so that they continue to interest consumers and retailers. Trade organisations, catering companies and industrial customers set us criteria regarding the product responsibility and require reporting of responsibility issues. At the higher end of the consumer products value chain, Raisio influences consumers communicatively, for example through nutritional guidance, environmental labels, recipes and tips how to use the products. Raisio is engaged in a continuous dialogue with consumers e.g. in social media and customer service channels. Consumers are interested in the responsibility issues of Raisio’s brands, such as the origin of raw materials and recycling of packaging. Raisio is a forerunner in responsible fish farming. The company’s fish feed innovations have significantly reduced the environmental impact of the fish chain. Raisio plc’s shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. The company has over 36,500 shareholders and about 320 employees. Raisio operates in 11 countries and Raisio has its own production plants in two towns in Finland. In 2018, Raisio sold its cattle feed business. The divested business, treated as a discontinued operation, had two production plants in Finland and about 70 employees who transferred to the new owner. In the Corporate Responsibility Report, we report the earnings and key figures of Raisio’s continuing operations only. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Diverse value chain Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Materiality Assessment Raisio’s key responsibility themes In its responsibility work, Raisio focuses on the themes most material to the company’s stakeholders and operations. The Materiality Assessment of responsibility themes guides Raisio’s corporate responsibility work. Based on the Assessment, we have set goals to promote important themes. Raisio’s Materiality Assessment was updated at the end of 2017. With a stakeholder analysis, we surveyed our stakeholders’ views on important responsibility themes; a total of 1,400 consumers, customers, employees and investors participated. After the analysis, Raisio’s management evaluated the current or potential economic, social or environmental impact of the themes for the company. Raisio’s Board of Directors has confirmed the Materiality Assessment. The key responsibility aspects identified and prioritised based the views of Raisio and stakeholders are grouped in the matrix below. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Responsibility Programme 2016-2018 Responsibility Programme 2016 2018 The key themes of Raisio Group's 2016 -2018 Corporate Responsibility Programme were sustainable food chain, healthier food, and safety and well-being at work. During the three-year Responsibility Programme, Raisio’s responsible practices were determinedly developed. The company achieved the most part of the programme targets: for example, sickness absences decreased, more than 2/3 of the products are healthy alternatives in their own categories, and only responsibility certified palm oil and soy are used in the products. Some of the programme targets were related to long-term development of responsible procedures; for example, the development of responsible procurement continues. Raisio’s Responsibility Programme 2016 2018 supported the business strategy and focused on material responsibility issues. Key parts of Raisio’s value chain are matters related to responsible raw material procurement, environmental responsibility, and health and safety at work. In 2018, we outlined Raisio’s new responsibility programme. The Good Food Plan 2019 2023 has five key themes in which Raisio wants to become a forerunner in terms of responsibility: environmentally friendly packages, healthy food, healthy food professionals, climate change, carbon neutrality, and sustainable food chain. Read more about the Good Food Plan. Goals and results of Raisio’s Responsibility Programme 2016 2018 Sustainable food chain 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT We will further develop the responsible 75% of raw materials for our own products were grains. procurement of our key raw materials. Almost 90% of grains are purchased from Finland, mainly Raw materials that we use the most directly from farmers. Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct has include grains, particularly oats and been incorporated into the farming contracts. wheat, and rapeseed. We require all our suppliers to operate in 95% of raw materials, packages and subcontracting were line with our Supplier Code of Conduct. acquired from suppliers committed to the Code in 2018. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Responsibility Programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT The conduct was established throughout the Group. In 2017, We require that our suppliers complete a we carried out an extensive project and self-assessment Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire questionnaires were collected from the suppliers. The at least every three years. questionnaire is part of the supplier’s assessment process. We continue to purchase Proterra or Goal achieved. Raisio has used certified soy since 2014. RTRS certified soy. We are committed to the use of GMO Goal achieved. Raisio’s production chains of foods and fish free raw materials. feeds have always been GMO free. We only use responsible palm oil. The Goal achieved. 100% responsibility certified palm oil in foods. responsibility of palm oil used in foods will The mass balance or segregated palm oil accounted for 60% be improved by transferring to the use of of the palm oil used by Raisio in 2018. physically traceable palm oil. We use only UTZ certified cocoa in our 80% of cocoa used by Raisio was UTZ certified in 2018. foods. We surveyed the raw materials acquired from risk countries We will further decrease our raw material according to the BSCI risk country classification in 2016. We acquisitions from the countries classified acquire raw materials, whenever possible, from low-risk as risk countries. countries. Despite our energy efficiency actions, the total energy We will improve energy efficiency. consumption increased in the review period. We continue our efforts to improve energy efficiency. We will perform energy audits at all our production plants at least every two Work in progress. years. We will analyse material efficiency in Raisio has been actively involved in developing the material terms of raw materials and other efficiency commitment of the food industry. The waste of production inputs. We will decrease Raisio’s productions is very small. waste at our production plants. More than half of our consumer product packages are We will only use recyclable materials in recyclable carton, and the rest mainly plastic. The our product packages. recyclability of plastic varies in different markets. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Responsibility Programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT The Baltic Blend feed innovation launched in 2016 proven to We continue to develop and lower the fish farming’s phosphorus load into waterways. The commercialise innovations that benefit feed also recycles the nutrients of the Baltic Sea. Elovena the environment and our customers. Muru Oat Mince is a protein-rich, easy-to-use plant protein product. Healthier food 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT 2/3 of our foods are healthier 69% of our foods were healthy alternatives in their own categories alternatives in their own categories. at the end of 2018. We will develop fish feed Benella Fish launched in 2016 is fed using Raisio’s feeding innovations promoting well-being of concept ensuring the recommended levels of good EPA and DHA people and animals. fatty acids in the fish. We will maintain the BRC Goal achieved. certification at our food sites. Raisioaqua aims at excellent recipe The recipe accuracy and product quality have improved with e.g. accuracy in its feeds. fish feed plant investment. The number of recalls will be zero. Goal achieved. Work safety and well-being 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT The number of accidents has decreased. Preventive Continuous reduction in the frequency of safety indicators were introduced in 2018 and safety workplace accidents culture was further developed. Goal achieved. The average number of sickness Continuous reduction in sickness absences absences 2.0% of theoretical working time in 2018. No comparable results available. In the latest survey of Improved employee satisfaction 2017, employee satisfaction was at a good level (3.9/5 ). Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Responsibility Programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT Continuous development of employees and the scope of performance appraisals toward the The scope of performance appraisals 90%. target of 100 per cent. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Responsibility Programme 2019 2023 Raisio’s New Responsibility Programme 2019 2023 In 2018, Raisio outlined its new responsibility programme, the Good Food Plan for 2019 2023. Based on a stakeholder analysis, the new programme and its key targets were drawn up in cooperation with Raisio’s different businesses. The Plan defines five themes in which Raisio wants to become a leader in responsibility: environmentally friendly packaging, healthy food, food professionals, climate change and carbon neutrality, and sustainable food. The Good Food Plan is part of the Group’s Healthy Growth Strategy; one of its goals is to be the leader in responsibility. The Plan sets ambitious goals for Raisio’s responsibility work and the implementation began at the beginning of 2019. Goals of Good Food Plan 2019-2023 Environmentally friendly packages We will stop using plastic packages in our consumer products, and all our consumer product packages will be recyclable by 2023. We want to be a forerunner in environmentally packaged foods. We are looking for more environmentally friendly solutions to replace plastic packages We help consumers recycle packages by providing clearer recycling instructions We further enhance the recyclability of packages Healthy Food We make genuinely healthy food. In 2023, 80 per cent of our products will be healthy alternatives in their own categories. We develop Raisio’s criteria for healthy food to make sure our products are in line with nutrition guidelines We especially focus on the healthiness of Benecol and Elovena products Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Responsibility Programme 2019 2023 We have the ability to develop healthy foods to meet the growing international consumer demand Food professionals We strive for an excellent employee experience with support for healthy lifestyle. We support the well-being of our personnel by organising, for example, Health Days and training on nutrition We ambitiously promote well-being at work We reward our employees for a job well done We prepare a competence development plan for all Raisio employees Climate change and carbon neutrality We aim to have carbon neutral production by 2023. We continue our ambitious work to reduce our carbon footprint. We invest in carbon neutral energy solutions in our production plants We encourage our subcontractors to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions We increase the level of transparency about the environmental impact of our supply chain Sustainable food We promote the responsibility of our entire supply chain and expect commitment to respect human rights. We further improve the sustainability of our procurement We require transparency in the value chains of subcontracted products We assess human rights risks in our supply chain Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Code of Conduct and Policies Responsible Code of Conduct and Policies Promoting responsibility and responsible way of operating are part of each Raisio employee’s work. Raisio’s vision and strategy guide Raisio’s responsibility work and its priorities are defined in our Materiality Assessment. In addition, Raisio follows principles and policies defining responsible practices. Raisio Group Code of Conduct Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Policy Raisio Group Supplier Code of Conduct Raisio’s Privacy Statement Raisio’s Disclosure Policy Raisio Code of Conduct applies to all the Group's operations, employees, management, Board of Directors and Supervisory Board. Raisio Code of Conduct guides our day-to-day work and sets a foundation for profitable and responsible operations. Raisio is committed to the UN Global Compact’s sustainability initiative and its ten principles concerning human rights, labour practices, environment and corruption. In addition, Raisio has internal guidelines on anti-corruption and avoidance of conflict of interests. Consultation related to the ethics and legality of operations Ethical conduct is defined in the Raisio Code of Conduct on which the company organises staff training regularly. Online training on the Raisio Code of Conduct, available in three languages, is mandatory for everyone working at Raisio. At the end of 2018, 79 per cent of the staff had completed the training. In the issues related to ethical and legal conduct, Raisio’s employee can have support primarily from his/her own superior and the company’s legal department. Raisio has clear instructions for reporting abuse. The staff can report suspected or actual misconduct to the immediate superior or his/her superior. Employees can also report their suspicions of misconduct using a separate e-mail address; all the reports are investigated with absolute confidentiality, taking into account the requirements of local legislation. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Code of Conduct and Policies Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Responsibility management model Responsibility management model The table below presents the roles and responsibilities in Raisio’s responsibility work. Board of Monitoring the implementation of responsibility and confirming the material themes Directors CEO In charge of Raisio Group’s Corporate Responsibility as part of the company’s strategy. Group Regular progress review of the Responsibility Programme, i.e. Good Food Plan, and the Management Materiality Assessment. Team Responsibility Project Teams of the Good Food Plan’s 5 key projects: responsibility for the practical Project Teams organisation and implementation of the measures, and for the goal achievement. Group Managing and developing Raisio Group’s corporate responsibility work and related practices. Communications Consulting and helping the businesses to develop their responsibility in line with Raisio’s and Corporate Responsibility Programme. In charge of the responsibility reporting and communications. Responsibility Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Continuous dialogue with stakeholders Continuous dialogue with stakeholders Dialogue between Raisio and its stakeholders is an important part of the company’s operations. The key themes of Raisio’s responsibility work, i.e. Materiality Assessment, are revised annually on the basis of stakeholder dialogues. Continuous open interaction is a vital part of the management of Raisio’s corporate responsibility. At the end of 2017, Raisio carried out an extensive stakeholder analysis involving 1,400 consumers, customers, employees and investors from the company’s key markets. Based on the results of the analysis, we drew up key themes for our responsibility programme for 2019 2023. The table below shows Raisio’s key stakeholder groups and the ways we communicate with them. The groups selected to the table have been identified together with Raisio’s businesses. STAKEHOLDER WAY OF ENGAGEMENT Continuous and open interaction in the work community, performance Personnel appraisals, staff info, superior letters, intranet, opinion surveys, working groups Consumer service, product demonstrators, Sunnuntai and Elovena Consumers Clubs, social media, brand websites and sustainability communications online, newsletters, advertising, consumer surveys, PR Customers (Healthy Food); e.g. retailers, wholesalers, bakeries and Direct customer contacts, websites, extranet, events, fairs and exhibitions industry, catering, exports, partners Direct contacts, events for producers, websites, customer magazine Customers (Raisioaqua) fish farmers AquaMakasiini Meetings, events, annual general meeting, stock exchange releases and Owners publications, annual report and corporate responsibility report, financial reports, websites Roadshows, meetings and events for investors, Capital Markets Day, Institutional investors and analysts stock exchange releases and publications, financial reports, annual report and corporate responsibility report Financiers Meetings, stock exchange releases, publications, financial reports Authorities Meetings, influencing in organisations, Raisio's memberships Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Continuous dialogue with stakeholders STAKEHOLDER WAY OF ENGAGEMENT Direct contacts, meetings, audits, Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier Subcontractors Self-Audit Partners Direct contact, meetings Direct contacts, meetings, audits, Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier Suppliers, contract farmers Self-Audit, Contract Farmer Days, fairs and seminars Direct contacts, meetings, interviews, press conferences, seminars, Media releases, social media, websites Events, company visits, websites, projects (e.g. Me & MyCity, Southwest Local communities Finland) Schools and institutions Sponsor schools, speaker visits, company visits, projects Personal contacts, research cooperation, projects, cooperation through Universities Raisio's Research Foundation Meetings, Raisio's representation and memberships in organisations, Organisations and memberships websites Food, nutrition and health experts Meetings, newsletters, brochures Meetings, agreements, cooperation with other companies, development Trade unions projects Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Memberships of Associations Raisio's memberships of associations Raisio plc or its subsidiaries are members of following associations: The Finnish Food and Drink Industries' Federation (ETL) ETS, Elintarviketieteiden Seura CLC, Climate Leadership Coalition FBTA, Finnish Business Travel Association FEFAC, European Feed Manufacturers’ Federation Functional Foods Forum Food and Drink Federation (UK) Food Drink Ireland (IBEC) Gafta, The Grain & Feed Trade Association The National Emergency Supply Agency (NESA) ICC, International Chamber of Commerce IGD Institue of Grocery Distribution (UK) International Plant Sterols and Stanols Association (IPSSA) Water Protection Association of Southwest Finland VYR, The Finnish Cereal Committee Pro Ruis ry RTY, The Association of Clinical and Public Health Nutritionists in Finland RTRS, Roundtable of Responsible Soy RSPO, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil The Association for Finnish Work FACG, The Finnish Anti-Counterfeiting Group Finnish Fish Farmer’s Association The Finnish Oat Association LOGY, The Finnish Association of Purchasing and Logistics The Scientific Agricultural Society of Finland The Finnish Packaging Association STY, The Finnish Association for Industrial Property Rights Turku Chamber of Commerce Turun Kauppakorkeakouluseura ry Ålands Fiskodlarförening rf Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility Management / Memberships of Associations Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Sustainable food chain Good food with responsible raw materials Almost 90 per cent of raw materials Raisio uses are plant based. We determinedly develop the responsibility of procurement and ensure the ethics and eco-friendliness in the entire supply chain. Main events in 2018 95 per cent of Raisio’s subcontracting, raw materials and packaging were purchased from suppliers committed to the Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct. Environmental and social aspects were more closely integrated to the Raisio’s auditing criteria. Raw material reporting was extended to also concern Raisio’s brand products made by subcontractors. From 2018 onwards, we report the raw materials used to manufacture our brand products, both for Raisio’s own production and for the subcontractors. Previously, only palm oil, soy and cocoa were reported regarding the raw materials used by our subcontractors. Raisio requires procurement responsibility and traceability of raw materials from its subcontractors. All Raisio’s subcontractors are located in Europe. Raisio sees the ensuring and development of procurement responsibility important since many of the company’s responsibility risks are related to the supply chain. The key means to promote 90% of raw materials supply chain responsibility include engaging suppliers with the plant-based. Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct, auditing suppliers, ensuring traceability, reducing purchases from high-risk countries and using certified raw materials. We expect our suppliers to commit to the Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct. 95 per cent of Raisio’s raw materials, subcontracting and packaging were acquired from suppliers who have confirmed in writing to comply with the Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct. Raw materials used for Raisio’s own brand products in 2018 Responsible grain Grains form the Raisio Group’s biggest raw material group. They are used, for example, for Elovena, Sunnuntai and Torino products and for fish feeds; in volume, they account for three quarters of all the Group’s raw materials. Of grains, about 90 per cent is purchased from Finland, mainly directly from farmers. Raisio has worked closely together with farmers for 80 years already. In Finland, family-owned farms play the key role in the Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Sustainable food chain grain production. Raisio purchases grain directly from farmers without any go-betweens. A short supply chain ensures grain traceability and transparency to primary production. Family-owned farms use very little external labour. The majority of Finnish farms are part of the agri-environmental programme that includes binding regulations on the use of fertilisers and plant protection agents, among other things. The environmental responsibility of grain farms is also promoted by the conditions of EU subsidies regarding, e.g. biodiversity. Raisio’s farming contract conditions prohibit the use of sewage sludge as a fertilizer and the use of glyphosate during the growing season. Raisio analyses, for example, residues of plant protection products, heavy metals and mould toxins in its grains. Only the grains that pass strict standards of quality are approved as raw materials for foods. In 2018, Raisio introduced an audit programme for its contract farmers. Risk assessment guiding the use of certified raw materials In addition to grains, Raisio's important raw material groups include milk, fish meal, fish oil, oils and fats mainly purchased from long-term partners in Europe. A small part of Raisio’s raw materials are only available from the higher-risk countries and then, a special attention is paid to the supplier’s procedures. The company’s risk survey has shown that possible human right risks are related to the supply chain. For the assessment of human right risks related to its procurement, Raisio uses the BSCI’s risk country classification that guides to procure from low-risk countries. In terms of human rights, most of Raisio’s raw materials and services are purchased from low-risk areas, such as Finland and Central Europe. Raisio has identified social, human rights and environmental risks related to the production of soy, palm oil and cocoa. Therefore, Raisio’s policy is to use only responsibility certified soy, palm oil and cocoa. In our fish feeds, we primarily use fishmeal made in Finland of the Baltic herring and sprat. According to the Natural Resources Institute Finland, the strong herring and sprat stocks in the Baltic Sea have been found to be sustainable, so the local feed production is not harmful to natural fish stocks. Achievement of the targets set in the responsibility programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT We will further develop the responsible 75% of raw materials for our own products were grains. Of grains, procurement of our key raw materials. Raw almost 90% was purchased from Finland, mainly directly from materials that we use the most include farmers. The Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct was incorporated grains, particularly oats and wheat. into farming contracts. We require all our suppliers to operate in 95% of raw materials, packages and subcontracting were acquired line with the company’s Supplier Code of from suppliers committed to Raisio's Code in 2018. Conduct. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Sustainable food chain TARGET RESULT The conduct has been established throughout the Group. In 2017, We require our suppliers to complete a we carried out an extensive project that included self-assessment Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire at questionnaires collected from suppliers. The questionnaire is part least every three years. of the supplier’s assessment process. We continue to purchase Proterra or RTRS Goal achieved. Raisio has used certified soy since 2014. certified soy. We are committed to the use of GMO free Raisio’s production chain of foods and fish feeds has always been raw materials. GMO free. We only use responsible palm oil. The Goal achieved. 100% responsibility certified palm oil in foods. The responsibility of palm oil used in foods will mass balance or segregated palm oil accounted for 60% of the be improved by transferring to the use of palm oil used by Raisio in 2018. physically traceable palm oil. We use only UTZ certified cocoa in our 80% of cocoa used by Raisio was UTZ certified in 2018. foods. We will further decrease our raw material We surveyed the raw materials acquired from risk countries acquisitions from the countries classified as according to the BSCI risk country classification in 2016. We risk countries. acquire raw materials, whenever possible, from low-risk countries. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Sustainable food chain / Environmental responsibility Energy use, carbon dioxide emissions and material efficiency at the core of the environmental responsibility Raisio takes environmental impacts into account widely in its operations and requires active efforts from its suppliers to minimise their environmental impact. In its environmental responsibility work, Raisio focuses on reducing energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions, and on improving material efficiency. Climate change is the Group’s most significant environmental risk. Raisio reports the environmental impacts arising from its production for continuing operations. In 2018, Raisio had four production plants, all in Finland. Raisio operates in accordance with the rules and regulations. No significant environmental damages were identified in the Group’s offices and the Group received no fines or sanctions for violations of environmental legislation in 2018. Raisio’s production plants are not located in protected areas or in areas of high biodiversity value, or in their immediate vicinity. All Raisio’s production plants have the ISO 14001 environmental certification. Achievement of the targets set in the responsibility programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT Despite our energy efficiency actions, the total energy consumption We will enhance the energy use. increased in the review period. We continue our efforts to improve energy efficiency. We will perform energy audits at all our production plants at least every Work in progress. two years. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Sustainable food chain / Environmental responsibility TARGET RESULT We will analyse material efficiency Raisio has been actively involved in developing the material efficiency in terms of raw materials and other commitment of the food industry. The side streams of Raisio’s production, production inputs. We will such as oat hull, are effectively utilised. We strive to minimise material decrease waste at our production losses. plants. We will only use recyclable More than half of our packaging is made of recyclable carton and the rest materials in our product packages. is mainly plastics. The recyclability of plastic varies in different markets. We continue to develop and The Baltic Blend fish feed innovation launched in 2016 proven to lower the commercialise innovations that fish farming’s phosphorus load into waterways. It also recycles the Baltic benefit the environment and our Sea nutrients. Raisio’s latest oat innovation, Elovena Muru Oat Mince rich customers. in protein. Muru is an easy-to-use plant protein product. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Sustainable food chain / Environmental impact Environmental impacts Energy and carbon dioxide emissions Improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon dioxide emissions are Raisio’s key environmental goals. Raisio is involved in The Finnish Food and Drink Industries' Energy Efficiency Agreement. The company aims to reduce its total energy consumption by four per cent from the 2015 levels by the end of 2020. In 2018, the total energy consumption rose by 3 per cent from 2017, partly due to the transfer of heat production to the company's own bioenergy plant. In 2018, Raisio’s own energy production accounted for some 55 per cent of the company’s total energy consumption. Energy efficiency measures are taken in all Raisio’s production plants and larger office buildings. For example, a condensate recovery system was expanded in Raisio’s industrial area at the end of 2018. With the system, we can save both water and energy. In 2018, Raisio’s industrial area achieved carbon neutrality as a result of the bioenergy plant and carbon neutral electricity. In addition, the company’s total carbon dioxide emissions decreased by 75 per cent from 2017. Of all the energy used by the Raisio Group, some 90 per cent was produced in a carbon-neutral way in 2018. In Raisio’s new responsibility programme, the carbon dioxide emission target is a four per cent decrease from the 2017 levels by the end of 2020 as well as carbon neutrality in the productions by the end of 2023. Scope of reporting: The Group’s continuing operations 2016 2018. Carbon dioxide emissions 2016-2018 2016 2017 2018 Direct CO2e emissions, tonnes 0 250 450 Indirect CO2e emissions, tonnes 13,700 6,400 1,150 Total CO2e emissions, tonnes 13,700 6,650 1,600 CO2e emissions t/tonne produced 0.13 0.06 0.02 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Sustainable food chain / Environmental impact Raw materials and waste All raw materials Raisio uses are renewable and almost 90 per cent of them are plant-based. More information about the company’s raw materials can be found here. In 2018, Raisio actively participated in the preparatory work of the Food Industry’s Material Efficiency Commitment in Finland and signed the commitment among the first companies at the beginning of 2019. In connection with the preparation of the commitment, Raisio explored the possibilities for monitoring and improving of material efficiency of its productions. Material efficiency means efficient use of natural resources, better use of side streams, reduction of waste and prevention of emissions. Raisio’s material efficiency work focuses on packaging made of renewable materials, reducing foodstuff and food waste, and making better use of production side and waste streams. All these actions together reduce Raisio’s environmental impact. Main part, 95 per cent, of the company’s waste is recoverable. Raisio’s goal is to increase waste recycling and not to produce landfill waste. In terms of landfill waste, the goal was not achieved in 2018 due to the small landfill waste amounts from the production plant renovation. The amount of recoverable waste has also increased. Raisio is actively looking for new uses for its current production waste streams. Water At Raisio, water is used, e.g. in the processes of production and district heating production. Most of the water used by Raisio is spent on the company’s own energy production, i.e. the production of industrial steam. Industrial steam is widely used in our productions and heating of buildings. Water is used in small amounts for Raisio’s productions. The specific water consumption for the whole Group is only about 1.5 m3 / per tonne of product. Water usage is monitored regularly and the aim is to further reduce it. For example, Raisio invested in the condensate recovery system of industrial steam in 2018. The system brings savings in the consumption of both water and energy. All Raisio’s production plants are located in areas where water availability or pollution do not pose any problems. All Raisio’s production plants get the water through the municipal water distribution. Raisio’s operations generate relatively small amounts of waste water, less than 0.5m3 /tonne of product. Wastewater is, however, defined as a significant environmental aspect for Raisio’s industrial area where wastewater is treated in the company’s own pre-treatment installation before being discharged to the municipal sewage network. The pre-treatment installation also treats the wastewater of other companies located in Raisio’s industrial area. The wastewater quality is monitored on a weekly basis and new, even more ambitious reduction targets were set on the wastewater volume. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Sustainable food chain / Environmental impact The goal is to reduce the specific wastewater consumption by 5 per cent from the 2017 levels by the end of 2023. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Sustainable food chain / Case: Benella Added social value with ecological and healthy Benella Raisioaqua surveyed and modelled Benella’s social impact. Benella’s impact on the public health and its positive effects on the Baltic Sea nutrient load were identified as the key themes. Both directly support Benella’s brand promise: Fish that is good for you. The Benella Rainbow Trout feeding concept makes sure that the healthy EPA and DHA fatty acids are at least at recommended levels. In 2017, EPA and DHA fatty acids in Benella Rainbow Trout met the annual need of 152,000 Finns. Sufficient intake of good fatty acids reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases and helps prevent significant costs to society caused by these diseases. Benella restraining eutrophication in the Baltic Sea Benella Rainbow Trout are fed with Raisio’s Baltic Blend feeds. Finnish fish meal and oil made from the abundant Baltic herring and sprat are used as raw materials in these feeds. The use of Baltic herring and sprat as feed raw material significantly reduces the nutrient load from fish farming in the Baltic Sea. With the Baltic Blend’s raw materials, more phosphorus is removed from the Baltic Sea than the entire Finnish fish farming produces, and the nitrogen load in waterways caused by fish farming is reduced by 75 per cent. With Benella Rainbow Trout farming, the amount of phosphorus removed from the Baltic Sea was equivalent to an annual load of 33,000 people in 2017. By choosing Benella Rainbow Trout on a plate, consumers make a good choice for their health and for the Baltic Sea. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Sustainable food chain / Case: Benella Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Healthier Food Healthy, balanced food Consumers value their health. This is why we have determinedly developed our product range healthier. During our responsibility programme 2016-2018, we launched several healthy novelties and reduced the amount sugar and salt in our existing products. Main events in 2018 We achieved the healthiness target set on Raisio’s products: 69 (65) per cent of our foods were healthy alternatives in their own categories, i.e. they met our healthiness criteria. Our goal in the responsibility programme was to have 2/3 healthy products at the end of 2018. Our oat innovation, Elovena Muru Oat Mince with plenty of fibre and protein was launched in the autumn 2018. The availability and recognition of the farmed, healthy Benella Fish improved significantly. Raisio’s strategic focus is on healthy and tasty food. With healthy food, Raisio relies on the generally approved concepts confirmed by the science of nutrition. We pay special attention to the good taste, amount of wholemeal and fibre, quality of fat and the amount of sugar and salt. In the product development, we use the company’s own category-specific healthiness criteria, in which all important health-related aspects are taken into account. The criteria are based on the expert group recommendations, such as the Heart Symbol and Nyckelhålet criteria. Consumers face flow of information related to food healthiness, which may cause uncertainty about healthy choices; Raisio has identified this as a risk related to the healthiness of food. Raisio communicates responsibly on nutrition and product healthiness in line with the nutrition recommendations. Raisio has cholesterol-lowering Benecol products and grain-based Elovena, Nalle, Sunnuntai, Provena, Torino and Nordic products. The company’s key brands are Benecol and Elovena; their brand promise is strongly health-related. Furthermore, healthy and eco-friendly Benella Fish is produced using Raisioaqua's fish feeds. Benecol products are proven to lower cholesterol safely and effectively. Good properties of Elovena products are based on nutritionally versatile wholemeal oat with nutrients in a suitable proportion: carbon hydrates, protein, fat, minerals and vitamins B. New products 2018 Elovena Muru Oat Mince is a convenient product with plenty of protein and fibre. Thanks to protein and oats, Elovena instant porridges keep hunger at bay for a long time. Cholesterol-lowering Benecol Greek Style yogurts are suitable for cooking and snacking. Benecol snack bars are a convenient, easy way to lower cholesterol. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Healthier Food Cooperation with organisations Raisio collaborates with several organisations promoting heart health, such as European Atherosclerosis Society, Heart UK and Finnish Heart Association. Raisio and the Finnish Athletics Federation (SUL) continued their long-term cooperation in the children’s nutrition and physical education. Elovena Power Days were organised in primary schools around Finland. Achievement of the targets set in the responsibility programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT 2/3 of our foods are healthier alternatives in 69% of our foods were healthy alternatives in their own categories at the end of 2018. their own categories. We develop fish feed Benella Fish launched in 2016 is fed using Raisio’s feeding concept ensuring the innovations promoting recommended levels of good EPA and DHA fatty acids in the fish. Farming of Benella well-being of people and Fish reduces significantly the nutrient load from fish farming in the Baltic Sea. animals. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthier Food / Product safety Product safety is our top priority Product safety is ensured in all stages of the supply chain from the product development and procurement to the production and distribution. The quality and safety of products are enhanced with certifications, audits, staff training and effective processes. Main events in 2018 The product quality was at a good level and there was no need for any public product recalls. In our own and our subcontractors’ production plants, several external and internal audits were conducted related to the certification, product quality and traceability of raw materials. Raisio aims to produce safe products of high-quality so that there is no need to make any product recalls. However, if a quality problem is detected in a product, the recall is made without delay and reasons leading to the situation are examined carefully. Certifications of Raisio’s production sites Quality Management System ISO 9001 Environmental Management System ISO 14001 The BRC certification of product safety and quality at the food production plants Organic production certificate at the food production plants Kosher certificate at the food production plants Kosher and halal certificates in the Benecol ingredient production RSPO Supply Chain certificate at the Nokia mill Certifications and quality systems ensure the safety of production. They guarantee, for example, the functionality of our traceability processes. Achievement of the targets set in the responsibility programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT We will maintain the BRC certification Goal achieved. at our food sites. Raisioaqua aims at an excellent Recipe accuracy and product quality have improved, for example, with recipe accuracy in its feeds. the investment made at the fish feed factory. The number of recalls will be zero. Goal achieved. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthier Food / Product safety Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthier Food / Case: Elovena Muru Elovena Muru Oat Mince is Raisio’s latest innovation Raisio launched a new oat innovation in Finland in the autumn 2018. Elovena Muru Oat Mince is a convenient product with plenty of protein and fibre. This new, healthy plant protein suits flexitarians and vegans. Elovena Muru Oat Mince contains 41 per cent of oat, which is clearly more than in other plant protein products. In addition to Finnish oat, Elovena Muru Oat Mince has only four other raw materials: pea protein, potato protein, salt and water. Elovena Muru is rich in fibre and contains as much protein as minced meat. The product is made in Finland. Elovena Muru has a neutral flavour and can be used quite in the same way as minced meat; it is ideal to anyone who wants to increase the share of plant-based food in their diet. For example, Use Elovena Muru Oat Elovena Muru can replace part of minced meat in the recipe. Mince like minced meat Interest in plant proteins on the rise Interest in plant-based food is rising sharply. Raisio’s consumer study showed that many consumers want to increase the share of plant-based food in their diet and already more than half of the households have bought meat-free protein products. In 2017, sales in plant protein products in Finland totalled some EUR 17 million. Oat demand also continues to boom. For example, sales in Raisio's Elovena products have tripled over the past ten years. With Elovena Muru Oat Mince, Raisio has gained a strong foothold in the rapidly Plenty of fibre and protein growing market of plant protein products. Further information on Elovena Muru Oat Mince: www.muru.fi Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Healthier Food / Case: Elovena Muru Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Workplace safety and well-being Well-being and safety at work In 2018, we enhanced work well-being by defining new values together with the whole staff: courage, fairness and drive. We build new Raisio together, and our values guide us toward our target culture. Work safety was improved by collecting preventive safety observations and by developing our activities in line with them. Main events in 2018 Employees participated in value workshops and many discussions related to the definition of values. Predictive work safety indicators were introduced; these indicators helped us focus on the prevention of workplace accidents. Raisio promotes workplace well-being by focusing on good leadership practices and supervisory work, effective interaction and internal communications, as well as in the promotion of a good, confidential working environment. Work well-being is measured every second year through the personnel survey. The next survey will be conducted in 2019. Based on the previous survey, the development projects started were continued in 2018. Raisio’s new values create the foundation for all our work and guide the decision-making. The implementation of values is annually assessed through, for example, performance appraisals and personnel surveys. Raisio’s leadership principles were defined to support value-based activities in practice. Our superiors were trained on the principles of leadership. In their performance appraisals, superiors self-assess their activities in relation to these principles. Work safety culture strengthened Accident prevention is the priority of Raisio’s safety work. In 2018, the company’s work safety culture was further strengthened through many safety trainings. The training focus was on the reporting of proactive measures, such as safety observations and near miss cases, and on the importance of corrective actions in the safety work. The company introduced a new tool for safety reporting that makes the organisation and reporting of safety work faster and easier. The tool helps us react more quickly especially to the proactive observations and thus, contribute to safety. We make annual action plans to improve workplace safety. Raisio has well-functioning safety organisations. In addition, we conduct occupational health and safety inspections and rounds and we investigate each accident in accordance with our guidelines. Achievement of the targets set in the responsibility programme 2016-2018 TARGET RESULT Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Workplace safety and well-being TARGET RESULT The number of accidents has decreased. In 2018, Continuous reduction in the frequency of proactive safety indicators were introduced and safety workplace accidents culture was further developed. Goal achieved. The average number of sickness Continuous reduction in sickness absences absences 2.0% of theoretical working time in 2018. No comparable results available. In the latest survey in Improved employee satisfaction 2017, employee satisfaction was at a good level (3.9/5). Continuous development of employees and the scope of performance appraisals toward the The scope of performance appraisals 90%. target of 100 per cent. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Workplace safety and well-being / Personnel Raisio’s personnel 2018 Raisio’s long-term strategic goal is to be an attractive employer. In 2018, we laid the foundation for the company’s future success by, for example, defining our purpose and values and by drawing up a new strategy and responsibility programme. Main events in 2018 Raisio Group employed 319 people at the end of 2018. Compared to 2017, the number of employees decreased due to the cattle feed business divestment. 79 percent of the personnel had completed the online training on the Raisio Code of Conduct. At the end of 2018, the Raisio Group’s continuing operations employed 319 people (399, the comparison figure includes the divested cattle feed business treated as a discontinued operation). The Healthy Food Division had 251 (248), Raisioaqua 20 (17) and service functions 48 (61) employees. At the end of 2018, a total of 22 (19) per cent of the personnel worked outside Finland. Raisio’s wages and fees for continuing operations in 2018 totalled EUR 23.1 (24.0) million including other personnel expenses. The ratio of CEO’s pay to that of the average worker in continuing operations was 8:1. When Raisio’s cattle feed business was divested, 70 employees transferred to the new owner. At the beginning of the year, the Group’s organisational structure and resources were directed to boost growth. In February, the company started statutory cooperation negotiations in Finland, concerning 115 employees, in order to secure its competitiveness and profitability. The negotiations concerned the Group services as well as the Healthy Food Division’s marketing, product development and finance department. The negotiations resulted in the termination of 20 employments. The terminations were carried out through retirements, voluntary arrangements and redundancies, and through the termination of fixed-term employment contracts. In addition, eight employments were terminated in connection of the improvement of Polish operations. New recruitments were made, e.g, for the marketing targeted at healthcare professionals. Raisio complies with the regulations of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and with local collective agreements, regulations and laws related to work in the countries where the company operates. At Raisio, 52 per cent of the personnel are within collective agreements. HR management is also guided by internal policies and plans for, e.g. competence development and equality. The Raisio Code of Conduct guides our daily work and define our unified way of working. The online training on the Code of Conduct is available in Finnish, English, Polish and Russian. The entire staff are expected to complete the training. In terms of social and HR matters, Raisio considers workplace accidents and the stability and availability of competent workers as its major risks. Risks are managed by developing the occupational safety culture and by determinedly promoting competence management and well-being at work. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Workplace safety and well-being / Personnel Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Workplace safety and well-being / Case: Raisio's values Raisio’s new values guide towards the target culture Together, we are building the new Raisio: Raisio’s purpose defined in 2018 sets us a clear direction. Raisio’s new values – courage, fairness and drive – guide us towards our target culture; they help us decide whether our choices are ok: do we work with courage, fairness and drive? To implement our purpose and strategy, we need to operate in line with our values. Values create the basis for all our work and guide the decision-making. All Raisio staff participated in the value work. In the workshops, Raisio’s employees talked about the drafts prepared by the management and presented their own value proposals they considered important. Raisio’s values were prepared based on the results of these workshops; the values that show the common understanding of the entire staff. Courage, fairness and drive were chosen as Raisio’s values. Leadership principles support the implementation of values Raisio’s leadership principles were defined to support the value-based activities in practice. Raisio’s leadership principles are the Reformer, Bridge-Builder, Leader by Example, Guide and Success Enabler. Our leadership principles define the ways of leading at Raisio. Our superiors and managers are provided with training on the leadership principles. Everyone at Raisio is committed to work in line with the set values. The implementation of values is annually assessed through performance appraisals and personnel surveys. Raisio’s values Courage We have ambitious goals and the courage to boldly pursue them. We want to succeed together and we encourage each other. Close cooperation enables better results. We dare to seize opportunities, to make bold decisions and to learn through experience. We have a positive can-do attitude. Fairness We act fairly and honestly. Our open and consistent way of working reinforces trust. What we say is what we do. We also dare to address difficult issues, and feedback moves us forward. We respect each other and value each other’s work. Drive Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Workplace safety and well-being / Case: Raisio's values We have a desire to succeed. Opportunities and challenges inspire us. A good working atmosphere is based on respect and humanity. Good leadership, engagement and commitment drive better performance. Our success motivates us, and we thank people for a job well done. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Financial responsibility Financial responsibility Information about Raisio's financial performance: Raisio's financial review Raisio's Financial Statements 2018 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Responsibility / Scope of reporting Reporting period and the scope of reporting Raisio reports on its corporate responsibility performance as a Group and the reporting covers all the Group's continuing operations. The Group's boundaries include the parent company, Raisio plc, its subsidiaries and the subsidiaries owned by them that are listed in the notes to the financial statements. Key figures concerning food industry are reported without Raisioagro. Any deviations in the boundary are reported in connection with the key figures. Raisio's Corporate Responsibility Report includes the effects of the Group's own operations. We report on corporate responsibility once a year in connection with the Annual Report. This report concerns the financial period of 2018. Raisio's previous Corporate Responsibility Report was published in March 2018. Raisio plc's headquarters is located in Raisio, Finland. Contact information Please send your inquiries regarding the Corporate Responsibility Report at communications (at) raisio.com. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Scope of reporting / GRI Standards index GRI index Raisio's Corporate Responsibility Report complies with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards for core-level reporting. The report has not been assured by a third-party. UN CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION FURTHER INFORMATION GLOBAL COMPACT Organisation profile Name of the reporting 102-1 Scope of reporting organisation Primary brands, products and Healthy Food Benecol 102-2 service Elovena Raisioaqua Location of the organisation's 102-3 Scope of reporting headquarters The countries where the 102-4 Healthy Food Raisioaqua organisation operates Nature of ownership and legal 102-5 Corporate governance form 102-6 Markets served Healthy Food Raisioaqua 102-7 Scale of the organisation Financial Statements Information on employees and 102-8 Personnel other workers 102-9 Supply chain Diverse value chain Significant changes to the 102-10 Financial Statements organisation and its supply chain Precautionary principle or 102-11 Risk management approach Code of Conduct and 102-12 External initiatives policies Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Scope of reporting / GRI Standards index UN CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION FURTHER INFORMATION GLOBAL COMPACT Memberships of 102-13 Memberships of associations associations Strategy Statement from the senior 102-14 Chief Executive's review x decision-maker Responsibility Key impacts, risks and 102-15 management opportunities Diverse value chain Ethics and integrity Values, principles, standards Code of Conduct and 102-16 x and norms of behaviour policies Mechanisms for advice and Code of Conduct and 102-17 x concerns about ethics policies Governance Corporate governance 102-18 Governance structure Responsibility management model Corporate governance 102-19 Delegating authority Responsibility management model Executive-level responsibility for Responsibility 102-20 economic, environmental and management model social topics Continuous dialogue with 102-21 Consulting stakeholders stakeholders Composition of the highest 102-22 Board of Directors governance body Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Scope of reporting / GRI Standards index UN CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION FURTHER INFORMATION GLOBAL COMPACT Chair of the highest governance 102-23 Board of Directors body Nominating and selecting the Corporate Governance 102-24 highest governance body Statement Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest Statement Corporate Governance Role of the highest governance Statement 102-26 body in setting purpose, values Responsibility and strategy management model Collective knowledge of the Corporate Governance 102-27 highest governance body Statement Evaluating the highest Corporate Governance 102-28 governance body's performance Statement Identifying and managing 102-29 economic, environmental and Materiality assessment social impacts Effectiveness of risk Responsibility 102-30 management processes management model Review of economic, Responsibility 102-31 environmental and social topics management model Responsibility management model 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Code of Conduct and policies 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration Statement Process for determining 102-36 Remuneration Statement remuneration Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Scope of reporting / GRI Standards index UN CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION FURTHER INFORMATION GLOBAL COMPACT 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Personnel Stakeholder engagement Continuous dialogue with 102-40 List of stakeholder groups stakeholders Collective bargaining 102-41 Personnel agreements Identifying and selecting Continuous dialogue with 102-42 stakeholder stakeholders Approach to stakeholder Continuous dialogue with 102-43 engagement stakeholders Reporting practice Entities included in the 102-45 consolidated financial Financial Statements statements Defining report content and topic 102-46 Materiality assessment boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Materiality assessment 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements. No significant changes in Raisio reports continuing 102-49 Changes in reporting the scope and aspect operations. boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period Scope of reporting 102-51 Date of the most recent report Scope of reporting 102-52 Reporting cycle Scope of reporting Contact point for questions 102-53 Scope of reporting regarding the report Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Scope of reporting / GRI Standards index UN CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION FURTHER INFORMATION GLOBAL COMPACT Claims of reporting in 102-54 accordance with the GRI GRI Index Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 102-56 External assurance GRI Index Economic impacts Direct economic value 201-1 Financial responsibility generated and distibuted We report grain Proportion of spending on local 204-1 Sustainable food chain purchases from Finnish suppliers farmers. Communication and training Financial Statements 205-2 about anti-corruption policies x Personnel and procedures Environmental impacts We report raw materials 301-1 Materials Sustainable food chain x used in our products. 302-1 Energy consumption Environmental impacts x 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental impacts Reduction of energy 302-4 Environmental impacts x consumption 303-1 Water consumption Environmental impacts x Operational sites in areas of Environmental 304-1 x high biodiversity value responsibility 305-1 Direct GHG emissions Environmental impacts x 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions Environmental impacts x Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Scope of reporting / GRI Standards index UN CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION FURTHER INFORMATION GLOBAL COMPACT 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental impacts x 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental impacts x 306-1 Water Environmental impacts x 306-2 Waste Environmental impacts Non-compliance with Environmental 307-1 environmental laws and x responsibility regulations Social impacts New employees hires and 401-1 Personnel x employee turnover Injuries and occupational Workplace safety and No distribution by 403-2 x diseases well-being Personnel gender. 404-3 Development discussions Personnel x Diversity of governance bodies No distribution by 405-1 Personnel x and employees gender. Food processing, sector disclosures Compliance with responsible FP1 Sustainable food chain x procurement principles Raisio reports on use of FP2 Certified raw materials Sustainable food chain responsibility certified x raw materials Products manufactured in FP5 Product safety certified sites Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Scope of reporting / GRI Standards index Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Raisio plc complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code (2015) approved by the Securities Market Association. At the end of 2018, Raisio plc had 36,448 registered shareholders. At the end of 2018, foreign ownership in the Company amounted to 23.4 per cent. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the Company’s highest decision-making body. It meets annually by the end of April to decide on the matters within its responsibilities. The Board consists of a minimum of five and a maximum of eight members elected by the AGM. Their term begins at the end of the AGM at which the election takes place and lasts until the end of the following AGM. The Board has established a Remuneration Committee to enhance the preparation of remuneration and nomination matters pertaining to the Board. The Board of Directors has appointed an Audit Committee in order to enhance the preparation of matters related to financial reporting and control under the Board’s responsibility. The Supervisory Board consists of a minimum of 15 and a maximum of 25 members, whose term begins at the AGM at which the election takes place and ends at the end of the third AGM following the election. One-third of the members are replaced every year. The Supervisory Board has set up a Nomination Committee to prepare matters concerning the appointment and rewarding of members of the Board of Directors. Raisio plc’s CEO runs the company’s day-to-day administration in accordance with the Board’s guidelines and regulations and in line with the targets set by the Board, as well as ensures that the company’s accounting complies with legislation and that its asset management arrangements are reliable. The Group’s Executive Committee coordinates the Group’s operations and defines Group-level operating objectives, policies and processes. It prepares the Group strategy, supervises its implementation and assists the CEO in preparing decision proposals to the Board on matters concerning the entire Group. Internal control, risk management, internal auditing and insider administration Raisio’s internal control is based on the Group’s values and policies. Risk management is defined as an activity aimed at identifying and assessing significant external and internal uncertainties that may threaten the strategy implementation and target achievement. Raisio has opted to include internal auditing tasks in the duties of the Group’s financial administration and business controllers, who report to the Group’s CFO on matters related to risk management, internal control and audit. Raisio’s insider administration is organised in accordance with the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd’s (Helsinkin Stock Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance Exchange) Insider Guidelines (2018). Raisio has a procedure and communication channel providing the Group employees an opportunity to represent their concerns or observations through an independent channel, anonymously if required. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Shareholder information Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting (AGM) Raisio plc's Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 19 March 2019 at 14.00 (2 p.m.) Finnish time at the Turku Fair and Congress Centre. The address is Messukentänkatu 9-13, 20210 Turku, Finland. Registration A shareholder who, no later than 7 March 2019, has been entered as a shareholder in the Company’s shareholders register kept by Euroclear Finland Ltd. has the right to participate in the Annual General Meeting. A shareholder who wishes to participate in the Annual General Meeting shall inform the Company about his/her participation no later than Tuesday 12 March 2019 at 15.00 (3 p.m.) Finnish time, either: through the Group’s website https://www.raisio.com/en/agm; by e-mail to osakaspalvelu(at)raisio.com; by telephone +358 50 386 4350 (from Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.) or by a letter addressed to Raisio plc, Osakeasiat (Shareholder matters), P.O. Box 101, FI-21201 Raisio, Finland. In connection with registration, the following information shall be given: shareholder’s name, identity number or Business ID, address and telephone number, name of possible assistant or representative, and his/her name and identity number. Dividend The Board of Directors proposes to the General Meeting that a dividend of € 0.16 be paid per each restricted and free share, including an extra dividend of € 0.04 per each restricted and free share. Dividend will be paid on 3 April 2019 to the shareholders entered in the list of owners kept by Euroclear Finland Ltd. on the record date 21 March 2019. Change of address Raisio's shareholders are kindly requested to report changes of address to the bank where they have their book-entry account. Raisio's financial reviews in 2019 PUBLICATIONS PUBLICATION DATES Interim Report January-March 2019 Wednesday 8 May 2019 Half-Year Report January-June 2019 Wednesday 7 August 2019 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Shareholder information PUBLICATIONS PUBLICATION DATES Interim Report January-September 2019 Wednesday 6 November 2019 Financial information Raisio publishes its iterim reports, half-year report, financial statements bulletin, annual review, corporate responsibility report and stock exchange releases and press releases in Finnish and in English. Raisio's annual review will be published on line. Corporate Responsibility Report is part of Raisio's annual review. Financial reports and releases can be found on Raisio's website www.raisio.com under heading Newsroom. Subscribe releases You can subscribe Raisio's releases to your e-mail using the link www.raisio.com/en/subscribe-releases. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Board of Directors Board of Directors 31 December 2018 Chairman Ilkka Mäkelä Born: 1957 Place of residence: Punkalaidun, Finland Education: Mechanical Engineer, eMBA Key employment history: Saarioinen Ltd: CEO 2007-2016, Artekno Oy: Chairman of the Board of Directors 2011-2016, Saarioinen Eesti Ou: Chairman of the Board of Directors 2007-2016, Saarioisten Säilyke Ltd: CEO 1992-2006, Plant Manager 1992-1997, Saarioinen Ltd: Production Manager 1985-1992, Nokia Kaapeli: Production Engineer 1981-1985 Board membership: Member since 2017, Chairman since 21 March 2018 Other simultaneous positions of trust: Eräkontti Oy: Chairman of the Board of Directors, D.J. Waden Fund: Member of the Board of Directors, 4H Foundation: Chairman of the Board, Kalaneuvos Oy: Chairman of the Board, Finland Chamber of Commerce: Member of the Redemption Board, Suomen Metsästäjäliitto: Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, The Unemployment Insurance Fund: Member of the Supervisory Board, Sallila Energy Ltd: Member of the Supervisory Board Meeting attendance: Board 19/19, Remuneration Committee 3/3, Audit Committee 6/6 Holdings in Raisio: series V 15,544 Deputy Chairman Kari Kauniskangas Born 1962 Place of residence: Helsinki, Finland Education: M.Sc.(Econ) Key employment history: Fiskars Oyj Abp: CEO 2008-2017, Amer Sports Oyj Abp: President of winter and outdoor division 2007, Chief of sales and distribution 2004-2007, Amer Sports Europe GmbH: CEO 19992004 Board membership: Member and Deputy Chairman since 21 March 2018 Other simultaneous positions of trust: Royal Design Group Holding AB: Member of the Board of Directors, O.Mustad & Son A.S.: Chairman of the Board of Directors, Veho Oy Ab: Member of the Board of Directors, L-Fashion Group Oy: Member of the Board of Directors, Antti Ahlström Perilliset Oy: Member of the Board of Directors Meeting attendance: Board 15/15, Audit Committee 4/4 Holdings in Raisio: series V 1,969 Erkki Haavisto Farmer Born 1968 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Board of Directors Place of residence: Raisio, Finland Education: M.Sc. (Agr. & Forestry) Key employment history: Farm owner 1993 Board membership: Member since 2004 Other simultaneous positions of trust: Lounametsä Forestry Association: Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, Raisio plc Research Foundation: Member of the Board of Directors, Salaojituksen Tukisäätiö s.r.: Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, Turun Seudun Osuuspankki: Member of the Board of Directors, University of Turku: Member of the Consultative Committee Meeting attendance: Board 19/19, Remuneration Committee 6/6 Holdings in Raisio: series K 364,940 and series V 148,653 Leena Niemistö Vice Chairman of the Board, Pihlajalinna plc Born 1963 Place of residence: Helsinki, Finland Education: MD, Specialist in Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine Key employment history: Pihlajalinna Plc: Deputy CEO, EVP in Private Clinics and Specialized Care 2013-2016, Senior Advisor 2016-2017, Dextra Oy: CEO 2003-2016, Orton Oy: Specialist in Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine 1997-2004 Board membership: Member since 2017 Other simultaneous positions of trust: Stockmann Plc: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Pihlajalinna Plc: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Member of the Audit Committee, Elisa Plc: Member of the Board of Directors and of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, The Finnish Fairs Corp: Member of the Board of Directors, Finnish National Opera and Ballet s.r: Chairman of the Board, Finnish National Opera and Ballet s.r: Chairman on the Board of Directors, Henna and Pertti Niemistö Art Foundation Ars Fennica s.r.: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Jury, National Defence Course Association: Member of the Board of Directors, Finnish Cultural Foundation s.r.: Member of the Supervisory Board, Finnish Medical Foundation s.r: Member of the Advisory Board, Scout Foundation (Finland): Member of the Advisory Board, Research foundation for Orthopaedics and Traumatology s.r.: Member of the Supervisory Board Meeting attendance: Board 19/19, Audit Committee 5/6 Holdings in Raisio: series V 3,574 Ann-Christine Sundell Senior Advisor Born 1964 Place of residence: Parainen, Finland Education: MSc, Biochemistry Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Board of Directors Key employment history: PerkinElmer Oy: President, Strategic Business Enterprise (SBE) Genetic Screening 2000-2010, Segment Manager, Sales & Marketing Manager 1999-2000, Marketing Director 1999, Product Line Manager 1996-1998 Board membership: Member since 2015 Other simultaneous positions of trust: Revenio Group Oyj: Member of the Board of Directors, Medix Biochemica Group Oy: Chairman of the Board of Directors, Serres Oy: Chairman of the Board of Directors, Ledil Oy: Member of the Board of Directors, Ledil Group Oy: Member of the Board of Directors, Immunovia Ab (Sweden): Member of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Blueprint Genetics Oy: Member of the Board of Directors, Biocartis Group NV (Belgium): Member of the Board of Directors and Remuneration Committee Meeting attendance: Board 19/19, Remuneration Committee 6/6 Holdings in Raisio: series V 6,343 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Supervisory Board Supervisory Board 31 December 2018 DOMICILE END OF MEMBER MEMBER SINCE (FINLAND) TERM Paavo Myllymäki, Chairman, born 1958 Mynämäki 1998 2020 Holger Falck, Deputy Chairman, born 1957 Sipoo 2006 2021 Henrik Brotherus, born 1981 Hausjärvi 2017 2020 Mårten Forss, born 1955 Kemiönsaari 2015 2021 Timo Himberg, staff representative, born Raisio 21 March 2018 2021 1969 John Holmberg, born 1964 Raasepori 2016 2019 Mikael Holmberg, born 1961 Parainen 2012 2021 Kimmo Inovaara, born 1968 Hämeenlinna 21 March 2018 2021 Heikki Keisari, born 1959 Harjavalta 2006 2021 Markku Kiljala, born 1971 Reisjärvi 2012 2021 Timo Könttä, born 1968 Masku 2011 2020 Linda Langh, born 1983 Kaarina 2016 2019 Tuomas Levomäki, born 1971 Loimaa 2015 2021 Juha Marttila, born 1967 Simo 2013 2020 Ilkka Mattila, born 1962 Pori 2017 2020 Jukka Niittyoja, born 1966 Ylöjärvi 2016 2019 Yrjö Ojaniemi, born 1959 Lapua 2002 2020 Olli-Pekka Saario, born 1957 Turku 2017 2020 Juha Salonen, born 1973 Kaarina 2010 2019 Jari Sankari, staff representative, born 1957 Kaarina 2007 2021 Matti Seitsonen, born 1975 Kouvola 2016 2019 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Supervisory Board DOMICILE END OF MEMBER MEMBER SINCE (FINLAND) TERM Urban Silén, born 1959 Salo 2003 2019 Mervi Soupas, born 1968 Sauvo 2013 2019 Tuomas Virsiheimo, staff representative, 1 December Lempäälä 2021 born 1972 2018 Tapio Ylitalo, born 1955 Turku 2006 2021 Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Group Management Team Management Team 31 December 2018 Pekka Kuusniemi Born: 1968 Place of residence: Raisio, Finland Education: M.Sc. (Econ.) Position at Raisio: President and CEO, Raisio plc Key employment history: Raisio plc 2017-; Hansa Armaturen GmbH, Germany 2014-2017: CEO; Oras Group: President & CEO 2008-2017, Sales and Marketing Director 2006-2007, Marketing Director 2002-2006; Tunturi Oy Ltd 1998 2001; R.J. Reynolds Finland Oy 1996-1998; Unilever Finland Oy Lever 1994-1996 Executive Committee membership: member since 2017 Positions of trust: Finnish Food and Drink Industries Federation: Member of the Board of Directors; Turku Chamber of Commerce: Member of the Board of Directors, Rettig ICC Oy Ab: Member of the Board of Directors, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company: Member of Supervisory Board, The Finnish Naval Reserve: Member of Supervisory Board Holdings in Raisio: series V 30,000* Iiro Wester Born: 1963 Place of residence: Espoo, Finland Position at Raisio: CCO, Healthy Food Unit Key employment history: Raisio plc 2018-, Saarioinen Oy 2017 2018: Executive Vice President, Customer Experience and New Markets; Valio Oy 2014 2016: Executive Vice President, Sales; Valio Sverige Ab 2012 2014: Managing Director; Posti/Itella 2006 2012: Marketing management, Cloetta Fazer Ab 1999 2006: Marketing management, Fazer Suklaa Oy 1997 1999: Marketing management Executive Committee membership: Member from 1 September 2018 Positions of trust: Holdings in Raisio: series V 6,000* Jukka Heinänen Born: 1972 Place of residence: Espoo, Finland Education: M.Sc. (Eng.), M.Sc. (Econ.) Position at Raisio: COO, Healthy Ingredients Unit and Operations Key employment history: Raisio plc 2017-; Teknos Group Ltd 2011-2016: CEO and 2007-2016: Director, production and logistics; Huhtamäki plc 2005-2006: Plant manager Executive Committee membership: member since 2017 Positions of trust: Holdings in Raisio: series V 5,000* Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Group Management Team Sari Koivulehto-Mäkitalo Born: 1974 Place of residence: Masku, Finland Education: Master of Laws, trained on the bench Position at Raisio: Vice President, Legal Affairs Key employment history: Raisio plc 2006-; Schering Oy 2001-2006: lawyer; Konecranes Plc 2000-2001: lawyer Executive Committee membership: member since 2013 Positions of trust: Turku Chamber of Commerce: Member of Law Committee Holdings in Raisio: series V 31,959 * Merja Lumme Born: 1961 Place of residence: Masku, Finland Education: Engineer, eMBA Position at Raisio: Vice President, Human Resources Key employment history: Raisio plc 2003-; PerkinElmer/Wallac 1992-2003: Quality management, HR management and administration; Aimo Virtanen Oy 1991-1992, Saloplast Oy 1988-1992: Quality management. Executive Committee membership: Member since 2003 Positions of trust: Foundation of Adult Education Turku: Member of Delegation; Turku Chamber of Commerce: Member of Education and Labour Committee Holdings in Raisio: series V 147,343 * Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Statement Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Corporate Governance / Remuneration Statement Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Financial Statements Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Contact Information Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Legal Notice Legal Notice Raisio plc and all its directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries and affiliates maintain this website as a service to its customers, investors and other stakeholders. Please read these terms of use before using this site. By accessing and using Raisio's Web site, you agree to the following terms and conditions. You must not access these pages if you do not agree to all of the following terms. NO WARRANTIES Information and documents provided on this Web site are provided as is without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including without limitation warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or noninfringement. Raisio makes reasonable efforts to include accurate and up-to-date information on this Web site; it does not, however, make any warranties or representations as to its accuracy or completeness. Raisio periodically adds, changes, improves, or updates the information and documents on this Web site without notice. Raisio assumes no liability or responsibility for any errors or omissions in the contents of our Web site. Raisio does not warrant that the Web site or the servers that make this Web site available are free from viruses or any other harmful elements. LIMITED RIGHTS OF USE AND COPYRIGHT NOTICE Raisio hereby authorizes you to view, copy, download, and print documents on this Web site, subject to the following conditions: The documents may be used solely for personal, non-commercial, and informational purposes. The documents may not be modified. The following copyright notice and permission notice must appear in each document: Copyright © 1997-2016 Raisio plc. All rights reserved. TRADEMARKS Raisio trademarks identify Raisio products and services and let the public know the source of those products and services. You may make fair use of our trademarks in advertising and promotional materials, and in referencing our products and services (for example, in a magazine article) without our permission, provided you follow standard trademark usage practices and provide proper attribution. Other uses require our written permission. If you are in doubt as to whether you need our permission for a specific type of use, please ask us. LINKS TO THIRD PARTY SITES This Web site may contain links or references to other Web sites that are not under the control of Raisio. Raisio shall have no responsibility whatsoever for the content of any such linked Web site or any link contained in such Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Legal Notice a linked site. Such links are only provided as a convenience and do not imply endorsement by Raisio of the content or the provider of the linked site. In no event is Raisio liable for the contents or practices of third party sites linking to this site. SUBMITTING MATERIAL Raisio does not want to receive confidential or proprietary information through this Web site. Please note that any information or material sent to Raisio will be deemed not to be confidential. By sending Raisio any information or material via this Web site, you grant Raisio an unrestricted, irrevocable license to use, reproduce, display, perform, modify, transmit and distribute those materials or information, and you also agree that Raisio is free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques that you send us for any purpose. However, we will not release your name or otherwise publicize the fact that you submitted materials or other information to us unless: (a) we obtain your permission to use your name; or (b) we first notify you that the materials or other information you submit to a particular part of this site will be published or otherwise used with your name on it; or (c) we are required to do so by law. This Web site does not provide any opportunity whatsoever to do actual business with Raisio , thus no agreement or contract, other than these terms of use, can be constituted between users and Raisio via this Web site. DISCLAIMER Your use of this Web site is at your own risk. Under no circumstances and under no legal theory shall Raisio, its suppliers, or any other party involved in creating, producing, or delivering this Web site's contents be liable to you or any other person for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, incidental, secondary or consequential damages of any character arising from your access to, or use of, this Web site. Web sites are susceptible to data corruption, interception, tampering, unauthorised amendment and viruses. We only send and receive information on the basis that we are not liable for any such corruption, interception, tampering, amendment or viruses or any consequence thereof. APPLICAPLE LAW AND JURISDICTION These terms and conditions are ultimately governed by, construed, and enforced in accordance with the laws of Finland. Any and all disputes arising from these terms and conditions or in connection with this Web site shall be exclusively submitted to and finally resolved by the competent courts of Finland, to the jurisdiction of which courts you are to submit. Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com Raisio Annual Review / Legal Notice Raisio’s Annual Review 2018 has been published in https://annualreview2018.raisio.com/. Raisio Oyj This page is part of the annual review. Contacts communications@raisio.com
