Sustain —ability Report 2019 2020 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Contents 1. About Alliance 2. About Global Compact 3. The Ten Principles 4. Statement of Continued Support 5. Living the principles 6. Achievements in the report period 7. Our goals for the next year 2019— Design & illustrations by Alliance architecture studio THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HAS BEEN DISCUSSED, REVIEWED AND APPROVED BY OUR BOARD AND ALL OUR EMPLOYEES. THIS REPORT IS PUBLISHED ON THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT WEBSITE UNGLOBALCOMPACT.ORG AND OUR OWN WEBSITE ALLARK.NO We want to design the most inclusive and sustainable ways to house and connect people Alliance architecture studio — Sustainability report About Alliance Alliance is a Norwegian architecture studio established in June 2005 with a strong focus on sustainability. The studio collaborates with various offices represents the energy and attitude that inspire and disciplines, and we frequently participate us in our daily work. We also have a set of in architectural competitions. The scope of values that we strive to implement in all we do: our work spans from case studies and area reliability, curiosity, social engagement, design planning to the development and completion for urban biodiversity and circularity. of building projects. Our projects range from detailing a 50 m² boat house to developing In the spring of 2007, as the first architectural 470 000 m² area plans. We primarily work office in Norway, we became members of the with new construction, but are also involved in UN’s Global Compact, where members commit renovation, restoring and extensions to existing to align their operations with ten principles structures. The majority of our commissions concerning environment, anti-corruption, consist of residential and commercial human rights and labour. developments. We do development design from concept to completion. Our involvement is mainly concerned with environmental sustainability and labour Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ standards. Furthermore, we promote the role horizontal structure (horizontality is for design of architecture as a trigger in encouraging only) and we continuously seek to collaborate the public to participate in environmental with groups and individuals from other and social issues. As architects, we aspire to disciplines. We believe that such collaboration encourage the discourse on our current and contributes to a positive synergy effect as well future urban development, where the interests as adding inspiration and learning to the work of private developers may diverge from the processes, resulting in creative methods and needs of the society. Our stated vision: we want original results. We carefully assemble teams to design inclusive and sustainable ways to with the necessary requested experience in house and connect people. combination with innovative strategies. This More about us on our website https://www.allark.no/studio The world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative More about GC on the UN website https://www.unglobalcompact.org About Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of in the Global Compact’s rapid growth. With globalisation, can help markets, commerce, almost 10 000 companies from 160 countries, it technology and finance advance in ways that is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility benefit economies and societies everywhere. initiative in the world. The Global Compact is a practical framework for the development, As social, political and economic issues — at implementation, and disclosure of sustainability home or in other regions — increasingly affect policies and practices. Offering participants a business. Many companies recognise the need wide range of work streams, management tools to collaborate with governments, civil society, and resources, the framework is designed to labour and NGO’s like the UN Global Compact. help advance sustainable business models and This ever-increasing understanding reflects markets. The Princ More about the Ten Principles https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles Ten iples Anticorruption 1. Businesses should work Alliance is committed to working against corruption in all its forms. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Labour 2. Businesses should uphold Alliance is committed to protect labour rights, including freedom of association, the freedom of association abolition of forced and child labour, and the elimination of any type of and the effective recognition discrimination. of the right to collective Alliance fulfils all its responsibilities bargaining. according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legislative demand, Alliance has appointed employee representatives 3. The elimination of all forms as council and neutral support for employees on issues regarding salary of forced and compulsory negotiation and contractual dispute. labour. Alliance sees great value in geographical and ethnic diversity among its work force. 4. The effective abolition of child labour. 5. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Human Rights 6. Businesses should support Alliance is committed to the protection of international human rights within our and respect the protection sphere of influence. of internationally proclaimed Alliance fulfils all its responsibilities human rights. according to Norwegian law, including implementing a health and safety management system. The company holds a third party certification 7. Make sure that they are not as a “Sustainability lighthouse” complicit in human rights (Miljøfyrtårn), with obligations on health and safety management beyond abuses. the legislative minimum. Progress is reported annually since 2012. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Environment 8. Businesses should support a Alliance is committed to the promotion of greater environmental responsibility precautionary approach to and precautionary approaches to environmental challenges in our sphere environmental challenges. of influence. We have decided to place 9. Undertake initiatives environmental issues at the very core of our strategy, one of our main to promote greater priorities is strengthening and sharing environmental responsibility. technical knowledge related to the design of more ecological buildings We seek to involve users and 10. Encourage the development stakeholders at an early project stage. and diffusion of We design for a healthy living, working and social environment, and believe this environmentally friendly is key to a sustainable society. technologies. We make an effort to reduce our resource and energy use in our running of the office and the project development. We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international building and area planning certification systems, such as BREEAM, and recognized national standards like the passive house principle. The O of Sus bility ffice tainaThe Architectural Industry of Norway has labelled us «the Office of Sustainability» and “the Challenger”. This motivates us to continue to contribute to an environmentally as well as financially sustainable architecture and urban development! We aim for drastic changes in practice More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Statement of continued support Over the past twelve months we have made a significant effort by devoting part of our resources to defining our strategic planning for the coming years. In the process we consulted our team and many of our colleagues expressed a desire to see us make a stronger and even more concrete social and environmental commitment. We have therefore decided to base our entire treatment, maximization of green structures strategy on corporate social responsibility, and living systems in cities and also the making it both a central and transversal consideration of the entire supply chain. objective. In terms of human and financial investment, our priority is strengthening Another important aim is to create spaces and sharing technical knowledge related that favour services based on sharing and less to the design of more ecological buildings on ownership (equipment, vehicles), again and cities in line with the circular economy in order to reduce the consumption of raw principles. The same applies to recruitment, resources and energy, while creating more partnerships and new clients’ profiles. fulfilling living conditions for users. We are also optimizing and standardizing In collaboration with our clients, the our project management processes for authorities, our suppliers, collaborators architecture, urban planning, landscape and partners, we aim for drastic changes in architecture and zone planning. One of the practice, in accordance with the urgency with aims is to facilitate and clarify dialogue with which we are confronted and for which we our stakeholders regarding the opportunities are collectively responsible. to implement circular and nature-based solutions. The main ones being: material recycling, energy production, waste Asger Hedegaard Christensen CEO & partner Following the GC principles for 12 years More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Living the principles As architects we have a remarkable opportunity to influence the building industry in areas considering the contractual framework, design, methods and materials. We take advantage of this opportunity as often as we can. It is now more than ten years since we took on a member of the Norwegian Green Building board The Global Compact in our office. The Council which manages BREEAM in Norway. first years, we grew fast in both project volume We also work with other environmental and staff. Following the G.C. principles, we standards such as the passive house standard have put a lot of effort into developing both a or area specific sustainable programs. We seek good workplace and great projects. This has to develop new areas of expertise through required a continuous process of defining, education and courses, strategic cooperation reaching for our goals and developing a with other companies and by encouraging staff framework of implementation. One of our main to enter the public arena through debates, achievements to date has been achieving a lectures, and teaching. Now that we have third-party certification as an environmentally settled as a medium size company with some sound business practice that we continue to years experience, we also have a growing improve. We also regularly map staff priorities understanding for diving deeper into the Global for the resources at hand and put them Compact and more resources at hand. We are into life, such as a shorter workweek and a committed to raising the bar on both the types better pension scheme. We offer a Citybike and number of projects with high sustainable subscription to our employees. qualities, and in terms of developing skills in our organisation and a stronger management The office has developed a fixed salary system framework. We welcome the initiative from for the first fifteen years of practice, securing G.C. to take onboard emerging sustainable a fair salary development in the initial years global issues through the Global opportunity of practice, regardless of gender, parental report, where the five most significant global leave or negotiation skills. The office practices sustainable threats are identified. competence mapping of the staff in addition to obligatory annual individual talks to ensure that We have participated in the Global Compact the competence at hand is used wisely, uncover Nordic Network (GCNN) forum that facilitates needs and wishes for new skills and career outreach, learning, policy dialogue, collective directions. In terms of securing high standards action and partnerships. We hope to for sustainability in our planning and building engage further in the network and explore projects, the office has chosen BREEAM as opportunities for partnerships for concrete the preferred platform for environmental initiatives and projects in the current period. implementation and assessment, and we are Achievements in the report period More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio In 2018 we set specific goals for the principles for the next year. Our goals and achievements are described in the following. LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION Inhouse Inhouse Goal Goal Measure the quality of the indoor climate Continue with a transparent economy regarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. and company administration open to all Also, increase the number of green plants employees. in the office in order to improve the indoor Result climate. Have presentations of both ongoing All staff have open access to our and finished projects to inspire and share administrative materials not underlying any knowledge between co-workers. Encourage pledge of confidentiality. We keep an open the use of public transport and bicycles dialogue with employees and will continue to to/from work and during the workday, do so. Information from the administration is and introduce yoga in the office for stress usually given in regular office meetings. This handling and reduction. year we have had several presentations to Result present the current work the administration We went through a recertification to keep is doing with our business strategy and our status as a Miljøfyrtårn-company encourage feedback and discussions from all (“environmental lighthouse”). Part of the employees. compliance evaluation was to do with the indoor climate and the overall evaluation was very positive. Although we didn’t get to ANTI-CORRUPTION measure the quality of the indoor climate, In building projects our yearly survey showed that the staff are mostly happy. We did increase the number Goal of plants. We have had several presentations In building projects on projects in the office and continue to Continue to promote the principles by improve our routines of knowledge-sharing. implementing our ethical standard in All employees are offered a refund for using contracts, in dialogue with our project the city’s bicycle scheme (Bysykkel). We did groups and through our publications and introduce Yoga in the office for our Stavanger social media activities. department, but not in Oslo. Result We have achieved our goal for the last period and will pursue this goal further for the next LABOUR report period. In building projects Goal HUMAN RIGHTS Define at least one innovation factor in each Inhouse project to promote learning and quality awareness. Share the knowledge obtained Goal within the office, and where feasible, with Inhouse our clients and the public. Establish a partnership relation for a specific Result project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO We have several projects where we have working with human rights. We have made managed to implement innovation/learning some headway in this and will continue. factors but can improve both on the Result percentage of projects and on making these We have become a member of the EGN factors evident to the entire staff and to our Sustainability Network which also discusses clients. Corporate Social Responsibility. Goals & achievements HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT In building projects Inhouse Goal Goal Recommend materials where human rights Decrease the number of flights per year. We are considered in the producing process. aim to reduce our flights with 10 % and to increase the number of video conferences or Result alternative communication by 10 %. The company continues to disseminate knowledge on sustainable and responsibly Make sure that most of our purchases are sourced materials within its staff, and eco-labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. actively suggests such material alternatives Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. in our projects, including awareness on recognized material certification. Continue to use less electricity in the office. Focus on reducing food waste and having EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION meat-free lunches. Inhouse Result Goal We reduced the number of flights significally, Inhouse actually by more than 100 %. We continue Participate in at least four events on to use Skype meetings whenever this is architectural issues related to the principles, possible. and in particular on environmental sustainability. We continue to choose eco-labelled, organic We will start creating public lectures and/ and Fairtrade-products, and we have or workshops to share and strengthen our increased the number of suppliers that are knowledge focusing on sustainability environmentally certified (eg. ISO/EMAS, the Nordic “Svanen”, the Norwegian Miljøfyrtårn Result (Eco-Lighthouse)). We have succeeded in participating in several activities related to the principles. We are also happy to say that our landlord now facilitates sorting of waste and, except We have also hosted and been invited to for soft plastic, we now recycle most of our speak at events. To mention a few: we held waste. a speech at the Spanish seminar ‘Togather’, which aim is to analyze how architecture can There is still a little food waste, but routines solve the problem of urban solitude through have been improved to reduce further. design that can promote the physical and psychological well-being of its users; with the Staff are encouraged to have meat-free Oslo School of Architecture and Design we lunches and more people have chosen this co-hosted a screening of Tomorrow, a film option. that identifies initiatives and gives concrete examples of solutions to environmental All employees are encouraged to print as and social challenges of the twenty-first little as possible and every computer is set on century and accepted a few invitations to 2-page printing to reduce paper waste. speak about one of our major projects where sustainability is a key feature. In addition, we have attended seminars and lectures to learn more about sustainability and more specifically about circular economy. ENVIRONMENT In building projects Goal than required by overall guidelines. In our Increase our focus and mapping of results landscape projects we seek, for instance, on sustainable development in area planning innovative solutions on how to handle storm and building projects. Always offer BREEAM water locally and through open systems, both certification to our projects. Reduce the on roofs and on terrain, aiming to exceed amount of waste on construction site by the authority’s lowest requirement. In our challenging the suppliers and contractors projects there is often a prerequisite for We when it comes to material consumption promote the maximization of green roofs and recycling. Also, consider recycling also as part of our storm water management for the future when choosing materials. strategies. We have developed high quality Investigating the possibility of binding roof terraces containing planting beds that CO2 in building projects, continue further can hold enough soil to grow trees and to implement the use of wood (CLT) as lush vegetation, as well as edible roots, construction method. Continue to focus on vegetables and herbs. The implementation of smart farming and urban food production in green roofs is an example of our interest in our projects. Aiming for projects focusing on designing multifunctional systems to meet sustainable development/research. Establish sustainable purposes: manage stormwater, a partnership relation with consultants/a increase urban biodiversity, proliferate urban network who are leading in their field food production and create a place for social of knowledge regarding sustainable interaction among others. In landscape development. architecture, we will strengthen our focus on Nature-Based Solutions in order not Result only to create more resilient cities through We have and are working on several area stormwater management strategies, but plan schemes, landscape architecture and also to urban biodiversity, help to mitigate building projects with strong sustainable climate change, improve health and meet profiles. We also continue to promote social needs sustainable development in several public arenas and to our clients. In our projects there is often a prerequisite for high quality roof terraces which We continue to promote sustainable proliferate urban food production. We have materials and energy efficient solutions instigated work on building projects where where possible, including the use of wood emissions have been reduced by over 50 % in (CLT). We have been invited as experts to comparison with reference projects and we speak about the use of CLT in our projects at work with building sites that are fossil free. a course this spring. We do our utmost in promoting sustainable We have offered BREEAM certification to energy solutions, i.e. use of energy wells. a large number of projects. We uphold this goal for the next period. To acquire projects that focus on sustainable development we seek out potential While creating zoning plans and early customers that have a strong green profile, feasibility studies; energy, traffic and use of but we also try to influence all our clients. materials are important issues to achieve objectives of high urban and architectural By invitation we became a member of quality and a low environmental strain and the EGN Sustainability Network which climate footprint in a life cycle perspective. aims to strengthen our knowledge about sustainability and corporate social We emphasize aesthetics and quality responsibility and share ideas with other building, beneficial urban spaces and quality companies and organizations that have a of living supporting sustainable residential strong interest in these matters. We are also environments, simultaneously focusing on in dialogue with consultants and companies flexibility while considering development to establish mutually beneficial partnerships in mobility. For example, as a rule while with regards to environmentally and socially creating zoning plans, we consequently conscientious materials and design. reduce required space for car parking at the same time increasing space for bicycle parking both to an increased extent Goals next r for the eport In order to track our progress on promoting the ten principles, we have set specific goals for the coming report period. LABOUR LABOUR Inhouse In building projects Measure the quality of the indoor climate Define at least one innovation factor in each regarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. project to promote learning and quality Also, increase the number of green plants awareness. Share the knowledge obtained in the office in order to improve the indoor within the office, and where feasible, with climate. our clients and the public. Have presentations of both ongoing and finished projects to inspire and share knowledge between co-workers. Encourage the use of public transport and bicycles to/from work and during the workday, and introduce yoga in the office for stress handling and reduction. More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS Inhouse Inhouse Decrease the number of flights per year. We Establish a partnership relation for a specific aim to reduce our flights with 10 % and to project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO increase the number of video conferences or working with human rights. We have made alternative communication by 10 %. some headway in this and will continue. Make sure that most of our purchases are eco-labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. HUMAN RIGHTS In building projects Continue to use less electricity in the office. Recommend materials where human rights Focus on reducing food waste and having are considered in the producing process. meat-free lunches. ANTI-CORRUPTION ENVIRONMENT Inhouse In building projects Continue with a transparent economy Increase our focus and mapping of results and company administration open to all on sustainable development in area planning employees. and building projects. Always offer BREEAM certification to our projects. ANTI-CORRUPTION In building projects Reduce the amount of waste on construction site by challenging the suppliers and Continue to promote the principles by contractors when it comes to material implementing our ethical standard in consumption and recycling. Also, consider contracts, in dialogue with our project recycling for the future when choosing groups and through our publications and materials. social media activities. Investigating the possibility of binding CO2 in building projects, continue further to implement the use of wood (CLT) as EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION construction method. Inhouse Continue to focus on smart farming and Participate in at least four events on urban food production in our projects. architectural issues related to the principles, Aiming for projects focusing on sustainable and in particular on environmental development/research. sustainability. Establish a partnership relation with We will start creating public lectures consultants/a network who are leading and/or workshops to share and strengthen in their field of knowledge regarding our knowledge focusing on sustainabily. sustainable development. In order to track our progress on promoting the ten principles, we have set specific goals for the coming report period. ENVIRONMENT Establish a sustainability group that aims to Start developing Nature-Based-Solutions increase knowledge about sustainability and (NBS) for landscape architecture; human circularity both within the organization and in constructed (or designed) systems inspired our projects. by nature that tackle socio-environmental challenges (increase of biodiversity in cities, Continue to make sure that most of our mitigate climate change, improve health, purchases are eco-labelled, organic or define flexible water management). Fairtrade products. The European Union defines NBS as solutions «inspired and supported by nature, which Keep reducing food waste and having meatare cost-effective, simultaneously provide free lunches. environmental, social and economic benefits and help build resilience”. Improve project processes to better include CSR and circularity principles. Continue to focus on smart farming and urban food production in our projects. Always offer BREEAM project certification to Aiming for projects focusing on sustainable our clients. development/research. Reduce the amount of waste on construction Continue to promote sustainable materials site by challenging the suppliers and and energy efficient solutions where contractors when it comes to material possible, including the use of wood (CLT). consumption and recycling. Also, consider recycling for the future when choosing Establish more partnerships and join materials. networks that are leading in their field of knowledge regarding sustainable Investigating the possibility of binding development and circularity principles. CO2 in building projects, continue further to implement the use of wood (CLT) as Continue to use less electricity in the office. construction method. More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio ANTI-CORRUPTION LABOUR Continue with a transparent economy Have in place a good system for collective and company administration open to all intelligence to better share ideas, initiatives employees. and knowledge between co-workers. Continue to promote the principles by Create career plans for all employees implementing our ethical standard in that include strengthening knowledge on contracts, in dialogue with our project CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) and groups and through our publications and circularity. social media activities. Encourage the use of public transport and bicycles to/from work by subsidizing the use of City bikes (Bysykkel) in Oslo. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION Participate in at least four events on architectural issues related to the principles, HUMAN RIGHTS and in particular on environmental sustainability. Keep recommending materials where human rights are considered in the producing We will organize public lectures process. and/or workshops to share and strengthen our knowledge about circularity. Thank you for reading studio@allark.no +47 22 36 40 44 © Alliance arkitekturstudio AS
