SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GROW ON US 2018 1 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT 7Cs GROUP W e are proud to publish our third annual sustainability report, summarizing our results for the year 2018. This report covers information regarding our performance in accordance to the UN Global Compact and Women’s We believe that the true worth of success is measured by the way it is taken forward, to benefit all whose lives it touches. Backed by several decades of cumulative industry experience and fueled by the principles of creation, teamwork and community enrichment, we are committed to the idea Empowerment Principles (WEPs), and therefore, serves as our annual of enabling growth both for business as well as society. The 7Cs Group found its presence in Communication on Progress (COP). The report covers UAE operations of our 2003 (under the name of Rosy Blue and renamed as 7Cs in 2014) by Dr. Harshad Mehta as a Group companies 7Cs Eurasia FZE, 7Cs Diamond & Jewellery Trading LLC, 7Cs company focused on the jewellery industry. The 7Cs Group has now grown into a well-diversified Gold and Jewellery LLC, 7Cs Fashion House LLC, Soft Touch Jewellers LLC, conglomerate, with a strong presence in the field of wholesale and retail jewellery, sustainable Global Green Bridge Contracting LLC, Global Green Bridge FZE, Premier Marble construction, real estate investment, and hospitality. Headquartered in Dubai, UAE, 7Cs Group Technical Services and Jehan Investment Ltd. employs more than 1600 personnel belonging to 23 nationalities. All information in the report is complete and within the reporting period starting from 1st January 2018 to 31st December 2018 GROW ON US T he philosophy of the 7Cs Group is the empowering message Grow on us. Herein, ‘grow’ represents the future and ‘on’ represents the stability of a strong platform established on firm morals. The word ‘us’ encompasses ‘u’ for uniqueness, because dynamic creativity is at the core of any initiative and every organization should have a culture of innovation. The ‘s’ in ‘us’ represents ‘service’, stressing upon the need to focus on customer satisfaction and delight by offering world-class OUR VISION services. The 7Cs Group provides a platform for growth for various businesses, thereby impacting society and We aim to facilitate growth for all stakeholders and its people through economic development. The continue building mutually beneficial, lasting diversity of the Group emanates from its belief in partnerships. Our ambitious and visionary leadership nurturing ideas, ambitions and letting everyone ensures that we keep exploring new frontiers and discover their potential and develop their own identity. achieving new victories, thereby facilitating growth for the entire 7Cs family and its partners. CSR COMMITTEE OUR MISSION One of the core values of 7Cs Group is corporate social responsibility and this is an employee-driven strategy. We are dedicated to offering a reliable platform that To drive CSR throughout the organization, a CSR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE nurtures innovation, rewards excellence and creates committee was constituted comprising members of value for stakeholders, as well as the community. different Group companies. Monthly meetings are held We have an operations board, comprising heads of HR, to plan and implement CSR activities in alignment with finance and executive directors. All business plans are the annual strategy. Employees suggest projects to support and garner support from their respective teams, made by a committee of employees, and not just senior making each activity a successful one. The CSR management. This ensures that employees suggestions committee is headed by the director of corporate are taken into consideration for business strategies. We communications and CSR. This enables quicker also inform all employees of achievements, business approvals and effective impact. plans of individual group companies twice a year. 3 7Cs Group / UNGC Report 4 www.7cs.com OUR LEADERS HOW WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS DR. HARSHAD MEHTA Dr. Harshad Mehta has over 50 years of global experience in the The 7Cs group stands for 7 Core Values i.e diamond and jewellery industry and is recognized as a veteran in the Credibility, Creativity, Customer service, trade. Former Chairman of the Dubai Diamond Exchange, Dr. Mehta Collaboration, Consistency, Commitment has also been consistently voted among the top 20 most powerful and corporate social responsibility. Indians in the Gulf region. He won the 'Global Indian of the Year' award for his outstanding contribution in taking the Indian gems and jewellery industry to the world, at the 13th annual Retail Jeweller OUR CODE OF ETHICS India Awards 2017. He was conferred the Literary Excellence Award for brilliance in the field of philanthropy. Dr. Mehta’s humanitarian Code of conduct is laid down for the 7Cs staff in commitments shine through in his association with social order to maintain a healthy work culture in the initiatives ranging from education, primary healthcare, organization. The human resources manual is medical research and other developmental challenges. He designed to acquaint employees with the embodies the 7Cs Group’s seven core values that inspire working conditions, benefits and policies and guide all aspects of the group’s functioning. affecting employment. Our charter, comprising the code of conduct, is signed by every employee CHAIRMAN MR. RIHEN MEHTA Rihen Mehta is no stranger to success. He set a world record by swimming across the English Channel when he was just 12 years old and today, as Chairman of the 7Cs Group, he is one of Dubai’s youngest corporate leaders. He is a young visionary with the ability to foresee and implement winning strategies that deliver consistent results. He brings to the table innovative ideas and strategies to keep pace with a growing and challenging market. He is currently on the Board of Directors of the prestigious Dubai Gold & Jewellery Group and the Dubai Diamond Exchange. Mr. Mehta was featured in the Forbes Middle East’s list of Top Indian Leaders 2017: The Next Generation and was also selected as honouree in the category Young Entrepreneur of the Year (Age 40 and below) for the 5 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 6 OUR BUSINESSES RETAIL JEWELLERY WHOLESALE B2B BUSINESS HUEB GOLD JEWELLERY At Hueb we believe luxury is inspiring and celebratory, not intimidating. Brazil is our heritage and inspiration. Each of our pieces is handcrafted to express creativity, elegance and attitude. 7Cs Gold Jewellery supplies superior-quality high-fashion bangles, bracelets, necklaces, Jewellery is a way of selfexpression. Our designs strike a subtle balance between art and pendant sets, earrings, chains and rings in 21 and 22-karat gold. With innovative 2-in1 and 3innovation, evoking a sense of joy and elegance. in-1 value-for-money & trendy styles, 7Cs Gold Jewellery satisfies every kind of customer. Today the brand has a flagship boutique at Madison Avenue in New York and a mono brand boutique at Shopping Cidade Jardim, Sao Paulo, Brazil and distribution in more than 100 locations across United States of America. GOLD MOUNTING We supply light-weight and fashionable designs of gold mounts to diamond jewellery retailers and local distributors in the GCC region. Our innovative designs, superior quality, coupled with shorter lead times have made us one of the leading suppliers of gold mounts in the region. ROUGH DIAMONDS JEWEL CORNER 7Cs Eurasia undertakes responsible sourcing of diamonds from mines as well as fine assortment for processing and manufacturing. With decades of experience and market Jewel Corner specializes in offering exquisite diamond jewellery at affordable prices. With the knowledge in rough diamonds, the team guarantees a strong assortment capability and objective of tapping into the gifting space demand, it provides customers an opportunity to gift reliability to its vast customer base. sparkling jewellery an attractive prices. Jewel Corner has over 40 stores in all leading malls across the GCC region. Our jewellery is sourced from across the world and crafted by awardwinning designers. The brand promises to offer its customers smart value with simple choices JEWELLERY MANUFACTURING along with a unique retail experience. Jewel Corner also believes in bringing out the spark in all of them, because there is a jewel in all of us. We are a 100% export oriented manufacturer of Gold and Diamond stud jewellery with a factory at SEEPZ, Andheri, Mumbai. Our expertise is in high-end jewellery which includes bridal sets, rings, earrings, pendants etc. as per the requirement of customers. Our factory is a full-fledged manufacturing unit that can support any customer's need right from diamonds and Product Development to innovation. 7 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 8 CONSTRUCTION REAL ESTATE ASPEN REAL ESTATE GLOBAL GREEN BRIDGE CONTRACTING LLC Aspen Real Estate, the realty advisory and management wing of 7Cs, is a team of highly trained professionals with vast experience in the Dubai real estate market. We provide Global Green Bridge Contracting is an EPC construction company in the MENA region and end-to-end solutions, focusing on delivering value to our customers by an astute specializes in green solutions. It has a G + Unlimited Building Contracting License and understanding of their investment needs. Certifications for ISO 90012015, ISO 14001-2015 and OHSAS 18001-2007 and has successfully completed numerous projects in UAE and overseas in various segments such as industrial projects, commercial buildings, schools, malls, residential buildings, and high-end villas. JEHAN INVESTMENTS Jehan Investments is a property fund and investment vehicle that currently invests in the Dubai market, targeting attractive yields with low risk. The portfolio primarily targets GLOBAL GREEN BRIDGE FZE ready properties for rental yields, with a small proportion being invested in off-plan properties, which are expected to deliver higher capital appreciation. Global Green Bridge FZC offers self-supporting unique alternative structural systems and infill walls, welded wire mesh and light-weight steel fabrication. The company also offer sustainable landscaping using coir compost, which consumes significantly lesser water compared to standard soil and is an alternative for cultivation soil. The company also supplies planter pots and has over a hundred varieties of indoor plant and 50 varieties of outdoor plants. Driven to build a safer future for all, Jehan green walls is committed to delivery green, HOSPITALITY energy-efficient solutions and offer various practical and logistical benefits as they are easier to transport and install. Their excellent insulation leads to lesser consumption of electricity, thereby offering savings BALARAM PALACE HOTEL Built between 1922 and 1936 by the 29th ruler of Palanpur, Balaram Palace Hotel is a boutique heritage hotel constructed in the neo-classical and baroque architectural style PREMIER MARBLE TECHNICAL SERVICES Situated amidst a reserve forest in Gujarat, India, the hotel is set in 13 acres of terraced upland, rising from a hilly stream and surrounded by lush green gardens. With 34 airPremier Marble Technical Services is a marble and natural stone business, offering quality conditioned rooms (including a ‘Nawab’ suite), the hotel offers a diverse culinary marble and natural stone under the brand “Rakitalian”, processed at the group’s factory. We experience and a host of leisure activities to its guests, including cultural entertainment work with contractors & interior designers and undertake installation work in the UAE and options and nature walks. India. 9 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 8 10 CHAIRMAN CSR DIRECTOR STATEMENT DECLARATION TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: F or us, sustainability is a journey and we believe that taking a long term strategic view will continue to serve us well now and into the future. We want to contribute to commitment to gender equality by becoming signatories of the Women's Empowerment Principles. building a more sustainable and resilient value chain for Our efforts have been recognised by the UAE government. our company as well as the communities we serve. Our EPC construction company Global Green Bridge Contracting won the 5-star Taqdeer award from the UAE As a UN Global Compact member, we share our government for excellence in employee welfare practice, commitment and continuous effort made by our teams to bench marked against global practices on labour policies, embed sustainability in our Group culture. We also strive facilities and infrastructure , health and safety, recruitment to integrate, support and advocate the ten universally and wages, justice and transparency. In 2019, we will accepted principles of the UN Global Compact and the 17 continue to honour our commitments towards human Sustainable Development Goals. At 7Cs Group, our rights, labour, environment and social causes to become a women colleagues are in the forefront of our successful truly sustainable company. endeavours. So we went a step further to highlight our 7 Cs Group goes beyond corporate philanthropy and has a hands-on approach towards different social causes such as education, poverty alleviation, women's empowers all employees, especially women. As 2019 was declared as “ Year of tolerance” we focused to bridge communication between peoples of different empowerment and responsible consumption. Our efforts cultures in a respectful environment. were recognised by the UN Global Compact and we made it to the list of shortlisted companies for the UAE As a continuation of 2017, in 2018 also we focused on SDG Pioneers Awards. encouraging recycling across the Group. We conducted training, placed bins and encouraged employees to Women empowerment and especially freedom from any recycle more. We also conducted several product sort of abuse is a cause close to my heart and I want to donation activities and collected books, toys and clothes ensure that every woman feels safe, no matter where she for the underprivileged. Our sports events and cultural is, and especially at her workplace. Women today are events created stronger bonds among employees. breaking the glass ceiling across sectors and we need to ensure that women in the workforce suffer from no We encourage you to have a look at our work and Grow discrimination. At the helm of 2024 strong workforce in on Us! 7Cs Group, I’m in a position to influence policies and bring about change in the lives of my women. We pledge Sincerely yours, our support for maintaining gender equality within 7Cs Group and to cultivate a work environment that DEEPIKA MEHTA RIHEN MEHTA Director, CSR & Corporate Chairman Communication 11 11 7Cs Group UNGC / UNGC Report Report www.7cs.com 12 www.7cs.com 7Cs Group / 7CS EMPLOYEES Internal / S. No Name of the training Trainer External attended STAR ONE Retail sales staff 1 Jayashree Internal 51 training Jewel Corner 2 Induction training Jayashree Internal 5 3 CRM Loyalty phase II Antony Internal 36 4 PMS CSF Jayashree Internal 52 5 9K / 10K Product Knowledge Jayashree Internal 30 6 Manual Billing / Stock Count Yoosuf / Louie Internal 1 7 DSES Upgradatation DSES Unit External 7 8 DSES Upgradatation Jayashree Internal 38 9 VAT Reclaim Prabhu Internal 38 10 Causing Incredible Performance Hala External 48 11 Product Knowledge MKM Internal 16 2015 2016 2017 2018 12 PMS New System MK Moorthi Internal 76 TOTAL NUMBER OF 13 Ignite training MK Moorthi Internal 64 EMPLOYEES 14 ISAB ISAB External 2 1, 625 1701 1,961 2024 15 Bloom Trainiing Hala [ Hala Associates ] External 15 16 Training for managers Hala [ Hala Associates ] External 8 17 Learning from peers MK Moorthi Internal 12 TOTAL NUMBER OF 18 Sub contractual Management Joan [ UAE contractors] External 3 MALE EMPLOYEES 1, 538 1602 1,849 1,874 19 Contractaul awareness Program Fidic External 23 TOTAL NUMBER OF 20 Leadership 5th disciplinary way Hala [ Hala Associates] External 8 FEMALE EMPLOYEES 21 Chargehand & Foreman Meeting Anand K P & Kalimuthu Internal 10 87 99 112 150 22 Timekeeper Ashok Pinto Internal 9 23 Competency Framework MK Moorthi Internal 12 24 Fidic Consultant External 13 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 819 582 789 250 Total 577 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO TOOK 1 4 1 3 MATERNITY LEAVES ATTRITION RATE 19.9% 18.5% 35.54% 32% 13 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 14 DIWALI PARTY FUN AT WORK EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DIWALI PARTY: Diwali symbolizes the spiritual FUN AT WORK: In order to bring synergy within our Victory of Light over darkness, Good over evil and team and to have a “family” bond where we feel Knowledge over ignorance. Diwali party was supported “Indoor recreation” area has been initiated. CRICKET TOURNAMENT organized and celebrated at 7Cs Group with Lighting The recreation at office helps us to be more focused at CRICKET TOURNAMENT TOLERANCE CRICKET CUP Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Tolerance, diya’s, Lakshmi Pooja and distributing Sweets and our work, effective utilization of time and to relax with organized Tolerance Cricket Cup. The championship was organized by the Ministry of Tolerance in cooperation with the Wishing Good Health and Wealth to all. Our7Cs some fun at office. The recreation area has the carom & Abu Dhabi Sports Council as part of the National Tolerance Festival held under the theme On Zayed's Approach . A total group chairman, Mr. Rihen mehta and Director foosball table. of 16 teams comprising nearly 300 players took part in the tournament which lasted over seven weeks. Our cricket-loving Corporate Communications & CSR Ms. Deepika employees were one among the team named “Green Bridge Heroes” who participated in the Cricket League. This Mehta made it a colorful experience for the group. tournament brought the employees together, a symbolic picture of the sportsmanship, created a stronger bonds and Everyone turned up dressed in their traditional wear, constructive and positive competition in an atmosphere of tolerance and peaceful coexistence. made a beautiful rangoli, exchanged wishes and celebrated happiness. VALENTINE DAY CELEBRATION VALENTINE DAY CELEBRATION : Valentine’s Day is all about showing our coworkers that we care. At 7Cs group we believe that appreciation and respecting are the two most important ways to motivate and reward a team. We celebrated the day with lots of fun and MOTHERS DAY games while expressing our respect for each other. We also had a contest that our employees take a best MOTHERS DAY: 7Cs family on the occasion of mothers day picture with their spouses and the winning photo got a had a chance to celebrate and wish the office mom. It was a prize reward. great opportunity to celebrate and honour the moms at workplace. Picture of the kids with the moms working with 7Cs group has been collected and a greeting card with a wishes has be made and given to all the moms. The Office of the Minister of Tolerance and Etihad Airways have signed a cooperation agreement to promote the values of tolerance, coexistence and respect for diversity. The agreement between the two parties seeks to promote these values in a more sustainable and enriching manner among different nationalities, cultures and religions via community projects in national and international events. BIRDS OF A FEATHER FLOCK TOGETHER BIRDS OF A FEATHER FLOCK TOGETHER: The annual party was organized in December for all employees and their families. The evening began with the contest under the theme “Spirit of the union”, and followed with some fun games in the cruise, after which everyone gathered for the entertainment programme. The evening ended with some great dancing and a good wholesome dinner. 15 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 16 IFTAR PARTY CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR CELEBRATION PHOTOGRAPHY COMPETITION CrEDO IFTAR PARTY: At 7Cs Group, we not only respect all CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR CELEBRATION: To keep PHOTOGRAPHY COMPETITION: UAE is a vibrant CrEDO A first-of-its-kind one-day event celebrating traditions and cultures, but also celebrate and the spirit of the season sparkling and vibrant for our country so we let the Colors of UAE flow in our construction workers is held annually by Global Green Bridge. participate in them. To showcase our respect for the people, the new year was welcomed with a positive CREATIVE shots. Last year our employees and their A cultural programme and an awarding ceremony is central to Ramadan tradition, a majority of our employees energy across all the employees holding the thought to lovely family members imbibed our Value 'CrEDO'–Construction Employees Day Out. The main voluntarily fasted for a day along with their Muslim bring success for the business and with some fun, 'CREATIVITY' and actively participate in our objective of this program is to motivate and appreciate blue colleagues. All participating employees broke fast Secret Santa game was played and revealed to all by photography competition. Theme of the competition collar employees, who toil every day to create the beautiful together during the Iftar party organized at several gifting. – “Creative Colors of UAE”. The lovely pictures were landscape of Dubai. Group offices in Dubai. then featured in the 7Cs 2019 corporate organizers. TOGETHER TOWARDS TOMORROW TOGETHER TOWARDS TOMORROW : Annual Business plan cascade was organized in the beginning of the year to INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY highlight the learnings and success of 2018 and look ahead about new plans for 2019 to work together, to keep focused on INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY: We celebrate the our priorities to achieve our ambitions and to bring more success to our 7Cs. This conference was more of an interactive wonderful women working at the 7Cs Group every SMART IDOL one & to elicit valuable. single day and today was just another excuse for us to SMART IDOL – Our employees were encouraged to show them how much we appreciate them. On participate in a musical competition organised for blue collar International Women's Day, our women colleagues workers across Dubai. Our singers Durg Vijay and Harikesh engaged in games, shared their inspiring stories and Chauhan performed at Sheikh Rashid Auditorium in Dubai enjoyed sumptuous food. While our women with other finalists of Smart Idol 2018. colleagues were dressed in pink, our male colleagues showed their appreciation and solidarity and sported pink hues as well. Here's wishing all the lovely women who shaped our lives a very happy Women's Day! 17 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 18 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR Policy/ Procedure Implementation Policy/ Procedure Implementation • Non-discrimination policy • Employee satisfaction surveys are conducted annually • Code of conduct • We follow the UAE and US labour laws, wherever applicable. • Harassment policy • 7Cs knowledge portal iGrow to ensure sharing of best practices among all • Recruitment policy • Contracts with all our employees to avoid forced labour • Anti-human trafficking policy employees. Recognising top users of the portal has motivated all employees to • HSE policy • All our employees are above 18 years of age and we store information • HR manual is designed to use the portal. • Ethics policy on age based on their passport and other official documentation. • Quarterly 'Tell Me’ sessions are conducted for grievance redressal • All employees are covered under medical insurance acquaint employees of the 7Cs • Equal employment opportunity • Quarterly magazine C Times is used to communicate different initiatives among • Fire drills conducted Group with information about the Group. policy • Conducted HSE trainings including fire safety and first aid (BLS) working conditions, benefits, • ‘We Care’, an initiative for employees to share their grievances and suggestions • We provide staff accommodation to more than 1,400 employees standards of conduct and policies directly with the director and chairman • ‘Dil Se’, which translates to ‘Heart to Heart’, is an initiative designed affecting employment. to address the grievance of the work force. Every Sunday, one representative from HR department visits the labour accommodation for this session. Measurement of 2019 Targets Measurement of 2019 Targets outcome outcome • Employee satisfaction survey • Online Employee Engagement • 0 complaints of sexual misconduct • Employees belonging to 23 nationalities work with us. • Conduct regular health camps survey for labour and staff or discrimination in 2018 • 0 complaints of violation of UAE labour rights in 2018 • 4 sessions of Tell Me, a meeting with • Won Dubai Quality award and DSES award which is a Dubai • Engage 2000 employees through HR team to discuss grievances government initiative to honour companies for excellence in different activities • 2 sessions of ‘We Care’ labour practices and best customer service. • 24 ‘Dil Se’ sessions held ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Policy/ Procedure Implementation Measurement of Policy/ Procedure Implementation Measurement of outcome outcome • HSE policy • Continuing recycling programme in Recycling data: • Anti-Corruption policy • We have a gift register to monitor • 0 complaints of bribery or other • Environment policy all Group companies • Paper (in kg): 1550 all the gifts given and accepted financial frauds against our • Conducted Environment policy • Plastic (in kg): 45 by employees Group companies in 2017. trainings • Cartridges (no.): 120 • Conducted trainings on anti• Global Green Bridge won the • Ewaste (no.): 28 money laundering, anti-corruption Dubai Quality Appreciation and KYC. Award from the Dubai Economic 2019 Targets 2019 Targets • Appointed AML officer and Department for its exemplary committee for internal investigation business ethics. • Paper (in kg): 1700 • Cartridges (no.): 75 • 0 fines/ corruption cases against • Plastic (in kg): To reduce • Ewaste (no.): 35 Group companies • consumption of plastic • Participate in beach cleanups 19 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 20 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS-SGD GOOD HEALTH 03 AND WELL-BEING GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 04 QUALITY EDUCATION PINK IT NOW: DUBAI FITNESS 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES Health of employees at 7Cs Group is of prime importance to us. Hence we joined hands with CHALLENGE Zulekha health care group in their campaign Pink It Dubai Fitness Challenge (DFC) is 08 GOOD JOBS AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Now to raise awareness about Breast cancer, early all about motivating and involving Dubai's residents to commit to 30 detection and the benefit of regular check – ups. minutes of continuous exercise a Specialist Dr. Suneeta Geekay educated all the 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES female employees about its symptoms and selfday for 30 days. It is to transform Dubai into the most active city in examination. Everyone came dressed in pink to the world with a month-long RESPONSIBLE calendar of exciting events. 7Cs group registered with Dubai Fitness In 2018, 7Cs Group, through its companies focused on 12 CONSUMPTION AND support the initiative and received a free specialist consultation and XRay Mammogram voucher in Challenge and employees actively participated individually and PRODUCTION return. Thank you Zulekha health care group for this together with friends, family and colleagues, enjoying new and the following Sustainable Development Goals, exciting ways to improve their fitness levels Impact: Around 60 people laid down by the United Nations Development Programme. 14 LIFE BELOW WATER great initiative. Impact: Around 19 people participated for the awareness program through this participated through this initiative. initiative. MEDICAL CAMP 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS AWARENESS CAMPAIGN At 7Cs Group, we believe that every employee's health is the real wealth for our business. We conducted a complete preliminary Global Green Bridge a part of the 7Cs Group, WE DESIGN A BETTER FUTURE organized an Awareness Sessions On Welfare of medical check-up for all our staff which included GP Consultation, Workers by Indian Embassy along with PBSK Dental Check-up, and blood pressure, Blood Sugar, Cholesterol and The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call (Pravasi Bharatiya Sahayata Kendra). Every day ENT Consultation. Experts from HNC Medical Team conducted the to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. issues of workers were addressed. The main topics check-ups, helped by recommending small but effective lifestyle of awareness included Alcoholism and Smoking, changes and guided us through various health problems. Impact: These 17 Goals build on the successes of the Millennium Development Goals, while including Identity Protection, Debit Card Protection, Nuggets new areas such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace of Information (on exchange rate fluctuation, Around 145 people were screened for diabetes through this initiative. and justice, among other priorities. The goals are interconnected – often the key to success on one will importance of long term saving for pension), UAE Customs Rule, Appropriate Integration of workers involve tackling issues more commonly associated with another. with Social Media. We conducted an interactive session towards the end and gifts were given out to participants. Impact: Around 842 people participated for the awareness program through this initiative. 21 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 22 QUALITY EDUCATION REDUCED INEQUALITIES EMIRATES RED CRESCENT SOCIETY, TOLERANCE CRICKET CUP BOOK FAIR UAE We 7CsGroup are proud to have our Globalgreenbridge Supporting UAE’s law of reading,7Cs Group organized a “not for profit” Book Fair for all the book lovers in cricket team 'Greenbridgeheroes' consisting of our blue collaboration with the Impulse Group intended to promote, consolidate and support the reading initiative. It brings for Emirates Red Crescent Society is a volunteer humanitarian collared colleagues to participate in the prestigious everyone books from leading publishers of UK like Oxford University Press, Britannica, Penguin books, Britannica and organization that supports education for underprivileged ToleranceCricketCup2018 organised by Ministry of many more at a special discount of up to 70%. Impact: Around 68 people participated in this book fair children. 7Cs Group in collaboration with Emirates Red Tolerance, under the patronage of Shaikh Nahyan Bin Crescent and Engage Dubai organized stationary Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Tolerance in Abu Dhabi collection drive. from October 4. 7Cs group took an initiative to train all the team members under G force academy and all of them were Impact: Around 41.75 Kgs of stationaries were donated by given outfits, shoes and other requirements for them to play. employees of 7Cs Group to the Emirates Red Crescent society and Dubai Chamber, which was distributed among those needy in UAE and have registered with Emirates Red Crescent Society and Dubai Chamber. SMART LIFE, UAE Smart IDOL is a project started by NGO Smart Life in UAE. It aims to find the finest talent amongst blue Collar individuals, whose salaries are less than 2,500 AED, in UAE. The NGO trains and provides them a platform to exhibit their hidden talent to public and media. Impact: Around 30 laborers from our construction camp sites auditioned for the Smart Idol event. Two laborers EKAL VIDYALAYA FOUNDATION were trained and two participated in the Smart Idol The Ekal Vidyalaya Foundation of India is a registered non-profit service organization dedicated to education and competition. We also sponsored the event. village development in rural India. Ekal is the largest, grassroots, non-government education movement in India. Currently, it is operating in over 52,000 villages and educating over 1.4 million children in rural India. Impact: 7Cs Group has been supporting the project for several years, and sponsored more than 100 schools across rural India over the years. SCHOOL STUDENTS FACTORY VISIT Our Factory in Hamriyah Free Zone, Phase-II Sharjah had an extra buzz of activity on 25th and 26th of September 2018. We had a group of enthusiastic future leaders and entrepreneurs from the prestigious S P Jain school of global management. They all had a better understanding of our Set-up, Process and Product Advantage/Benefit. Impact: A group of 120 students of girls and boys with 5 faculty, visited our factory 23 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 24 CAR FREE DAY GOOD JOBS AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 7Cs Group participated in Dubai Municipality’s Dubai Car Free Day. Car Free Day is an initiative aiming to make Dubai a global sustainable city, and to prove its commitment towards the relevant international environmental conventions, which aims to reduce DSES AWARD ZERO ACCIDENT CHALLENGE greenhouse gases emissions. 7Cs employees enthusiastically participated in the car free day by travelling in public transport, We are honored that our jewellery retail company Jewel Corner Global Green Bridge proudly participated in “Zero Accident walking or carpooling to work. won the Dubai Service Excellence Scheme (DSES) Best Service Construction Challenge” – a global initiative launched by Impact: 141 participants used public transport and a total of 1400 kilograms of carbon dioxide emissions was saved on Car Free Performance Outlet Award, by Dubai Economy under the vision of Dubai municipality. Employee welfare is one of the core H.H Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum. DSES is the values of 7Cs group leaves no stones unturned in ensuring benchmark for quality and premium service in the industry and that our employees get adequate training to ensure SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES our outlet Dubai Festival City mall has been recognized for the everyone’s safety at work. The aim of the challenge is to raise same. The DSES encourages, recognizes and rewards businesses the level of structural safety in construction sites, based on KERALA RELIEF FUND that keep Dubai at the cutting edge of customer service. We would providing a safe and motivated environment for workers. 7Cs Group in association with Emirates Red Crescent extend their support towards the flood relief efforts in Kerala. As part of our like to thank Dubai Economy for this recognition and team for this This is a six-month challenge starts from October 1 until the Mandar activity, the CSR initiative of 7Cs Group, the employees extended their heartfelt support and donated generously towards achievement. end of March 2019. Kerala relief. All our group companies contributed towards this noble cause Impact: AED 1760 /contributed by our team. Impact: 0 Accidents were found through this initiative ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS TRAINING DQA AWARD Global Green bridge, a part of 7Cs group organized a environmental awareness training for staff at work site. The training covered Awards & Recognition not only acknowledge success, but the principles of environmental management and the practical steps to be taken as individuals and as an organization to improve many other qualities like commitment, ability, struggle, environmental performance. The objective of this training was to provide a greater understanding of, and commitment to, the learning and excellence. organization's environmental management programme. Global Green Bridge’s commitment to excellence resulted in Impact: 12 staffs participated in this training program achievement of Dubai Quality Appreciation Award. Indeed a great Honour, this award was received by our chairman Mr. Rihen Mehta. This achievement came out as a result of PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS recognition for GGB’s business model. ENGAGE DUBAI WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES LIFE BELOW WATER Engage Dubai is a corporate volunteering program of the Dubai Chamber. 7Cs Group has enrolled as a member of the 7Cs Group Chairman signed the CEO Statement of Support to the Women’s Empowerment Principles in order to publicly 7Cs Group participated in Community Beach Engage Dubai and will report on our corporate volunteering stand by the principles, including committing to communicate Cleanup in Ras Al Khaimah. The event was biannually. 7Cs actively participates in Engage Dubai progress towards the principles. We focus on engaging women organized by Government of Ras Al khaimah & Environment seminars as is part if the network of companies who support employees by organising special events and activities for them protection and development authority. It was to bring the development of healthy and sustainable communities. such as Women's Day celebration, trainings & special awareness that marine creatures and birds are injured or die grievance cells for women employees. from ingesting plastic waste. Our employees actively participated in this event and made where group’s core focus is sustainability. Impact: 15 volunteers participated in this initiative RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION EMIRATES ENVIRONMENTAL RECYCLE EMIRATES, UAE GROUP, UAE Organization offers environmentally-compliant disposal of computer and IT equipment. Organization focusses on sustainable development in UAE Impact: 7Cs Group practices e-waste recycling and has through effective environmental protection and responsible recycled 10 desktops, 9 monitors, 2 routers, 7 printers through waste management programmers. Impact: 7Cs Group practices paper recycling and managed to recycle 1550 kg of paper in 2018 WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK We welcome your feedback on this report to help us improve our reporting and ensure transparency. This report will be available on the United Nations Global Compact and the 7Cs Group website. In case of queries, please contact: Deepika Mehta Director, CSR and Corporate Communications Email: Deepika.mehta@7cs.com PO Box 54303, Office 1003 1005 New Century City Tower Phone: +971 4 255 2797 Fax: +971 4 255 2897 www.7cs.com
