2018 Sustainability Report Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 2 Introducing Fiskars Group This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option. The Making the everyday extraordinary reporting covers Fiskars Group and any of its group companies. We are reporting primarily for the year 2018 in this report. The reporting period covers the calendar Fiskars Group serves people around the world with globally recognized brands year 2018 from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. Any other division of the including Fiskars, Gerber, Iittala, Royal Copenhagen, Waterford and Wedgwood. We data reported is noted separately. are building a family of iconic lifestyle brands with the vision to create a positive, lasting impact on our quality of life. An independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, has provided assurance on the sustainability information reported in this report. The scope of the assured Fiskars Group’s business is driven through two strategic business units with a information is indicated in the Independent Practitioners’ Assurance Report. geographical presence in Europe, Asia-Pacific and the Americas. As a company, we are positioned for growth and creating innovative and beautiful designs that people value. We are proud of the fact that our products are relied upon from one generation to the next, and that the centuries-old tradition of craftsmanship stemming from the village where the company’s story began is still with us today. Fiskars Group’s products are available in more than 100 countries and the company employs around 7,600 people in over 30 countries. The group recorded net sales of 1,118.5 million euros in 2018. This report is part of the Fiskars Group Annual Report 2018. The Annual Report 2018 consists of the Corporate Governance Statement, the Financial Statements and the Sustainability Report. Sustainability aspects are also covered in the Non-Financial Reporting section in the Report by the Board of Directors, which is included in the Financial Statements. 3 Contents Year 2018 ......................................... 4 President’s message ........................................ 5 Fiskars Group strategy and purpose................. 6 Sustainability concept ..................................... 7 Sustainability highlights 2018.......................... 8 Sustainability targets....................................... 9 Key drivers ...................................... 10 Empowering people ........................................ 11 Challenging disposability ............................... 17 Enhancing creativity ...................................... 23 Foundation of trust ......................... 25 Sustainability management ........................... 26 Economic performance .................................. 30 Ethical business practices ............................. 31 Human rights .................................................. 34 Health and safety ........................................... 34 Learning and development............................. 38 Engaging people and communities ............... 40 Responsible supplier management................ 42 Environment and biodiversity ........................ 45 Product quality ............................................... 48 GRI Index......................................... 50 Assurance report ............................ 62 Key Drivers Year 2018 Atur, unt. Id quae min et harciusda doluptatus nobitius ent aliquost, sunto tem eius aut ducium dolore simporp orionsequo voloreped maionetur, solorit qui blaces quo di aut fugia de alis quam ium ipsum verum fuga. Mus evellitae et eaque nis ut odipsanto ipsam etur res evendellenit ra cori vel eost, optate volupta consedipsam qui quis Fiskars Group has gone through many changes over the past years and magnati cullore, quias et doluptat molupiet facestis et reriatis dolores now aims to move to a path of faster growth. This section includes a greeting from our President and CEO, sustainability highlights from 2018 and a description of our strategy, sustainability concept and sustainability targets. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 5 President’s message Our purpose is to make the everyday extraordinary. We champion innovation, with the intention to enable people to live well. Based on our vision, we want the impact we have on the world to be a positive, lasting one. In 2018, we renewed our sustainability approach and decided to focus our efforts in three key areas: enhancing creativity, challenging disposability and empowering people. In addition to these key drivers, we are strengthening the foundation of trust that we consider a prerequisite to doing business sustainably. Changing consumer behaviors are redefining the conventional value-creation model. Moreover, global megatrends such as urbanization, resource scarcity, and climate change provide a new framework for accessing markets and challenge us to explore how to remain fit for purpose in the long-term. We can take circular economy as an example. The Iittala & Arabia Market, piloted in 2018, allowed people to sell and buy previously owned and used Iittala and Arabia products through our channels. This successful pilot proved that we can both contributions throughout our value chain, we can work towards our vision to have operate in a sustainable manner while creating new business models that people a positive, lasting impact on our quality of life. We see opportunities in embedding find attractive. sustainability even deeper into our business strategy to provide people meaningful experiences and to make their everyday extraordinary. Climate change was one of the key global concerns that was discussed worldwide in 2018. We continued to develop our operations and were able to cut CO2 Our vision integrates sustainability into everything we do and gives us the emissions by 22% compared to 2017 by investing in renewable energy and opportunity to take meaningful action. Our recent stakeholder study revealed that implementing a number of energy savings initiatives, such as furnace improvements our people are very motivated to advance sustainability to identify future growth in our glass factory in Finland. As we are making good progress, we also know that opportunities. Together with our extraordinary team we will continue to explore the we must not become complacent. We are at the beginning of our sustainability opportunities there are in sustainability, and to make the everyday extraordinary not journey, and there is much more that we can do. just now, but in the future as well. For us, sustainable business is integral in building long-term success. By Jaana Tuominen understanding how to mitigate our negative impacts, and how to make positive President & CEO, Fiskars Group Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 6 Fiskars Group strategy and purpose Fiskars Group’s strategy was refined in 2018 to better position us for growth. We have four During the past years we have focused on structural changes, building common platforms and creating unified ways of working. As this work continues, we will strategic priorities strengthen our focus on activities we believe will help us in driving growth. that will steer our actions. Our purpose is to make the everyday extraordinary; this is a promise that unites our brands. Our strategy of building iconic lifestyle brands guides us on our path. We are building lifestyle brands with unique designs and superior functionality – something INSPIRING PEOPLE beyond the product. Each individual brand celebrates its unique identity, aiming to excite and inspire people. As Fiskars Group we can be stronger together and benefit from our unified supply chain, common platforms and processes, and consumer insight. EXCITING CONSUMERS Our vision and values guide us on why and how we do business Our vision is to have a positive, lasting impact on the quality of life. To make GROWING BUSINESS progress towards our vision, we need to focus our efforts on areas where we can have a sustainable influence. For us, sustainability is about innovation and creativity as well as integrity and accountability. It involves managing risks and taking on opportunities. We need to understand the impact of our actions and work to reduce INCREASING RETURNS our negative footprint while further strengthening the positive impact that we can create for generations to come. Our values of innovation, integrity, accountability and teamwork offer a clear direction on how we behave, how we make decisions and how we treat each other. They guide our decision-making and allow our leaders to develop. We are building one Fiskars Group culture where people can feel engaged and enabled to do their best. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 7 Sustainability concept As an integral part of our accomplishments and aspirations, sustainability is deeply The concept is based on three key drivers: Empowering people, Challenging connected to how we manage our business and company culture. It steers our disposability and Enhancing creativity. These key drivers support the integration decision-making and leadership and acts as a value creator and a potential source of sustainability into our business strategy at all company levels and function as for growth in the long term. Our vision, creating a positive, lasting impact on our spearhead themes. quality of life, embodies our commitment to sustainability. The fourth dimension in the renewed sustainability concept is the Foundation Based on a stakeholder survey conducted in summer 2018, the United Nations of trust, including material themes that are prerequisites for our operations and Sustainable Development Goals and Fiskars Group’s refined strategy, we have promote further opportunities for growth. These topics include sustainability selected the most material topics for us and mapped them under our new management and governance, climate change, human rights, ethical business sustainability concept. practices, responsible supplier management, environment and biodiversity. Empowering Enhancing Challenging Foundation of Sustainability people creativity disposability trust key drivers Related topics • Diversity & inclusion • Innovation • New materials • Sustainability governance • Developing leadership • Nature & gardening • Waste streams • Climate change • Promoting young talents • Decorating • Recycling • Human rights • Empowering women at work • Creating & crafting • New business models • Ethical business practices • Cooking & growing food • Substances of concern • Environment & biodiversity • Responsible supplier management Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 8 Sustainability highlights 2018 The Iittala and Arabia brands piloted a CO2 emissions were reduced by 22% compared to We organized our first global secondhand business model that emissions in 2017. This was achieved through many Fiskars Group Safety Day to allowed people to buy and sell used energy saving activities. In addition, our sites in celebrate the efforts taken Iittala and Arabia products. Three Finland and in Slovenia started to use electricity from to ensure that we are doing stores in Finland participated renewable sources. everything in our power in the take-back concept. to prevent accidents and The results of the pilot clearly incidents, and to remind demonstrated that business ourselves that it is our models based on circular shared responsibility to keep economy can provide us with everyone safe at work. Safety scalable business opportunities. We took an important at work was promoted in our While operating sustainably we were step forward locations through different activities. able to find a successful business model towards sustainable that attracted people. products as all Fiskars’ gardening In 2018, we conducted 66 (2017: 57) audits on our category tools finished goods suppliers. Since the beginning of the containing wood were Fiskars Group Auditing Program in 2011, we have authorized to use the Forest conducted approximately 500 on-site supplier audits and Fiskars was awarded as an Stewardship Council (FSC™ C108780) certification from closed over 160 zero tolerance cases. Industry Leader 2018 in the May 2018 onwards. This is a major milestone, as the Sustainable Brand Index™, garden tools category is the largest one for the Fiskars which is the largest brand. This development has brought us closer to our A new Ethics and Compliance Helpline was introduced in brand study focusing long-term target of obtaining FSC™ certification for all 2018. The third party provided platform is a confidential on sustainability in the the wood that we use in our products. and anonymous channel for all our employees to Nordics. Finnish consumers report any workplace-related issues and complaints chose the Fiskars brand or suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. All as the Industry Leader suspected violations and occurrences of misconduct are and Fiskars was also ranked handled confidentially by our Compliance Officer and number 7 among all the surveyed Ethics Advisory Group. brands in Finland (164 brands in total). Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 9 Sustainability targets We have set measurable sustainability targets we aim to reach by 2027 or earlier if possible. These targets guide our work and keep our actions focused on managing our key impacts. As part of renewing our sustainability concept, Safety we will re-evaluate the ambition level of our current targets. In addition, we • There are zero Lost-Time Accidents, taking into account not just our own plan to set new targets that support us in following both the short and longemployees, but our contractors and key suppliers as well term progress of our actions. These new targets will be defined in 2019. Materials • 50% of all materials used in our products are from renewable or recycled Diversity and inclusion sources • We aim to reach a higher level of diversity in our workforce. We want to • We innovate new solutions to replace substances of concern. The use of attract, develop and retain a diverse team of high-performing individuals substances of concern is to be reduced by 30% and to prolong the Fiskars Group career path of young talents by 25% • All wood used in our products is FSC™ certified (whole chain of custody) • Women and men working at Fiskars Group are equally enabled and engaged, with women’s enablement and engagement improved to the high performing norm level • 70% of senior leader positions at Fiskars Group are filled by promoting internal talent Resources • We recover or recycle 100% of the waste generated within our manufacturing facilities – we send no waste to landfills • We reduce Group-wide energy consumption of our own production by 30% • We reduce Group-wide CO2 emissions of our own production by 50% • We reduce emissions (scope 3) by 30% • We support our key suppliers in reducing their energy consumption by 30% Key Drivers Fiskars Group’s new sustainability concept is based on three key drivers: Empowering people, Challenging disposability and Enhancing creativity. These key drivers support us in integrating sustainability into our business strategy at all company levels and function as spearhead themes. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 11 Empowering people We know that to feel inspired, you need to have the basics in place first. You need to be able to feel good and confident about your role and the work you do, and find meaning in the interactions you have with others. We offer learning and development opportunities to our employees and trust them to be the experts in shaping their own paths forward within the organization. Through regular touchpoints during the year, we carry on a dialogue about how inspired and enabled we are to do our best work. The competition for top talent is fierce. We know that younger generations especially are embracing a new approach to work – they want to know that they contribute to something good, and that the company they work for is a good match with their personal beliefs and values. We believe in values-based leadership, where our own personal beliefs are in alignment with the values we share together as one Fiskars Group team. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 12 We work to make Fiskars Group an extraordinary place to work, and we also want yourself. It gives a unique opportunity to understand yourself better – how to to be a positive contributor in the communities in which we work. We care deeply influence better, increase focus and achieve clarity around your own purpose. about the health and safety of our own employees, and we need to ensure that our impact on our value chain is a positive and lasting one. The Leadership Core program has supported Fiskars Group in building leaders, creating a network of people in the company with an insight into their own core Through our brands we are working to provide opportunities for different people to values. During 2018 a total of 99 people participated in the program. We plan to express their creativity and to participate in shaping our shared world. accelerate program participation, enabling our people to get a chance to connect themselves to the business in a sustainable and values-based manner. We measure leadership also in our annual employee survey. In 2018 results showed Values-based leadership that we are at a fairly good level. Scores were stable compared to 2017, which was good at achievement given the degree of change in the organization. However, Leadership creates the foundation for Fiskars Group culture. In today’s world, we are one percentage point below the consumer goods industry norm and eight organizations change and evolve all the time. To help people thrive in an everpercentage points below the high performance norm. The key areas that require changing environment, we must develop our leadership skills as a company so that further development from managers were related to empowering teams and our leaders can meet business needs as well as support, inspire, attract and retain supporting the sharing of ideas and resources. Collaboration within and between our talented employees. the teams is also an area that can be developed further. Leadership is more than having a managerial role; self-awareness is important and values-based behaviors set the foundation for our behaviors and actions. Leadership is about inspiring people, providing direction and delivering results together. Employee survey Our personal values have a powerful impact on our everyday work. They define Our annual employee survey is an important tool we use to identify areas that how we interact with each other, what motivates us, and how we pay attention and require further development. It is an opportunity for our people to share their prioritize different topics. We believe that Fiskars Group’s values and purpose will thoughts on how we can make the everyday extraordinary for ourselves, the only be effective when our people can relate to them as their own. consumer and the world around us. Leaders who know what they stand for and how they interact with others can The Fiskars Group Employee Survey 2018 was completed in November, with support and inspire their teams, and attract and retain talented employees. 80% of our people sharing their thoughts and opinions about working at Fiskars Leadership is not about imitating others; instead it must be firmly rooted in who Group. Managers were able to use a dedicated tool to review their team’s results, we are and what matters most to us as individuals. Fiskars Group promotes this and encouraged to discuss them in team meetings during December, followed by values-based leadership by providing opportunities for our leaders to develop their concrete action plans that are created together in the beginning of 2019. self-awareness and learn more about their own personal vision, purpose, values, and strengths and weaknesses through curated training sessions. Engagement and enablement levels remained stable, with 72% and 69% of responses favorable respectively. This is a positive outcome given the many Fiskars Group’s leadership development portfolio consists of different programs changes during 2018. Employees remain proud to work for Fiskars Group, with that support our leaders on their growth journey. The Leadership Core program 84% favorable; and are strong advocates of our products and services, with 87% is built on a simple belief: if you are going to lead others, you first need to lead favorable. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 13 The Employee Survey results will be used to help us focus our efforts and develop Fiskars Group Team Development our company culture further, and to effectively communicate about our strengths A framework built around purpose, dynamics and effectiveness, providing practical and take action on challenges. We will strengthen our strategy communications and tips and guidance for building trust and improving cooperation within and between support people to understand how their work helps us to implement the strategy. existing teams. Following the previous Employee Survey, conducted in late 2017, the Fiskars Group Leadership Team asked people to volunteer for a global co-create task force to Connectors look into the survey results, and to come up with 2-3 improvement ideas that could We set up a network of voluntary engagement ambassadors, covering all Group be implemented on Fiskars Group level. The team identified three larger themes sites, to help us ensure that employees can have their opinions and ideas shared where we could improve together in 2018 and beyond: Communication, Career and taken to action without location, language or job position boundaries. Development, Leadership and Culture. These were, in turn, formulated into concrete ideas: Short-term rotation, Fiskars Team Development and Connectors. All three Working with a co-create task force, and supporting the ideation of concrete proposals proposals have been developed and put into practice since then. and their implementation drew a lot of positive feedback from employees. We will leverage the experiences and lessons of this kind of collaboration in the future as well. Short-term rotation Working in another business function, location or task for a pre-defined period to increase skills, networks and collaboration in a way that benefits the business and Diversity individual alike. We are a diverse group of people, spread across over 30 countries, and we speak “Spending five awesome weeks 20 different languages. For Fiskars Group, the concept of diversity builds on at the DACH (German, Austria and enablement and respect. We never consider diversity in terms of simple tolerance; instead we embrace and celebrate the extraordinary layers of diversity contained Switzerland) sales office in Frankfurt within each individual. as a ‘pilot exchanger’ was extremely educational and fun from every Diversity plays a key role in building our family of iconic lifestyle brands and a globally collaborative culture in three crucial ways. First, diverse teams provide aspect. The period offered a great us with a richer vision and access to a broader range of opinions and viewpoints, opportunity to expand organizational, all of which enhance our creativity and capability to innovate. Second, we have market and geographical knowledge. an increasingly diverse consumer and customer base; with a diverse team we are better enabled to drive consumer engagement. Third, we are able to strengthen our I felt that the exchange assignment capabilities overall by attracting and retaining high performers to our diverse teams. was extraordinaryly fulfilling.” In 2017 we defined our commitment to inclusion and diversity to support our efforts in promoting diverse teams. Fiskars Group has also a set of policies and guidelines Hanna Saarinen, related to other social and employee related matters to guide our leadership, Product Manager, employees and partners in their everyday work. The Fiskars Group Code of Conduct Soil & Lawn Care, Fiskars provides a detailed description of Fiskars Group’s approach to doing business in an ethical and sustainable manner. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 14 An important source of information on diversity is our annual employee survey. WOMEN AND MEN ENABLEMENT & ENGAGEMENT IN Insights and feedback from the survey help us to develop our concept of diversity EMPLOYEE SURVEY further. The key indicators are employee enablement and engagement. Enablement refers to the extent to which employees are well matched to their roles and Fiskars Group topic experience job conditions that support them to perform to their full potential. 2018 2017 2016 Engagement refers to the extent to which employees are committed to the Enablement organization and willing to apply discretionary effort in their work. Female 67% 65% 66% On a Group level, we have much to celebrate as our scores are close to the high Male 75% 73% 72% performing norm in terms of engagement. On the other hand, the results also Engagement indicate hidden gaps in engagement and enablement between genders, with our male employees more likely to be more engaged and enabled. Female 70% 70% 71% Male 76% 75% 76% Based on this observation, we set a target in 2017 to further promote equal opportunities: we want women and men to be equally enabled and engaged, with Enablement refers to the extent to which employees are well matched to their roles and experience women’s engagement improved to the high-performing norm level in our employee job conditions that support them to perform to their full potential. Engagement refers to the extent to which employees are committed to the organization and willing to apply discretionary effort in their survey. work. The overall enablement, with 69% favorable (2017: 69%), is higher than the Another diversity target we set in 2017 was to reach a higher level of diversity in our consumer goods norm (67%) but somewhat lower than the high performing norm, workforce: we want to attract, develop and retain a diverse team of high-performing with 73% favorable based on the results of the recent 2018 Employee Survey. people and to prolong the Fiskars career path of young talents by 25%. The enablement figures for both females and males increased by two percentage points, but the difference between females and males stayed the same – eight There were no significant changes between 2018 and 2017 in the average length of percentage points, which is a fairly significant difference. There was improvement the career of young professionals. In office and operative environments, the figures in employees experiencing that they can use their skills, get motivating work and were somewhat lower; in retail the average length was somewhat higher in 2018. encounter low barriers to perform their job well. The average career length for the total workforce is 10.44 years and the career paths of young talents are significantly shorter. The overall engagement score of 72% (73%) favorable decreased by one percentage point. Also, willingness to stay declined by two percentage points. The Our Employee Survey results indicated that in 2018, the intention to remain with gap between female and male engagement increased by one percentage point to Fiskars Group for the long term declined by 2 percentage points, with 24% of new six. joiners stating in the survey that they plan to leave in less than 2 years. The results of the 2018 survey indicate that closing the gap between female and Retention of young talents is one of our focus areas going forward, as there is a male enablement and engagement requires further work. The overall enablement global trend of lower retention among young talents. and engagement scores stayed stable, showing resilience to a considerable number of changes during 2018, which is a strength to be further nurtured. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 15 THE AVERAGE CAREER LENGTH OF YOUNG TALENTS We know that there are actions we still need to take and develop to ensure that we are truly an inclusive, equal opportunity company where everyone, regardless Fiskars Group topic of gender, age, ethnicity or beliefs, can feel safe and perform at their best. It is not 2018 2017 enough to try to eliminate actual barriers, but we need to make sure that we are actively creating a culture that is truly inclusive and fair. Office Operative Retail Office Operative Retail By gender We exercise zero tolerance towards any kind of harassment and exclusion, and Female 3.8 4.5 2.6 3.9 4.7 2.5 we are mindful of the need for cultural sensitivity that comes with working in an international organization. Male 3.8 6.4 3.0 4.1 6.8 3.1 The World Economic Forum predicts that the global gender gap will not close DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES entirely until 2186, which is 168 years from now. At Fiskars Group, at the end of 2018, 54% of our employees were female and 46% male. The gender division in GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees managerial positions was also quite balanced, with 45% of all managerial positions BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2018 2017 being held by a female. In the Fiskars Group Leadership team, the gender balance is By age group 63% women and 37% men. <30 0% 0% Our compensation philosophy grants that our employees’ pay is based on 30–50 30% 30% competence, experience and job requirements. Our principle is to provide equal >50 70% 70% pay for the same job or jobs of equal value regardless of gender or other individual’s personal characteristics such as age, ethnicity or religion. Equal pay is different By gender to ratio of basic salary of women to men. Reported figures show the difference Female 40% 40% between the average earnings and as the ratio of women and men in each job grade Male 60% 60% and category varies, it affects to the ratio reported. GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 2018 FISKARS GROUP LEADERSHIP TEAM 2018 2017 Office Operative Retail By age group Europe 88% 87% 93% <30 0% 0% Americas 76% 94% 79% 30–50 63% 17% Asia-Pacific 77% 119% 94% >50 37% 83% Total 82% 94% 97% By gender Female 63% 50% Remuneration is not included. Data reported includes all job grades within each category. Ratio of women and men in each job grade and category varies which affects to the ratio reported. Male 37% 50% Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 16 MANAGERS 2018 2017 2018 2017 By age group Number of New hire Number of New hire NEW HIRES new hires rate, % new hires rate, % <30 3% 2% By gender 30–50 64% 66% Female 542 13% 520 13% >50 33% 32% Male 329 9% 311 9% By gender By region Female 45% 45% Europe 560 14% 509 13% Male 55% 55% Americas 138 13% 181 16% Asia-Pacific 173 7% 141 5% Total new hires 871 11% 831 11% 2018 2017 DIVERSITY BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Office Operative Retail Office Operative Retail By age group 2018 2017 <30 3% 9% 5% 3% 10% 5% Number of Turnover rate, Number of Turnover rate, Turnover leavers % leavers % 30–50 19% 30% 7% 20% 30% 7% By age group >50 9% 12% 6% 8% 11% 6% <30 281 22% 275 21% By gender 30–50 352 8% 336 8% Female 16% 21% 16% 16% 20% 17% >50 124 6% 97 5% Male 15% 30% 2% 15% 30% 2% By gender Female 477 12% 457 11% EMPLOYMENT Male 280 8% 251 7% By region GRI-401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Europe 399 10% 318 8% 2018 2017 Americas 143 13% 148 13% Number of New hire Number of New hire NEW HIRES new hires rate, % new hires rate, % Asia-Pacific 215 8% 242 9% By age group Total turnover 757 10% 708 9% <30 378 29% 367 27% 30–50 394 9% 367 8% >50 99 5% 97 5% Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 17 Challenging disposability As consumers, our consumption habits As a company, we do not want to are changing rapidly. promote senseless spending. We would dislike for our products to end up in Instead of buying as much as we can landfills after a use or two. with as little as possible, more often than before we stop to consider if this is We have no desire to constantly run something we really need – and love. after the latest trend. We want to lead the way instead of just ticking We appreciate brands that we can trust mandatory boxes. to act responsibly and brand promises that resonate with our own personal We know we have opportunities to values and beliefs. leverage circular economy through our lasting design, material development, While a lot of focus goes into the way waste streams and new service models things are being produced, nonphysical throughout our value chain. aspects are also becoming more and more important. We want to make the everyday extraordinary – not just on the day you buy something, but every day. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 18 From linear to circular Explorations in circular economy Almost every household has a collection of old and well-loved tableware Through our passion for the well-crafted, we make the everyday extraordinary by products, collected throughout the years or inherited from a relative. inventing and crafting solutions that transform everyday activities into moments Almost as many households have, at one point, decided to rely on a of delight. Our product development is based on continuous improvement, on specific tableware series, for example, as their family tableware. While our leveraging new techniques and methods, and on innovative solutions that make products are designed to last, sometimes people desire change or prefer people’s lives better. to mix and match. We are curious to learn more about our consumers so that we can inspire them, Our Scandinavian Living business has studied circular economy and solve their everyday problems and create meaningful experiences and unforgettable explored opportunities that are available to the business. Using a strong moments. At the core of our brands is design that stands the test of time thanks to consumer understanding as a compass, the Scandinavian Living team its visual appeal, high quality and attention to detail. To be able to build our brands’ defined four pilot programs looking at new business opportunities, all value in the long-term and create sustainable growth, we are keen to develop new ticking a series of boxes when it comes to consumer expectations. business models, materials and solutions that resonate with changing consumer needs. In 2018 the Scandinavian Living business piloted the opportunity to bring old ceramics and glass back to a nearby store and exchange them for Creating new business models is essential in staying relevant in the changing vouchers or cash. Three stores in Finland participated in the take-back business landscape. Circular economy provides opportunities to create value and concept. The idea of the Iittala & Arabia Market concept was to allow support Fiskars Group in resource wisdom: being more efficient and innovating new people to buy and sell previously owned Iittala and Arabia products through materials and technologies to mitigate the use of non-renewable materials. our existing channels. For a long time, the economy at large has been linear. This means that raw materials People brought us Iittala and Arabia products, and their condition was are used to make a product, and after its use any waste—such as packaging—is then evaluated. Products were exchanged for vouchers that added up simply thrown away. In an economy based on recycling, reusing and repurposing, to a percentage of the product’s real retail price, which depended on materials are not discarded after their initial use, but are instead reused. For the condition of the products. With flawless, practically new products, example, old glasses are used to make new glass, and waste paper is used to make consumers received a voucher with a higher value or cash back. The new paper. New business models facilitate the sharing and renting of products. products we took back were either sold onwards to new consumers or recycled if their condition did not allow reselling. And this is what circular economy is all about—preventing waste by producing new products and materials more efficiently, and then prolonging their lifecycle by The results of the pilot showed that circular economy can provide us with reusing them. If new raw materials are needed, they must be sustainably sourced so interesting business opportunities that resonate with the consumer. While that the natural and human environment is not damaged. operating sustainably we were able to find a successful business model that attracted people. A fundamental shift is taking place in the way we as consumers think, behave and consume goods, and companies are now competing to find new responses to this rapidly changing demand. We understand that our natural resources are not infinite, and we also see the opportunities offered by digitalization, for example. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 19 This is such an interesting time Every year tons of virgin raw-materials are extracted from the earth to create new to be in the consumer goods products. At the end of the product’s lifecycle, most are simply disposed of and end up in landfills where they either decompose—or not. business. Consuming habits are shifting and we need to offer Finding a new home for a product or recycling it to be used as raw material for alternatives where to choose new products provides an alternative to generating waste. Recycling is not a new concept, but there is a lot of untapped potential in this area from a business model from. We are witnessing the next perspective. Fiskars Group is constantly looking for new opportunities to increase revolution, with new innovations the use of recycled or renewable materials in our products —one of Fiskars Group’s popping up everywhere, disrupting sustainability targets is that by 2027 50% of all the materials we use in our products are either from recycled or renewable sources. the status quo in exciting ways. And we should definitely be at the forefront of this revolution.” “The Fiskars brand has been promoting recycling in Finland for more than Nora Haatainen a decade already. We have Business Director, Scandinavian Living, Regional Brands & Licensing organized an annual recycling campaign, giving consumers an The team plans to gradually expand the secondhand sales concept more broadly in Finland and evaluate the opportunities in e-commerce as well. opportunity to return their old and used pots, pans and cutlery to In addition to taking back and reselling products, the Scandinavian Living hundreds of stores across Finland. business has also investigated the possibility of leasing and renting our products to consumers. For example, students moving into their first home could lease This campaign has been very well their dinnerware at a fixed monthly price, and then return the set when their life received by both consumers and our conditions change. customers, and it has become a successful tradition. Over the years, we have recycled more than Materials 390 tons of old pans and pots.” Lasting design is our cornerstone when we challenge disposability. For us, lasting Marika Orkamo design is about products that are manufactured in a sustainable manner and made Vice President, Brand and Integrated to last for generations. We strive to offer products that promote a sustainable Marketing Communications for the Fiskars brand in EMEA lifestyle, products that people enjoy using over and over again. We address global issues such as climate change and resource scarcity in many ways, most Our recycling partner processes the collected products, separating the different prominently with our products that stand the test of time. materials, and forwards them to the material supplier. The recycled material is then mixed with new material to create an optimal combination that is then used in our factory in Sorsakoski, Finland, to produce new cookware products. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 20 Recycling is one of the many ways for the consumer to protect natural resources, 2018 onwards. This is a major milestone, as most of the Fiskars branded products and it also helps us to save energy and materials in our supply chain. Using recycled belong to the garden category. raw materials, such as steel, significantly reduces the total energy consumption compared to using virgin materials. As part of this effort, we have been working on developing a common scorecard for product development across the Group. Its purpose is to help us evaluate a Other important aspects in our material development involve new innovative product’s sustainability potential in the early phases of product development. The materials that can replace non-renewable materials, and new innovative production scorecard includes guidance on the use of the most common packaging and product technologies. In 2017 a cooperation between Fiskars Group and Aalto University materials and the rating of the preferred materials and materials to be avoided. was started by defining shared interest areas in the long term, and the first concrete projects commenced in 2018. One of the projects was about exploring We implemented a first version of the scorecard for the materials used in products glass as a material. We were pleased with the outcome of this course, and we plan and packaging in our Living business in 2017 and during 2018 the scorecard was to further develop three of the proposals created by students during the project. developed within Functional business. “The outcome of the courses has been more than what we expected, Waste and we are continuing to develop Our target is to cut all waste to landfill by 2027. Our factories have consistently the work further with the design worked to reduce waste to landfill for many years. In 2018 we were able to reduce students. It proved to be a great way the amount of waste to landfill by 52% with a total amount of 1,899 tonnes (2017: 3,955 tonnes). to open up new thinking and help develop the brands further, and to One of the main achievements was the project concluded in our ceramics factory create internal momentum around in Thailand. The challenge was that all the rejected ceramic items were taken to certified landfills. The local team searched for possible partners for both crushing innovation and experimental design and recycling of this ceramic glost ware. One crushing expert was interested to take within Fiskars as a company.” this opportunity and suitable machinery was ordered and built. The crushed ceramic glost ware is now used as a component in refractory bricks. The first shipment Jeremiah Tesolin to this crushing and recycling partner was initiated during Q4 2018 and we have Creative Director at Fiskars Scandinavian Living Business estimated that over 360 tons of waste will be now recycled annually instead of going to landfill. As we want to ensure that the materials we use in our products are as sustainable as possible, we have set a target to have all wood used in our products to be FSC™ certified by the year 2027 or earlier, if possible. We have now taken an important step towards reaching this goal. All Fiskars gardening category tools containing wood have been authorized to be under FSC™ (C108780) certification from May Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 21 WASTE Substances of concern GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method, tonnes We utilize and combine different materials to create our products and behind each 2018 2017 material combination and color there are various chemicals that each play a crucial role in enhancing the performance and durability of the product or creating a unique Non-hazardous shade to it. Reuse 5,861 4,307 Recycling 7,985 8,547 It is our highest priority to ensure that our products are safe to use and do not harm environment even when recycled. Our product development and quality teams pay a Composting 10 12 lot of attention to finding new solutions and mitigating substances of concern. Recovery 569 716 Incinertation 99 150 In most areas of the world, local legislation protects the consumer by setting rules for materials that can be used to create everyday products, such as kitchenware. Landfill 1,677 3,953 Colors that have been commonly used in the past might be unacceptable in the On-site storage 1 10 future, as scientific research advances and more information on potential health Other 364 187 impacts becomes available. Total 16,566 17,883 ANNUAL WASTE & Hazardous WASTE TO LANDFILL Reuse 6 1 Recycling 7 365 1,000 t Intensity Recovery 93 23 20 10 Incinertation 137 142 Landfill 222 2 On-site storage 19 22 15 7,5 The intensity describes Deep well injection 1 0 waste to landfill compared Other 96 92 to Fiskars Group’s net sales. The figures from Total 581 647 2016 onwards describe 10 5,0 Fiskars Group’s current The waste disposal method has been determined based on information provided by the waste structure. Other disposal contractor. On-site storage has been reported to be temporary. Some of the 2017 figures waste includes waste that updated according the information provided by the waste disposal contractor. is for example recycled, 5 2,5 reused or used for energy recovery. Intensity Other waste 0 0 Waste to landfill 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 22 In 2017, we conducted an assessment of substances of concern. Based on the assessment, we have put together specific plans to reduce substances of concern, for example lead and PVC. There is still some work to be done to create a holistic Group level approach. We are defining clear short-term targets to support our longterm goal of finding innovative new solutions to replace substances of concern, and to reduce the use of substances of concern by 30% by 2027. The achievements in our ceramics factory in Indonesia are a great example of the progress we have made. After more than three years of research and development, the team has successfully developed a lead-free and low cadmium red color tone on-glaze series. The series contains 85 different red color tones—which is the maximum achievable number of red tones. The newly developed red color series not only complies with the current legislation, with the amount of lead and cadmium well below allowed thresholds, but will also continue to be fully compliant in the foreseeable future, as we expect European legislation to further lower lead and cadmium thresholds. This notable achievement has been a team effort, including our teams globally and our pigment supplier working closely together to develop and test different combinations. The new innovation benefits all products and designs that require red tones, as the new on-glaze colors can be used in all markets. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 23 Enhancing creativity Creativity is something that connects Our position is quite unique—we all people everywhere and makes us can help people create meaningful human. moments that elevate the everyday into something extraordinary. We have the ability to imagine things that do not exist yet, and we can make magic We do not settle with simply selling happen when we set our minds to it. products; rather, we want to empower and excite people to shape their own From artists to gardeners, explorers to worlds. homemakers, cooks to kids, what drives us is a desire to discover and express As a company, we know that creativity ourselves and add meaning to our feeds innovation. We want to be a safe everyday. space where new ideas have room to flourish and where we are always Through our brands, we are deeply willing to embark on an exploration engaged in activities that are driven by into the unknown, if we believe there is people’s creativity. something extraordinary to be achieved. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 24 Enhancing the way of living Fostering heritage and innovating Enhancing creativity is a new topic in our renewed sustainability concept. We help for the future people in creating meaningful moments that elevate the everyday into something extraordinary. Gardening, crafting, celebrating, designing, enjoying time outdoors, Our talented people working in crafting roles, such as glassblowers and hand cooking and more allow people to embrace their creativity. painters, represent a great example of creativity. For instance, becoming a glass master is a journey that takes years of training and practice to get to a level where We see a major opportunity in helping people enhance their creativity and one can confidently reach our high quality standards with every product that is translate things people are passionate about through our brands. Creativity and made. innovation are not immune to the hectic nature of everyday life as more and more people search for ways to immerse themselves in something tangible, find It is evident that it is crucial for our brands’ heritage to foster the craftsmanship fresh perspectives, and become energized and inspired by creative discoveries. and creative skills needed to manufacture our extraordinary products. To support Through our brands, we are deeply engaged in activities that are driven by people’s the creativity and continuum of these unique craftsmanship skills, we arrange creativity. apprentice programs in several locations. The concept of creativity embodies the positive handprint through emotional At the same time, as our operating environment evolves, we need to leverage benefits that we are able to create as a counterpart to the negative footprint we are sustainability and creativity in new innovations to ensure continuous development. trying to mitigate. Creativity also plays a role in many of our brands’ positioning as we are involved in building iconic lifestyle brands. A universal truth uniting us all is that we have the desire to express ourselves. The importance of this desire has grown as living a good life has become increasingly challenging for many, especially in the busy modern world. Innovation is an integral part of this topic, as we know that creativity feeds innovation. Our purpose —making the everyday extraordinary—drives us to invent and craft solutions that transform daily activities into moments of delight, and we believe that the more inspired we are, the more innovative and efficient we can become. As a new topic in our sustainability concept, we will explore and further define what creativity means for us in 2019 and set specific targets to track our progress. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 25 Foundation of trust The fourth dimension of our renewed sustainability concept is the foundation of trust, including material themes that are prerequisites for our operations and promote further opportunities for growth. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 26 Sustainability These material topics were selected based on the stakeholder survey, the Group strategy and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The interpretation was carried management out by key internal sustainability people, relevant external surveys and Fiskars Group leadership. Topics were evaluated based on their influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions, and on the significance of economic, environmental and social impacts. The world around us is changing more rapidly than ever before, and we need to be ready to respond to the changes that come in the form of new disruptive technologies, changing demographics and climate change. To be able to respond Stakeholder group Engagement approach to these shifts and focus our sustainability efforts on areas where they matter the most, we saw an opportunity to refine our sustainability approach in 2018. Consumers We continuously engage with our consumers The new sustainability concept was created using results from a stakeholder through numerous touchpoints, including survey conducted in summer 2018, content from the United Nations Sustainable surveys, written communications, social media and discussions. Development Goals and our business strategy. Customers We work closely with our customers through dedicated account teams, joint initiatives and customer care. Materiality process Employees and potential employees We engage with our employees through an annual employee survey, town halls, employee communications, individual development plans Engaging our diverse stakeholders is a priority for Fiskars Group and provides the and a variety of Fiskars Group training sessions as well as internal and external social media. company with insights to support our continuous development, and the delivery of our long-term targets. We believe a business cannot flourish if it is not able to meet Suppliers and subcontractors We engage with our suppliers through site the expectations of its stakeholders. Our stakeholders are entities or individuals visits, annual supplier days and our audit program. that have a moderate impact on our business, or are affected by our activities, products and services, presenting both risks and opportunities. Shareholders and investors We arrange Annual General Meeting for our shareholders, quarterly reporting and webcasts, Capital Markets Day, investor meetings and In 2018 we conducted a web-based survey to engage our different stakeholders presentations, ongoing dialogue with investors to share their opinions. We received nearly 2000 responses from 42 countries, and analysts. the majority from our consumers and employees, and gained important insights on Non-governmental organizations Forms of engagement with NGOs include how we should develop our ways of working and what the key topics to work with partnerships, memberships and ongoing would be. Some of the high-level topics from the survey are listed on the right in the dialogue. stakeholder engagement table. Specific themes and how our different stakeholders Media We engage with media through specific media valued them were used to form our sustainability concept (see page 7) that includes events, press releases, and connecting with media influencers, including bloggers. topics that are material for us. Research institutes, universities and vocational We actively collaborate with universities and schools institutes, for example through our product development and with new business models. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 27 Stakeholder expectations Response Stakeholder expectations Response Strong commitment to sustainability from This topic was also raised in our previous Manufacturing location Fiskars Group manufactures products in its Group management and management as an stakeholder survey. We are working with own factories and together with partners. The enabler in concrete actions towards sustainable the new leadership team to firmly integrate manufacturing location and working conditions operations and innovations sustainability into our strategy and business in factories were raised in the stakeholder targets. This will support engagement and survey. We aim to increase transparency further facilitate internal and external communications. and communicate more of our responsible manufacturing and quality standards. Set clear and bold goals that support Fiskars During 2016-2017 we concentrated our Group’s strategic priorities efforts on developing Group-level reporting and common reporting platforms, and created and updated relevant policies. During 2018 we redefined our sustainability approach to focus on growth and renewal. In 2019 we plan to UN Sustainable Development Goals evaluate our long-term sustainability targets to ensure they support our new concept. As a part of the sustainability concept renewal, we wanted to seize the opportunity More communication on sustainability with The redefined sustainability concept that was to integrate the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our stronger messages to inspire and engage created in 2018 has a more focused approach updated sustainability concept. These 17 SDGs were adopted by all UN Member people with three strategic key drivers. This more focused approach supports us in creating States in 2015, as a part of the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. stronger messages when implementing the new concept in 2019. We acknowledge that business cannot thrive in a world of poverty, inequality, unrest Prioritizing needed to focus on key topics that The target for our new sustainability concept and environmental stress, so it is vital for us to ensure that we contribute to the would make an impact was to prioritize our sustainability efforts SDGs that are relevant to us. During the SDG analysis we noticed that we are already on themes that support our strategy. In the new concept, we have three key drivers that addressing issues included in the SDGs, but as these SDGs are also becoming of integrate sustainability into our business interest to our investors and other stakeholders, we wanted to invest in analyzing strategy and a foundation of trust, including topics that are prerequisites for our operations our positive and negative impacts on the SDGs. During this process we were also and provide further opportunities for growth. able to identify new areas that could be business opportunities for us in the future. Courage to experiment and trial new ideas This has been identified in our renewed sustainability concept as we focus our efforts During 2018 we initiated work around the SDGs as part of our materiality process. on innovation and creativity. When defining the material topics for us, the UN SDGs were considered part of the Clear governance model including allocated A new sustainability governance model was process and their role will be further deepened in 2019 when we evaluate long-term roles and responsibilities introduced in 2016, and it was implemented sustainability targets. during 2017. The Sustainability Leadership Team gathered five times during 2018. The Fiskars Group Sustainability approach was In this report we have included the three SDGs that are most relevant to our covered by the Fiskars Group Leadership Team and the Board of Directors during the year. We concept. These will be better integrated into our sustainability targets during the will look further for opportunities to develop in update in 2019. 2019. Plastics in packaging and in products During 2018 our product development and packaging teams explored more sustainable and renewable options that meet our high quality standards. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 28 Relevant SDGs for Fiskars Group The third material SDG is number 10, Reduced inequalities. Fiskars Group employs 7,600 employees and there is an even more significant number of people working Our work with the Sustainable Development Goals started by analyzing the most in our value chain. For us diversity and equal treatment of all people are top relevant ones for our business. We used both external tools and materials published priorities. On the other hand, we also have a responsibility to reduce inequalities by the UN to dig deeper into each SDG and related sub-targets. The main tools and without adequate action, we might have a negative impact on this goal. and guidance used in the process were SDG Lens by DNV GL and SDG Compass developed by GRI, the UN Global Compact and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. All of these three SDGs will be further integrated into our sustainability concept in 2019 when we renew our long-term sustainability targets. We will also look deeper Through the SDG impact assessment, we identified three SDGs that were clearly into the potential of the two other SDGs that were identified as possibly being relevant for us throughout the entire value chain with both positive and negative relevant to us. We believe that choosing pertinent SDGs and integrating them into impacts. Two SDGs seemed to be applicable on some level, but we need to the sustainability concept, targets, and action plans will support our work and help understand them better by mapping the potential negative and positive impacts. us to better communicate our focus areas. There were also some SDGs that could be more relevant for our business in the future, depending on how our business evolves over time. FISKARS GROUP IMPACT ON SDGS The first SDG that we identified as important for us is number 12, Responsible consumption and production. As a consumer goods company we have a crucial impact on and the capacity to affect people’s consumption habits. In general, producing and selling products could be seen as a negative impact, but through our sustainable production, our products that last for generations, and possibilities around a new sustainable service-based business model, our potential to influence is considerable. We are already developing our environmental performance in terms of materials, substances of concern and waste management. There is still a lot to do and we could also expand our approach through a better understanding of different topics, such as the lifecycle of our products and the impact of sustainable service models. We will further integrate SDG number 12 into our action plans and targets during our target renewal in 2019. The second SDG we have pinpointed is number 13, Climate change. Our current core business is to produce products and deliver them to our customers and consumers through our supply chain. In each link of the value chain, from raw material Negative Positive extraction to the end-of-life of our products, we have a negative impact on climate change in the form of CO2 emissions. On the other hand, we have already worked Through the SDG impact assessment, we identified three SDGs that were clearly relevant for us throughout the entire value chain with both positive and negative impacts. to reduce our negative impacts and through our lasting design and new business models around circular economy, we are able to achieve further positive impacts. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 29 Sustainability governance SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE IN 2018 Strategic Fiskars Group Sustainability Sustainability Board of Directors Business Units & Leadership Team Leadership Team Contributors Supply Chain Ultimate decision Sets the ambition Responsible for Facilitates Works with maker, approves level for Fiskars integrating the sustainability sustainability Fiskars Group’s Group’s sustainability into management related topics in sustainability sustainability business strategies and tracks alignment with approach approach and operations the operations the KPIs To ensure clear responsibilities and focus, Fiskars Group has a governance model The Board of Directors is the ultimate decision maker and approves Fiskars Group’s on how sustainability is managed throughout the company. The need for the sustainability approach and ambition level. The Board of Directors also regularly clarification of sustainability governance was one of the topics raised in the evaluates progress against the key performance indicators, and conducts a stakeholder survey. As part of our target setting in 2019, we will review our current comprehensive review of the sustainability approach and ambition once a year. sustainability governance as well. The Fiskars Group Leadership Team sets the ambition level for Fiskars Group’s Established in 2017, the Sustainability Leadership Team includes representatives sustainability approach, and signs off the sustainability report, compliance and data. from both Strategic Business Units, supply chain and global functions. In 2018 the Sustainability is on the Leadership Team’s regular agenda, and in 2018 they, for team met five times to discuss and review our progress against the KPIs we have example, signed the new sustainability concept and relevant SDGs. set for ourselves. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 30 The Strategic Business Units and supply chain are responsible for integrating sustainability into business strategies, operations and brands’ purpose. The Economic performance Strategic Business Units also contribute and advance sustainability in dedicated leadership team meetings. We also have people who operate as sustainability contributors, focusing on sustainability-related topics in alignment with KPIs. These contributors have a key role in managing sustainability focus areas, gathering data and reporting. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The Ethics Advisory Group works with Fiskars Group Leadership to foster a culture of high ethical conduct within Fiskars Group. It reviews, approves and assesses GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, EUR million the Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery programs and other 2018 2017 communication initiatives to ensure effective and efficient implementation. Customers Sales 1,119 1,186 Suppliers Operating costs 699 735 Employees Wages and benefits 308 315 Public sector Corporate income taxes 27 26 Shareholders Payments to providers of capital 60 87 Creditors Interest 3 4 Communities Sponsorship and donations 0.4 0.6 Economic value retained 22 17 Information reported in Disclosure 201-1 is based on audited financial data. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 31 TAXES We foster relationships with tax authorities based on mutual transparency and trust in all the jurisdictions where we operate. We may seek advice or advance rulings in Fiskars disclosure: Income taxes paid, top 5 largest countries, EUR million situations subject to interpretation and apply judgment based on facts. 2018 2017 To operate efficiently and to manage risks, we employ tax professionals, both Denmark, Finland, U.S.,Indonesia, Sweden 21 internal and external, to manage our compliance obligations. Our aim is to set up U.S, Denmark, Finland, Poland, Sweden 22 systems, processes and controls to ensure efficiency of our compliance functions. Tax information reported is based on audited financial data. Tax legislation and compliance requirements are subject to constant change in our operating environment. Fiskars Group monitors changes in tax legislation and regularly review tax affairs and risk management procedures to ensure that Fiskars Group can identify, assess and mitigate tax risk. Tax strategy As part of protecting shareholder value, we act with integrity in all tax matters The Fiskars Group tax strategy is based on our aim to be responsible corporate and accurately report the Group’s tax position to our shareholders and other citizens in the communities where we operate, and to fulfill our responsibilities stakeholders. towards shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers. Ethical business The core of our tax strategy is to pay the right amount of tax at the right time to the right tax authorities, respecting all the applicable tax laws of the countries where we operate. The Fiskars Group Tax team works closely with the businesses to identify and manage business and technical tax risks to create a sustainable yet business feasible platform for operations. The tax team is involved in business changes practices already in the planning phase to ensure the alignment and appropriate compliance of tax rules and regulations. Our vision is to have a lasting, positive impact on our quality of life. To drive towards All business planning at Fiskars Group is based on business needs. Our tax planning our vision, we follow certain ways of working and focus on operating in a unified way is aligned with our business models. We consider tax implications as part of the throughout our global operations. Our Code of Conduct lays out the expectations decision-making process and ensure that transactions and structures are treated and guiding principles for appropriate workplace behavior, helping employees based on their commercial substance. Our business, investment and location understand how to do business in a safe, sustainable, ethical and efficient manner. planning is primarily driven by commercial needs. We may utilize available tax The Code of Conduct is the primary everyday tool, which we have complemented incentives when they are aligned with our business and operational objectives. with other policies and globally acknowledged guidelines and principles. Our transfer pricing principle is to apply arm’s length transfer prices to intra-group transactions to reflect where value is created in the Group, and which jurisdiction has the right to tax the profits. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 32 Code of Conduct and Ethics and Supplier Code of Conduct Compliance Helpline The Fiskars Group production strategy is based on combining our own manufacturing operations with those of our selected suppliers. Our goal is to build a The Fiskars Group Code of Conduct lays out the expectations and guiding principles strong supplier network that can satisfy our business needs and meet our corporate for appropriate workplace behavior, helping all employees understand how to do values and expectations regarding social and environmental requirements. business in an ethical, safe, sustainable and transparent manner. At Fiskars Group, the Code of Conduct is used as an everyday tool, providing guidance on a variety of The Fiskars Group Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) outlines the non-negotiable topics we consider important for our business. minimum standards Fiskars Group requires all its suppliers to comply with when doing business with the company, illustrating the values and principles that are core To make sure everyone at Fiskars Group knows how to operate in their day-to-day to Fiskars Group operations worldwide. Topics covered in the SCOC cover important work and deepen their knowledge on important matters such as health and safety, topics such as health and safety, environmental protection, and human and labor data protection, and anti-bribery and corruption, we organize mandatory training rights. sessions for all employees. Every second year we train all our employees and in the year between, all new employees. In 2018, the Code of Conduct training level was It also describes Fiskars Group’s commitment to international conventions such 98.5%. as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), OECD The new Ethics and Compliance Helpline was introduced in 2018. The third party Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the 10 principles of the UN Global provided platform is a confidential and anonymous whistleblowing channel for all Compact. our employees to report any workplace-related issues and complaints or suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. All suspected violations and occurrences of misconduct are handled confidentially by our Compliance Officer and Ethics Advisory Group. Competition Compliance The Ethics Advisory Group meets two times a year to review topical issues related In any market, competition between companies is only natural. Since there are some to our Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery programs, and violations important rules we must follow to keep the play fair, we introduced the renewed reported through whistleblowing, or other ways to our Compliance Officer. It is Fiskars Group Competition Compliance program in 2018 to help everyone learn responsible for policies, instructions, and guidelines related to these themes. the basics. Training was mandatory for sales, marketing, product development and The Group consists of the President and CEO, CFO, CHRO, General Counsel, and sourcing teams as well as for those who belong to Group management. Compliance Officer. Competition law – also known as antitrust law – is always applied when we do During 2018 we received in total eight complaints or suspected violations through business with our suppliers, retailers, distributors or cooperation parties. It does the Ethics and Compliance Helpline. Overall, our internal audit investigated 18 cases not only affect the contracts, discounts and market shares we deal with, but of suspected violations. The cases were related to claims against the reorganization also impacts the way we can market our products or communicate internally and process, misuse of company funds, stealing products, violation of safety externally. instructions, misuse of personnel benefits, data security breach, management practices and sexual harassment. 14 of the cases were investigated, resolved, and closed during 2018. Four of the cases are still under investigation or being followed up. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 33 “Conducting business in the Currently 88% (2017: 80%) of our manufacturing units are ISO 9001 certified right way is the only way for us and 81% (13%) of them are ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. We managed to significantly increase the number of OHSAS 18001 certified manufacturing to do business. What’s best for units during 2018. The certifications will be expanded to cover more of our the consumer is in the essence manufacturing units and distribution centers in the future. of competition law. In that way, advancing fair competition is Fiskars Group’s main memberships in industrial embedded in the strategy of organizations and in national or international advocacy Fiskars Group as well. Integrity and organizations during 2018 accountability are our values and International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in order to live by them, we also need to know how we Federation of Finnish Technology Industries should act—what’s required and what is to be avoided.” The Finnish Society of Crafts and Design The Chemical Industry Federation of Finland Päivi Timonen The Finnish Risk Management Association General Counsel at Fiskars Group FIBS Corporate Responsibility Network Global Compact Finland Network Outdoor Industry Association Association of the Museum of Technology Taxpayers Association of Finland External initiatives and memberships Horticultural Trades Association International Trademark Association We honor and promote universal human rights and equal opportunities in everything Finnish Quality Association we do. To demonstrate our commitment, Fiskars Group joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, in 2016. Fiskars Group also actively participates in the local UN Global Compact network in Finland. International standards and guidelines create an important foundation for Fiskars Group’s quality, environment, health and safety (QEHS) management. Our manufacturing units, distribution centers and our suppliers use the quality management standard ISO 9001, environmental management standard ISO 14001 and health and safety standard OHSAS 18001. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 34 Human rights Principles on Business and Human Rights to have a clear understanding of how human rights are integrated into our current policies and processes, and what the possible risks and opportunities are. The analysis continues, and based on preliminary results, there remains work to be done to develop our global policies and processes from a human rights perspective. Fiskars Group has an important opportunity to influence people’s lives throughout our value chain. We respect human rights in everything we do and recognize the The results will be combined in early 2019 to formulate a roadmap and plan for the equality of the people with whom we interact. Integrity is one of Fiskars Group’s human rights impact assessment. four core values, and every leader and employee is expected to demonstrate integrity in their everyday work. Health and safety As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, Fiskars Group is committed to mitigating adverse human rights impacts and to working against corruption and bribery. Our approach to human rights is defined in Fiskars Group’s policies, which also serve as the foundation for the implementation of targets related to human rights. The Fiskars Group Code of Conduct and related training provide a detailed description Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of our employees and the people involved in our of our approach to doing business in an ethical way and respecting human rights, value chain is a key priority. We place a high emphasis on ensuring that everyone at including working conditions, labor rights, anti-corruption and bribery, and safety at Fiskars Group is effectively trained to carry out their duties in a safe manner. work. Our people receive regular training on the Code of Conduct to increase their awareness and ability to implement our principles in their everyday work. We aim to actively promote a culture of zero harm and believe that safety is our shared responsibility. Health and Safety is an integral part of our management We expect the same values and high ethical standards from our suppliers and system. We encourage safety leadership at every level of the organization. We also partners. The Fiskars Group Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the standards all encourage people to be proactive and take their responsibility seriously, in order to our suppliers and partners must meet in order to do business with Fiskars Group. prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. Supplier sustainability audits help us to assess and control human rights topics in our supply chain. We recognize that it is our responsibility to ensure that safety is never compromised by our actions. Our key principle is “Safety First.” Fiskars Group maintains an Human rights related risks are mainly seen as financial, compliance and reputational organizational structure for the management of health and safety, including lines risks, but Fiskars Group also sees them as an operative risk. The main risks for us of communication, networking channels, cooperation, collaboration and the clear are the incompliant management of our suppliers and the inability to also cover identification of roles and responsibilities for all employees. their suppliers. Currently we are managing the effectiveness of the human rights management approach by following our risk management and incidents of nonWe undertake regular safety inspections and audits, and report our health and compliance. safety performance each month in order to indicate the effectiveness of our management system. We also actively identify and implement examples of best In 2017, we initiated a human rights gap analysis and continued the work in 2018. practices identified through the auditing process or through feedback from our We have been evaluating our performance against the United Nations Guiding internal network of experts. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 35 We expect leadership teams to conduct regular reviews on health and safety We continued the development of our global safety reporting and in 2018 we performance to ensure that adequate resources are available to effectively manage implemented a new platform for reporting, enabling us to more easily track health and safety and to drive our health and safety culture and process of continual progress. improvement. Fiskars Group’s safety target for 2027 is to have zero Lost Time Accidents, taking Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectations regarding our suppliers’ into account not just our own employees, but our contractors and key suppliers as health and safety standards, and every supplier must sign and commit to it to well. be able to do business with Fiskars Group. We arrange annual workshops for our suppliers to enhance awareness of and best practices in occupational health and Lost Time Accident frequency (LTAF) increased to 5.9 (2017: 4.5) also Lost Day Rate safety. (LDR) was higher than last year, 36.9 (28.6). It was a challenging year with a number of accidents in certain sites and the results demonstrate the necessity to further In 2018, we worked to create a roadmap for safety management and continued to develop safety culture and prevent accidents, in order to reach our zero Lost Time develop the global reporting platform. We also organized our very first global Fiskars Accidents target. Group Safety Day to celebrate efforts to ensure that we are doing everything in our power to prevent any accidents and incidents, and to remind ourselves that it is a One important way to promote safety at work is to encourage people to report any shared responsibility to keep everyone safe in our everyday. hazards spotted in their working environment. All these observations are recorded and actions are taken to mitigate the hazards. During 2018 our employees and contractors reported 3080 (2940) safety observations. LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 6.3 5.9 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 4.5 Own employees TYPES OF INJURY 2018 2017 Amputation 0% 1% Lost Time Accident Frequency (LTAF) reflects Cuts, grazes & bruises 58% 61% the number of accidents causing injury that result in Fractures 2% 3% an absence of at least one Strains, sprains, pulled muscle 26% 16% workday per million hours worked. Back injury 2% 1% Eye injury 2% 3% Head injury 1% 3% 2016 2017 2018 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 36 TYPES OF INJURY 2018 2017 OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE (ODR) 2018 2017 Burns 3% 3% By region Skin rashes, soreness or inflammation 0% 2% Europe 0.0 0.0 Cumulative strain injury 0% 2% Americas 0.0 0.2 Mental harm 0% 0% Asia Pacific 0.0 0.0 Asphyxia 0% 0% By Strategic Business Unit Other 6% 6% Living 0.0 0.0 Total 100% 100% Functional 0.0 0.1 Total 0.0 0.0 INJURY RATE 2018 2017 No occupational diseases diagnosed during 2018. By region Europe 4.8 3.4 LOST DAY RATE (LDR) 2018 2017 Americas 16.5 9.9 By region Asia Pacific 1.8 1.3 Europe 62.3 52.0 By Strategic Business Unit Americas 56.3 29.1 Living 3.1 2.2 Asia Pacific 1.3 1.2 Functional 10.0 6.0 By Strategic Business Unit Total 5.4 3.5 Living 11.5 28.0 Includes lost time, restricted work, medical treatment and first aid accidents. 2017 figures corrected, Functional 88.2 29.6 some sites had included contractor accidents that were moved to contractors’ report. Total 36.9 28.6 2017 figures are corrected, some sites had included contractor accidents that were moved to contractors’ report. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 37 LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY (LTAF) 2018 2017 FATALITIES 2018 2017 By region Total 0 0 Europe 10.9 7.7 Americas 5.3 5.2 Asia Pacific 0.8 1.0 SAFETY OBSERVATIONS AND NEAR MISSES 2018 2017 By Strategic Business Unit Safety observations 3,080 2,940 Living 2.9 3.3 Near misses 300 758 Functional 11.9 7.2 Safety observations are unsafe behaviors and violations of safety rules observed within the workplace. Total 5.9 4.5 A Near miss is an unplanned accident that did not result in injury, illness, or damage, but had a potential to do so. Lost time accident frequency (LTAF) reflects the number of injuries resulting in an absence of at least one workday per million hours worked. Reporting by gender is not significant for Fiskars Group. Since the safety observations and near misses were previously reported together, in 2017 -there was uncertainty between the definitions of Safety Observations and Near Misses, resulting in a high figure reported in 2017. During 2018 we conducted trainings for the sites and also increased awareness supported the decrease in near misses reporting. ABSENTEE RATE (AR) 2018 2017 By region Europe 7.1 7.4 Non-Fiskars Group employees (contractors) Americas 1.4 4.0 TYPES OF INJURY 2018 2017 Asia Pacific 2.2 2.3 Amputation 0% 0% By Strategic Business Unit Cuts, grazes & bruises 50% 50% Living 4.2 4.4 Fractures 0% 0% Functional 4.5 5.8 Strains, sprains, pulled muscle 0% 50% Total 4.3 4.9 Back injury 0% 0% Eye injury 0% 0% Absentee days lost are expressed as the percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by the workforce. An employee is considered absent from work because of incapacity of any kind, not just Head injury 0% 0% as the result of work-related injury or disease. Permitted leave absences such as holidays, study, Burns 0% 0% maternity or paternity leave, and compassionate leave are excluded. Refers to a measure of actual absentee days lost expressed as a percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by the workforce Skin rashes, soreness or inflammation 0% 0% for the same period. Cumulative strain injury 0% 0% Mental harm 0% 0% Asphyxia 0% 0% Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 38 TYPES OF INJURY Other 2018 50% 2017 0% Learning and Total 100% 100% development INJURY RATE (CONTRACTORS) 2018 2017 By region Europe 0.0 1.3 We at Fiskars Group want to provide our employees opportunities to build their own competences and careers. We believe in promoting internal talent, in learning on Americas 0.0 2.9 the job and in networks with peers, accompanied by formal learning opportunities. Asia Pacific 2.4 7.7 For each category, Fiskars Group has developed several initiatives to enable By Strategic Business Unit learning, including apprentice programs, courses, coaching and a mentoring program. Living 1.7 4.2 Functional 0.0 1.6 The Fiskars Group’s learning philosophy is based on a classic 70-20-10 principle, Total 0.8 3.0 which means that 70% of learning happens on the job, 20% when learning together with others, and only 10% of learning comes from courses or other formal Includes lost time, restricted work, medical treatment and first aid accidents. 2017 figures corrected, studies. some sites had included contractor accidents that were moved to contractors’ report. FATALITIES (CONTRACTORS) 2018 2017 Learning on the job Total 0 0 Learning starts from everyone’s everyday work. We must continuously seek ways to perform our jobs better to respond to changing demands and challenges. Acknowledging this is the first step—after that it is up to everyone to take the lead and drive their own development. We believe learning can be about taking small steps out of one’s comfort zone through a new project or task, or it can be about questioning the status quo and improving ways of working with a new perspective. It is about trying out ideas, failing fast and learning fast, and embracing the risk of mistakes. Fiskars Group supports on-the-job learning with several global programs. We have apprentice programs to help our experts transfer their skills and knowledge to new people eager to learn a new profession. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 39 Our talented people working in craftsmanship are a great example of the benefits Learning by studying of learning on the job. We have apprentice programs in Finland, UK, Ireland, and Slovenia to help us maintain, develop and transfer special skills our craftspeople Fiskars Group has a global learning development platform and it has been designed have learned over the years, such as unique techniques related to glass blowing, to support Fiskars Group’s business objectives. We have several online learning engraving and painting. opportunities that can be completed anywhere, anytime. Some of our training is mandatory for all our employees, such as learning the Fiskars Group Code of Conduct. For instance, becoming a glass master is a journey that requires a strong will and perseverance. The quality of handmade glass is in the details, such as the thickness We offer several targeted deep dive training sessions to inspire and develop our people. or weight of the glass; getting these right requires experience, an extraordinary For example, Leadership Core training is about values-based leadership and it is built on understanding of the material and how it behaves. It takes years of training and a simple belief: if you are going to lead others, you first need to lead yourself. practice to get to a level where one can confidently reach our quality standards with every product that is made. GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2018 2017 TOTAL NUMBER OF Learning from each other EMPLOYEES Permanent Temporary Total Permanent Temporary Total By gender Whether in a formal or casual setting, we all accumulate a lot of knowledge and Female 3,567 513 4,080 3,507 588 4,095 build our perspectives throughout our working lives. At Fiskars Group, we believe Male 3,377 158 3,535 3,452 175 3,627 that skills and competences learned from other people are by nature richer than information learned from textbooks. By region Europe 3,565 373 3,938 3,560 362 3,922 To help people find ways to learn from one another, Fiskars Group invests in many Americas 1,070 11 1,081 1,083 20 1,103 learning opportunities, such as a mentoring program that pairs junior and senior employees, Leader360 feedback and evaluation, and team development activities. Asia-Pacific 2,309 287 2,596 2,316 381 2,697 Mentoring in particular has been very popular, and in 2019 there are around 40 2018 2017 pairs working with many topics, from ceramic production to career development. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Full-time Part-time Total Full-time Part-time Total Mentoring has enabled our employees to take new perspectives and understand their own work as a part of a bigger entity. It has helped many mentees to see By gender where their next career steps could be and how they can grow within Fiskars Group. Female 3,183 897 4,080 3,165 930 4,095 Male 3,405 130 3,535 3,504 123 3,627 The data has been collected through our Global HR system. Fiskars Group does not collect this kind of information regarding workers not categorized as employees in global HR reporting. The percentage of Fiskars’ activities performed by workers not categorized as employees is considered nonsignificant. Fiskars Group did not have any significant seasonal variations in the employment numbers during the reporting period. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 40 TRAINING AND EDUCATION Engaging people and communities GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 2018 2017 By gender Female 32% 32% Male 32% 33% We are committed to offering a safe and engaging working environment for all our employees. We have implemented Lean methodologies at our sites and work in By category collaboration with our teams to continuously improve our processes. In 2018, we Office 97% 96% implemented countless small local improvements that contribute to overall wellRetail 5% 5% being, starting from risk reduction measures within the workplace to sponsored sports clubs and employee celebrations. Operative 3% 2% Total 32% 32% Throughout our history, we have also been closely involved in the everyday life of the communities where we operate. Today, over 100 artisans call Fiskars Village home and it has become one of Finland’s top creative hubs and tourist attractions. As a part of Fiskars Group’s real estate assets, including the Fiskars Village, the group owns sustainably managed FSC™-certified (FSC™ C109750) and PEFC™-certified (PEFC / 02-21-18) forests. Both FSC™ and PEFC™ certification systems promote the responsible and sustainable management of the world’s forests. The unit’s income consists mainly of timber sales and rental income. A key component in our sustainability efforts is engaging with our different stakeholders and supporting the communities where we operate. We know that it is possible to both drive positive change and to bring value to our business and brands. Our Community Engagement Policy was redefined in 2017 and we will update it according to our new sustainability concept in 2019. The global framework, including a tool to assess impacts and a platform for global reporting, will be developed to support us in driving positive change in the communities where we operate and in bringing value to our business and brands. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 41 FISKARS GROUP GERBER Fiskars Group has been a proud partner of SOS Children’s Villages in Finland since Gerber announced a long-term partnership with Team Red, White, and Blue (Team 2012. The organization helps families by providing early intervention, open care and RWB). The multi-year program directly supports the organization’s mission of foster care, with an ambition to support young people as they overcome challenges enriching the lives of America’s veterans by connecting them to their community and become independent young adults. Through the partnership, Fiskars Group through physical and social activity. Gerber’s contributions include financial support supports young people moving from SOS Children’s Village to their first homes. and product donations that will help enable outdoor events for chapters throughout In addition, we continued to offer our consumers an opportunity to donate when the United States. making a purchase at our Arabia and Iittala stores in 2018. In 2018 Fiskars Group made a donation of EUR 50,000 to Arcada University of Applied Sciences and EUR 50,000 to Novia University of Applied Sciences. With the ARABIA & FISKARS BRANDS donation we want to nurture the next generation of talents and enhance creativity. Arabia and Fiskars brands sponsored Pink Ribbon in Finland. Money was raised to prevent and cure breast cancer through campaign products, such as Arabia Suomen Kukka and Esteri mugs, and pink Classic scissors. From every campaign product sold, we donated one euro to cancer prevention work. FISKARS BRAND Fiskars has partnered with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America (BGCA) over the past six years. The partnership includes donations to support arts and crafts programming in Clubs nationwide, and support of annual events like BGCA’s Backto-School Campaign and the Youth of the Year Event. The Project Orange Thumb Teacher Grant Program is intended to recognize teachers who share a passion for fostering creativity through hands-on learning. The goal of these grants is to help set students up for success by supplying teachers with the tools they need to provide a positive learning environment. We chose 50 teachers to receive USD 500 plus tools for their classroom. Since 2002, Project Orange Thumb has provided tools and resources to help communities reach their goals for collaboration, neighborhood beautification, and healthy, sustainable food sources Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 42 Responsible supplier Fiskars Group policies related to sustainable sourcing management Fiskars Group Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) outlines the non-negotiable minimum standards Fiskars Group requires all its suppliers to comply with when doing business with Fiskars Group, illustrating the values and principles that are core to Fiskars Group’s global operations. The SCOC covers important topics such as In today’s world, the consumer is more conscious than ever before of the impacts of health and safety, environmental protection, and human and labor rights. their purchasing habits. People want to trust companies to operate in a sustainable and ethical manner. It also describes Fiskars Group’s commitment to international conventions such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Fiskars Group is building a strong supplier network that can meet our business fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), OECD needs as well as our corporate values and expectations regarding social and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the 10 principles of the UN Global environmental requirements. Compact. We use a variety of raw materials, components and services to create our Fiskars Group’s sourcing organization and other people dealing with external extraordinary products and bring them to consumers. We utilize a balance of own suppliers are now guided by the new Sourcing and Purchasing policy created in and external manufacturing for finished goods. Carefully managing the sourcing 2018. It is an important guideline for all employees in managing indirect spend, and purchasing of these ingredients is incredibly important in building a sustainable buying goods and services. The policy has been put into place to ensure that Fiskars business. Group follows a professional, controlled and sustainable sourcing and purchasing process, for services and materials provided by external suppliers. Fiskars Group sources finished goods from suppliers located in Europe, North America and Asia, and the biggest sourcing countries are China, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. During 2018 we audited 44% (2017: 32%) of all active finished Supplier sustainability audit program goods suppliers under global sourcing. Fiskars Group established a supplier audit program as early as 2011, and it has been continuously developed since then. The decision to conduct an on-site audit is based on a risk assessment that takes into consideration the country risk, the size of the business and the industry. All suppliers in high risk countries are audited on-site by Fiskars Group. Fiskars Group has a professional team of four auditors that perform audits in the Far East and Southeast Asia. In addition, we use third party audit services to complement our own audits when needed. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 43 An audit consists of document reviews, factory tours, and workers’ interviews. In 2018, we conducted 66 (2017: 57) audits on our finished goods suppliers. Since Questions are divided into three levels of significance (zero tolerance, normal, the beginning of the Fiskars Group Auditing Program in 2011, we have conducted advanced) and results are expressed as a percentage score. approximately 500 on-site supplier audits and closed over 160 zero tolerance cases. We have further extended our supplier risk assessment to cover second-tier suppliers in 2017. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT AUDIT PROGRAM GOOD LEVEL COLLABORATION BI-ANNUAL Score > 85% AUDIT and no ZT TRAININGS FISKARS NEEDS GROUP RISK AUDIT IMPROVEMENT REGULAR AUDITS FOLLOW-UP RE-AUDIT WORKSHOPS SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT RESULTS Score > 70% CODE OF and no ZT CONDUCT SUPPLIER DAYS REJECTED CORRECTIONS ZT or score WITHIN AGREED RE-AUDIT lower than 70% CAP SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPLIER SUPPLIER REJECTED APPROVED ZT = Zero tolerance findings Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 44 Partnering beyond auditing reporting. Our work continues and in 2019 we plan to extend the reporting to a broader group of suppliers. Our suppliers’ operations and workers have an important role in creating our extraordinary products and it is crucial for us to ensure and support our suppliers in conducting business sustainably. We support them in their efforts for energy and SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT material efficiency, reducing CO2 emissions and creating a safe workplace. GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria In 2018, we piloted a new form of collaboration by joining forces with one of 2018 2017 our key suppliers in China. With an external partner, we arranged workshops on New suppliers screened 100% 85% occupational health and safety and parenting skills to raise awareness and engage factory workers. Approximately 400 of our supplier’s factory workers participated 100% of new finished goods suppliers were audited based on our Supplier Code of Conduct as a part in the workshops, which were well received. We are looking for opportunities to of the Fiskars Group Audit Program. continue this kind of partnership with our suppliers in the future. As environmental regulation becomes stricter in China, we support our suppliers in implementing the best technologies available at their factories. For instance, SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT in 2018, we supported our supplier in investigating the operational process and team management of a recently upgraded effluent treatment plan. Through this GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria collaboration, they now have clear written procedures and records as well as a 2018 2017 trained team in an onsite lab that runs weekly tests on effluent discharge. New suppliers screened 100% 85% We have also been working with the Institute of Public Environment (IPE), a non100% of new finished goods suppliers were audited based on our Supplier Code of Conduct. governmental organization specialized in collecting and publishing environmental data in China. We have utilized their databases to monitor the environmental related legal compliance of our suppliers in China. In case any such violation is detected from their database, which the IPE collects from government reports and websites, SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS we will require immediate actions from our suppliers and provide our support during the remedy process. We piloted this at the beginning of 2017 and in 2018 we Fiskars Group topic already have established a process and demonstrated our ability for quick response. 2018 During 2018, we have managed to support our suppliers in responding and taking Average audit result 80% actions to address six instances of such environmental legal violations. We conducted 85 supplier audits in 2018. Average audit results are based on our scoring system and To support our key suppliers in their efforts to be efficient in terms of energy and audit checklist. We have been tracking average audit results internally and this is the first year we are materials, manage waste sustainably and reduce CO2 emissions, we piloted data also reporting this externally. The number indicates the level of how our suppliers are performing in gathering from a few of our key suppliers. They completed the environment, health different areas of sustainability. Furthermore, we conduct re-audits, so the figure indicates how the and safety (EHS) reporting template that we also use internally. We noticed that sustainability performance is developing as well. some of our suppliers have their own dedicated reporting systems that have already proven to be reliable, while some would need further support in developing their Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 45 Environment and Climate change and environment have internal impacts throughout our operations and external impacts on our suppliers’ operations and on surrounding communities biodiversity and nature. Figures reported include our own production and distribution centers; offices and retail are excluded. In addition to our own operations, we are reporting on emissions from logistics and business travel for the first time. The responsible use of resources and the careful reduction, re-use and recycling of Biodiversity materials is central to Fiskars Group’s supply chain strategy. Our environment and energy approach is guided by two principles: supporting long-term competitiveness Biodiversity was one of the new topics explored in 2018. Biodiversity refers to the and mitigating negative impacts. We are committed to promoting efficiency and variability of life and different species on earth. We participated in biodiversity training identifying new solutions throughout our value chain. organized by Finnish Business and Society, FIBS. Based on the lessons, we conducted a preliminary assessment of the biodiversity risks and opportunities for Fiskars Group. In our assessment we defined what kind of ecosystem services we use and how we Environment can impact them. For example, in production services we use raw materials and energy which we can impact through raw material selection and energy efficiency. In 2019 we International standards and guidelines, such as ISO 14001, create an important will deepen our understanding of the risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and foundation for Fiskars Group’s environmental management. In 2017 we established consider that as part of our targets and sustainability concept. an Environmental Policy for our supply chain to emphasize our common targets and ways of working in our own manufacturing units. Mangrove forests have a significant impact on carbon emissions due to their ability to store high densities of organic carbon. Mangroves also promote biodiversity Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations regarding our suppliers’ by providing a wide range of ecosystem services, including nutrient cycling, soil environmental conditions, and every supplier must sign and commit to it to be able formation, fish spawning grounds, and protection against coastal erosion and impacts to do business with Fiskars Group. of storms. Mangroves have a significant role as carbon sinks, which is unfortunately under threat due to deforestation to make way for fish farming and agriculture. In 2016 we conducted our first comprehensive climate change risk mapping, which was finalized with concrete management actions in 2017. The work continued in To overcome the destruction, Fiskars Group’s ceramics factory in Indonesia continued 2018, as we have been developing our Group risk management process where their annual efforts to reduce deforestation. In February 2018 they conducted a joint climate change related risks are integrated. effort with several partners including Marine-Fishery Department of Banten, Bank BJB, Doctor Association of Banten and TV channel MNC Group in Banten, Indonesia. In total Our performance against our long-term and short-term targets will guide our way 5,000 mangrove seedlings were planted, with our contribution of 2,000 mangroves. in evaluating the effectiveness of our environmental management approach. We As a part of the event, free healthcare for the local people was provided by the Doctor are actively following industry best practices, conducting internal and external Association of Banten. In November 2018 our local team continued their efforts by audits based on the management system IS0 14001 and learning from external donating and planting 2,500 mangrove seedlings in the coastal area in Karawang. In performance ratings. addition to planting, the team is also tracking and supporting the growth of these mangroves in the future. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 46 Performance in 2018 Direct (scope 1) and location based (scope 2) emissions remained at the same level than in previous year. Market based (scope 2) emissions decreased by 35% from Our overall energy consumption decreased to 1,069 TJ (2017: 1,121 TJ) while the 2017 level to 28,000 t CO2 (43,000 t CO2) as a result from the investments in energy intensity remained almost at the same level 265 (263). Savings in energy renewable electricity in Finland and Slovenia. consumption was achieved through energy saving actions and changes in the production mix in some manufacturing units. Energy saving actions in 2018 included In 2018 a system was developed to report our emissions from the scope 3, inbound initiatives such as installing of LED lighting, investment to a new compressor in our and outbound emissions as well as business travel. Fiskars Group travel policy ceramics factory in Indonesia and investment to a new furnace in our glass factory in guides us to make sustainable choices and consider the necessity of travelling. Our Finland. logistics team is continuously optimizing the routes and volumetric efficiency with our logistic partners. Our target for 2027 is to reduce our CO2 emissions by 50%. In 2018 Group-wide CO2 emissions decreased by 22% compared to previous year, which is the baseline for our long-term target. ENERGY CONSUMPTION CO2 EMISSIONS TJ Intensity 1,000 t Intensity 1,200 300 100 120 250 900 75 90 200 600 150 50 60 100 Light fuel oil 25 300 30 Natural gas LPG, propane 50 District heat Direct emissions Electricity Indirect emissions, location based Renewable energy Intensity Indirect emissions, market based 0 0 0 0 Intensity 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The intensity describes energy consumption compared to Fiskars Group’s net sales. The figures from The intensity describes CO2 emissions compared to Fiskars Group’s net sales. The figures from 2016 2016 onwards describe Fiskars Group’s current structure. From 2017 onwards energy consumption onwards describe Fiskars Group’s current structure. Market based emissions were calculated for the includes also Fiskars Group’s distribution centers (DCs). Renewable energy includes the solar panels first time in 2017, to form a baseline for our long-term target for emission reduction. in our distribution center in Wall, New Jersey, U.S. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 47 ENERGY ENERGY SAVING ACTIVITIES GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization, TJ GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption, MWh 2018 2017 2018 Direct energy consumption: non-renewable 726 774 2,666 Natural gas 717 765 Energy savings are calculated based on activities conducted during 2018 in our manufacturing units Propane 6 6 and distribution centers. Light Fuel Oil 4 3 Direct energy consumption: renewable 6 6 Renewable fuel 6 6 WATER Indirect energy consumption 336 340 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source, 1,000 m3 Electricity 320 324 2018 2017 District Heat 16 16 Surface water 429 481 Total energy consumption 1,069 1,121 Ground water 43 34 Municipal water 206 215 Consumption is calculated based on invoicing and meters. Standard conversion factors are used (SI). Sold energy is not relevant for Fiskars Group and possible cooling consumed and sold is included Total 677 730 in the electricity. Renewable fuel includes electricity produced with solar panels in our distribution center in Wall, New Jersey, U.S. Water is reported based on invoicing and meters; surface water is based on meters. 2017 figures corrected: conversion error corrected for one unit related to surface water and municipal water. ENERGY INTENSITY EMISSIONS GRI 302-3 Energy intensity, MWh/Net sales (EUR million) GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, 1,000 t CO2 2018 2017 2018 2017 265 262 Scope 1 emissions 40 43 Energy intensity is calculated by dividing the total energy consumption of our own production (direct All the emissions are reported in 1,000 t CO2. In all disclosures reported, GHG emissions reporting + indirect) in MWh by Group net sales. covers only CO2. Fiskars Group does not have any biogenic CO2 emissions in its operations. CO2 emissions are calculated by multiplying the quantity of MWh produced with certain fuels used in our manufacturing units by the CO2 conversion rate. Emission rates are based on fuel statistics provided by Statistics Finland. GWP rates are not relevant since Fiskars Group is only reporting CO2 emissions. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 48 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, 1,000 t CO2 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions, t CO2 2018 2017 2018 Scope 2 emissions Reduction of CO2 emissions 760 Market based 28 43 Reduction of CO2 emissions is calculated from energy saving activities utilizing the locations based Location based 34 34 emission factors or emission factors from fuel statistics provided by Statistics Finland. Reporting only covers CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions are calculated by multiplying the quantity of MWh produced with electricity by the CO2 conversion rate. Scope 2 CO2 emissions will primarily be calculated from supplier-specific, local grid emission factors that are collected from all manufacturing units and distribution centers. Locationbased emission rates are based on country specific emission factors published by the International GRI 306-3 Significant spills Energy Agency (IEA). GWP rates are not relevant since Fiskars Group is only reporting CO2 emissions. 2018 2017 Spills 0 0 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions, 1,000 t CO2 2018 Scope 3 emissions Business travel Upstream and downstream transportation 26 5 Product quality Business travel includes the emissions from business flights, covering all of our main locations. Ensuring that our products and services meet the requirements on durability, Upstream and downstream transportation data is calculated by utilizing the distances and type of functionality, safety and the high quality of our products and services is our top transportation: air, sea, road and parcel. The data is extrapolated to cover all of our upstream and downstream transportation. December 2018 calculation is based on assumption. Defra’s emission priority. The voice of the customer is crucial in capturing the needs and expectations factors from 2018 are used in calculations. of consumers. We utilize customer and consumer feedback systematically and work hard to ensure that we continue to be a trusted partner to our customers and consumers. GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity, t CO2/ net sales (EUR million) 2018 2017 A deep commitment to quality is vital to our heritage and core to our mission of building a family of iconic lifestyle brands. The Fiskars Group Quality Policy defines Intensity 61 72 our approach and provides a common framework for the quality management and communications of quality practices. We execute this policy in our everyday work, Total amount of CO2 emissions including scope 1 and scope 2; market-based emissions is divided by supported by our strategy and organizational structure. Our commitment to quality net sales, EUR million is implemented through our management systems and we all are responsible for integrating quality as part of our work. The Quality Policy was published in 2017 covering Fiskars Group Supply Chain. Our aim is to do everything right the first time. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 49 Everyone is responsible for ensuring that quality is embedded in all our processes. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY New products and changes to products or processes are designed using advanced quality planning tools and tested to ensure the quality of the product. GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services We continually improve our products and processes to support our quality promise 2018 2017 and efficiency. Roles and responsibilities, KPIs and targets are clearly defined for Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 1 0 all processes, and they are monitored on an ongoing basis aiming for improvement. resulting in a fine or penalty Training and coaching are considered important for implementing efficient Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 0 0 processes. resulting in a warning Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary 0 0 We set annual objectives to improve our quality performance and continually codes track the development through our management systems. We actively review risks and their controls in an effort to continuously improve quality standards in light of new technologies, legislation and best practices. The effectiveness of our In 2018 there was one incident of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty. Noncompliant linen was sourced by the sales team in China. The sourcing was conducted without approval product quality management approach is evaluated against how we are performing testing or review. The reason for non-compliance was pH disqualification discovered by the Chinese in relation to our targets and based on incidents of non-compliance. Our quality Regulatory Body. management approach is continuously developed based on consumer feedback and insights. MARKETING AND LABELING Our product development process focuses on the consumer. We rely on innovative technologies and thorough testing to meet and exceed their expectations. Our GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications product developers invest time in using the products as they are meant to be used, 2018 2017 everything from cooking to crafting to learn the skills for which we design tools. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 1 0 We do this to better understand how to improve the products and make them more resulting in a fine or penalty efficient, more intuitive to use and more enjoyable. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 0 0 resulting in a warning Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary 0 1 codes In 2018 there was one incident of non-compliance. Tea packaging incorrectly stated that the blend contained osmanthus flowers. It should have stated mullein flowers instead. We got notified by Japanese Customs Authorities. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 50 GRI Index Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 51 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE General Disclosures Page number / additional information UNGC Cross-Reference 102-1 Name of the organization Fiskars Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services www.fiskarsgroup.com/about-us 102-3 Location of headquarters Helsinki, Finland 102-4 Location of operations www.fiskarsgroup.com/contacts Fiskars Corporation is a public company and 102-5 Ownership and legal form its shares are listed in Nasdaq Helsinki 102-6 Markets served www.fiskarsgroup.com/about-us 102-7 Scale of the organization www.fiskarsgroup.com/about-us Information on employees and other 102-8 workers p. 39 Principle 6 102-9 Supply chain p. 42 Significant changes to the organization 102-10 and its supply chain No significant changes Fiskars has a risk management process in place to manage risks, to avoid any adverse impacts to the environment, and to ensure continuity of its operations. www.fiskarsgroup.com/investors/ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach corporate-governance/risk-management 102-12 External initiatives p. 33 102-13 Membership of associations p. 33 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 52 2. STRATEGY General Disclosures Page number / additional information UNGC Cross-Reference 102-14 Statement from senior-decision-maker p. 5 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY General Disclosures Page number / additional information UNGC Cross-Reference Values, principles, standards, 102-16 and norms of behavior p. 6, 31-32 Principle 10 4. GOVERNANCE General Disclosures Page number / additional information UNGC Cross-Reference www.fiskarsgroup.com/investors/ 102-18 Governance structure corporate-governance/board-directors Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 53 5. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT General Disclosures Page number / additional information UNGC Cross-Reference 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 26 32% of Fiskars Group’s employees are covered by collective bargaining 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements agreements Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p.26 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p.26 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p.26 6. REPORTING PRACTICE General Disclosures Page number / additional information UNGC Cross-Reference Entities included in the organization's All Group companies are included in the 102-45 consolidated financial statements reporting. Defining report content and topic 102-46 boundaries p. 7 102-47 List of material topics p. 7 Health & safety, water and waste figures have been restated. See more information 102-48 Restatements of information related in each disclosure 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in reporting 102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2018–December 31, 2018 Fiskars Group's Sustainability Report 2018 102-51 Date of the most recent report was published in February 2019 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 54 6. REPORTING PRACTICE 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual General Disclosures Page number / additional information UNGC Cross-Reference Contact point for questions regarding 102-53 the report sustainability@fiskars.com Claims of reporting in accordance with the 102-54 GRI Standards p. 2 102-55 GRI content index p. 50 102-56 External assurance p. 2, 62-64 TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS GRI 201: ECONOMIC: 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 p. 30-31 Explanation of the material topic and www.fiskarsgroup.com/investors/ 103-1 its boundaries fiskars-investment The management approach and its 103-2 components Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach GRI 201: Economic Direct economic value generated and Performance 2016 201-1 distributed p. 30 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 55 GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 45 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 45 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 45 GRI 302: Energy 2016 Energy consumption within the 302-1 organization p. 46-47 Principle 7 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 47 Principle 7 302-3 Energy intensity p. 47 Principle 9 GRI 303: WATER 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 45 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 45 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 45 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 47 Principle 7 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 56 GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 45 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 45 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 45 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 46-47 Principle 7 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 305-2 emissions p. 48 Principle 7 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 305-3 emissions p. 48 Principle 7 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 48 Principle 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 48 Principle 8 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 20, 45 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 20, 45 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 20, 45 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 21 Principle 7 waste 2016 306-3 Significant spills p. 48 Principle 7 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 57 GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 42-43 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 42-43 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 42-43 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment New suppliers that were screened 2016 308-1 using environmental criteria p. 44 Principle 7, 8, 9 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 12-14 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 12-14 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 12-14 GRI 401: Employment New employee hires and employee 2016 401-1 turnover p. 16 Principle 6 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 58 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 34-35 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 34-35 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 34-35 GRI 403: Occupational Types of injury and rates of injury, Fiskars Group does not Health and Safety 2016 occupational diseases, collect safety indicators by lost days, and absenteeism, and gender. Reporting by gender number of work-related is seen as insignificant to our 403-2 fatalities p. 35-38 business Principle 6 GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 38-39 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 38-39 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 38-39 GRI 404: Training and Percentage of employees receiving education 2016 regular performance and career 404-3 development reviews p. 40 Principle 6 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 59 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 13-14 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 13-14 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 13-14 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and equal opportunity 2016 employees p. 15-16 Principle 6 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p. 15 Remuration not included Principle 6 Fiskars Group topic The average length of the career of the young talents (35 or under) p. 15 Principle 6 Fiskars Group topic Women and men enablement & engagement in employee survey p. 14 Principle 6 GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 42-44 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 42-44 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 42-44 GRI 414: Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened assessment 2016 using social criteria p. 44 Principle 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 60 GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 48-49 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 48-49 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 48-49 GRI 416: Customer health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance and safety 2016 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services p. 49 GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 48-49 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 48-49 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 48-49 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance labeling 2016 concerning product and service information and labeling p. 49 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 61 FISKARS GROUP TOPIC: SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS GRI 103: Management Disclosure Disclosure description Page Omission UNGC Cross-Reference approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 its boundaries p. 42-44 The management approach and its 103-2 components p. 42-44 Evaluation of the management 103-3 approach p. 42-44 Supplier sustainability audits Fiskars Group topic Average audit result p. 44 Principles 1–10 Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 62 Assurance report Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 63 Independent Practitioner’s independence and quality control Practitioner’s We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Assurance Report Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control To the Management of Fiskars Corporation 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with We have been engaged by the Management of Fiskars Corporation (hereinafter ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory also the Company) to perform a limited assurance engagement on selected requirements. sustainability disclosures for the reporting period 1 January to 31 December 2018, disclosed in Fiskars Corporation’s Sustainability Report 2018. In terms of the Company’s GRI Standards reporting and GRI Standards Content Index, the scope of the assurance has covered economic, social and environmental sustainability Practitioner’s responsibility disclosures listed within the Topic-Specific Disclosures as well as General Disclosures 102-8 and 102-41 (hereinafter Sustainability Information). Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except Management’s responsibility to Fiskars Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. The Management of Fiskars Corporation is responsible for preparing the Sustainability Information in accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in the We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the Company’s reporting instructions and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Management of Fiskars Corporation is also Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. responsible for such internal control as the management determines is necessary That standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited to enable the preparation of the Sustainability Information that is free from material assurance about whether the Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. misstatement. Fiskars Group Sustainability Report 2018 64 In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more Limited assurance conclusion limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Fiskars disclosures in the Sustainability Information. The procedures selected depend Corporation’s Sustainability Information for the reporting period ended 31 on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material December 2018 is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance misstatement of the Sustainability Information. with the Reporting criteria. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: When reading our assurance report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability information should be taken into consideration. • Interviewing senior management of the Company. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as one site in Finland. Helsinki, 15 February 2019 • Conducting one video interview with one site in Indonesia. • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the Sustainability Information at the Group level and at the site level where our site visit and video interview were conducted. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy • Assessing how Group employees apply the Company’s reporting instructions and procedures. • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents Sirpa Juutinen Jussi Nokkala and systems on a sample basis. Partner Director • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample Sustainability & Climate Change Sustainability & Climate Change basis.
