Leading the way. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 1 Contents About Intrum Intrum 2018 in brief. Intrum 2018 in brief 02 This is Intrum 04 Statement by the CEO 06 Business model and services 08 Generating value 12 Purpose, mission and vision 14 Values 16 Strategies 18 Financial targets 20 Regions 22 Market and trends 25 Sustainability 28 Intrum leads the way The share Board of Directors’ Report 44 46 to a sound economy for people, companies and Financial information Financial overview 55 society as a whole Consolidated income statement 57 A credit market in which people and companies can safely Consolidated balance sheet 58 and efficiently provide and gain credit is a prerequisite for Consolidated cash flow statement 59 the business community, and consequently for societies as Consolidated changes in shareholders’ equity 60 a whole, to perform properly. As a market leader, Intrum leads the way to a sound economy in which people rid Parent Company income statement 61 themselves of debt and companies are paid. In a sound Parent Company balance sheet 62 economy, people feel better, companies grow and entire Parent Company cash flow statement 63 societies flourish. Parent Company changes in shareholders’ equity 64 Notes 65 Audit report 100 Two areas of service Corporate Governance Report 104 We ensure that companies are paid by offering two Board of Directors 110 types of services. Credit management services with a Group Management 112 focus on late payments and collection, and purchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables. Beyond these, we offer Sustainability information a full range of services covering companies’ entire credit About the Sustainability Report 115 management chain. Sustainability data 117 GRI index 121 80,000 clients Information for shareholders 125 Intrum has about 80,000 clients. They operate in virtually Definitions 126 all sectors, and assisting major companies and financial Addresses 127 institutions with large volumes of receivables is our specialty. We also work with tens of thousands of small and mediumsized companies. Our clients see the benefit of focusing on their core business rather than on credit management. 9,000 employees Approximately 9,000 employees work at Intrum. We help companies prosper by caring for their customers This Annual and Sustainability report includes financial inforthrough some 250,000 daily communications in which mation and sustainability information. The sustainability report we help people become debt free and ensure that has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual companies are paid. Accounts Act and has been formulated in accordance with the GRI Standards Core. The sustainability report also constitutes Intrum’s Communication of Progress (COP) to the United Nation’s (UN) Global Compact and informs about how Intrum contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and 25 countries Agenda 2030. Intrum’s operations are divided into the four regions: Northern Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, Western The sustainability report is found on page 28–43 and 115–123. The auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report is and Southern Europe, and the Iberian Peninsula and Latin found on page 124. America. We maintain operations in a total 25 countries. For Intrum, 2018 was yet another eventful year with a The core operations, that is, credit management with focus continuous high activity on the non-performing loan market. on late payments and collection, continued to develop For example, a strategic partnership with Italian Banca Intesa steadily, with increasing efficiency and synergies maintainSanpaolo was closed in April, with the transaction being ing a good service line margin (27 percent). The integration closed in November as planned. Intrum expanded geobetween Intrum Justitia and Lindorff continued and most of graphically as well during the year and established business the planned measures had been completed by the end of in Brazil. the year. Revenues by business area 60% 40% Credit management Purchasing portfolios services with a focus on late of overdue receivables payments and collection (2017, 38 %) (2017, 62 %) Key figures Return on purchased debt SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2018 2017* % 25 Net revenues 13,442 12,219 20 20 20 Net revenues excluding revaluations 13,354 12,156 20 Operating earnings (EBIT) 3,978 3,489 16 15 15 Operating margin, % 30 29 Earnings for the period 1,943 1,318 10 Investments in purchased debt 11,854 7,857 Purchased debt book value 24,830 21,149 5 Earnings per share, SEK 14.18 14.62 0 Growth in earnings per share, % –3 –26 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *The above are based on pro forma reporting for 2017 for the combined Intrum Justitia and Lindorff Revenues by region Earnings per share SEK Northern Europe 25 Central and Eastern Europe Western and Southern Europe 23% (22) 20.15 Iberian Peninsula and 20 30% (32) Latin America 15.92 14.62 15 13.48 14.18 19% (20) 10 28% (27) 5 The distribution of revenues is based on consolidated 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 revenue for 2018 of SEK 13,442 M (12,219). Intrum 2018 in brief Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 3 This is Intrum. Intrum leads the way to a sound economy. A functioning credit market is a prerequisite for the business community, and consequently Our societies as a whole, to perform employees gain opportunities to properly. Intrum fills an grow and develop important function. by making a difference. Our clients use our collection service or sell us entire portfolios of overdue receivables on which we then collect. Companies are paid, allowing them to invest, recruit and grow. 4 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 The foundations of today’s Intrum were laid more quick credit are just two of multiple causes of than 100 years ago when it was common to “chalk increased debt among private individuals. it up”, that is, to buy goods and services, paying over an extended period. These credits financed Intrum’s purpose is to lead the way to a sound everything from everyday food purchases to mateeconomy. A credit market in which people and rials for construction projects and the debts were companies can safely and efficiently provide and written up week by week, month by month. This gain credit is a prerequisite for the business comcould be problematic for many business owners munity, and consequently for societies as a whole, who experienced difficulties with their profitability to perform properly. We form part of a functionwhile families would get stuck in debt situations ing credit market, in which companies are paid on that were difficult to climb out of. time, allowing them to invest, recruit and grow. A market in which people rid themselves of debt Even today, companies and individuals are and improve their life situation while the economy impacted by late payment. Easily accessible and entire communities flourish. online trading and the simplicity of accessing The economy and societies as a whole flourish and we generate value for our shareholders. Following discussions with our clients’ customers, we agree on individually adapted payment plans. Peoples’ life situation improves when they rid themselves of debt. This is Intrum Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 5 Statement by the CEO We lead the way to a sound economy. I am proud to be able to confirm that 2018 turned In 2018, we also further strengthened our out to be a very strong and successful year for credit management platform. Much of the Intrum. We are seeing favourable development groundwork has thus been done to be able in the two legs of our balanced business model, to commence the transformation of our credit both in credit management services focusing management operations. Demand from our on late payment and collection, as well as in our clients is increasing as regulations and requireportfolio investment business. ments in the financial sector are further tightOver the year, we reinforced our marketened. We are continuing to invest in digitisation leading position as Europe’s largest credit and automation to remain at the forefront with management company. This was achieved partly regard to our clients’ and customers’ future through the stable development of our credit needs. We will gradually centralise, standardise management operations, and partly through a and improve large parts of the collection number of strategic acquisitions, mainly in process to further improve efficiency and the southern Europe. As a market leader, we bear operating margin in future years. a considerable responsibility in leading the development of the industry towards a sound New strategic partnerships and relationship between creditors, debtors and the strengthened geographical presence rest of society. A sound economy entails giving For Intrum, the largest individual event of 2018 individuals the right prerequisites on which to was the signing of the strategic partnership with accept credit and pay for the goods or services Banca Intesa Sanpaolo, establishing Intrum as they have purchased, while companies should be a leading player in late payments in Italy, one of able to sell products and services on credit withEurope’s most attractive markets. At the end of out jeopardising their liquidity and profitability. the year, we also implemented a couple of acquisitions in Spain, with the purchase of a real estate Strategic focus stands firm portfolio from Spanish Ibercaja being of particular Having yielded good results, Intrum’s strategic significance. Large parts of this growth derive focus on growth and efficiency, alongside digitisafrom secured assets, with which we now work in tion and analysis, stands firm. We see a continued ten countries. Our leading position has also made high level of activity across Europe in the market it possible to expand further geographically and in for purchased portfolios of non-performing loans. 2018 we also implemented our first, minor acquiOur investments’ return levels were stable during sition in Brazil, allowing us to explore that market 2018, which was a result of both increased interand build our knowledge of it. est rates and large volumes, as well as our ability to leverage our broad geographical footprint. Over Increased net revenues and operating earnings the coming year, we expect the implementation Our financial development in 2018 was highly of our strategic plan to continue generating stable favourable. Consolidated net revenues rose by development, and we intend to be very selective 10 percent compared with 2017. Adjusted in our investments. operating earnings rose by 15 percent compared The integration following the merger between with the pro forma adjusted operating earnings Intrum Justitia and Lindorff has yielded the (EBIT) for 2017. In credit management, revenue desired results and, at the end of the year, about growth on a pro forma basis was 5 percent and 80 percent of the planned synergies from the the service line margin was 27 percent excluding merger had been implemented successfully. non-recurring items. The value of the portfolio Over the year, we noted various indications that investments, including real estate and participathe new Intrum, with its size and efficiency, is a tions in joint ventures, increased by 52 percent highly attractive European partner in resolving over the year. Portfolio investments amounted to late payments. SEK 11,854 million (pro forma 7,857) and the return was 15 percent (16), including revaluations. 6 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 In our industry, regulatory compliance is extremely important and, at the same time, the pace of regulation is continuously accelerating, both with regard to credit management and the market for portfolios of non-performing loans. Legislation is focused on protecting depositors and incentivising banks to reduce the levels of bad debt on their balance sheets. Intrum is not a bank, nor do we intend to become one, although we do continue to monitor developments closely. We take a positive view of the regulatory changes, believing it is important to safeguard the sound development of our industry, and we are therefore active in those parts of the change process where we feel able to contribute. Continued focus on increased efficiency and profitable growth In 2019, we will continue to focus on centralising and standardising our operations and enhancing our efficiency. We will normalise our pace of investment and ensure that we derive the full value and synergies offered by the major investments we made in 2018. At the same time, we are seeing an active market throughout Europe, with our size and strong cash flow-generating operations providing us the flexibility to invest for continued growth. For us, 2018 was a year in which we delivered on our strategy and demonstrated that we are on the right path towards our ambitious targets for 2020. Read more about these on page 20. Based on the expectations of the external community and the needs of our customers and clients, we will continue to advance the credit management industry. Our size, strong position and broad market presence mean we have opportunities to benefit both from economies of scale as well as from our knowledge of credit flows and payment capacity across several markets. We will continue to analyse opportuniSustainability for long-term value ties for increased efficiency and growth, carefully Intrum’s ambition to lead the way to a sound shaping our ambitions for a sound economy over economy requires that we work to generate longa longer horizon. term value for society as a whole. We do this by establishing secure payment flows and by helping Our starting point is our clients’ success companies grow and develop. At the same time, Our success builds on the trust of our clients we help consumers pay their debts and plan their and I would therefore like to thank the 80,000 personal finances sustainably. companies who let us help their customers rid Our collection operations and our yearly themselves of debt. I would also like to thank reports on payment patterns and debt give us a Intrum’s 9,000 employees, both those who have unique awareness of companies’ and consumers’ worked with the company for a long time, as well views on credit management. Carrying this as all of our new colleagues. Our collective insight with us, we engage in many important capacity to meet companies and their customers in initiatives to increase society’s knowledge in a responsive and professional manner is crucial in the areas of payments and sustainable private attaining our vision of being trusted and respected finance by, for example, supporting financial by everyone who provides and receives credit. education in schools and among the elderly. Intrum has been signatories of the UN Global Compact since 2016 and we report annually on how we apply the ten principles for sustainable companies. In 2019, we will continue the work of Mikael Ericson integrating the sustainability perspective into our President and CEO operations and we will maintain our support of Stockholm, March 2019 these principles. Statement by the CEO Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 7 Business model and services Our business model – how it works. We ensure that companies are paid by offering two types of services. Credit management services with a focus on late payments and collection, and purchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables. Both areas of service entail clients being paid for their outstanding invoices and being able to focus on running and developing their companies rather than spending time on credit management. We lead the way to a sound economy for individuals, companies and society as a whole by helping companies get paid and our clients’ customers to become debt free. 8 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 A balanced business model We apply two different offerings to ensure that Clients Intrum Customers companies selling products, services or credit are paid. Either by taking care of our clients’ late Credit management services with focus on late payments and collection cases, or by purchasing payment and collection entire portfolios of overdue receivables which we then collect on ourselves. Through our business model, we also generate data about the credit market and payment behaviours. In our collection operations, we Purchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables acquire new data from which we can benefit when, for example, valuing portfolios of overdue receivables that we acquire and, thanks to better information from our purchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables, we are able to conduct collection more efficiently. Following many years of operations in the collection of receivables and purchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables, we have acquired good insight into, and an understanding of, payment patterns in the credit market. As a leading credit management company, we amass extensive knowledge of companies and consumers, affording us opportunities to provide great benefit to our clients. Credit management services with a focus on late payment and collection Intrum helps companies to be paid by taking Share of revenue good care of their customers, helping them, in a considerate way, to become debt-free and Credit management services with a focus on late achieve sound private finances. With good data payments and collection on payment habits, we are able to understand Purchasing of portfolios of people’s financial situation and individually adapt overdue receivables our collection operations to each individual’s 40% (38) ability payment capacity. We can, for example, 60% (62) see differences between consumers who have encountered temporary financial problems and those who find themselves in a more difficult situation with more long-term debt problems. We know that people can become debt-free and, by meeting them with a constructive, conscientious and respectful attitude, our clients achieve fewer write-offs, improved liquidity and increased profitability, while also freeing up resources for their Share of earnings core operations. Credit management services with a focus on late Our practical approach to payments and collection late payment and collection Purchasing of portfolios of Intrum’s employees are in contact with customoverdue receivables ers hundreds of thousands of times every day, 40% (46) and the first thing we ascertain is whether our clients’ customers are able to pay off all of their 60% (54) debts directly. If this is not possible, we work out an instalment plan based on data from our extensive database and taking payment capacity in each individual case into account. The methods we apply in our contacts are telephone calls, letters, text messages, e-mail and Business model and services Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 9 outreach activities. It all depends on what is most Purchasing of portfolios effective in each instance. of overdue receivables If the collection process still does not bear fruit, we forward the matter to the legal authorities, Intrum acquires entire portfolios of overdue such as the enforcement service, for a decision. receivables for a portion of the receivables’ total value and then collects on those debts through Complete range of services its customary collection processes. Most of the companies we help require our We determine the purchase consideration for collection services, although we also offer a portfolios of overdue receivables by forecasting complete range of credit management services how large a part of the debt will be repaid and covering all of our clients’ needs, from credit when it is expected to be paid. Following its optimisation and payment services to late paypurchase of the defaulted receivables, Intrum’s ment and collection services. With services such long-term collection measures commence, aimed as factoring, our clients sell their invoices to us at helping our clients’ customers become debtand are paid immediately. With our service that free, since we can help them reduce their debt in has been developed for e-commerce companies, a respectful manner, for example through installour clients are paid immediately, while consumment plans that take account of each individual’s ers receive invoices or the opportunity to make payment capacity. installment payments. The companies selling the receivables are usually banks or other companies with large outstanding credits and for whom it may be attractive, in whole or in part, to sell their unpaid receivables. When they sell their claims, these are removed from their balance sheets and the payment received can be used instead to invest in their companies and further develop them. Carrying value, portfolio investments* SEK M % Carrying value, portfolio 25,000 25 000 25 The pro forma investments, SEK M carrying value of Return on portfolio 20,000 20 000 20 portfolio investments investments, % amounted to 15,000 SEK 24,830 M in 15 000 15 2018. 10,000 10 000 10 The pro forma return on portfolio 5,000 5 000 5 investments amounted to 0 0 15 percent in 2018. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Service line earnings/service line margin* SEK M % Pro forma service line Credit management services with a 4 000 4,000 80 earnings for Credit focus on late payment and collection, management services service line earnings, SEK M 3 500 3,500 70 with a focus on late Purchasing of portfolios of overdue 3 000 3,000 60 payment and collection receivables, service line earnings, amounted to SEK 2,500 2 500 50 SEK M 2,489 M in 2018 and for 2,000 2 000 40 Purchasing of portfolios Credit management services with a of overdue receivables focus on late payment and collection, 11,500 500 30 amounted to SEK service line margin, % 11,000 000 20 3,604 M in 2018, while Purchasing of portfolios of overdue the service line margins 500 10 receivables, service line margin, % were 27 percent and 56 0 0 percent respectively. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *The above are based on pro forma reporting for 2017 for the combined Intrum Justitia and Lindorff. 10 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Business model and services “Due to our very close relationship with Intrum, and the constant feedback loops on all hierarchy levels, we were able to reduce our financial default massively the past few years.” Michael Wieladek, Director Finance Operations at Sunrise Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 11 How we generate value. By meeting our … we lead the way to a sound economy … stakeholders’ We are driven by our purpose of leading the way to a sound economy and are expectations … guided by our four values, which ​​ describe who we are and how we behave in our day-to-day work: Empathy, Ethics, Dedication and Solutions. Customers 250,000 daily contacts Clients Intrum Our clients’ customers, that is, our endcustomers, wish to be treated respectfully when seeking support and advice from us in order to find solutions to become debt-free. Credit management services with focus on late payment and collection Clients 80,000 clients Companies of different sizes from many sectors hire us to secure payment for their goods and services. Employees 9,000 employees Our employees want meaningful, stimulating and developing work. Purchasing of portfolios Society of overdue receivables 25 markets Our market-leading position imposes considerable responsibility and we are expected to contribute knowledge and expertise, and to generate social and financial value. Shareholders 20,000 Shareholders By generating positive financial results and acting responsibly, we can generate sustainable returns. 12 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 … and create both social and financial value for the world around us. Social value Financial value Customers Customers Through an ethical approach, 10.5 million respecting the circumstances of each We help our customers with support and individual, we help our end-customers advice on how to get out of debt. During the find sustainable solutions for sound year, 10.5 million cases have been settled by private finances. payment. Clients It is our mission to help companies SEK 69 billion prosper by caring for their customers. During 2018 we have generated SEK 69 billion to our clients of which SEK 57 billion stem from Credit Management Services and SEK 12 billion from purchasing portfolios with overdue receivables. Employees At Intrum, our employees can participate SEK 4.45 billion in meaningful work with good opportunities In total SEK 4.45 billion has been paid in for development, with everyone having the salaries and pensions to our employees opportunity to grow by making a difference. throughout the year. Society By helping companies secure payment SEK 599 million and helping individuals rid themselves of SEK 599 million was the total corporate tax debt, we build sustainable payment flows, for 2018. In addition, tax and social fees on development, and employment, promoting salaries and benefits, value added tax, along a sound economy for society as a whole. with tax on vehicles, properties, energy etc. Shareholders We generate returns for our SEK 1.2 billion shareholders through profitability During the year, our shareholders have and social responsibility. received dividends of SEK 1.2 billion. How we generate value Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 13 Purpose, mission and vision In a sound economy, people feel good, companies grow and the entire society flourish. Our vision is to be trusted and respected by everyone who provides and receives credit. Accordingly, our mission is to help companies prosper by caring for their customers, in a considerate manner, to meet their commitments and pay off their debts at an individual pace. In this way, Intrum plays an important role in society, leading the way to a sound economy. Purpose: We lead the way to a sound economy. As goods and services are increasingly With our two service areas, credit paid for with credit, it is important for management services with a focus on companies to be able to make sales late payments and collection, and with the least possible credit risk and purchasing portfolios of overdue to accept payment securely. This also receivables, we help companies means that consumers can feel secure minimise their financial risk and thus in credit-based purchases not leading improve their profitability. We ensure to unsustainable debt. Intrum has an that companies are paid and help preimportant role to play in society and vent their customers from becoming is at the forefront of creating effective trapped in debt. This builds commupayment flows and a sound economy. nities with growing companies that provide jobs, while people achieve sounder private finances. Mission: We help companies prosper by caring for their customers. As the leading credit management people’s financial capacity, our company in Europe, we have long clients’ customers are treated with been a pioneer in the ethics and respect and consideration. People morality of our collection process. We gain better opportunities to meet their apply the same consideration towards commitments and pay their debts and companies striving to develop, grow companies incur fewer write-offs, and recruit as we do towards customimprove their liquidity and increase ers of theirs who find themselves in an their profitability while freeing up exposed financial situation. resources for their core operations by avoiding the need to invest resources Thanks to our collection operations, in credit management. which are individually tailored to Vision: Trusted and respected by everyone who provides and receives credit. Our vision is for Intrum to be trusted fore important that we maintain our and respected by everyone who position as role models in the sector, provides and receives credit. With showing the way to a sound economy services that generate growth while for all. We strive to meet the highest helping people become debt-free, standards in everything we do, with we build value for people, companies great professionalism in which we and communities. accept responsibility for our actions. Treating our clients’ customers with We do our job best if we have the consideration is the very essence of complete confidence of our clients who we are and what we do. and their customers and it is therePurpose, mission and vision Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 15 Values With respect and consideration for people. At Intrum, we generate value for people, companies and society as a whole, which also benefits our shareholders. Our employees also gain opportunities to grow and develop by making a difference. Our four values describe who we are and how we act in our daily work. We view them as a guide in everyday life, as we help our clients secure payment and their customers to rid themselves of debt. Empathy Ethics Our day-to-day operations entail generating Our ethical standards and expectations extend value for people, companies and society. Each beyond the requirements of the law. We behave situation is unique and has its own financial and as role models and consider it our responsibility, social impact. We strive to meet people on their and an opportunity, to set new standards to own terms and to treat others with dignity and change people’s view of the credit management respect. This applies to all – our clients, endsector. This entails treating our clients’ customers customers and colleagues. This approach allows with consideration and respect under all circumus to find meaning and value in what we do and stances and cooperating with companies and to achieve our shared vision. customers who share our values. To achieve this, we behave fairly and honestly in everything we do. • We listen actively and seek to understand. • We keep an open mind and are flexible. • We focus on society and sustainable • We show patience and offer support. enterprise. • We take responsibility for our actions. • We do the right thing – living and acting according to our values and our Code of Conduct. Dedication Solutions Our committed employees are one of our greatest What makes us stand out in the market is our strengths. By trying to improve a little every day, capacity to identify and develop the best soluwe bring out the best in one another. We grow as tions and to create win-win situations for our individuals and as a team to shape our company’s clients and their customers. By being innovative future, thereby providing added value for our and efficient, we exceed expectations and clients and their customers. Our industry is changassume a role as a knowledge leader in our sector. ing constantly, we are always moving forward and never cease developing. • We focus on results, not problems. • We collaborate to provide our clients and • We share knowledge across borders. customers with innovative solutions. • We are committed to, and responsible for, our • We value quality and professionalism. own development. • We go that little bit further and never give up. 16 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy Choice of future direction. Intrum is the leading credit management company in Europe. For a long time, we have considered ourselves pioneers in ethical and sustainable credit management, with our clients in focus and with consideration for their customers, whom we help become debt-free. In the future, we want to continue acting as a benchmark and setting the standard for the industry. We have implemented a strategy for this that encompasses growth, efficiency, digitisation and analysis. Growth Both of our areas of service, credit and secured assets, such as real estate, management services with a focus vouching for continued growth. on late payments and collection, and purchasing of portfolios of overdue New markets are also an opportunity receivables offer substantial potential for growth. We are first establishing for growth. The greatest potential of all ourselves in earnest in those European lies in growing that part of our operacountries where we are not currently tions that comprises portfolio investpresent, and after that we can start ments. We have of late strengthened considering other parts of the world. our capacity with regard to investing in In 2018, we established, for example, portfolios of corporate receivables a minor operation in Brazil. Efficiency For Intrum, efficiency is about doing the Doing things right also involves our right things the right way, and we know internal efficiency. Our market is that customer experience is an imporcompetitive, and we must constantly tant part of this. How our clients’ cusstreamline our working methods to tomers experience their contact with be able to deliver with quality while us in our efforts to help them become maintaining profitability. This is a matdebt free affects the result. ter of coordinating internal processes, sharing best practices and centralising Acting with consideration and respect IT. During 2018, we commenced, for for each individual’s financial situation example, our efforts to centralise the is the most ethical and effective way for early parts of the collection process at people to rid themselves of debt and a shared centre. for companies to be paid. Digitisation and analysis As a leading credit management debt with whom we have contact company, we amass extensive insights every day. While sending letters, regarding companies and consumers, calling and e-mailing are common affording us opportunities to provide channels of communication, in 2018, greater customer benefit to our cliwe also introduced a chatbot in cerents. With this knowledge, combined tain markets, which was appreciated with Intrum’s own analysis models, our by many customers. The second part clients’ risk assessment is made easier involves how we act towards our cliand granting credit to customers is ents, where we also try to find digital more secure. solutions. This might involve, for example, services that allow companies to Our digital journey consists of three manage their customer invoices online. parts. The first part involves how we The third part involves how we digitise meet our clients’ customers, the our own, internal processes and how approximately 250,000 people in we use all of our data. Strategy Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 19 Financial targets 2020 Earnings per share Target Outcome 35 Earnings per share 2017 and 2018. Growth in earnings per share is a measure that, over time, is deemed to correlate very well with the growth SEK/ in value for Intrum’s shareholders. SEK share 20 Earnings per share and growth in this measure encompasses all aspects that drive shareholder value An increase of 75 percent until – organic growth, margin trend, financing structure, tax 2020 compared to 2016, corre15 burden, dividend growth, etc. sponding to an average yearly 14.62 14.18 increase of 15 percent. Further large steps in EPS will be required in 2019 and 10 2020 to hit the target, and we are confident that the synergy benefits of the merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff, the partnership with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo 5 and growth from many other areas of the business will enable us to reach this target. 0 2017 2018 Return on purchased debt Target Outcome 13% Return on purchased debt 2018 and 2017 Over the next few years, it is our assessment that pro forma* a large portion of Intrum’s growth will be generated in portfolio investments, where we believe there will be % good market growth. 30 Return on purchased 25 Growth should not, however, be achieved at the expense debt should be at least of profitability and Intrum prioritises instead a stable and 13 percent on a rolling 20 high return. twelve months basis. 15 Managing the ROI through disciplined investments 16 15 and focus on collection performance effectiveness and 10 efficiency will be key to hitting this target. 5 *B ased on pro forma numbers for the combined Intrum Justitia and 0 Lindorff in 2017. 2017 2018 Net debt in relation to operating earnings before depreciation and amortisation Target Outcome Intrum shall maintain a responsible financial structure, 2.5 taking into account the operations’ risks, volatility and Pro forma net debt / pro forma Cash EBITDA access to capital on credit markets. The central measure excluding NRI’s 2017* and 2018. for assessing the level of the Group’s borrowing is to relate net debt to cash flow, with operating earnings before to depreciation and amortisation being judged to provide 3.5 5 the best view and being the most generally accepted measure of financial capacity among creditors. 4 4.3 4.1 Intrum has very strong cash flow from operations by 3 means of its stable earnings without capital being tied up in Credit Management and because portfolio investNet debt in relation to 2 ments has a short maturity in terms of cash flow. operating earnings before depreciation and 1 Leverage is expected to fall through 2019 and 2020 amortisation shall be in the as investment levels return to normalised levels and interval 2.5–3.5. 0 Cash EBITDA grows strongly. 2017 2018 *B  ased on pro forma numbers for the combined Intrum Justitia and Lindorff in 2017. Dividend policy Intrum’s dividend policy is that shareholders should, over time, obtain a dividend or equivalent that averages at least half of the net earnings for the year after tax. Decisions relating to dividend proposals will take into account the Company’s future financial development, capital requirements and status in other regards. For 2018 the Board has proposed a dividend of SEK 9.50 per share (SEK 9.50 per share), which is equivalent to approximately 64 percent of net earnings. 20 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Definitions of financial key figures are given on page 126 “We do what we do best, and Intrum do what they do best.” Elena Sánchez, Finance and HR Manager in Autorola Spain SL Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Regions Intrum’s operations are divided into the four regions: Northern Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, Western and Southern Europe, and the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America. We maintain operations in a total 25 countries and have approximately 9,000 employees. Share of revenue Share of earnings Proportion of employees 5% 20% 23% 27% 30% 32% 27% Northern Europe Central and Eastern Europe 6% 24% Western and Southern Europe 19% Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 28% 24% Other (Group functions) 35% 22 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Revenues, operating earnings and operating margins excluding revaluations of portfolio investments. Northern Europe Year established Market position 2018 2017 % % fx* Denmark 1977 Market leader Revenues, SEK M 4,002 3,827 5 1 Estonia 1996 Market leader Operating earnings, SEK M 1,425 1,412 1 –3 Finland 1910 Market leader Operating margin, % 36 37 Latvia 2000 Market leader Lithuania 2002 Market leader Norway 1898 Market leader Sweden 1923 Market leader Central and Eastern Europe Year established Market position 2018 2017 % % fx* Austria 1995 Top 5 Revenues, SEK M 3,681 3,233 14 10 Czech Republic 1996 Market leader Operating earnings, SEK M 1,442 1,117 29 25 Germany 1978 Top 5 Operating margin, % 39 35 Greece 2018 Smaller Hungary 1993 Market leader Poland 1998 Top 5 Slovakia 2005 Market leader Romania 2006 Top 5 Switzerland 1971 Market leader Western and Southern Europe Year established Market position 2018 2017 % % fx* Belgium 1988 Top 5 Revenues, SEK M 2,622 2,050 28 23 France 1987 Market leader Operating earnings, SEK M 664 337 97 93 Ireland 1999 Top 5 Operating margin, % 25 16 Italy 1985 Top 5 Netherlands 1983 Top 5 UK 1989 Smaller Iberian Peninsula and Latin America Year established Market position 2018 2017 % % fx* Brasil 2018 Smaller Revenues, SEK M 2,826 3,046 –7 –12 Portugal 1997 Market leader Operating earnings, SEK M 969 1,062 –9 –15 Spain 1994 Market leader Operating margin, % 34 35 * % fx refers to the change adjusted for currency effects. Regions Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 23 “Intrum helped me a lot understanding my problems. They listened and put me in the right direction. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for helping me.” End-customer, United Kingdom 24 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Market and We are seeing increased economic polarisation between social groups trends in Europe, while the ease with which various credits can be obtained online has also increased. At the same time, the trend of borrowing for consumption appears to have abated. These are some of the changes in European consumer behaviours emerging from Intrum’s annual European Consumer Payment Report 2018. For the credit management industry as a whole, consolidation, new regulations and changes in behaviour among those selling portfolios of unpaid receivables are affecting the dynamics of the market. Shifting market dynamics and new consumer trends. New regulations on non-performing loans the players involved in discussions with the In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the Commission regarding the new regulations. directives on how European banks should handle loans maturing without payment have General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) been amended, imposing stricter demands on came into effect in 2018 both sellers of unpaid receivables, as well as One of the advantages of being the biggest is buyers such as Intrum. It is, for example, becomthat it allows us to gain great insight on payment ing increasingly important to act as a long-term behaviours. With substantial data and thus a partner to those who sell portfolios. This causes great capacity for analysis, the effectiveness and the market terms for portfolio acquisitions to accuracy of the analysis process are enhanced. shift from a process in which the price tag sets This provides Intrum with the tools to conduct its the tone, to something different. Only the largest operations in a respectful manner, based on each credit management companies are capable of individual’s ability to pay. We also have good prerealigning their processes and methods to meet requisites for making accurate analyses, making the new requirements. it easier to evaluate portfolios and reduce risks in Because Intrum is well positioned to meet the the operations. banks’ need for a strong counterparty, this develThe General Data Protection Regulation opment generates good opportunities for Intrum (GDPR), the new European regulatory framework to participate in the ongoing shift in the market. for processing of personal data, was adopted in The EU Commission continues to develop 2016 and came into effect in 2018. This affects directives and establish a functioning marketall companies’ handling of personal data and place for non-performing loans. Intrum is one of imposes increased demands on compliance. Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 25 For many years, Intrum has applied a well-estabcompanies benefit from greater size and opportulished procedure for data management, and this nities to derive economies of scale – a trend that is now being reinforced. we have been seeing in Europe for several years, but which has intensified. Intrum has contributed Ethical collection to this consolidation through several acquisitions For those selling portfolios of overdue receivables, in recent years. how credit management companies treat their customers is becoming increasingly important. Claims with underlying collateral for sale Collection must be managed ethically, and cusA clear trend since 2017 has been for those selltomers must be treated respectfully. Intrum has ing portfolios of overdue receivables to seek long been a pioneer in ethical credit management, to sell not only unsecured receivables but also with our clients in focus and with consideration for those with underlying collateral in real estate, for their customers, whom we help become debt-free. example, or purely corporate receivables. This is driven by the banks focusing increasingly on their Increased innovation core operations, leaving it to credit management The credit management industry and the entire companies to handle overdue receivables, both financial sector are undergoing major changes mortgages, as well as other types of receivables. driven by new market dynamics and rapid technological development. This facilitates a better cusNeed for new services tomer experience and more efficient processes, An increasing number of multinational companies thus benefiting companies and consumers alike. seek solutions with support in several countries. New innovations such as artificial intelligence, That may involve developing a model for managing robotics and advanced analytical models offer a client’s credit management in one country and opportunities for a company like Intrum. At the then providing services based on that model in same time, this brings new types of players to several countries. Accordingly, Intrum and others the market, increasing innovation and challenging must develop systems and services to meet this. established companies, which benefits and Another trend is for more companies to seek indevelops the industry. novative digital services. To attract the more than 20 million small businesses that exist in Europe, Continued consolidation products are needed that suit their needs and that A traditionally fragmented market with many they can order and manage completely digitally. local credit management companies is changing, with large companies acquiring the smaller ones. A consolidation of the market is in progress, driven by the fact that credit management 26 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Market and trends Intrum’s annual survey, European Consumer Payment Report, 2018 revealed three clear trends among European consumers. Following an extended period of relatively strong economic Increased economic polarisation development in Europe, the personal finances of many between different social groups consumers are also improving. But another Europe also exists, in which a large number of consumers struggle with small margins on a monthly basis. In Intrum’s annual European Consumer Payment Report, some 24,000 consumers respond to questions regarding their financial situation and future prospects in their country. This year’s result shows that a growing proportion of consumers are able to save money every month, and the proportion of consumers who believe they will be financially better off than their parents has increased. However, debt has also increased. A growing minority experiences problems making their money last at the end of the month. To pay their bills, 20 percent need to borrow money. This is a high proportion given Europe’s relatively strong economy at the moment, and given that this group accounted for only 15 percent three years ago. The growing trend of online banking and shopping is Many Europeans concerned by becoming a normal part of everyone’s daily life. Online easy access to online credit shopping continues to increase across Europe and in all age groups. At the same time, many consumers are concerned by the potential disadvantages of excessively easy access to credit and shopping. Four out of ten Europeans (41 percent) say they now make a larger share of their purchases online than they did a year ago, and there is no reason to believe this trend will decline. A majority of Europeans perceive problems in access to credit and online shopping. Of those surveyed, 63 percent express concern regarding how smartphones provide easy access to credit, as this can tempt people to take out loans they cannot manage. The increasing trend towards a more liberal view on The trend of borrowing for borrowing money for consumption appears to have halted. consumption has abated In 2018, 31 percent of European consumers said that it was acceptable to buy consumer goods on instalments, on credit or to use borrowed money in some other way. This was the same level as in 2017, although the figure rose from 19 to 26 percent between 2015 and 2016. Buying a holiday on credit remains less commonplace, although here too, the rising trend appears to have halted. Among European respondents, 16 percent consider it acceptable to buy a holiday on instalments, on credit or to use borrowed money in some other way, which is the same figure as in 2017. *Source: European Consumer Payment Report 2018. The report can be downloaded as pdf via www.intrum.com/press/ publications/europeanconsumer-payment-report/ Market and trends Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 27 Sustainability Sustainable payment flows for people, companies and society as a whole. Intrum’s sustainability efforts are rooted in our purpose: to lead the way to a sound economy. In a sound economy, companies are prospering and growing, while individuals in society have sufficient knowledge to be able to make informed decisions and achieve sustainable private finances. This in turn benefits society as a whole. As the leading player in credit management, that is late payment and collection, we bear a great responsibility to conduct our operations sustainably and ethically and to work pro actively on issues of finance and debt. On a daily basis, we are in touch with hundreds of thousands of people with varying degrees of debt and different financial circumstances. It is our duty to treat all ethically and with empathy and respect. Through our work for ethical and responsible credit management, we want to take part in setting the standard for our industry. We work continuously to improve a little every day. A sound economy By helping individuals get out of debt, providing advice and support on financial issues, while ensuring that companies are paid, we promote a sound economy for society at large. Our task is to help companies be paid so they can grow and prosper. We do this by caring for their customers. At the same time, through our operations, we provide opportunities for all employees to help benefit society and thereby make a difference through their daily work. How we take responsibility In 2018 we developed our sustainability work and initiated several initiatives to further develop, and more clearly integrate, sustainability issues into our operations. Our primary focus is on generating value for our stakeholders and society in general, at the same time as we endeavour to review potential sustainability risks. 2018 was Intrum’s first full calendar year following the merger of Intrum Justitia and Lindorff. Accordingly, 2018 is the starting year to measure a range of social, economic and environmental sustainability indicators. Sustainability Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 29 For us, it is important to be responsive to and Three areas of sustainability include those who are affected by our business, that drive our work to better understand their opinions and their exThe dialogues with stakeholders and the pectations on our work. Throughout the year we materiality analysis have resulted in three general have had continuous dialogues with a range of areas that drive our sustainability work forward. key stakeholders, and through these dialogues we We shall: Enable sustainable payments, Be a have gathered knowledge to identify our material trusted and respected actor, Grow by making a topics. The results have played a significant role difference. These areas are closely related to our for our sustainability agenda and formed the founidentity and are integrated into the day-to-day dation of our materiality analysis. It is important operations. that we are responsive to our stakeholders and we The purpose with Intrum’s three focus areas is will expand next year, broadening our dialogues to to drive and strengthen our sustainability work, additional stakeholder groups. More information and this forms the foundation in our work to on this can be found in the section About the create value. We support the UN:s Sustainable Sustainability Report on page 115. Development Goals (SDG’s) and Agenda 2030, Intrum has been a signatory of the UN Global and we believe that our business can play an Compact initiative since 2016. Through this, we important role to meet the goals. have undertaken to adhere to its ten principles and to contribute to sustainable development from an economic, social and environmental perspective. 30 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Three focus areas in sustainability By ensuring sustainable payment flows between companies Quality education Enabling and individuals, we fill an important function in society and Within the field of promoting sustainsustainable enable a sound economy. In a sound economy, companies able payments, we flourish and grow, while consumers have sufficient knowledge work to increase the payments to make well-founded decisions and achieve sustainable knowledge with personal finance and prevent over-indebtedness. private finances. This, in turn, benefits society as a whole. With our educational initiatives, we contribute to increased As a market leader, setting the standard for our industry and knowledge with personal finances including mathematical and leading the way in sustainable future business practices is financial concepts. both an opportunity and a responsibility. Accordingly, we cooperate only with companies and suppliers who share our Partnership values regarding good business ethics. for the goals The financial stability increase when comWe have extensive experience of helping people become panies and organisadebt free, and we see it as our responsibility to act considtions can feel secure about getting erately and respectfully towards people in each individual paid for their goods and services. We work continuously to shorten financial situation. We are happy to share our expertise and payment terms. Our work in this work pro actively and continuously to spread knowledge field contributes to increasing the about private finances and counteract over-indebtedness. macroeconomic stability. Peace and justice Our vision is for Intrum to be trusted and respected by Being trusted everyone who provides and receives credit. Every day, our Approaching our vision to become and respected clients entrust us with their most important asset – their trusted and respected customers. Accordingly, a basic prerequisite for us to by everyone who provides and receives credit puts succeed in our efforts is that we have the complete trust high demands on acting responof our clients and their customers. sibly. We have zero tolerance of corruption and bribery, and work To approach our vision, we must set a good example. In to eliminate illicit behaviour in all its forms within our business. In addition to complying with laws and regulations, this means that way, our work contributes to we are guided by our values, that we live and breathe them. combating corruption. We strive to meet the highest standards in everything we do. With a presence in 24 European markets and 9,000 Decent work and Growing by employees, we are market leaders in terms of revenues, economic growth Our internal work to making a geographical spread and number of employees alike. We create value involves want to offer a meaningful and stimulating workplace and the opportunities difference strive to be the most attractive employer in our sector. Our we create for our employees to grow by making a difference. We position allows us to drive the development of the entire want all of our employees to thrive industry in a more ethical direction, thereby creating value and to have the right tools and and meaning for our employees. conditions for their development. We value being responsive to the needs of our employees and strive We see diversity as an important asset for our capacity to to offer a good working environbe responsive and to understand the individual situation of ment characterised by diversity, each person and help people to get out of debt. For us, it is inclusion and respect. important to ensure that all employees are treated respectfully and are afforded equal opportunities for development. In our day-to-day work, we listen actively and do our utmost to understand people, treating them with dignity and respect. This applies to us both internally and in our contacts with customers, clients and other stakeholders. Sustainability Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 31 Enabling sustainable payments. As a market leader, we can influence the development of the credit management industry in an ethical and sustainable direction, and we strive to set a good example in our industry. By leading the way to a sound economy, we participate in promoting more ethical credit management and sustainable payments. We see two parallel trends: companies suffer Value Index (start year 2018) 80 from late and non-payment, in turn preventing them from growing, recruiting and developing.* At the same time, more and more people find it difficult to make their money last and take on debt to finance their purchases. In 2018, every fifth consumer replied that they needed to take loans or credit in order to pay their bills.** By enabling sustainable payment flows between companies and private individuals, Intrum thus fills an important function in society and leading After the merger into Intrum, our new values ​​were prethe way to a sound economy. pared in 2017. Since 2018, we are investigating how well our employees feel that we live by our four values Empathy, ​​ We help nearly 80,000 companies secure payEthics, Dedication and Solutions in our daily work. During ment for their goods and services so that they the year, we scored 80/100 on our value index. can focus on their core operations. At the same time, we provide, every day, more than 250,000 people in debt, our customers, with advice and support to rid themselves of debt and achieve work with our clients to how we respond to our sound personal finances. customers. These values also form an important Guided by our values, we behave considerately part of our Code of Conduct, which explains and respectfully in each individual situation. We how we define a high ethical standard and good strive to offer solutions that generate mutual business ethics. * Based on EPR 2018, value for our customers, our clients and for sociAll who represent us, including our suppliers and a survey among 9,607 companies in Europe. ety as a whole. In addition to our contacts with partners, are obliged to sign our Code of Conduct. The report is available on our website: these customers, we consider it our task to work In 2019, our employees will undergo on-line www.intrum.com/press/ publications/ pro actively and continuously to prevent overtraining to ensure compliance with the Code. european-payment-report/. indebtedness among consumers. Ethical credit management also means that ** Based on ECPR 2018, a survey among 24,000 we select our clients and partners with care. We consumers in Europe. The report is available on We are driven by our values work only with companies and suppliers who our website: www.intrum.com/press/ Our values Empathy, Ethics, Dedication and share our values with regard to good business publications/ european-consumerSolutions guide us in all that we do, from how we ethics. This means, for example, that we of course payment-report/ 32 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability do not collaborate with clients whose invoices Client Satisfaction Index lack a legal foundation, that apply unethical lending terms or the use aggressive sales methods. 100 Ethical treatment By treating customers ethically and offering sup80 port to set up sustainable solutions, we can help 73 71 people achieve sound finances. We always strive 60 to treat people with empathy and respect for 40 each individual’s circumstances. It is our task to offer support in finding a sustainable solution, re20 gardless of the cause of the debt or late payment. 0 Our customers find themselves in different 2017 2018 degrees of debt and have varying financial circumstances. We understand that anyone can fall into Based on an independent survey conducted among our clients. debt for various reasons. This could involve anything from a forgotten bill, to life-shattering events with financial consequences. Falling into debt can be stressful. It is not uncommon that those we talk consecutive year and we are alone in our industry to are in a strained financial situation, which can, in in achieving this. This award emphasises our turn, also lead to social tribulations. engagement and commitment to leading the The degree of satisfaction among our customdevelopment of the credit management industry ers and clients reflects our capacity to live up to in a more ethical direction. our values and treat people ethically in our daily work. Consequently, our customers’ and clients’ Increased knowledge satisfaction is extremely important in our sustainpromotes a sound economy ability efforts associated with ethics and values. We have more than 100 years of experience in Over several years, Intrum’s operations in the helping individuals rid themselves of debt and of UK have received awards for our employees’ promoting sustainable payment flows between commitment and ethical treatment of customers. people and companies, and in society as a whole. With the Investor in Customers (IIC) award, for It is therefore obvious to us that we should work example, we attained gold standard for the fourth pro actively to disseminate knowledge on issues related to a sound economy. Both in order to counteract and prevent over-indebtedness, and to promote sustainable payment terms between companies. Each year, we conduct two surveys, in part the European Consumer Payment Report, in which 24,000 European consumers discuss their personal finances, with a focus on credit and borrowing and, in part the European Payment Report, in which some 10,000 companies in Europe share their experiences of late or defaulted payments. Education in private finance The result of our consumer report for 2018 found that there is a knowledge gap regarding personal finances. Nearly half (48 percent) of consumers wished they had learned more about private finance at school. To respond to this need, we work pro actively with education initiatives across Europe. In Sweden, we conduct special training initiatives aimed at the younger generation around what it means to buy on credit and we highlight the consequences that can arise from taking an imprudent approach. Through the Spendido initiative, we offer an interactive web class in personal finance that also responds to a number of requirements in today’s upper-secondary curriculum. With our education initiatives regarding sound private finances, we see an opportunity to help promote UN Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education. By raising knowledge of personal finance, credit and borrowing, we have the Sustainability Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 33 opportunity to make a positive contribution to Geographical overview of our education initiatives society, thereby generating value for both individuals and companies, as well as for society as a whole. We will continue to prioritise and develop these efforts. Sound payment terms When late and defaulted payments affect companies, this can exert pressure on liquidity and cause loss of revenue, which can, in the worst case, impede the company’s survival. Late payments also affect individuals who risk ending up in an economic situation to which it can be difficult to find a solution. We know how important it is for companies to be paid on time. This year’s European Payment Report showed what negative consequences late payment can have. One fifth (20 percent) of the companies stated that they would have been able to recruit more people if they had received payment more promptly. The European legislation in this areas has yet to achieve the anticipated impact. In response to this, several initiatives have been launched in Europe to encourage a voluntary payment code of no more than 30 days among companies. For a long time, we have brought attention to the issue of sound payment terms and we are proud to be driving efforts to change attitudes, contributing positively to business and society. In Sweden, we have played a significant role in designing the now established voluntary payment code among companies, which has been signed by a number of major players in the business sector. With our proactive efforts to disseminate information of the impact of late payment on the economy, and by helping companies secure payment for their goods and services, we can contribute to the realisation of UN Sustainable Development Goal 17.13 “Enhance global macroeconomic stability”. When payment periods are shortened, prosperity and employment can increase, contributing to additional positive effects for society as a whole. Our sustainability Expand the scope of our education initiatives We want more people to get access to education of personal targets for 2019 finances, therefore we strive to increase the accessibility of our education initiatives. Increase the customer satisfaction and develop the method of measurement We strive to increase the general satisfaction among our customers. We also want to enhance the comparability of the customer satisfaction between our markets by developing the method of measurement. Increase the client satisfaction In general, our clients are satisfied with our services. Ranging from 0–100 we were rated 73 during 2018, and the goal is to increase the satisfaction until next year. 34 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability “Intrum respects our relationships with customers, and understands that client relationships are valuable.” Rika Christanto, CEO and co-founder at Ontruck Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 35 Being trusted and respected. Every day, our clients entrust us with their most important asset – their customers. A basic prerequisite for us to succeed is that we have the complete trust of our clients and customers. Accordingly, we strive every day to achieve our vision of being trusted and respected by everyone who provides and receives credit. Our work can only be carried out if we have the The undertaking in the Global Compact is full trust of our clients and their customers. To also an important part of our Code of Conduct, approach our vision, we must be exemplary in covering all who represent us, including our supour behaviour and lead our industry in an ethical pliers and partners, as well as our employees. and sustainable direction. In addition to acting in Through our Code of Conduct, we confirm a compliance with laws and regulations, this means long-term commitment to ensuring that ethics living according to our values and taking responand sustainability form part of our daily work. sibility for our impact on people, society and the In 2018, our first calendar year as Intrum environment. following the merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff, we consolidated our regulations. How we take responsibility To strengthen the implementation of the internal As the largest player in the industry, we lead the instructions and continue ensuring that we mainway to a sound economy and efforts to develop tain our high ethical standards, all employees will sustainable business practices for the future. undergo training in our Code of Conduct in 2019. Through our ethical guidelines that goes beyond With our market-leading position, we also have compliance, we can act as role models. This, we the opportunity to participate in influencing the are certain, will enhance the respect afforded us industry in a more sustainable direction. The credit by employees, customers, clients and shareholdmanagement industry faces several regulatory ers, as well as by society as a whole. changes that, properly designed, can further safeWe want to take responsibility and generate guard consumer rights and raise the level of quality value where we operate, for people as well as for in our industry. We work actively to support the the environment, and we work to safeguard comestablishment of an EU Non-performing Loans pliance with international conventions on human Directive, aimed, among other things, at requiring rights, working conditions, the environment and fairer treatment of consumers. anti-corruption in our business. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, Privacy and personal data protection we have committed to taking responsibility for Every day, we are in contact with 250,000 our operations and thereby respecting the ten people in debt, meaning that we handle personal principles, which are based on international condata concerning those individuals. We bear both ventions. Our ambition is to ensure that the prina legal and ethical responsibility to handle senciples and good business ethics are integrated sitive information in a manner guaranteeing that throughout our operations and value chain. their personal integrity is respected. 36 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Incorrect use of sensitive data risks harming Conduct, together with our instructions against individuals and our business alike. For us, the bribery and our instructions against money launhuman right of freedom from unauthorised dering and terrorist financing, provide guidance involvement in people’s private life is central. to employees on acting to safeguard compliance Since the enforcement of GDPR the 25th of May, with our zero tolerance in this area. These instrucwe have updated our integrity and data protections cover all suppliers, entities, employees and tion instructions, ensuring that this fundamental anyone who represents us. right is respected and that we handle personal We regularly review our clients to ascertain that data correctly. we cooperate only with companies that share our Intrum only processes personal data where values regarding good business ethics. we have a legal basis for doing so. At the same Our work to combat corruption is central to our time, we have a legal obligation to provide cersustainability efforts and we seek, through this, to tain personal data to authorities to prevent and contribute to the fulfilment of the UN Sustainable monitor suspected cases of money laundering Development Goals associated with peaceful and other criminal activities. Every unit in our and inclusive societies, target 16.5 Substantially operations has a personal integrity protection reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms. officer ensuring that we comply with existing To ensure that our instructions are adhered requirements and providing guidance in this area. to, several possibilities for reporting suspected violations are provided. All employees are enAnti-corruption couraged to report known or suspected Our business is based on our purpose of leading violations of our instructions. Employees can the way to a sound economy. In a sound economy, do this by reporting to their immediate manager there is no room for corruption or illegal activior someone else in a position of responsibility, or ties, and corruption is also a threat to sustainable through the whistle-blower function, our Code financial development. It is therefore self-evident of Conduct Hotline, provided by an independent to us that we maintain zero tolerance of corrupsupplier. All notifications in the whistle-blower tion and bribery. system are anonymous and the function is availaAs a player in 25 markets, we, like other comble around the clock via the Internet or by phone panies, face corruption risks and therefore have in the national language of all countries where clearly formulated instructions to eliminate risks we operate. All reported incidents are addressed related to corruption and bribery. Our Code of confidentially by our ethics council, which Our tools to prevent unethical behaviour Ethics Risk council evaluation Robust internal set of rules Whistleblower Education system Screening Internal of clients control Sustainability Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 37 evaluates incoming cases and takes the necessary Our climate footprint (CO2e* emission) measures. Among the incidents that were reported in the 155 tons (2%) whistle-blower function, our Code of Conduct Total tCO2e emission: 8,454** Hotline, one incident led to termination of employment. The incident was not illicit, but Scope 1 was violating the ethical standards of our Code Scope 2 of Conduct. Scope 3 2,886 tons (34%) Limiting our environmental footprint Being a trusted and respected actor builds on us conducting our business considerately, enabling a sustainable future for coming generations. 5,413 tons (64%) Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Business and industry can play an important role in reducing the environmental and climate impact, and we consider it our responsibility to minimise our impact where we have the opportunity. Through our environmental instructions and Scope 1 covers emissions from cars that we own. Code of Conduct, we work to reduce our environScope 2 is our emissions from energy consumption in our office buildings, mental and climate footprint. These instructions and entails electricity use, district heating and cooling. guide our employees regarding how our environmental impact can be limited – meeting digitally Scope 3 covers emissions from business travel by airplane, train, taxi, leased company cars and public transports such as bus. instead of travelling, for example. We do not permit company cars emitting more than 130 grams *GWP 100 (IPCC 2014). ** Location-based. More information on page 118. of carbon dioxide per kilometre. Over the year, we carried out our first comprehensive survey of our climate footprint throughout the operations. With 2018 as the start year, we can continue to work more pro actively to strengthen our efforts to benefit the environment and the climate, which is a prioritised area going forward. Environmentand climate risks To safeguard the long-term and sustainable development of our operations, we must continue preparing to manage external risks. In the long term, climate change, demographic shifts and other sustainability factors may affect our operations. An important priority during 2019 is to strengthen our risk efforts associated with sustainability factors. Our sustainability Define environment and climate goals Based on our first comprehensive investigation of our climate targets for 2019 impact during 2018 we will in 2019 formulate environmental and climate goals to reduce our negative impact. Enhance the incorporation of our code of conduct Through internal education for our employees, we want to enhance the knowledge with our updated code of conduct and thereby its incorporation. Strengthened assessment and follow-up of risks related to sustainability In the coming year, we will strengthen our assessment of risks related to sustainability through our tool for risk assessment that has been updated during 2018. 38 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability ”The person who called was very polite and skilled. He gave me advice that I had no clue about and that will really become useful. I was very impressed that a collection agency handles a case in this way. I was astonished and positively surprised!” End-customer, Sweden Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 39 Growing by making a difference. At Intrum, all employees have the opportunity to contribute to a sound economy. We strive to be the most attractive employer in our sector, where we offer meaningful and stimulating work with good opportunities to develop, grow and make a difference. Our employees are the key to our success. To Average number of employees attract talent and develop and retain employees, % we attach great importance to well-being, 10 000 10,000 clear values, good leadership and continuous skills development. Our market-leading position 8,000 8 000 7,910 allows us to offer favourable international develop6,000 6 000 ment opportunities and skills development in 6,293 several areas. 4,000 4 000 For us, it is important to ensure that all em3,801 3,846 3,975 ployees are treated respectfully and are afforded 2,000 2 000 equal opportunities for development. In our day0 to-day work, we listen actively and do our utmost 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to understand people, treating them with dignity and respect. This applies to us both internally and in our contacts with clients, customers and other stakeholders. With a presence in 25 markets, diversity also becomes an important asset. Sick leave Through increased diversity, we can be respon% sive to our efforts to help people get out of debt 20 and understand people’s individual situations. Our employees make a difference 15 Our employees are the ones who have contact with 250,000 individuals on a daily basis, helping 10 them break free of their debts, and with companies to ensure that they are paid. We know that 5 6 5 such work helps bring meaning to everyday life. 4 4 4 We have formulated our values together, and 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 we strive to live according to them. Together, thousands of our employees have contributed to the process of formulating our values and, over 40 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability the past year, we have taken several steps to Engagement Index strengthen our corporate culture and strengthen % value-driven efforts throughout our organisation. 100 With the help of our employees, we have created the team-oriented game Add Value, in which all 80 players are given the opportunity to gain a deeper 74 76 74 60 understanding of, and insight into, our values in various contexts. During 2019, we will continue to 40 strengthen our work on values. 20 Continuous employee development 0 We want all of our employees to be able to de2016 2017 2018 velop and thrive with Intrum as their employer. It is important that everyone be afforded sufficient Our annual employee survey measures among other things resources, knowledge and opportunities to percommitment among our employees. Engagement Index combines motivation and satisfaction with clarity in goals and form their work optimally, and we work continuthus gives an indication of the well-being of our employees. ously to ensure that we meet the needs of each employee. Clear leadership development is an important part of this and Intrum applies various programs to develop managers continuously. Sustainability Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 41 Our annual individual development talks repreNumber of spoken languages per region sent another important tool, in which employees formulate a plan for their own professional and personal development together with their immediate manager. Every year, we conduct an employee survey Northern to understand how our employees perceive their Europe: work, what is important for them to thrive and 25 languages do a good job and how Intrum can further develop as an employer. Insights from the survey provide an indication of the level of satisfaction, motivation and loyalty among our employees. In the survey, employees respond to questions Central regarding leadership, commitment, cooperation and Eastern and efficiency. The results then provide a foundaEurope: tion on which improvement plans in various areas Iberian 18 languages are designed. Peninsula and By continuously focusing on our employees’ Latin America: development, we have the potential to become 5 languages the most attractive employer in the industry. This work is continuous and always prioritised. Personnel changes In 2018, a selection of our countries have gone Western through restructures that has enabled synergy and Southern effects which has affected our employees. This Europe: has taken place in dialogue with the individuals 32 languages affected and trade unions with the ambition to offer favourable solutions. Gender proportion Group Management Team Gender proportion employees % Women Women 100 36 35 35 37 37 Men Men 23% 80 60 64 65 65 63 63 40 77% 20 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Gender proportion Members of the Board Age and gender proportion executives % Women Women 100 37 49 53 50 Men Men 80 33% 60 63 51 47 50 40 67% 20 0 <30 30–40 40–50 50+ 42 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Revenues per employee Operating earnings per employee SEK M MSEK KSEK SEK K 2,0 2.0 600 500 1.5 1,5 1.67 503 1.53 467 1.46 1.46 400 422 418 1.36 376 1.0 1,0 300 200 0.5 0,5 100 0,00 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Diversity and inclusion In 2019, we are continuing to develop our We want to offer a work environment characterefforts to further increase diversity and inclusion ised by equality, inclusion and respect, where throughout our operations. increased diversity contributes to our ability to be responsive to the circumstances of each individ”Next generation program” ual. Diversity and equal opportunities are fundaTo achieve our objective of becoming the most mental in our business and we obviously do not attractive employer in our industry, we focus on tolerate any form of discrimination or harassment. attracting, developing and retaining our younger Naturally, this also means we apply the principle skilled employees. In 2017, we launched Intrum’s of equal pay for equal work. first trainee program the “Next generation proIn connection with the metoo movement, we gram”. In 2018, we welcomed ten young employidentified a particular need to investigate any ees with backgrounds from our different markets occurrences of harassment in our workplaces and in Europe, all with the potential to become future the 2018 employee survey included an opportuleaders or analysts. nity to mention anonymously any occurrences of Our trainees are given the opportunity to work harassment at work. in various departments and groups for 12 months, We work preventively for our employees to building networks and developing. Over the enjoy their fundamental freedoms and rights – free course of the program, each participant must from discrimination. Through our HR instruction spend two months in another country, to gain new and Code of Conduct, we are building a solid experiences and insights from our daily activities foundation for favourable working conditions and and specific projects. human rights compliance. We are proud of our Our trainee program has produced several preventive work in this area and continue to work positive results and our participants have conto ensure that our zero tolerance of discrimination tributed knowledge and new perspectives, while is observed. highlighting the Intrum brand at universities and on education programs. Our sustainability Increase the employee satisfaction The engagement index for 2018 decreased from 76 (2017) to 74. targets for 2019 The target is to work actively to increase the engagement and satisfaction among our employees from this year’s level. Strengthen the implementation of our values On an annual basis, we investigate how our employees perceive that we live up to our values. It is an important measure to ensure the implementation of our values. Through a range of internal activities, the work with our values will proceed during 2019. Formulate a plan to further increase diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion is one of our material aspects, and in 2019 we will formulate a plan to further strengthen our ability to embrace the varying competences, perspectives and experiences from our employees. Sustainability Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 43 The share Intrum’s shares have been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange since June 2002. Since January 2014, the shares have been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list of companies with a market capitalisation of more than EUR 1 billion. Share capital Shareholders On December 31, 2018, Intrum AB’s (publ) share capital At the end of 2018, Intrum had 20,744 shareholders, comamounted to SEK 2,899,805.49 distributed among 131,541,320 pared with 16,729 in the preceding year. The 13 members shares outstanding of which 250,000 treasury shares. Each of Group Management had a combined holding in Intrum share entitles the holder to one vote and an equal share in the of 555,049 shares and Intrum’s Board members held a company’s assets and earnings. combined total of 80,300 shares. Market capitalisation, price trend and turnover Shareholder communications In 2018 the price of Intrum’ share decreased from SEK Intrum places considerable focus on investors and meets 300.30 to SEK 205.7, a decline of 31.5 percent, adjusted for them and other market participants regularly to increase a dividend of SEK 9.50 per share. During the same period interest in the company and the understanding of it. the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s index (OMXS) fell by 10.8 percent. The lowest price paid for the share during the year Share repurchase was SEK 199.05 on July 6, and the highest was SEK 322 on Although the Company repurchased shares between 2013 January 23. The price at the end of the year gave a market and 2015, no repurchases were made in 2016 or 2017. At the capitalisation for Intrum of SEK 27,058 M (39,896). Share end of 2018, the Company held no treasury shares. In 2018 trades were concluded on every business day of the year. 250,000 shares were repurchased and remain as treasury An average 420,599 shares were traded per day (386,349) shares at year-end. on the Nasdaq Stockholm Exchange. In total, when including all marketplaces on which the Intrum share trades, Dividend policy 105,149,695 shares were traded over the year. Trade on the Intrum’s Board of Directors also aims to annually propose a Nasdaq Stockholm Exchange accounted for 87.1 percent of dividend or its equivalent to shareholders that over time avtotal trade in 2018. Trades were also made via the Chi-X and erages at least half of the net earnings for the year after tax. Turquoise exchanges, as well as through “dark pools” and Decisions relating to dividend proposals take into account the other OTC trading venues. company’s future revenues, financial position, capital requirements and the situation in general. For the 2018 financial year the Board proposes a dividend of SEK 9,50 per share, corresponding to about 67 percent of net earnings after tax. The proposed record date for the dividend is April 30 2019. Index No. of shares 250 3 000 000 3,000,000 2 500 000 2,500,000 200 2 000 000 2,000,000 150 1 500 000 1,500,000 100 1 000 000 1,000,000 50 500 000 500,000 0 0 0 14-01-02 14-03-02 14-05-02 14-07-02 14-09-02 14-11-02 15-01-02 15-03-02 15-05-02 15-07-02 15-09-02 15-11-02 16-01-02 16-03-02 16-05-02 16-07-02 16-09-02 16-11-02 17-01-02 17-03-02 17-05-02 17-07-02 17-09-02 17-11-02 18-01-02 18-03-02 18-05-02 18-07-02 18-09-02 18-11-02 Intrum OMX30 Stockholm (OMXS) No. of shares traded on Nasdaq Stockholm 44 Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 Data per share 2018 2017* 2016 2015 2014 Earnings before and after dilution, SEK 14.18 14.62 20.15 15.92 13.48 Operating cash flow, SEK 48.10 – 46.64 39.74 34.95 Equity before and after dilution, SEK 195.16 170.59 55.88 42.66 39.92 Dividend/proposed dividend, SEK 9.50 9.50 9.00 8.25 7.00 Dividend/net earnings, % 67 65 45 51 52 Share price, SEK 205.70 303.30 307.40 288.60 232.00 Yield, % 4.6 3.1 2.9 2.9 3.0 P/S Multiple 2.0 3.3 3.7 3.7 3.4 P/E Multiple 13.90 20.75 15.25 18.12 17.21 Beta 0.85 0.6 0.6 0.7 1.0 Number of shares at the year end 131,291,320 131,541,320 72,347,726 72,347,726 73,847,534 Average number of shares before and after dilution 131,390,632 102,674,307 72,347,726 73,096,665 76,461,901 * Data for 2017 are based on pro forma reporting for the combined Intrum Justitia and Lindorff. Ownership structure as of December, 2018 Shareholdings by country Total number of shares 131 541 32 No. of shares Capital and votes, % Country No. of shares Capital and votes, % Nordic Capital 57,728,956 44.0 Sweden 92,080,252 70.0 Sampo Oyj 6,864,969 5.2 USA 9,102,695 6.9 NN Investment Partners 6,399,125 4.9 Finland 7,615,838 5.8 Handelsbanken Funds 5,408,000 4.1 Netherlands 7,348,977 5.6 Lannebo Funds 3,344,027 2.5 UK 5,706,068 4.3 Jupiter Asset Management 2,962,566 2.3 Norway 3,404,651 2.6 Swedbank Robur Funds 2,823,260 2.1 France 2,430,213 1.8 AMF Försäkring & Funds 2,571,940 2.0 Luxembourg 1,240,731 0.9 ODIN Funds 2,219,730 1.7 Canada 604,203 0.5 Nordnet Pension insurance 2,012,915 1.5 Germany 574,649 0.4 Total ten largest owners 92,335,488 70.3 Other 1,512,023 1.1 Development in share capital Transaction Change in share capital Total share capital Total number of shares Par value per share 2001 Company founded 100,000 100,000 1,000 100 2001 Split 5000:1 0 100,000 5,000,000 0.02 2001 New share issue 1 778,729.4 878,729.4 43,936,470 0.02 2002 New share issue 2 208,216.72 1,086,946.12 54,347,306 0.02 2002 New share issue 3 612,765.96 1,699,712.08 84,985,604 0.02 2005 Redemption 4 –140,587.06 1,559,125.02 77,956,251 0.02 2007 Exercise of employee stock options 5 22,672 1,581,797.02 79,089,851 0.02 2008 Exercise of employee stock options 6 10,046.40 1,591,843.42 79,592,171 0.02 2009 Exercise of employee stock options 7 8,049.60 1,599,893.02 79,994,651 0.02 2011 Reduction of share capital 8 –5,000 1,594,893.02 79,774,651 0.02 2014 Cancellation of treasury shares 9 0 1,594,893.02 77,360,944 0.02 2015 Cancellation of treasury shares 10 0 1,594,893.02 73,421,328 0.022 2016 Cancellation of treasury shares 11 0 1,594,893.02 72,347,726 0.022 2017 New shares issue 12 1,304,912.48 2,899,805.49 131,541,320 0.022 1) Directed to Industri Kapital 1997 Fund and reduced by SEK 140,587.06, while the share from SEK 1,591,843.42 to SEK 1,599,893.02, of 3,939,616 treasury shares, the share capital Synergy at a subscription price of SEK 0.02 per premium reserve was reduced by SEK corresponding to 402,480 new shares and the was further increased through a bonus issue share as part of the legal restructuring of the 590,325,064.94. same number of votes, as new shares were with the equivalent amount without issuing Intrum Justitia Group. subscribed for through the exercise of employee new shares. After the cancellation, the Com5) During the period July 1 – December 31, 2007 options. pany has in total 73,421,328 outstanding shares 2) 1,402,228 shares each to Industri Kapital Intrum Justitia’s share capital increased from equivalent to the same number of votes. 1997 Fund and Synergy at a subscription price SEK 1,559,152.02 to SEK 1,581,797.02, corre8) The company’s own holding of 250,000 of SEK 4.432 per share, and 3,803,190 shares sponding to 1,133,600 new shares and the same shares was cancelled in 2011. 11) The Company’s share capital was reduced each to Industri Kapital 1997 Fund and Synergy number of votes, as new shares were subscribed by SEK 23,322 through the cancellation of at a subscription price of SEK 0.02 per share. for through the exercise of employee options. 9) The Company’s share capital was decreased 1,073,602 treasury shares. In addition, share by SEK 47,674.14 through cancellation of capital was increased through a bonus issue 3) 30,638,298 shares to the public and institu6) During the period January 1 – December 31, 2,383,707 treasury shares, the share capital of the same amount without any new shares tional investors at a subscription price of SEK 2008 Intrum Justitia’s share capital increased was further increased through a bonus issue being issued. Following cancellations, the 47 per share. from SEK 1,581,797.02 to SEK 1,591,843.42, corwith the equivalent amount without issuing Company has a total of 72,347,726 shares responding to 502,320 new shares and the same new shares. After the cancellation, the Compaoutstanding, representing the same number 4) Redemption of 7,029,353 shares for a cash number of votes, as new shares were subscribed ny has in total 77,360,944 outstanding shares of votes. payment of SEK 84 per share. The procedure for through the exercise of employee options. equivalent to the same number of votes. involved the distribution of a total of SEK 12) The share capital increased by SEK 590,325,064.94 to the company’s sharehold7) During the period January 1 – December 31, 10) The Company’s share capital was de1,304,912.48 through the issue in kind to ers, whereby the company’s share capital was 2009 Intrum Justitia’s share capital increased creased by SEK 81,220.13 through cancellation Lindorff’s owners of 59,193,594 new shares. The share Annual och Sustainability Report 2018 45 Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Intrum AB (publ) hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the 2018 fiscal year. Intrum Group Intrum AB (publ) (corporate identity number 556607-7581) Persson was elected as a new Board member. The Annual is domiciled in Stockholm and is a public limited liability General Meeting re-elected Per E. Larsson as Chairman company and conducts operations in accordance with the of the Board and Magnus Yngen as Deputy Chairman. The Swedish Companies Act. Intrum’s operations were founded Annual General Meeting approved the Board’s proposal in Sweden in 1923 and have, through acquisitions and for a dividend of SEK 9.50 per share. The Meeting also organic growth expanded to become one of Europe’s resolved to change the name of the Parent Company from leading credit management companies. In 2017, a merger Intrum Justitia AB to Intrum AB. with Lindorff was effectuated. The Parent Company of the Intrum Group was registered in 2001 and has been listed • On 28 June, it was announced that Intrum had issued a on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange since June 2002. At two-year, non-covered bond for SEK 1 billion, at STIBOR 31 December 2018, the share capital in the Company 3m +190 basis points within the existing Swedish MTN amounted to SEK 2,899,805 M and the number of shares programme. to 131,541,320 of which 250,000 treasury shares. The Group is present in 25 markets. • On 14 December, it was announced that Intrum had reached an agreement with Banco Sabadell regarding the Significant events during the year acquisition of the bank’s wholly owned subsidiary Solvia • On 20 March 2018, Intrum completed the sale of Servicios Inmobiliaros (Solvia), which offers real estate Lindorff’s operations in Denmark, Estonia, Finland and management services in the Spanish market. The purpose Sweden and Intrum Justitia’s operations in Norway to of the acquisition was to strengthen both Intrum’s Lowell after receiving the necessary approvals from position in the Spanish real estate market, as well as the the authorities. This was in accordance with what was partnership with Banco Sabadell. Intrum entered into an communicated on 2 November 2017. The sale was a agreement to acquire 80 percent of the shares in Solvia. condition for the European Commission’s approval of the In January 2019, it was determined that Solvia’s earnings merger with Lindorff. The companies were sold for a total for the second half of 2018 fell short of the anticipated company value of approximately EUR 730 M. level. Discussions are in progress with the seller to reach a final agreement. • On 17 April 2018, it was announced that an agreement had been reached regarding a partnership with the Italian • On 21 December, an agreement was reached with bank Banca Intesa Sanpaolo. The agreement entailed Ibercaja Banco SA to acquire 6,400 properties in Spain Intrum and Intesa Sanpaolo forming a new joint company from Ibercaja and the bank’s subsidiaries. The real estate in which the bank contributed its service platform for portfolio has been transferred to a new company, in overdue receivables, and Intrum all of its Italian operations which Intrum will initially be the majority shareholder, at the time (except Cross Factor SpA and the holding while Ibercaja’s subsidiary retains a minority holding of company Lindorff Italy Srl). Intrum became the majority 20 percent. Intrum’s final investment, when financing shareholder, holding 51 percent of the new joint company. and co-investors are in place, is expected amount to Intesa Sanpaolo also divested a portfolio of overdue EUR 30–40 M. Property holdings are not a strategic area receivables, most of which comprises covered loans, to of focus for the Group. a joint company. Intesa Sanpaolo retains a 49 percent holding in the joint venture, while the remaining 51 percent Revenues and earnings is owned by Intrum alongside a co-investor that acquired Definitions of the performance measures applied, key the equivalent of 20 percent of Intrum’s 51 percent. The financial indicators and alternative indicators are to be transaction was completed in early December. found on page 126. For reconciliation of key financial indicators, see Note 38 on page 96. • The Annual General Meeting on 27 April re-elected Board members Per E. Larsson, Hans Larsson, Kristoffer The merger with Lindorff was implemented on 27 June 2017. Melinder, Andreas Näsvik, Synnöve Trygg, Fredrik Accordingly, Lindorff has been included in the consolidated Trägårdh, Ragnhild Wiborg and Magnus Yngen. Magdalena income statement and balance sheet since the second half 46 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 of 2017. Where comparative figures are referred to as “pro Revenues forma”, this mean that they are reported with Lindorff conSEK M solidated throughout the comparison period. In connection MSEK 15,000 15 000 with the merger, Intrum undertook to divest its Norwegian subsidiaries, as well as Lindorff’s Swedish, Finnish, Danish 13,442 12,000 12 000 and Estonian subsidiaries. Accordingly, these subsidiaries are reported as discontinued operations. 99,000 000 9,434 Consolidated net revenues for 2018 increased to SEK 6,000 6 000 13,442 M (9,434). On a pro forma basis, revenues for 2017 5,419 5,869 amounted to SEK 12,219 M. 4,958 3,000 3 000 Operating earnings amounted to SEK 3,978 M (2,728). On a pro forma basis, operating earnings for 2017 amounted to 00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SEK 3,489 M. The operating earnings of SEK 3,978 M include nonrecurring items (NRIs) of a negative SEK 742 M (397), items affecting comparability of SEK 132 M (0) and revaluations of SEK 88 M (negative 3). Accordingly, operating earnings Operating earnings excluding non-recurring items, items affecting comparability and revaluations (“adjusted operating earnings (EBIT)”) SEK MSEKM increased to SEK 4,500 M (3,128). On a pro forma basis, 4,000 4 000 operating earnings (EBIT) for 2017 amounted to SEK 3,925 M. 3,978 Net earnings for the year amounted to SEK 1,943 M (1,503) 3,000 3 000 and earnings per share totalled SEK 14.18 (14.62). 2,728 2,000 2 000 Geographical regions 1,921 Effective from the third quarter of 2018, the composition 1,577 1,000 1 000 1,382 of the Group’s operating segments, the geographic regions, has changed. The change entails operations in Spain, Portugal 0 and Brazil being reported in the Iberian Peninsula & Latin 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 America region. Accordingly, the operations in Portugal are no longer included in the Western and Southern Europe region. The comparison figures for 2017 have been recalculated in accordance with the new region structure. Recalculated figures for all four quarters of 2017 and the first two quarters of Share of consolidated revenues (pro forma) 2018 have been published on the Company’s website. Northern Europe Central and Eastern Europe Northern Europe Western and Southern Europe 23% The region consists of the Group’s operations for clients in Iberian Peninsula and 30% Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Norway and Latin America Sweden. The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 3,980 M (3,012) and operating earnings of SEK 1,294 M (1,014). On 19% a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding revaluations increased to SEK 4,002 M (3,827), with operating 28% earnings, excluding revaluations and non-recurring items (“adjusted operating earnings (EBIT)”) of SEK 1,425 M (1,412). Accordingly, on a pro forma basis, earnings were roughly at the same level as for the preceding year. The region can now focus on acquiring portfolios and internal efficiencyenhancement measures following the divestment of subsidiaries under the terms imposed by the competition authorities. Central and Eastern Europe The region consists of the Group’s operations for clients in Greece, Poland, Romania, Switzerland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary and Austria. The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 3,790 M (2,775) and operating earnings of SEK 1,377 M (831). On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding revaluations increased to SEK 3,681 M (3,233), with operating earnings, excluding revaluations and non-recurring items (adjusted operating earnings (EBIT)) of SEK 1,442 M (1,114). The region’s strong development is explained by substantial investment and strong collection, particularly in acquired portfolios. Major investments in Greece and Hungary are Board of Directors’ Report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 47 making a strong contribution, and further business oppor• Purchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables. Portfolio tunities are available throughout the region. Regulatory investments, i.e. acquisition of portfolios of overdue development in some of the countries in the region is being receivables at less than their nominal value, after which monitored closely. Intrum collects the receivables on its own behalf. Real estate acquisitions, primarily through the seizure of Western and Southern Europe collateral for purchased covered receivables, other The region consists of the Group’s operations for clients in financing services and payment guarantees. Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and the UK. The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 2,564 M Credit Management services with (1,847) and operating earnings of SEK 228 M (290). a focus on late payments and collection On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding Service line revenues for the year amounted to SEK 9,480 M revaluations increased to SEK 2,622 M (2,050), with operat(6,700), with service line earnings of SEK 2,433 M (1,704). ing earnings, excluding revaluations, non-recurring items and On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding items items affecting comparability (“adjusted operating earnings affecting comparability increased to SEK 9,257 M (8,852), (EBIT)”) of SEK 664 M (337). with service line earnings, excluding revaluations nonThe region is delivering strong results in its existing recurring items and items affecting comparability, of operations in several countries, with recently conducted SEK 2,489 M (2,475). portfolio purchases developing well. In Italy, the acquisition Credit Management is affected by the negative trend in of the Italian company CAF in the fourth quarter of 2017, Spain. Positive signs could already be seen towards the end has contributed to increased revenues and earnings. In of 2018. A continued focus on efficiency and acquisition addition, the partnership with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo has synergies is also expected to have positive effects over the brought an improvement in earnings, one month of which upcoming years. is included in net earnings for the year. The integration is progressing according to plan. Purchasing of portfolios of overdue receivables Earnings include a non-recurring item of a negative Service line revenues for the year amounted to SEK 6,394 M SEK 46 M relating to provisions for remaining expenses in (4,516), with service line earnings of SEK 3,600 M (2,456). connection with a contract with one of the region’s clients On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year increased to not being renewed as expected. SEK 6,394 M (5,506), with service line earnings, excluding non-recurring items, of SEK 3,604 M (2,946). Iberian Peninsula and Latin America The increase in service line earnings on a pro forma basis The region comprises the Group’s operations for clients in is primarily attributable to the greater portfolio value. Spain, Portugal and Brazil. The region reported revenues for the year of SEK 3,109 M (1,800) and operating earnings of SEK 1,079 M (593). On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year, excluding revaluaCarrying value, portfolio investments tions and items affecting comparability, decreased to SEK 2,826 M (3,046), with operating earnings, excluding revaluaSEK M tions, non-recurring items and items affecting comparability MSEK 2525,000 000 (“adjusted operating earnings (EBIT)”) of SEK 969 M (1,062). 24,830 The region’s decline is explained by the fact that client 20 20,000 000 21,149 contracts have been discontinued or have diminished, which had a negative impact on the Credit Management 15,000 15 000 service line’s earnings and margin. Portfolio investments are smaller in the region, but are developing well and, together 1010,000 000 with cost savings programmes, are helping counteract the 8,733 55,000 000 6,197 7,027 effect of discontinued client contracts. Earnings include an item affecting comparability of 00 SEK 401 M in connection with compensation for a client 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 contract that was discontinued prematurely and of a negative SEK 223 M for impairment in the carrying amount for client relationships with two clients where the carrying amount was no longer supported by the expected future cash flows. Share of consolidated revenues The acquisition of Solvia is planned to be completed during the first half of 2019. However, Solvia’s earnings for Credit Management services the second half of 2018 were beneath the anticipated level. with a focus on late payments Discussions are in progress with the seller to reach a final and collection agreement. Purchasing of portfolios of 40% overdue receivables Service lines The services that Intrum offers are divided into 60% two service lines: • Credit Management services with a focus on late payments and collection. Collection services, credit information services and payment services. 48 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Board of Directors’ Report Pro forma-based growth in portfolio investments, combined Research and development with price discipline and strong collection outcomes led to The Group is not engaged in any research and development strong financial development for the service line. The carryother than the development of its IT systems. The year’s ing values of portfolio investments, including participations in investments in tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted joint ventures but excluding real estate, increased by 40 perto SEK 306 M (172) and largely involved hardware and softcent since the end of the preceding year. The relatively high ware for IT systems, primarily for production. Technical level of investment is explained by the transaction with Banca development is rapid and correctly used, new technical Intesa Sanpaolo, a number of major acquisitions in Greece solutions can enhance efficiency in the management of and Hungary, and a diversified collection of medium-sized collection cases and the utilisation of the Group’s databases. portfolios purchased in both mature and emerging markets. In pace with increasing demands for client-adapted IT soluThe return on portfolio investments was 15 percent (16). tions, it is of strategic importance for Intrum to continuously be able to meet changes in the demand scenario. Expenses The gross profit margin was just below the level for the Financing preceding year. Consolidated net debt increased by SEK 4.8 billion since the Earnings for the year were burdened by non-recurring end of the preceding year. The proceeds have been received items of a negative SEK 742 (397), mainly involving integrafrom the sale of Intrum Justitia’s former subsidiary in Norway tion costs following the merger between Intrum Justitia and and Lindorff’s former subsidiaries in Sweden, Denmark, Lindorff and transaction costs for acquisitions. Finland and Estonia, with the sale transaction being completed on 20 March 2018, while, on the other hand, disburseAmortisation/depreciation and impairment ments have been made for the year’s share dividend and Operating earnings for the year were burdened by depreciainvestments in portfolios, subsidiaries and joint ventures. tion/amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible Net debt in relation to pro forma rolling 12-month fixed assets by SEK 900 M (436). Accordingly, operating adjusted cash EBITDA amounted to 4.3 at the end of the earnings before depreciation/amortisation and impairment year. This ratio is calculated by placing current consolidated amounted to SEK 4,878 M (3,164). net debt at the end of the quarter in relation to pro forma cash EBITDA, calculated cash EBITDA throughout the Net financial items period for larger units acquired during the period, and Net financial items amounted to an expense of SEK 1,363 M excluding non-recurring items (NRIs). (973) and consisted of a net interest expense of SEK 1,185 M The merger with Lindorff was implemented on 27 June (565), exchange rate differences of SEK 19 M (38) and other 2017 through a non-cash issue, whereby Intrum Justitia AB financial items of a negative SEK 197 M (446). Net interest issued 59,193,594 new Intrum shares in exchange for all income was negatively affected by higher borrowing comshares in Lock TopCo AS, the parent company of the Lindorff pared with the preceding year. group. Accordingly, there were 131,541,320 shares in Intrum Other financial items refer primarily to bank fees and outstanding in the latter part of 2017. In 2018, 250,000 shares similar charges in connection with the Group’s borrowing. were repurchased for SEK 56 M. Accordingly, the average Other financial items in 2017 included non-recurring items number of shares outstanding over the year was 131,390,632 of a negative SEK 316 M (0) in connection with the Group’s compared with 102,674,307 in the preceding year. new borrowing, comprising a negative SEK 299 M in costs to secure new borrowing in connection with merger with Risk framework Lindorff, and a negative SEK 17 M in amortisation of capitalSee also Note 34. Risk management within Intrum shall ised costs for the Group’s previous borrowing. comprise effective management and monitoring of all significant risks in the operations. Risk management shall Taxes support the business operations, maintain a high level of The tax expense for the year was equivalent to 23 percent quality to ensure risks are kept under control, safeguard the of earnings before tax for the full-year, compared with 22 Company’s survival and limit the volatility of Intrum’s finanpercent in the preceding year. For further information on the cial development. The capacity to protect the Company’s Group’s taxes and tax disputes, see also Note 8. The Comvalue, where the ability to assess and manage price risks in pany’s assessment is that the tax expense will, over the next new transactions while monitoring the development of the few years, be around 20–25 percent of earnings before tax investment portfolio, is of great importance. This entails for each year, excluding the outcome of any tax disputes. an ongoing dialogue about the risks generated by the operations and the resources necessary to counter the risks. Cash flow and investments Intrum shall maintain an organisation that identifies, Cash flow from operating activities during the year amountaddresses and controls the risks to which the Group is or ed to SEK 6,154 M (4,535). The increase is attributable to may be exposed. There shall be satisfactory internal control increased cash flow deriving from the merger with Lindorff. and a functioning and effective risk framework. Intrum shall Cash flow from investing activities over the year, adjusted be knowledgeable and aware of possible risks to which the for cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies, was Company may be exposed and shall be able to estimate the negative in the amount of SEK 7,525 M, compared with a scope of those risks. There should be an independent risk negative SEK 8,585 M in the preceding year, including the control function, which should have the requisite compepositive cash flow of SEK 7,511 M from the sale of companies tences and authorisations. As part of their regular work, all in accordance with the European Commission’s conditions of Intrum’s employees shall assume responsibility for manand negative cash flows of SEK 6,785 M in connection with aging the Company’s risks and the Group shall continuously the transaction with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo. inform and educate its employees about the risks inherent in the operations. Board of Directors’ Report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 49 Intrum shall only expose itself to risks directly attributable investments. Compliance shall verify that the business to, or deemed necessary for, its business operations. Such operations adhere to legislation and regulations, and risks primarily include credit risk, market risk, business risk, shall support the business operations within their area of financial risk and operational risk. Intrum shall have a responsibility. The Chief Risk Officer, CRO, is responsible documented process for approving new or significantly for the risk organisation and compliance. The CRO altered products, services, markets, acquisitions, processes reports to the President and, on a dotted line basis, to the and IT systems and in connection with major changes in the Board of Directors. Company’s organisation and operations. • The third line of defence is the internal audit that works independently of the operations and reports directly to Risk strategy the Board of Directors. Intrum’s risk strategy entails managing and assessing the risks to which its operations are, or may be, exposed by Operational risks means of: All economic activity is associated with risk. In order to • Clear and documented internal procedures and control, manage risk in a balanced way, it must first be identified, • An appropriate and transparent organisational structure assessed and reported. Intrum conducts risk management at with clearly defined and documented authorisations, both a Group and company level, where risks are evaluated • Up-to-date and documented decision-making processes, in a systematic manner. • Risk measurement methods and systems support tailored The following summary is by no means comprehensive, to the needs, complexity and scope of the operations, but offers examples of risk factors which are considered • satisfactory control of the Company’s compliance with especially important for Intrum’s future development. the laws and other regulations applicable to its operations. • Adequate resources and skills to achieve the desired Economic fluctuations quality in both business and control activities, The credit management sector is affected negatively by a • Regular incident reporting in operations, weakened economy. However, Intrum’s assessment is that, • Documented and disseminated contingency and business historically, it has been less affected by economic fluctuacontinuity plans. tions than many other sectors. Risks associated with changes in economic conditions are managed through ongoing Risk appetite dialogue with the management team for each region and Intrum defines risk as all factors which could have a negative country and through regular checks on developments in impact on the ability of the Group to achieve its business each country. objectives. Intrum’s risk appetite is based on the following principles: Brexit • To be able to pursue our strategy, the culture at Intrum Although Intrum is monitors developments surrounding shall be such that there is a built-in balance between riskBrexit closely, our internal analyses indicate that the potentaking and value generation. tial negative effects for us as a company of the UK leaving • The risk culture determines the playing field on which the EU are considered marginal. the business operations can act with acceptable risks, within the limit set by the Board. Intrum’s risk appetite is Regulatory compliance expressed in, among other things, policies, instructions and Intrum continuously monitors changes in the regulations the guidelines established for the investment operations. that apply to our operations. A number of units within the • The risk appetite establishes the basis for an ongoing Group are subject to financial supervision and are therefore discussion within management regarding what risk levels operated in accordance with specific regulations. The are appropriate and how they are to be adjusted to the Company perceives a trend towards increasing regulation Group’s business strategy. and consequently monitors and reports regulatory compli• Intrum investment operations entail the greatest inherent ance risks on a continuous basis. risks with a potential impact on the income statement Intrum processes a large amount of personal data and and balance sheet and are therefore a central concern in prior to the European Data Protection Ordinance (GDPR) the area of risk, where particular emphasis is placed on taking effect, extensive efforts were made at both the industrialising both transaction management and reporting. Group and local level to ensure compliance with GDPR. In each country where Intrum is present, as well as at the To define the division of responsibilities between the busiGroup level, designated data protection officers are tasked ness operations, risk control, compliance and the Internal with supporting and following up data protection efforts. Audit, Intrum applies the division of roles and responsibiliIf the Company lacks sufficient knowledge about its clities deriving from the principle of the three lines of defence: ents and the transactions undertaken, there is a risk that • The first line of defence is the risk-taking part of the we may become involved in money laundering or unethical organisation, which is tasked with managing the daytransactions. Accordingly, our sales and anti-money launderto-day management of the risks taken in the business ing instructions require that we gather information regarding operations. our clients and their ownership situation. This means that • The second line of defence refers to the risk control and the Company must sometimes refrain from doing business compliance functions. Risk control shall ensure that there with counterparties deemed unsuitable. is sufficient risk awareness in the first line and shall play both a supportive and challenging role in the transaction Reputation risk process. Risk control shall also work to provide the A good reputation is crucial to the successful conduct of business operations with the procedures, systems and collection operations. Consequently, reputation risks are tools required to uphold the on-going management of of great importance in the Company’s relationship with 50 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Board of Directors’ Report clients, customers, employees, investors, regulators and for managing financial activities, delegating responsibility, other stakeholders. Our Code of Conduct plays a central measuring, identifying and reporting financial risks and role in the operations and describes the view of the limiting these risks. Internal and external financial operations Company’s role in society, our values, our relationship with are concentrated to the Group’s central finance function in our stakeholders and other relevant sustainability issues. We Stockholm, which ensures economies of scale when pricing also expect our suppliers to comply with our Code of Confinancial transactions. Because the finance function can duct. Associated with the Code of Conduct, the Company take advantage of temporary surpluses and deficits in the has implemented a procedure for the reporting of suspected Group’s various countries of operation, the Group’s total irregularities, a so-called whistle-blower function. interest expense can be reduced. In each country, investments, revenues and most operTax risks ating expenses are denominated in local currencies, and Changes in tax law or practice could result in financial lossthus currency fluctuations have a relatively minor effect es or increased expenses for the Company. There is also the on operating earnings. Revenues and expenses in national risk of mistakes or misinterpretation with regard to tax regucurrency are thereby hedged in a natural way, which limits lations, or that the tax authorities in a particular country may transaction exposure. When the balance sheets of foreign not agree with the conclusion reached by Intrum on some subsidiaries are recalculated in SEK, a translation exposure particular matter of assessment. The risk is particularly great arises that affects consolidated shareholders’ equity. This with regard to value added tax (VAT), since a systematic translation exposure is limited through loans and currency error could cause a rapid build-up of large amounts. Intrum forward transactions in foreign currencies. cooperates with qualified tax consultants to avoid systematic errors and for assessments made in the area of taxation Liquidity risks to be well documented and possible to defend in court if The Group’s long-term financing risk is limited by confirmed brought into question. loan facilities. The Group’s objective is that at least 35 percent of total committed loans have a remaining maturity of IT and information management at least three years and that not more than 35 percent of the Intrum is dependent on accessible and well-functioning total have a remaining maturity of less than 12 months. IT systems and prolonged disruptions and faults in sysDuring the maturity of the current revolving loan facility, tems critical to operations can pose significant risks to the this can be utilised by the Parent Company through the smooth functioning of debt collection operations. withdrawal of individual amounts in various currencies, with In both its debt collection and credit operations, the short maturities, usually in SEK, EUR, CHF, HUF, NOK or Company is dependent on a large amount of information PLN and usually with a maturity of three or six months. The containing personal data. The operations are well aware loans are carried primarily in foreign currency, to hedge the that this information is sensitive and therefore prioritises Group against translation exposure in relation to net assets protection from access and the assurance of confidentiality in foreign currencies. The Group’s aim is that the liquidity rein accordance with applicable regulations. Despite measures serve, which consists of cash, bank balances and short-term being taken, there is, as there is for other companies, always liquid investments should amount to at least SEK 100 M more a residual risk of unauthorised access to data handled by than the unutilised portion of committed lines of credit. The the Company, through, for example, intrusion into computer Group did not fall short of the target level on the balance systems and fraud. There is also a risk of data loss due to sheet date or at any time during the year. malicious software or system failure. The Group has deposited its liquid assets with established The performance of the Company’s collection and paybanks where the risk of loss is considered remote. Intrum’s ment services may attract attacks aimed at harming the liquid assets consist primarily of bank balances. Company’s operations. The handling of payments also genThe Group’s central finance function prepares regular erates a risk of phishing using the Company’s brand. liquidity forecasts with the purpose of optimising the balance between loans and liquid funds so that the net interest Risks relating to acquisitions expense is minimised without, for that matter, incurring diffiPart of Intrum’s strategy involves acquiring companies and culties in meeting external commitments. operations. Opportunities to successfully complete acquisitions are dependent on Intrum’s capacity to identify and Credit risks attributable to outlays assess acquisition targets, to identify and manage risks in As part of its normal operations, the Group incurs outlays the acquired operations and to effectively integrate acquired for court expenses, legal representation, enforcement companies into Intrum’s existing operations. A potential authorities and similar – outlays that are necessary for colacquisition may also depend on approval from an authority or lection to be conducted through the legal system. In certain other third party. Ahead of an acquisition, a detailed review cases, these outlays can be passed on to, and collected of the acquired company, due diligence, is always performed, from customers. In many cases Intrum has agreements with generally in conjunction with external consultants, with the its clients whereby any expenses that cannot be collected aim of identifying risks and providing a basis for the valuation from customers are instead refunded by the client. The of the acquisition object. The Group also has a documented amount that is expected to be recovered from a solvent and standardised process for how acquisitions are to be counterparty such as a client or a bailiff is recognised as an implemented and followed up. asset in the balance sheet on the line Other receivables. Market risks Risks with portfolio investments Intrum’s financing and financial risks are managed within the To minimise the risks in this business, caution is exercised Group in accordance with the treasury policy established in purchase decisions. The focus is primarily on portfolios by the Board of Directors. The treasury policy contains rules with relatively low average amounts, to help spread risks. Board of Directors’ Report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 51 Purchases are usually made from clients with whom the Non-financial earnings indicators Group has maintained long-term relationships and therefore The average number of employees during the year was 7,910 has a thorough understanding of the receivables in question. (6,293). Over the year, personnel turnover was 28 percent Risks are further diversified by acquiring receivables from (23). Of the total number of employees during the year, 62 clients in different sectors and different countries. We have percent were women (63). The percentage of employees also chosen to further diversify our operations by investing with university-level degrees was 49 percent (39). Sick in covered receivables. This means that we are exposed leave amounted to 6 percent (5) of the number of working to risks associated with real estate price trends, which we days within the Group. The Group’s strategy in the area of therefore analyse carefully and include when assessing new employees emphasises recruitment, competence developinvestment opportunities. ment and performance improvement. Every second year, Purchased debt portfolios are usually purchased at prices an employee survey is conducted to measure employees’ significantly below the nominal value of the receivables, and satisfaction, motivation and loyalty. For further information Intrum retains the entire amount it collects, including interon employees, wages and remunerations, see also pages est and fees. Intrum imposes return requirements on pur40–42, 119 and Notes 26–28. chased portfolios that exceed the Group’s cost of capital by a broad margin. Before every acquisition, a careful assessSustainability ment is made based on a projection of future cash flows Intrum has prepared a separate sustainability report which is (collected amount) from the portfolio. In these calculations included in the annual report on pages 28–43 och 115–123. Intrum benefits from its extensive experience in debt collecIntrum’s sustainability work is rooted in our mission of leadtion and from the Group’s methods for credit optimisation. ing the way to a sound economy. In a sound economy, comCredit optimisation entails the consumer’s payment panies are paid on time for the goods and services they have capacity being assessed with the aid of statistical analysis. sold, while all people have sufficient knowledge of personal Intrum therefore believes that it has the expertise required to finance and credit to be able to make informed decisions. evaluate these types of receivables. To enable acquisitions of As the leading player in credit management, and as exlarger portfolios at attractive risk levels, Intrum has, on perts in late payment and collection, Intrum bears a great occasion, partnered with other companies such as CarVal and responsibility to conduct its operations sustainably and Deutsche Bank to share the capital investment and return. ethically, while also working pro actively on issues of finance and debt. On a daily basis, Intrum is in touch with hundreds Payment guarantees of thousands of people with varying degrees of debt and The Group offers services whereby clients, against paydifferent financial circumstances. It is our duty to treat them ment, obtain a guarantee from Intrum regarding the clients’ ethically and with empathy and respect. We want to be inreceivables from their customers. This entails a risk being volved in setting the standard for our industry in the area of incurred that Intrum must compensate the client for the sustainability and are therefore focusing on these issues. guaranteed amount in the event that the invoices are not paid on time. In certain cases, however, it is possible for Working conditions Intrum to demand compensation from the client in the Intrum’s employees are the key to our success. To attract shape of price adjustments in the event that credit quality talent and develop and retain employees, we attach great weakens. In those cases where the guarantee comes into importance to well-being, clear values, good leadership and play, Intrum assumes the client’s claim against its customer continuous skills development. Our market-leading position and takes over the continued handling of the case within the allows us to offer favourable international development Purchased Debt area of operations. The Group’s risk in this opportunities and skills development in several areas. All operation is managed through strict credit limits on the employees must be treated respectfully with equal opporissuance of new charge cards and through analysis of the tunities for development. In our day-to-day work, we listen customer’s credit rating. A provision is made in the balance actively and do our utmost to understand people, treating sheet to cover expenses that may arise due to the guarantee. them with dignity and respect. This applies both internally, as well as externally in our contacts with clients, customers Financing risk and other stakeholders. With a presence in 25 markets, The Group’s loan facility contains a number of operadiversity also becomes an important asset. Through tions-related and financial covenants, including limits on increased diversity, we can be responsive to our efforts to certain financial indicators. The Group Management Team help people get out of debt. carefully monitors these key financial indicators, so that it can quickly take measures if there is a risk that one or more limits may be exceeded. All such key financial indicators Number of employees by geographical region were fulfilled in 2018. Northern Europe Goodwill Central and Eastern Europe 5% Consolidated goodwill amounted to SEK 33,055 M as per Western and Southern Europe 20% December 31, 2018, compared with SEK 29,565 M as per 31 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America December 2017. Of the increase, SEK 2,235 M is attributable Other 27% to new acquisitions made during the year, SEK 169 M to the adjustment of the acquisition analysis from the merger with Lindorff, SEK 8 M to other adjustments of acquisition analy24% ses, and SEK 1,078 M to exchange rate differences. 24% 52 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Board of Directors’ Report The environment diversification and highly cash-generative operations, mean The environment is a topical issue, but it is also complex in we have the scope and flexibility to continue growing and that a balance is required between various environmental invest applying ample judgement, ensuring we remain on risks and interests. Intrum does not have any operations in track to meet our targets for 2020. Sweden that are subject to licensing or reporting requirements according to the Environmental Code. In each counParent Company try, operations are subject to environmental requirements The Group’s publicly listed Parent Company, Intrum AB that, as a minimum correspond to local environmental legis(publ), owns the subsidiaries, provides the Group’s head lation to the extent it is applicable to the Group’s operations. office functions and handles certain Group-wide developClimate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. ment work, services and marketing. Business and industry can play an important role in reducing The Parent Company reported net revenues of SEK 215 M the environmental and climate impact, and we consider it (159) for the year and earnings before tax of SEK 1,666 M our responsibility to minimise our impact where we have the (–579). The improvement in earnings is due to higher earnopportunity. Being a trusted and respected actor builds on ings from participations in subsidiaries, in connection with Intrum’s operations being conducted considerately, enabling divestments of subsidiaries and dividends received. The a sustainable future for coming generations. Through our Parent Company invested SEK 43 M (26) in fixed assets durenvironmental instructions and Code of Conduct, we work ing the year and had, at the end of the year, SEK 251 M (95) to reduce our environmental and climate footprint. These inin cash and equivalents. The average number of employees structions guide employees with regard to how environmental was 68 (57). impact can be limited – meeting digitally instead of travelling, for example, and we do not permit company cars emitting The share and shareholders more than 130 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre. At the end of the year there were 131,541,320 shares in the company, of which 250,000 were treasury holdings. All shares Group Management outstanding carry equal voting rights and an equal share in Intrum’s Group Management consists of Mikael Ericson the Company’s assets and earnings. At the end of the year, (CEO), Alejandro Zurbano (Regional Managing Director, the largest shareholders in the Company were Cidron 1748 Iberian Peninsula & Latin America), Anders Engdahl (Chief sarl/ Nordic Capital (44.0 percent of shares outstanding), Investment Officer), Anette Willumsen (Regional Managing Sampo Oyj (5.2), NN Investment Partners (4.9), HandelsDirector, Northern Europe), Cathrine Klouman (Chief banken Fonder (4.1) and Lannebo Fonder (2.5). Operating Officer), Danko Maras (CFO), Harry Vranjes See also the table on page 45. The Articles of Association (Head of Credit Management), Jean-Luc Ferraton (Chief do not contain any preemption clauses or other limitations Human Resources Officer), Johan Brodin (Chief Risk Officer), on the transferability of the shares, and there are no other Marc Knothe (Regional Managing Director, Western and circumstances that the Company is obliged to disclose Southern Europe), Niklas Lundquist (Chief Legal Officer), according to the provisions in chapter 6, section 2a, pages Per Christofferson (Regional Managing Director, Central 3–11 of the Annual Accounts Act. and Eastern Europe) and Anna Fall (Chief Brand and Communications Officer). Board work During the year, Erik Forsberg, Annika Billberg and According to Intrum’s Articles of Association, the Board of Anne Louise Eberhard left Intrum and the Group ManageDirectors shall consist of no less than five and no more than ment team. nine ordinary members with no more than four deputies. All members are elected by the Annual General Meeting. Market outlook and future prospects In 2018, the Board held 22 meetings (41 in the preceding In Intrum’s balanced business model, consisting of Credit year). For a description of the work of the Board of Directors, Management Services (CMS) focusing on late payments and please see the Corporate Governance Report on pages collection, and Portfolio Investments, we see strong devel104–109. On pages 107–108, the Corporate Governance opment in both areas. Report also includes details of the most important elements Much of the ground work has now been done to enable of the Group’s systems for internal control and the preparaus to start the execution of our production transformation tion of financial reports. programme in our credit management operations. We will The Corporate Governance Report is also available from gradually centralise, standardise and improve large parts of the Group’s website www.intrum.com. the collection process. The actions we take in this area will continue to improve efficiency and the CMS margin through Events after the reporting year 2019 and onwards. In February 2019 it was announced that Intrum had comWe see a continued high activity across Europe in the pleted the refinancing of the real estate portfolio that was non-performing loan market. Our investments’ return levels acquired from Ibercaja Banco SA in December 2018 with were stable during 2018, which was a result of both increased senior debt to Citibank corresponding to 65 percent of the interest rates and large volumes, and also our ability to levproperty value. Intrum also divested half of the shares in erage from our broad geographical footprint. We expect a the company owning the portfolio to a co-investor, and will continuously stable development during 2019. henceforth report the holding as a joint venture. In 2019, we will continue the transformation of our credit In March it was announced that Skandinaviska Enskilda management services operations to benefit from our size, Banken AB (SEB) was included as a lender in Intrum’s step up in growth through our partnership with Banca Intesa existing rolling credit facility (RCF), on the same terms as Sanpaolo and complete our merger activities and we also other lenders, with a credit commitment of EUR 275 M. look forward to being an active partner on a continuously SEB thereby joined a group of banks consisting of Nordea, dynamic and attractive market across Europe. Intrum’s size, DnB, Swedbank, Danske Bank and Nykredit, which all offer Board of Directors’ Report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 53 financing on the same terms. Thereby, Intrum’s rolling credit Team share the success of the business. As we believe it to facility (RCF) amounts to EUR 1,375 M. be a good indicator of our Company’s long-term success, we generally use Earnings Per Share (EPS) as the measureThe Board of Directors’ proposal regarding ment of value created. Similarly to the Variable Salary Part, guidelines for remuneration and other terms of it also allows for our total remuneration costs to vary based employment for the Group Management Team of on the financial performance of the Company. Intrum AB (publ) The Long-Term Incentive Program is proposed to be offered to the Group Management as allocation of Performance The Board of Directors proposes that the following guideShares. The maximum allocation under the Long-Term Incenlines shall be approved by the annual general meeting, for tive Program is 150 percent of the annual base salary for the the time up until the annual general meeting 2020. The CEO, CFO and CIO, and 35 to 50 percent of the base salary guidelines will apply to the CEO and other members of for the other members of the Group Management Team. Intrum’s Group Management Team. The proposal has been Outcome from the Long-Term Incentive Program is not prepared by the Board of Directors and the Remuneration pensionable income. Committee of the Board. Pension & Insurances Remuneration philosophy Pension, disability and medical insurances and other similar At Intrum, we depend on our people to deliver on our ambenefits shall be designed to reflect home country practices bitious goals in challenging environments. The objective of and requirements. our remuneration philosophy is to reward employees for delivering work that is driving positive business results in Variable Salary Part and Long-Term line with or exceeding set targets. We also aim to attract, Incentive Program costs develop and retain talent in a competitive and international The costs for 2019 are estimated not to exceed SEK 18M for market by delivering competitive compensation to high the Variable Salary Part, and SEK 33M for the Long-Term Inperforming employees. Furthermore, we aim to ensure that centive Program, excluding social charges. These estimates employees are offered a remuneration package aligned with do not take into account possible changes to the Group local market conditions. Management Team during the year. Remuneration in Intrum should reflect job complexity, responsibility and performance, and it should be competShareholding guidelines itive in comparison with similar companies within similar To further promote ownership alignment and commitment industries in the relevant geography. To ensure that we drive among our group management team, we have put in place the right behaviours and focus our efforts on the right areshareholding guidelines which stipulate that each senior as, performance is measured against goals that are closely executive is asked to hold a percentage of their annual gross linked to our business strategy and core values. base salary in Intrum shares – 100 percent for the CEO and The total remuneration is based upon four main compo50 percent for other senior executives. Each senior execnents; base salary, Variable Salary Part, Long-Term Incentive utive has been given an amount of time (to be individually Program and Pension & Insurances. In addition hereto, other agreed) to build up his/hers shareholding unless not held benefits, such as a company car, may be offered. already. The shares are to be held for as long as the senior executives are employed in the Company and members of Base salary the Group Management Team. The individual base salary is based on three cornerstones: Job complexity & responsibility, performance and local Miscellaneous market conditions. In case of termination of employment by Intrum, severance payments (if any) will not exceed twelve months’ base salary. Variable Salary Part The Board of Directors shall be entitled to deviate from The Variable Salary Part (VSP) seeks to drive short-term these guidelines if special reasons for doing so exist in an performance, and it is therefore set for one year at a time. individual case. The metrics are individually decided for each member of the Group Management Team, in order to reflect the busiProposed appropriation of earnings ness strategy and our key focus areas. The evaluation metThe Board of Directors and the CEO propose that rics reflect business goals and other value creation for the SEK 9.50 per share (9.50) be distributed to shareholders, Company. In addition, the Variable Salary Part allows for tocorresponding to a total of SEK 1,247 M (1,250). The full tal remuneration costs to vary in accordance with business dividend proposal is presented on page 99. For further inforperformance. mation on the earnings and financial position of the Parent The maximum payout under the Variable Salary Part proCompany and the Group, please refer to the income stategram is 50 percent of annual base salary for the CEO, and 35 ments, balance sheets, summary of changes in shareholders’ to 50 percent of the annual base salary for the other memequity, cash flow statements and notes. bers of the Group Management Team (except for the Chief Risk Officer, who is not eligible for Variable Salary Part). Publication of the Annual Report This information is such that Intrum AB (publ) is required to Long-Term Incentive Program disclose pursuant to the EU’s markets abuse directive and Our Long-Term Incentive Program (LITP) aligns the interests the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted and perspectives of the Group Management Team with for publication at 12.00 noon CET on 4 April 2019. those of our shareholders and creates a close commitment to the Company. It rewards long-term value creation over a period of three years, and lets the Group Management 54 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Board of Directors’ Report Financial overview Income statement, SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 In accordance with the rules in IFRS Net revenues 13,442 9,434 5,869 5,419 4,958 5 Non-cur­rent Cost of sales –7,369 –5,049 –3,069 –2,957 –2,819 Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Gross earnings 6,073 4,385 2,800 2,462 2,139 Operations, disconSales, marketing and administration expenses –2,201 –1,667 –871 –881 –813 tinued operations are reported in the Disposal of operations/Goodwill impairment – – – – –111 income statement Reversal of liability for additional purchase consideration – – – – 164 as discontinued throughout the Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 106 10 –8 –4 3 five-year period by Operating earnings (EBIT) 3,978 2,728 1,921 1,577 1,382 recalculating comparative figures for Net financial items –1,363 –973 –165 –160 –175 previous years, while Profit before tax 2,615 1,755 1,756 1,417 1,207 in the balance sheet, Taxes –599 –389 –329 –273 –206 they are reported as assets and liabilities Net earnings for the year from continuing operations 2,016 1,366 1,427 1,144 1,001 in operations held for Net earnings for the year from discontinued operations –73 137 41 28 40 sale from the date on which the decision Net earnings for the year 1,943 1,503 1,468 1,172 1,041 was taken to make the divestment, without recalculating Of which, attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders 1,936 1,501 1,458 1,164 1,031 the comparative Non-controlling interests 7 2 10 8 10 figures. Net earnings for the year 1,943 1,503 1,468 1,172 1,041 Balance sheet, SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Assets Total fixed assets 67,904 54,815 12,304 10,294 9,362 of which, portfolio investments 24,830 21,149 8,733 7,027 6,197 Total current assets 8,129 4,646 2,100 1,851 1,979 Assets in operations held for sale 0 8,314 0 0 0 Total assets 76,033 67,775 14,404 12,145 11,341 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Total shareholders’ equity 25,672 22,439 4,130 3,166 3,041 Total liabilities 50,361 44,168 10,274 8,979 8,300 Liabilities in operations held for sale 0 1,168 0 0 0 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 76,033 67,775 14,404 12,145 11,341 Key figures 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 For definitions, see Note 38, page 96–97 Net revenues, SEK M 13,442 9,434 5,869 5,419 4,958 and page 126. Revenue growth, % 42 61 8 9 14 Cash EBITDA, SEK M 8,732 5,953 3,668 3,193 2,916 EBITDA, SEK M 4,878 3,165 2,090 1,736 1,546 EBIT, SEK M 3,978 2,728 1,921 1,577 1,382 Non-recurring items in EBIT, SEK M –742 –397 10 –54 36 Items affecting comparability in EBIT, SEK M 132 0 0 0 0 Revaluations of portfolio investments, SEK M 88 –3 45 32 33 Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT), SEK M 4,500 3,128 1,866 1,599 1,313 Net earnings, SEK M 1,943 1,503 1,468 1,172 1,041 Net debt, SEK M 42,122 37,322 7,260 6,026 5,635 Earnings per share, SEK 14.18 14.62 20.15 15.92 13.48 Dividend/proposed dividend per share, SEK 9.50 9.50 9.00 8.25 7.00 Average number of shares, thousands 131,391 102,674 72,348 73,097 76,462 Number of shares at year-end, thousands 131,291 131,541 72,348 72,348 73,848 Return on portfolio investments, % 15 16 20 20 20 Portfolio investments, SEK M 11,854 7,170 3,084 2,271 1,909 Average number of employees 7,910 6,293 3,865 3,738 3,694 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 55 Financial statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Full-year Full-year SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 Income from customers 2, 3 7,240 5,041 Net earnings for the year 1,943 1,503 Income from portfolio investments Other comprehensive income, in accordance with the effective items to be reallocated to interest method 2 6,114 4,394 earnings: Positive revaluations of portfolio The year’s change in translation investments 2 795 334 reserve attributable to the transla1,867 179 tion of foreign operations Negative revaluations of portfolio investments 2 –707 –335 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to hedging of curTotal revenues 2, 3 13,442 9,434 rency risks in foreign operations –1,320 47 Cost of sales 3 –7,369 –5,049 Other comprehensive income, Gross earnings 6,073 4,385 items not to be reallocated to earnings: Revaluations of pension liability for Sales, marketing and administrathe year 8, 21 6 –16 tion expenses 3 –2,170 –1,646 Total other comprehensive income 553 210 Provisions for credit losses on accounts receivable 3, 16 –31 –21 Comprehensive income for the year 2,496 1,713 Participations in joint ventures 5 106 10 Operating earnings (EBIT) 2, 3, 4 3,978 2,728 Of which, attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 2,486 1,712 Financial income 6 60 17 Non-controlling interests 10 1 Financial expenses 7 –1,423 –990 Comprehensive income for the year 2,496 1,713 Net financial items –1,363 –973 Profit before tax 2,615 1,755 Taxes 8 –599 –389 Net earnings for the year from 2,016 1,366 continuing operations Earnings for the period from 39 –73 137 discontinued operations after tax Net earnings for the year 1,943 1,503 Of which, attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 1,936 1,501 Non-controlling interests 12 7 2 Net earnings for the year 1,943 1,503 Earnings per share before and 9 after dilution Average number of shares before 131,391 102,674 and after dilution, thousands Earnings from continuing operations 14.73 13.28 Earnings from discontinued operations –0.56 1.33 Total earnings per share before 14.18 14.62 and after dilution Financial statements Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 57 Consolidated balance sheet 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Fixed assets Shareholders’ equity attributable Intangible fixed assets 10 to Parent Company’s shareholders 20 Goodwill 33,055 29,565 Share capital 3 3 Capitalised expenses for Other paid-in capital 18,237 18,237 IT development 393 341 Reserves 1,175 630 Client relationships 3,670 2,703 Retained earnings including net Other intangible fixed assets 63 81 earnings for the year 4,251 3,566 Total intangible fixed assets 37,181 32,690 Total shareholders’ equity 23,666 22,436 attributable to Parent Company’s Tangible fixed assets 11 shareholders Property investments 256 0 Shareholders’ equity attributable to non-controlling interests 12 2,006 3 Computer hardware 56 58 Total shareholders’ equity 25,672 22,439 Other tangible fixed assets 181 187 Total tangible fixed assets 493 245 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 23 6,534 2,703 Other fixed assets Bond loan 23 33,254 32,052 Shares and participations in joint ventures 13 4,746 0 Other long-term liabilities 395 374 Other shares and participations 1 3 Provisions for pensions 21 263 175 Portfolio investments 14 24,830 21,149 Other long-term provisions 22 5 9 Deferred tax assets 8 620 692 Deferred tax liabilities 8 1,729 1,206 Other long-term receivables 15 33 36 Total long-term liabilities 42,180 36,519 Total other fixed assets 30,230 21,880 Current liabilities Total fixed assets 67,904 54,815 Liabilities to credit institutions 23 296 0 Bond loan 23 1,000 1,000 Current assets Commercial papers 23 2,123 2,269 Accounts receivable 16 719 755 Client funds payable 917 902 Property holdings 2,429 93 Accounts payable 488 572 Client funds 917 902 Income tax liabilities 241 364 Tax assets 273 347 Advances from clients 59 64 Other receivables 17 1,553 931 Other current liabilities 852 541 Prepaid expenses and accrued Accrued expenses and 18 890 737 prepaid income 24 2,056 1,794 income Liquid assets 19 1,348 881 Other short-term provisions 22 149 143 Total current assets 8,129 4,646 Total current liabilities 8,181 7,649 Assets in operations held for sale 39 0 8,314 Liabilities in operations held for sale 39 0 1,168 TOTAL ASSETS 76,033 67,775 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ 76,033 67,775 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES For information on the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 25. 58 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 Cash flow from continuing operations Operating activities Operating earnings (EBIT) 2 3,978 2,728 Not included in cash flow: Amortisation/depreciation and impairment 4, 10, 11 900 436 Amortisation/revaluation of portfolio investments 14 3,854 2,787 Other adjustments for items not included in cash flow 2 –351 –23 Interest received 60 17 Interest paid –1,244 –359 Payments for other financial expenses –42 –360 Income tax paid –590 –453 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 6,565 4,773 Changes in factoring receivables –67 –62 Other changes in working capital –344 –176 Cash flow from operating activities 6,154 4,535 Investing activities Purchases of intangible fixed assets 10 –232 –116 Purchases of tangible fixed assets 11 –74 –56 Portfolio investments in receivables and property holdings 14 –6,872 –7,175 Purchases of shares in subsidiaries and associated companies 35 –8,587 –1,506 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiaries 35 –400 1,038 Divestments of shares in subsidiaries and associated companies 7,511 236 Other cash flow from investing activities 729 32 Cash flow from investing activities –7,925 –7,547 Financing activities Borrowings 24,963 38,216 Amortisation of loans –21,430 –33,764 Share repurchases –56 0 Share dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders –1,250 –651 Cash flow from financing activities 2,227 3,801 Cash flows from continuing operations 456 789 Cash flows from discontinued operations –372 77 Change in liquid assets 84 866 Opening balance of liquid assets 1,253 396 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 11 –9 Closing balance of liquid assets 19 1,348 1,253 Of which, cash and cash equivalents in discontinued operations – 372 Discontinued operations Cash flow from operating activities 13 459 Cash flow from investing activities –589 –607 Cash flow from financing activities 204 225 Group total Cash flow from operating activities 6,167 4,994 Cash flow from investing activities –8,514 –8,154 Cash flow from financing activities 2,431 4,026 Financial statements Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 59 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity See also Note 20. Retained Number of earnings incl. Non-conshares Other paidnet earnings trolling Total SEK M outstanding Share capital in capital Reserves for the year Total interests equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 72,347,726 2 906 404 2,731 4,043 87 4,130 Comprehensive income, 2017 Net earnings for the year 1,501 1,501 2 1,503 Other comprehensive income for the year: The year’s change in translation reserve attributable to the translation of foreign operations 167 167 –1 166 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to hedging of currency risks in foreign operations 47 47 47 Revaluations of pension liability for the year –18 –18 –18 Income tax on other comprehensive income 13 2 15 15 Comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 227 1,485 1,712 1 1,713 0 0 Transactions with Group owners in 2017 0 0 Share dividend –651 –651 –651 Acquired minority interest 0 –85 –85 New share issue 59,193,594 1 17,331 17,332 17,332 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 131,541,320 3 18,237 631 3,565 22,436 3 22,439 Amended accounting principle in accordance with IFRS 9 50 50 50 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 131,541,320 3 18,237 631 3,615 22,486 3 22,489 Comprehensive income, 2018 Net earnings for the year 1,936 1,936 7 1,943 Other comprehensive income for the year: 0 0 The year’s change in translation reserve attributable to the translation of foreign operations 1,864 1,864 3 1,867 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to hedging of currency risks in foreign operations –1,401 –1,401 –1,401 Revaluations of pension liability for the year 8 8 8 Income tax on other comprehensive income 81 –2 79 79 Comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 544 1,942 2,486 10 2,496 Transactions with Group owners in 2018 Share dividend –1,250 –1,250 –1,250 Share repurchases –250,000 –56 –56 –56 Acquired minority interest 0 1,993 1,993 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 131,291,320 3 18,237 1,175 4,251 23,666 2,006 25,672 At the end of 2018, exchange rate differences accumulated since the transition to IFRS amounted to SEK 1,175 M (631) including tax effects. 60 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Financial statements Parent Company income statement Parent Company statement of comprehensive income SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 Net revenues 3 215 159 Net earnings for the year 1,475 –380 Gross earnings 215 159 Other comprehensive income, items to be reallocated to earnings: Comprehensive income for the Sales and marketing expenses 3 –46 –36 year attributable to hedging of Administrative expenses 3, 4 –726 –460 currency risks in foreign operations –1,320 47 Operating earnings (EBIT) –557 –337 Comprehensive income for the year 155 –333 Income from participations in subsidiaries 6, 7 2,008 368 Exchange differences on monetary items classified as expanded investment 731 –166 Interest income and similar items 6, 7 1,017 680 Interest expenses and similar items 6, 7 –1,533 –1,124 Net financial items 2,223 –242 Profit before tax 1,666 –579 Tax on net earnings for the year 8 –191 199 Net earnings for the year 1,475 –380 Financial statements Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 61 Parent Company balance sheet 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND Fixed assets LIABILITIES Intangible Shareholders’ equity 20 10 fixed assets Share capital 3 3 Capitalised expenses for IT development 43 10 Statutory reserve 282 282 Total intangible fixed assets 43 10 Total restricted equity 285 285 Non-restricted equity Tangible fixed assets 11 Share premium reserve 17,442 17,442 Computer hardware 5 0 Fair value reserve –1,161 156 Total tangible fixed assets 5 0 Earnings brought forward –1,594 92 Net earnings for the year 1,475 –380 Financial fixed assets Total non-restricted equity 16,162 17,310 Participations in Group companies 12 30,812 25,777 Total shareholders’ equity 16,447 17,595 Deferred tax asset 8 9 199 Receivables from Group companies 24,148 27,565 Long-term liabilities Total financial fixed assets 54,969 53,541 Liabilities to credit institutions 23 6,534 2,694 Bond loan 23 33,254 32,052 Total fixed assets 55,017 53,551 Liabilities to Group companies 3,207 3,260 Total long-term liabilities 42,995 38,006 Current assets Current receivables Current liabilities Tax assets 0 3 Overdraft facility 23 11 0 Receivables from Group Bond loan 23 1,000 1,000 companies 11,467 7,046 Commercial papers 23 2,123 2,269 Other receivables 17 13 16 Accounts payable 33 53 Prepaid expenses and Liabilities to Group companies 3,825 1,515 accrued income 18 271 300 Other current liabilities 3 3 Total current receivables 11,751 7,365 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 24 582 570 Liquid assets Total current liabilities 7,577 5,410 Cash and bank balances 251 95 Total liquid assets 251 95 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ 67,019 61,011 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Total current assets 12,002 7,460 TOTAL ASSETS 67,019 61,011 For information on pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 25. 62 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Financial statements Parent Company cash flow statement SEK M NOTE 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating earnings –557 –337 Amortisation/depreciation and 5 16 impairment Interest received 1,017 680 Interest paid –1,351 –1,113 Payments for other financial expenses –110 –11 Cash flow from operating activities –996 –765 before changes in working capital Changes in working capital 65 197 Cash flow from operating activities –931 –568 Investing activities Investments in intangible fixed assets –38 –26 Investments in tangible fixed assets –5 0 Purchases of shares in subsidiaries and associated companies –67 –6 Disposal of subsidiary 1,907 0 Share dividend from subsidiaries 363 368 Cash flows from investing activities 2,160 336 Financing activities Borrowings 26,327 38,216 Amortisation of loans –21,430 –7,684 Net loans to subsidiaries –4,664 –29,562 Share dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders –1,250 –651 Share repurchases –56 0 Cash flow from financing activities –1,073 319 Change in liquid assets 156 87 Opening balance of liquid assets 95 8 Closing balance of liquid assets 19 251 95 Financial statements Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 63 Parent Company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity See also Note 20. Number Earnings Total shareof shares Share Statutory Share premiFair value brought Earnings holders’ SEK M outstanding capital reserve um reserve reserve forward for the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 72,347,726 2 282 111 109 701 42 1,247 Comprehensive income, 2017 Net earnings for the year –380 –380 Other comprehensive income for the year 47 47 Comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 0 47 0 –380 –333 Disposition of previous year’s earnings 42 –42 0 Transactions with Group owners in 2017 Share dividend –651 –651 New share issue 59,193,594 1 17,331 17,332 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 131,541,320 3 282 17,442 156 92 –380 17,595 Comprehensive income, 2018 Net earnings for the year 1,475 1,475 Other comprehensive income for the year –1,317 –1,317 Comprehensive income for the year 0 0 0 0 –1,317 0 1,475 158 Disposition of previous year’s earnings –380 380 0 Transactions with Group owners in 2018 Share dividend –1,250 –1,250 Share repurchases –250,000 –56 –56 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 131,291,320 3 282 17,442 –1,161 –1,594 1,475 16,447 Share capital and statutory reserve are restricted equity. Other items are non-restricted equity. 64 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Financial statements Notes Page Note 66 01 Significant accounting and valuation principles 71 02 Information by geographic region and service line 72 03 Net revenues and expenses 73 04 Amortisation/depreciation and impairment 73 05 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 73 06 Financial income 73 07 Interest expenses and similar items 74 08 Taxes 75 09 Earnings per share 75 10 Intangible fixed assets 76 11 Tangible fixed assets 77 12 Group companies 80 13 Shares and participations in joint ventures 81 14 Portfolio investments 81 15 Other long-term receivables 81 16 Accounts receivable 81 17 Other receivables 82 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 82 19 Liquid assets 82 20 Shareholders’ equity 82 21 Pensions 84 22 Other provisions 84 23 Borrowing 86 24 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 86 25 Pledged assets, contingent assets and contingent liabilities 87 26 Average number of employees 88 27 Salaries and remunerations 88 28 Terms and conditions of employment for senior executives 89 29 Fees to auditors 89 30 Operational leasing 89 31 Financial leasing 89 32 Investing commitments 90 33 Financial instruments 90 34 Financial risks and financial policies 93 35 Acquisitions and divestments 95 36 Critical estimates and assumptions 96 37 Related parties 96 38 Reconciliation of key figures 97 39 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities in operations held for sale 98 40 Pro forma income statement including Lindorff Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 65 Note 1: Significant accounting and valuation principles General The Parent Company Intrum AB (publ) is a registered company domiciled or service is transferred to the customer, which differs from the previous in Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the Company’s headquarters is basis in the transfer of risks and benefits. IFRS 15 introduced new ways Hesselmans Torg 14, Nacka, SE–105 24 Stockholm, Sweden. During 2018, of determining how and when revenue should be recognised, entailing the Company was listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, Large Cap list. a new approach compared with how revenue was previously reported. The consolidated accounts were approved for publication by the The sectors most affected were the construction and civil engineering Company’s Board of Directors on 28 March 2019. The balance sheets and sectors, as well as companies engaged in contract manufacturing. The new income statements will be presented to the Annual General Meeting on 26 accounting rules had no significant effect on the Intrum Group but entailed April 2019. new disclosure requirements. The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), From 1 January 2019, the Group will apply IFRS 16 Leases, replacing which is also the reporting currency for the Parent Company and for IAS 17 Leases. IFRS 16 provides that leases previously accounted for as the Group. The financial statements are therefore presented in SEK. All operating leases will generally start to be reported in a manner similar to the amounts, unless indicated otherwise, are rounded off to the nearest SEK M. previous accounting of financial leases. This requires a right of use asset and The consolidated and annual accounts pertain to 1 January – 31 Decema lease liability to also be reported for an operating lease, with associated ber for income statement items and 31 December for balance sheet items. reporting of costs for depreciation and interest, unlike previously when the leased asset and related liability were not entered in the accounts and Accounting standards applied lease payments were amortised on a straight-line basis as a lease expense. With regard to the consolidated financial statements, the Annual Report There are exceptions for short-term leases and leases of assets of low value. for Intrum AB (publ) has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Based on the information available, the Group expects the principal effects Accounts Act and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on Intrum’s accounting to be that the Group’s total assets will increase by a issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The Group preliminary amount of approximately SEK 450 M, calculated as per the beapplies IFRS as adopted by the European Union (EU). For 2018, there ginning of 2019, with both an asset and a liability being reported with regard are no new provisions relevant to Intrum in the IFRS issued by the IASB to leases in effect at any given time, and with operating earnings improving that have not yet been adopted by the EU. This means that the Group’s by a preliminary SEK 14 M through the implicit interest expense in the leases application of IFRS as adopted by the EU during the year also corresponds being reported in net financial items rather than in operating earnings. to the application of IFRS as issued by the IASB. The Group plans to apply the modified retroactive method. This means Further, recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary accounting rules for that the cumulative effect of IFRS 16 being introduced will be reported groups from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board has been applied. under earnings brought forward in the opening balance as of 1 January The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the 2019 without the comparison figures being translated. Leases of low value Group except in the cases stated in the section “Parent Company account(assets that, in new condition, have a value of less than approximately ing principles”. SEK 50,000) – primarily comprising IT and office equipment – will not be included in the leasing debt but will continue to be expensed on a straightAssumptions line bases over the lease term. Accordingly, the amended accounting Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, with the exception of relates mainly to rented office premises and cars. certain financial assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value. Other changes to IFRS are not expected to have any material effect on The preparation of financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the consolidated accounts. the Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting principles and the Classification issues carrying values of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and Fixed assets and long-term liabilities in the Parent Company and the Group assumptions are based on historical experience and a number of other consist of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more than factors that under current circumstances seem reasonable. The result of twelve months after the balance sheet date. Current assets and current these estimates and assumptions is then used to determine the carrying liabilities in the Parent Company and the Group consist of amounts that values of assets and liabilities that otherwise are not clearly indicated by are expected to be recovered or paid within twelve months of the balance other sources. Actual outcomes may deviate from these estimates and sheet date. assumptions. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates Consolidation are recognised in the period in which the change is made, provided it has Subsidiaries affected only this period, or the period the change was made and future The Group applies IFRS 3 Business combinations and IFRS 10 Consolidatperiods if the change affects both current and future periods. ed financial statements. Estimates made by the Company that have a significant impact on the The consolidated accounts include the annual accounts of all subsidifinancial statements and estimates, which could necessitate significant aries, i.e., companies in which the Parent Company, directly or indirectly, adjustments in financial statements in subsequent years, are described in holds more than 50 percent of the votes or otherwise can exercise control more detail in Note 36. over operations. A controlling interest is achieved when the Group is The accounting principles described below for the Group have been exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from, its commitment to the applied consistently for all periods in the Group’s financial statements, Company and is able to affect returns by means of its decisive influence. unless otherwise indicated. The Group’s accounting principles have been An influence arises when the Group has existing rights enabling it to conapplied consistently in the consolidation of the Parent Company, subsidiaries, trol the relevant operations, that is, the operations that significantly affect associated companies and joint ventures. the Company’s performance. The consolidated accounts are prepared according to the acquisition Changes in accounting principles method, which means that the acquisition of a subsidiary is treated as a Changes that entered into force in 2018 transaction where the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and Since 1 January 2018, Intrum has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, takes over its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The Group’s equity therefore which replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measureincludes only the portion of the subsidiary’s equity added since acquisition. ment, and includes new rules for accounting of credit losses, portfolio The Group’s cost is determined through an acquisition analysis in connection investments and hedge accounting. The new rules regarding loan losses with the acquisition. The analysis determines the cost of the shares or operand hedge accounting had no significant effect on the Group. The new ations as well as the fair value of acquired, identifiable assets and assumed rules for portfolio investments entail Intrum continuing to report these liabilities and contingent liabilities. The cost of the subsidiary’s shares or operaccording to an effective interest rate model, with some minor adjustments ations consists of the fair value of the compensation on the transfer date and in the application. The greatest change is that, in accordance with IFRS 9, transaction expenses directly attributable to the acquisition. The cost includes acquired credit-impaired receivables can be reported at a higher recogconditional purchase considerations recognised as liabilities at fair value per nised value than cost if estimates of future cash flows change, which differs the acquisition date. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. from Intrum’s current application of the corresponding rules under IAS 39. In acquisitions where the cost exceeds the net value of acquired assets The effect was that earnings brought forward in the opening balance for and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported 2018 increased by approximately SEK 50 M after tax. Comparative figures as goodwill. When the difference is negative, it is recognised directly for previous years are not recalculated. through profit or loss. Since 1 January 2018, Intrum also applies IFRS 15 Revenue from ConNon-controlling interests arise in cases where the acquisition does tracts with Customers, which replaced IAS 18 Revenue, and included new not relate to the entire subsidiary. There are two options for recognising rules regarding when revenues on sales are to be reported in certain cases. non-controlling interests. The two options are to recognise the percentage IFRS 15 is based on revenue being recognised when control of the good of non-controlling interests that makes up proportional net assets, or 66 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes to recognise non-controlling interests at fair value, which means that rate differences of this type are recognised in the income statement – in non-controlling interests form a percentage of goodwill. The method used the operating result if, for example, they refer to accounts receivable or for recognising non-controlling interests is made on a case by case basis. accounts payable, or in net financial items if they refer to financial investThe financial reports of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ments and borrowing in foreign currency. accounts from the acquisition date until control ceases. To avoid exchange rate differences, receivables and liabilities in foreign Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and currency are sometimes hedged through forward exchange contracts. unrealised gains and losses that arise from transactions within the Group The Group’s holding of forward exchange contracts is marked to market are eliminated in their entirety in the consolidated accounts. on each balance sheet date, and changes in value are recognised through Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associated companies profit or loss. and joint ventures are eliminated to a degree corresponding to the Group’s ownership of those companies. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the Translation of the financial statements of foreign operations same way as unrealised gains, to the extent there is an indication of Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other impairment. Group surplus and deficit values, are translated from the functional currency to the Group’s reporting currency, Swedish kronor, at the exchange Associated companies and joint ventures rate on balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at the The Group applies IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures, and average rate, which serves as an approximation of the rate that applied on IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. each transaction date. Translation differences arise in the translation of Associated companies are companies that are not subsidiaries but subsidiary accounts in part because the balance sheet date rate changes where the Parent Company, directly or indirectly, has at least 20 percent each period and in part because the average rate deviates from balance of the votes or otherwise exercises significant influence without having sheet date rate. Translation differences are recognised directly in total control over the partly owned company. comprehensive income as the year’s change in the translation reserve. Participations in associated companies and joint ventures are Long-term receivables and liabilities between the Parent Company and recognised in the consolidated accounts according to the equity method, subsidiaries can be seen as an extension or reduction of the net investment which means that the holding in the company is recognised at cost and in each company. If this is the case, translation differences are recognised subsequently adjusted to the Group’s share of the change in the associated under other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements. company’s net assets. The value of the shares includes goodwill from the When foreign operations are sold, accumulated translation differences acquisition. The consolidated income statement includes the Group’s parattributable to those operations are realised. ticipation in the company’s earnings less goodwill impairment. The amount During the year the Group did not hedge any other flow exposure is reported under Participations in the earnings of associates and joint pertaining to anticipated receipts or disbursements in foreign currency. ventures. Dividends received from the company are not recognised in the income statement and instead reduce the carrying value of the investment. Financial assets and liabilities Any difference between the cost of an acquisition and the owner’s The Group applies IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IFRS 9 share of the net fair value of the associated company’s identifiable assets, Financial Instruments, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in accordance with IFRS 3. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. The comparative figures for 2017 were The equity method is applied from the date a significant influence arises prepared under IAS 39 rather than IFRS 9. until the time it ceases or the associated company becomes a subsidiary. A financial instrument is any form of agreement giving rise to a financial If the Group’s share of reported losses in the company exceeds the asset in a company and a financial liability or equity instrument in a carrying value of its participations, the value of those participations is counterparty. reduced to nil. Losses can also be offset against the Group’s unsecured Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include, on the receivables from the company if they constitute part of the net investment. asset side, cash and bank balances, accounts receivable and other equity Further losses are not recognised provided the Group has not issued instruments, loans receivable, portfolio investments and derivatives. Client guarantees to cover them. funds are recognised on a separate line in the balance sheet and therefore are not included in the Group’s reported liquid assets. Included among Joint ventures liabilities and equity are accounts payable, client funds payable, debt and The Group applies IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. equity instruments in issue, loan liabilities and derivatives. Joint arrangements pertain to companies in which Intrum and other On initial recognition, financial assets (except accounts receivable with part-owners manage operations jointly in accordance with a shareholder no significant financing component) and financial liabilities are valued at agreement. fair value plus (in the case of financial instruments not measured at fair Joint arrangements classified as joint ventures are reported in the convalue via the income statement) transaction costs directly attributable to solidated accounts in accordance with the equity method. Joint ventures the acquisition or issue. Accounts receivable with no significant financing are companies in which the Group, through collaborative agreements, component are valued at the transaction price. shares a controlling interest with one or more parties, such that the Group On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as valued at is entitled to net assets rather than having a direct entitlement to assets amortised cost, fair value via other comprehensive income or at fair value and responsibility for liabilities. Jointly owned companies are recognised via the income statement. Financial assets are not reclassified after initial at cost and subsequently adjusted for the Group’s share of the change in recognition, unless the Group changes its business model for managing the company’s net assets. The consolidated income statement includes financial assets, in which case all of the financial assets concerned are the Group’s share of earnings, and this is reported under Participations in reclassified from the first day of the reporting period commencing after the the earnings of associates and joint ventures. Dividends received from joint change in business model. ventures are not recognised in the income statement and instead reduce A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet the carrying value of the investment. The equity method is applied from when the Company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual terms. the date on which joint control is gained until the date that it ceases or Receivables are recognised when the Company has performed and there is transitions to the sole influence of Intrum. a contractual obligation on the counterparty to pay, even if an invoice has Shared operations, usually conducted in a company format, are joint not yet been received. Accounts receivable are recognised in the balance arrangements in which Intrum and one or more partners are entitled to sheet when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when the all of the financial benefits related to the assets of the operations. Shared counterparty has performed and there is a contractual obligation to pay, operations are reported according to the profit split method, meaning that even if an invoice has not yet been received. Trade accounts payable are each party to a joint venture reports its share of assets, liabilities, income recognised when an invoice is received. A financial asset is removed from and expenses. the balance sheet when the rights in the agreement are realised, expire or the Company loses control over them. A financial liability is removed Foreign currency from the balance sheet when the obligation in the agreement has been The Group applies IAS 21 Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. discharged or otherwise extinguished. The fair value of listed financial assets corresponds to their listed market Transactions in foreign currency price on the balance sheet date. The fair value of unlisted financial assets is Group companies prepare their accounts in the local functional currency determined by using valuation techniques, e.g., recently conducted transin the country where they have their operations. Transactions in a currency actions, the price of similar instruments and discounted cash flows. For other than the local currency are recognised at the exchange rate in effect forward exchange contracts and currency interest rate swaps, fair value on the transaction day. When such transactions are offset or settled, the is determined based on listed prices. The fair value of forward exchange exchange rate may deviate from the one that applied on the transaction contracts and currency interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting day, in which case a (realised) exchange rate difference arises. Moreover, the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the that can be secured on the balance sheet date for the remaining contract exchange rates on each balance sheet date, due to which an (unrealised) period. The current value is obtained by discounting applying the Group’s exchange rate difference arises. Both realised and unrealised exchange weighted average cost of capital. For further information, see Note 34. Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 67 Portfolio investments as needed over the lifetime of receivable. The anticipated maturity of Portfolio investments consist of portfolios of delinquent receivables accounts receivable is short, so they are carried at amortised cost without purchased at prices significantly below the nominal receivable. Portfolio discounting. investments usually refer to receivables from private individuals and are often unsecured receivables. They are reported in accordance with the Legal outlays rules for acquired impaired (“credit-impaired”) receivables in IFRS 9, that The Group incurs outlays for court fees, legal representation, enforcement is, at amortised cost applying the effective interest method and an effecauthorities, etc., which can be charged to and collected from customers. tive interest rate reflecting the degree to which the receivable is impaired. In certain cases Intrum has agreements with its clients where any expenses The portfolios belong to the third class of credit risk as defined in IFRS 9. that cannot be collected from customers are instead refunded by the client. In the income statement, income from portfolio investments is The amount that is expected to be recovered from a solvent counterparty recognised, in accordance with the effective interest rate method, as the is recognised as an asset in the balance sheet on the line Other receivables. collected amount less amortisation. The collection is often performed The anticipated maturity of these receivable is short, so they are carried at by the same personnel who handle collections and debt surveillance on amortised cost without discounting. behalf of external clients within the Credit Management service line. The cost of collection is debited internally at market price and expensed in the Client funds income statement for the Portfolio Investments service line as a cost of Client funds, which are reported as assets and liabilities in the balance services sold. sheet, represent cash received on collection of a specific debt on behalf of Reporting follows the effective interest method, where the carrying a client and payable to the client within a specified period. Client funds are value of each portfolio corresponds to the present value of all projected liquid funds with a restricted disposition right. The same amount is reported future cash flows discounted by an initial effective interest rate determined as a liability. on the date the portfolio was acquired, based on the relation between cost and the projected future cash flows on the acquisition date. Changes in Cash and cash equivalents the carrying value of the portfolios are comprised of amortisation for the Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, as well as immediperiod and are recognised in the income statement as a charge against the ately available balances with banks and similar institutions. Short-term revenue line. investments consist of investments with an insignificant risk of fluctuating In connection with the purchase of each portfolio of receivables, a in value, which can easily be converted to cash and have a maturity of not projection is made of the portfolio’s cash flows. Cash flows include the more than three months from acquisition. loan amount, reminder fees, collection fees and late interest that, based on a probability assessment, are expected to be received from customers, Liabilities less forecast collection costs. With this forecast and the acquisition price Liabilities are initially recognised at the amount received following deducincluding transaction costs as a basis, each portfolio is assigned an initial tion of transaction costs. Subsequent to acquisition, loans are carried at effective interest rate that is then used to discount cash flows through the amortised cost according to the effective rate method. Long-term liabilities life of the portfolio. have an anticipated remaining maturity of more than one year, while shortCurrent cash flow projections are monitored over the course of the year term liabilities have a maturity of less than one year. The Group’s long-term and updated based on, among other things, achieved collection results, loans generally have short fixed interest periods, which means that the agreements reached with customers on instalment plans and macronominal loan amount plus accrued interest is a good approximation of the economic information including assessments of economic development liability calculated according to the effective rate model. and unemployment in each country. Cash flow projections are made at the portfolio level, since each portfolio of receivables consists of a small Accounts payable number of homogeneous amounts. On the basis of the updated cash flow Accounts payable are classified as valued at amortised cost. However, projections and initial effective interest rate, a new carrying value for the accounts payable have a short anticipated maturity and are carried without portfolio is calculated in the closing accounts. being discounting to a nominal amount. The accounting model assumes each portfolio to be relatively homogeneous and comprising a large number of receivables for smaller Derivatives amounts. Portfolios comprising individual larger receivables are valued on Derivatives consist of forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and acquisition and at the level of the receivables in ongoing reporting over the currency interest rate swaps used to reduce interest and exchange rate risks life cycle of the portfolio and not at the portfolio level. attributable to assets and liabilities in foreign currency. Derivatives are also The Group applies internal application rules which mean that the initial contractual terms embedded in other agreements. Embedded derivatives are effective interest rate can be adjusted in certain cases without a change in recognised separately if they are not closely related to the host agreement. the carrying value of the portfolio for minor projection adjustments within Forward exchange contracts are classified as financial assets or liabilities a predetermined interval. recognised at fair value via the income statement (held for trade) and Changes over time in the book value can be divided into an anticipated assessed at fair value without deductions for transaction expenses that time and interest rate component (amortisation) and a component related may arise on sale or similar. to changes in estimates of future cash flows (revaluation). The effects Hedge accounting is not needed for forward exchange contracts of changes in cash flow forecasts, including changes in the anticipated because the hedged item and the hedging instrument are carried at the financial lifetime of the portfolio, are referred to as revaluations and treated closing rate with changes in value recognised in the income statement symmetrically, i.e., both increases and decreases in forecast flows affect as exchange rate differences. Changes in the value of operations-related the portfolios’ book value and, as a result, earnings. This means that certain receivables and liabilities are recognised in operating earnings, while portfolios may be valued at an amount higher than their cost. changes in the value of financial receivables and liabilities are recognised Although selling portfolios of purchased debt is not included in the in net financial items. business model, when such sales do occur as an exception, the resulting Currency interest rate swaps are valued at fair value and reported in the sales price received for the portfolio is reported in the same way as if it had balance sheet together with hedge accounting via Other comprehensive been recovered from the customers. The entire remaining carrying values of income. Currency interest rate swaps were signed in connection with the the portfolios are recognised as amortisation. The comparative figures for Parent Company’s issue of bonds in SEK that were exchanged for EUR to 2017 as regards portfolio investments refer to financial statements prepared hedge net investments in foreign operations where the loan currency has on the basis of then existing accounting principles in IAS 39. The main been used in the operations. The liability in SEK was exchanged into the difference is that the Group in 2017 applied a rule where a portfolio was same liability in EUR on both the starting date and the date of maturity. never allowed to be recognised at a higher value than its acquisition cost. Hedge accounting with regard to exchange rate risk Long-term receivables and other receivables in the net investment in foreign subsidiaries Long-term receivables and other receivables are those that arise when Investments in foreign subsidiaries (net assets including goodwill) are the Company provides money without the intent to trade its claim. If the to some extent hedged through loans in foreign currency or forward anticipated maturity is longer than one year they constitute long-term reexchange contracts that are translated on the closing date to the exchange ceivables, and if it is shorter they are other receivables. These receivables rate then in effect. Translation differences for the period on financial instruare recognised at amortised cost. ments used to hedge a net investment in a Group company are recognised in the degree the hedge is effective in total comprehensive income, while Accounts receivable cumulative changes are recognised in equity (translation reserve). As a Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be result, translation differences that arise when Group companies are consolireceived after deducting impaired receivables, which are determined dated are neutralised. individually or according to statistical models based on historical experience in each country. Provisions for impairment are made when the receivable is first recognised, for expected credit losses, and adjusted 68 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Property holdings sold. They are reported in accordance with the cost method, applying The Group applies IAS 2 Inventories. depreciation over the estimated useful life of the buildings. Additional In connection with acquisitions of portfolio investments and in connecexpenses are capitalised only to the extent that they increase value in tion with the recovery of collateral for acquired receivables, Intrum may relation to performance on the date on which the property was acquired. become owners of property holdings or other physical goods. They have No depreciation is applied for land. been acquired for the purpose of being divested within the Group’s ongoing The carrying value of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the balance operations, and are therefore classified as inventories. These are reported in sheet when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no economic benefits the balance sheet at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower. are expected from its use or disposal of the asset. The gain or loss that When goods from these inventories are sold, the sales price received is arises on the sale or disposal of an asset is comprised of the difference recognised as income and the amount recognised as an inventory asset is between the sales price and the asset’s carrying value less direct costs to reported as an expense in the same period. sell. Gains and losses are recognised as other operating earnings. An annual determination is made of each asset’s residual value and Intangible fixed assets useful life. Goodwill Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the balance sheet if it Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of an acquisition and is likely that the future economic benefits will accrue to the Company and the fair value of the acquired assets, assumed liabilities and contingent the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. liabilities. If the Group’s cost of the acquired shares in a subsidiary exceeds the Leasing market value of the subsidiary’s net assets according to the acquisition The Group applies IAS 17 Leases. Leasing is classified in the consolidated analysis, the difference is recognised as Group goodwill. The goodwill that accounts as either finance or operating leasing. can arise through business combinations implemented through other than When a lease means that the Group, as lessee, essentially enjoys the a purchase of shares is recognised in the same way. economic benefits and bears the economic risks attributable to the leased For business combinations where the cost is less than the net value of asset, it is classified as a finance lease. The leased asset is recognised in acquired assets and assumed and contingent liabilities, the difference is the balance sheet as a fixed asset, while the estimated present value of recognised directly through profit or loss. future lease payments is recognised as a liability. The portion of the lease Goodwill is recognised at cost less accumulated impairment. The fair fee that falls due for payment within one year is recognised as a current value of goodwill is determined annually for each cash-generating unit liability, while the remainder is recognised as a long-term liability. Minimum in relation to the unit’s performance and anticipated future cash flow. If lease fees for finance leases are divided between interest expense and deemed necessary, goodwill is written down on the basis of this evaluation. amortisation of the outstanding liability. Interest expense is divided over Intrum’s operations in each geographical region (Northern Europe, Central the lease term so that each reporting period is charged with an amount and Eastern Europe, Western and Southern Europe, as well as the Iberian corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability recognised in each Peninsula and Latin America) are, in this context, considered to be the period. Variable fees are expensed in the period in which they arise. Group’s cash-generating units. Goodwill that arises from the acquisition of In operating leasing, lease payments are expensed over the lease term. a company outside Sweden is classified as an asset in the local currency Payments are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis and translated in the accounts at the balance sheet date rate. over the lease term. Benefits received in connection with the signing of an operating lease are recognised as part of the total lease expense in the Capitalised expenses for IT development income statement. The Group applies IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Expenditures for IT development and maintenance are generally Taxes expensed as incurred. Expenditures for software development that can The Group applies IAS 12 Income Taxes. be attributed to identifiable assets under the Group’s control and with Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are anticipated future economic benefits are capitalised and recognised as recognised in the income statement unless the underlying transaction is intangible assets. These capitalised expenses include staff for the develrecognised directly in other total comprehensive income, in which case the opment team and other direct and indirect expenses. Borrowing costs are related tax effect is recognised in other total comprehensive income. included in the cost of qualified fixed assets. Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received during the year in quesAdditional expenditures for previously developed software, etc. are tion applying the tax rates applicable on the balance sheet date; which recognised as an asset in the balance sheet if they increase the future includes adjustment of current tax attributable to previous periods. economic benefits of the specific asset to which they are attributable, Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method e.g., by improving or extending a computer programme’s functionality based on temporary differences between the carrying value of assets beyond its original use and estimated useful life. and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. The following temporary IT development expenses that are recognised as intangible assets are differences are not taken into account: temporary differences that arise in amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives (3–5 years). the initial reporting of goodwill, the initial reporting of assets and liabilities Useful life is reassessed annually. The asset is recognised at cost less in a transaction other than a business combination and which, at the time accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. of the transaction, do not affect either the recognised or taxable result, Costs associated with the maintenance of existing computer software or temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidiaries are expensed as they are incurred. and associated companies that are not expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future. The valuation of deferred tax is based on how the Client relationships carrying values of assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Client relationships that are recognised as fixed assets relate to fair value Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have revaluations recognised upon acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3. been set or essentially are set as of the balance sheet date. They are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax-loss (5–10 years). Useful life is reassessed annually. The asset is recognised at carry forwards are only recognised if it is likely they will be utilised within cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. the foreseeable future. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered likely they can be utilised. Other intangible fixed assets Other intangible fixed assets relate to other acquired rights are amortised Shareholders’ equity on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life (3–5 years). Useful Share repurchases and transaction expenses are recognised directly life is reassessed annually. The asset is recognised at cost less accumulated against equity. Dividends are recognised as a liability after they are amortisation and impairment losses. approved by the Annual General Meeting. Tangible fixed assets Provisions The Group applies IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 40 The Group applies IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Investment Property. Contingent Assets. Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciA provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a ation and impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price and costs legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred and it directly attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be is likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle utilised in the way intended. Examples of directly attributable costs are the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. The delivery and handling, installation, consulting services and legal services. carrying amount for the provision is based on an assessment of the most Depreciation is booked on a straight-line basis over the asset’s anticipated likely outcome, and can be calculated by weighing the various possible useful life (3–5 years). Useful life is reassessed annually. outcomes and multiplying this by their estimated probability. Where it is Investment properties are properties that have been acquired to be important when in time payment will be made, provisions are estimated leased to others or used within the Group’s operations rather than being by discounting the forecast future cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 69 reflects current market estimates of the time value of money and, where pension plans are expensed through the income statement as they are appropriate, the risks associated with the liability. vested by employees who render services on behalf of the Company. A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal For defined benefit pension plans, the pension obligation does not cease restructuring plan has been established and the restructuring has either until the agreed pensions have been paid. The Group’s net obligation for begun or been publicly announced. No provision is made for future defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by operating expenses. estimating future compensation the employees has earned in current and A provision for termination costs is recognised only if the persons in previous periods; this compensation is discounted to its present value. question have known or presumed to have expected to be terminated by The discount rate is the interest rate as per the balance sheet date on the balance sheet date. high-quality corporate bonds, including covered bonds, with a maturity that, A provision is recognised for a loss-making contract when anticipated if possible, corresponds to the Group’s pension obligations. The calculation benefits that the Group expects to receive from a contract are less than is performed by an actuary using the so-called Projected Unit Credit the unavoidable costs to fulfil the obligations as set out in the contract. Method. The fair value of Intrum’s share of any investment assets as of the A provision for dilapidation agreements on leased premises is balance sheet date is calculated as well. Actuarial gains and losses may arise recognised if there is a contractual obligation to the landlord, within the in the determination of the present value of the obligation and the fair value foreseeable future, to restore the premises to a certain condition when the of investment assets. They arise either because the actual outcome deviates lease expires. from previous assumptions or the assumptions change. All changes in value associated with such changes in assumptions are recognised in other Unidentified receipts and excess payments comprehensive income. The Group receives large volumes of payments from customers for itself The balance sheet value of pensions and similar obligations is therefore and its clients. There are instances where the sender’s reference informaequivalent to the present value on the balance sheet date less the fair value tion is missing or incorrect, which makes it difficult to allocate the payment of assets under management. to the right case. There are also situations where payments are received on Pension costs for service in the current period are reported in the closed cases. In such instances a reasonable search and attempt is made operating earnings, while the calculated interest expense on the pension to contact the payment sender but, failing this, the payment is recognised liability and the interest income from assets under management are as income after a certain interval. A provision is recognised in the balance reported in net financial items. sheet corresponding to the anticipated repayments of incorrectly received Pension obligations in Sweden that are met through pension insurance payments on a probability analysis. premiums to Alecta in the so-called ITP 2 plan are reported as defined contribution pension solutions. Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible obligation Borrowing costs that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. one or more uncertain future events or when there is an obligation that is Expenses incurred to secure bank financing are amortised across the not recognised as a liability or provision because it is not probable that an term of the loan as financial expenses in the consolidated income stateoutflow of resources will be required. ment by using the effective interest method. The amount is recognised in the balance sheet as a deduction to the loan liability. Impairment The Group capitalises borrowing costs in the cost of qualifying assets, The Group applies IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. that is, fixed assets for substantial amounts with long periods of compleThe carrying value of the Group’s assets, with certain exceptions, is tion. No such investments were initiated in 2017 or 2018. tested on each balance sheet date for any indication of impairment. IAS 36 is applied in the impairment testing of all assets except financial assets, Revenue recognition which are valued in accordance with IAS 9, investment assets for pension The Group applies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. liabilities, which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, Revenue, consisting of commissions and collection fees, is recognised and tax assets, which are valued in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes. on collection of the claim. Subscription revenue is recognised proportionIf there is any indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable value is ately over the term of the underlying service contracts, which is usually one estimated. For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeterminate year. Revenue from other services is reported when the service has been useful life and intangible assets not yet brought into use, recoverable performed. Revenues from selling real estate are recognised when control values are calculated annually. If essentially independent cash flows cannot of the property is transferred to the buyer. be isolated for individual assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest level where essentially independent cash flows can be identified, i.e., a Financial income and expenses cash-generating unit. Intrum’s operations in each geographical region are Financial income and expenses consist of interest income on bank balconsidered to be the Group’s cash-generating units in this regard. ances and receivables and interest-bearing securities, bank fees, interest Impairment is recognised when the carrying value of an asset or expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange rate differences, realised cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment is and unrealised gains on financial investments, and derivatives used in recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses attributable to a financial operations. cash-generating unit are mainly allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately among other assets in the unit. Payment guarantees The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is the higher of their Intrum offers some of the Group’s clients the opportunity, against payment, fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is measured by to obtain a guarantee from Intrum regarding the clients’ receivables from discounting future cash flows using a discounting factor that takes into their customers. The guarantee entails an undertaking by Intrum to acquire account the risk-free rate of interest and the risk associated with the the receivable from the creditor at its nominal value, or a certain part specific asset. thereof, once it has fallen overdue for payment by a certain number of Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment of other assets is days. The income, in the form of a guarantee fee, is recognised when the reversed if a change has been made in the assumptions that served as guarantees are issued, while a liability is recognised in the balance sheet the basis for determining the recoverable amount. Impairment is reversed for expected losses related to those guarantees. If the customers fails only to the extent the carrying value of the assets following the reversal to make payment, Intrum acquires the claim. The disbursement is then does not exceed the carrying value that the asset would have had if the recognised as an acquisition of a receivable, less the liability recognised impairment had not been recognised when the guarantee was issued. Employee benefits Cash flow statement The Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits. The Group applies IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements. The cash flow statement includes changes in the balance of liquid assets. Pension obligations The Group’s liquid assets consist of cash and bank balances. Cash flow is The Group’s pension obligations are, for the most part, secured through divided into cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and official pension arrangements or insurance solutions. Pension obligations financing activities. vary between countries on the basis of legislation and different pension Cash flow from investing activities includes only actual disbursements systems. See also Note 21 for a further description. for investments during the year. Disbursements for the purchase of Defined contribution pension plans are plans where the Company’s portfolios of overdue receivables are reported under cash flow from obligation is limited to the fees it has committed to pay. The size of the investing activities, while the collection and repayment of such portfolios employee’s pension depends in part on the fees the Company pays to are reported under cash flow from operating activities. an insurance company and in part on the return generated and actuarial Foreign subsidiaries’ transactions are translated in the cash flow statefactors. Consequently, it is the employee who assumes the investment ment at the average exchange rate for the period. Acquired and divested risk and actuarial risk. The Company’s obligations for defined contribution 70 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes subsidiaries are recognised as cash flow from investing activities, net, after deducting liquid assets in the acquired or divested company. Note 2: Information by geographic region and service line Earnings per share The Group applies IAS 33 Earnings per Share. Group Earnings per share consist of net earnings for the year (attributable to SEK M 2018 2017 the Parent Company’s shareholders) divided by a weighted average number of outstanding shares during the year. In this context, treasury Net revenues by geographical region from external clients holdings of repurchased shares are not included in outstanding shares. Northern Europe 3,980 3,012 Segments Central and Eastern Europe 3,790 2,775 The Group applies IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Western and Southern Europe 2,564 1,847 An operating segment is a part of the Group from which it can generate Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 3,109 1,800 income and incur expenses and for which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, Total 13,442 9,434 i.e. the CEO in deciding how to assess performance and allocate resources to the operating segment. Intrum’s operating segments are the geographical regions of Northern Revenue from customers included in net Europe (Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Norway and Sweden), revenues Central and Eastern Europe (Greece, Poland, Romania, Switzerland, Northern Europe 2,650 1,958 Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary and Austria), Western and Southern Europe (Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and Central and Eastern Europe 1,016 766 the UK), as well as the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America (Spain, Portugal Western and Southern Europe 1,461 1,556 and Brazil). Central and joint expenses are spread across the geographical regions in proportion to their purchasing power parity-adjusted revenues. Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 2,113 761 The break-down by geographical region is also used for internal monitoring Total 7,240 5,041 in the Group. In 2018, the composition of the Group’s operating segments, the geographic regions, was changed. The change entailed operations in Spain, Income from portfolio investments in Portugal and Brazil being reported in the Iberian Peninsula and Latin Ameraccordance with the effective interest rate ica region. Accordingly, the operations in Portugal are no longer included in method included in net revenues the Western and Southern Europe region. The comparison figures for 2017 Northern Europe 1,353 1,036 have been recalculated in accordance with the new region structure. Among other things, Note 2 details net revenue and operating earnings Central and Eastern Europe 2,665 2,028 by geographic region. However, interest income, interest expenses, assets Western and Southern Europe 1,161 646 and liabilities are not reported by segment. This is not considered relevant because the distribution of financial items and parts of the balance sheet Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 935 684 is dependent on Group structure and financing, which are not affected Total 6,114 4,394 by the actual performance of the regions. Nor are actual reported interest income, interest expenses, assets and liabilities by segment included in any internal reporting to the CEO. Net revenues per country from external clients Spain 2,689 1,445 Parent Company’s accounting principles The Parent Company has prepared the Annual Report according to the Norway 1,587 763 Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and recommendation RFR 2 Accounting Hungary 1,197 780 for Legal Entities from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 means that the Parent Company, in the Annual Report for the legal entity, Finland 1,026 966 must apply all EU-approved IFRS and statements as far as possible within France 1,019 835 the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the connection between reporting and taxation. The recommendation specifies Sweden 882 879 exemptions and additions relative to IFRS. Germany 857 564 Differences between the Group’s and Switzerland 802 732 Parent Company’s accounting principles Other countries 3,383 2,470 The differences between the Group’s and Parent Company’s accounting Total 13,442 9,434 principles are indicated below. The accounting principles for the Parent Company as stated below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. Intra-Group revenues by geographical region Subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures Northern Europe 336 285 Shares in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are Central and Eastern Europe 737 574 recognised by the Parent Company at cost, including transaction costs less any impairment. Only dividends received are recognised as income. Credit Western and Southern Europe 372 240 risks in the Parent company’s receivables against intercompany counterparts Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 267 442 have been assessed, with the conclusion being that there is no significant impairment. Elimination –1,712 –1,541 Total 0 0 Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions for legal entities The Company reports Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions in accordance with statement RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Operating earnings by geographical region Group contributions received are recognised as dividends and Group Northern Europe 1,294 1,014 contributions paid are recognised as shareholders’ contributions. Shareholders’ contributions are recognised directly in the shareholders’ equity of Central and Eastern Europe 1,377 831 the recipient and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the Western and Southern Europe 228 290 contributor, to the extent impairment is not required. Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 1,079 593 A further goal is to reduce the proportion of fixed costs. Total operating earnings 3,978 2,728 The Parent Company has no leases classified as finance leases in its own accounts or the consolidated accounts. Net financial items –1,363 –973 Profit before tax 2,615 1,755 Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 71 Group Group SEK M 2018 2017 SEK M 2018 2017 Tangible and intangible Net revenues by service line fixed assets by country Credit Management 9,480 6,700 Spain 10,382 10,783 Financial Services 6,394 4,516 Norway 9,359 9,134 Elimination of inter-service line revenue –2,432 –1,782 Italy 5,909 1,570 Total 13,442 9,434 Germany 3,788 3,657 France 1,490 1,224 Operating earnings by service line Finland 1,213 1,147 Credit Management 2,433 1,704 Sweden 1,139 1,144 Financial Services 3,600 2,456 Other countries 4,395 4,278 Central expenses –2,055 –1,432 Total 37,674 32,935 Total 3,978 2,728 No individual client is responsible for generating more than 4 percent of Investments in tangible and total consolidated revenue. intangible fixed assets The distribution of revenues and earnings by geographical region is Northern Europe 79 79 based on where clients are located. Central and Eastern Europe 66 64 The geographical regions are Northern Europe (Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Norway and Sweden), Central and Eastern Europe Western and Southern Europe 75 157 (Greece, Poland, Romania, Switzerland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 22 28 Germany, Hungary and Austria), Western and Southern Europe (Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and the UK), as well as the Iberian Group-wide/eliminations 56 45 Peninsula and Latin America (Spain, Portugal and Brazil). Central and joint Total 299 373 expenses are spread across the geographical regions in proportion to their purchasing power parity-adjusted revenues. The break-down by geographical region is also used for internal monitoring in the Group. Amortisation, depreciation and impairment by geographical region Intra-Group sales between the regions are made on commercial terms. Internal transactions between the business areas Financial Services and Northern Europe –93 –70 Credit Management Services relate to payment on commercial terms Central and Eastern Europe –97 –58 for work carried out within Credit Management regarding handling and Western and Southern Europe –94 –62 collection on the Group’s portfolio investments. Payment is made in the form of a commission that is recognised as a cost within Financial Services, Iberian Peninsula and Latin America –520 –184 but which is eliminated in the Consolidated Income Statement. Group-wide/eliminations –96 –63 Interest income and expenses are not reported by segment. This is not considered relevant because the distribution of financial items is dependTotal –900 –436 ent on Group structure and financing and is not affected by the actual performance of the regions. Nor are actual reported interest income and expenses by segment included in any internal reporting to the CEO. Other items not included in cash flow by geographical region See also Note 40 with segment information on a pro forma basis. Northern Europe –27 –16 Central and Eastern Europe –32 50 Western and Southern Europe –122 –54 Iberian Peninsula and Latin America –206 0 Note 3: Net revenues and expenses Group-wide/eliminations 36 –4 Income Group Parent Company Total –351 –23 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Income from customers Participations in associated companies and joint ventures, by region Collection fees, commissions and debtor fees 5,741 4,110 – – Northern Europe – 10 Subscription income 67 71 – – Central and Eastern Europe – – Commission income from Western and Southern Europe 106 0 payment guarantees 9 4 – – Iberian Peninsula and Latin America – – Sale of properties 278 162 Group-wide/eliminations – – Income from Group companies 0 0 215 159 Total 106 10 Real estate services 547 213 – – Other income 598 464 – – Net revenues from external clients by service line Total 7,240 5,024 215 159 Credit Management 7,240 4,918 Income from Financial Services 6,202 4,516 portfolio investments Total 13,442 9,434 Collections on purchased debt 10,056 7,198 – – Amortisation of purchased debt –3,942 –2,785 – – Revaluation purchased debt 88 –3 – – Total 6,202 4,410 0 0 Total 13,442 9,434 215 159 72 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Income from customers refers mainly to the Group’s collection operations, and is specified above by type of income and in Note 2 by geographical Note 6: Financial income region. Intrum’s income from the collection operations consists mainly of fees and commissions that are recognised as income when the service Group Parent Company (performance obligation) has been confirmed as completed with the SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 collection case having been paid. This means that no significant contractual liabilities or contractual assets are recognised beyond accounts Interest income from Group receivable and accrued income as stated on separate lines in the balance companies – – 1,004 671 sheet. Intrum can be paid for the services it renders, either more or less Other interest income 60 17 13 9 immediately, through fees and commission being deducted from the Dividends from Group compaamounts collected and deposited in the client funds account, or on nies – – 195 144 invoicing the client on payment terms customary in each market, for example 30 days. Group contributions received The price of the collection service can be set as a fixed fee per case, from Group companies – – 2,968 224 a percentage of the amount collected or a combination of the two. For Gain on disposal of participacertain clients and in certain markets, fixed fees are charged instead tions in Group companies – – 1,646 – in accordance with the price list for specific collection measures in administrating the client case with the enforcement service or in court. Total 60 17 5,826 1,048 Some clients also pay an annual fees for the right to use Intrum’s services (subscriptions), usually through advance payments that are allocated over All interest income is attributable to items that are not carried at fair value the subscription term. in the income statement. Operating earnings in accordance with the effective interest rate method include interest income attributable to portfolio investments Costs Group Parent Company amounting to SEK 6,114 M (4,394), defined as the difference between the year’s collected amount and amortisation for the year. SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Amortisation comprises the portion of the cost of the portfolio that, Personnel expenses –4,253 –3,272 –202 –160 owing to allocation under the effective interest method, accrues over the current year. Amortisation/depreciation and impairment –900 –436 –5 –16 Cost of sold real estate –95 –34 – – Write-down of real estate –9 –1 – – Other expenses –4,413 –2,973 –565 –320 Note 7: Financial expenses Total –9,570 –6,716 –772 –496 Group Parent Company SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest expenses to Group companies – – –154 –68 Note 4: Amortisation/depreciation and impairment Other interest expenses –1,245 –582 –1,196 –623 Group Parent Company Translation differences 19 38 740 –167 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs –82 –69 –79 –69 Capitalised expenditure for IT development –159 –129 –5 0 Commitment fee –101 –353 –101 –353 Client relationships –596 –209 – – Expensed shareholder contributions to subsidiaries – – –2,800 – Other intangible fixed assets –54 –33 –16 Other financial expenses –14 –24 –13 –10 Computer hardware –31 –24 – – Total –1,423 –990 –3,603 –1,290 Other tangible fixed assets –60 –40 – 0 Total –900 –436 –5 –16 All interest expenses pertain to items not carried at fair value via the income statement. Depreciation has been charged to each function as an operating expense Exchange rate differences from accounts receivable and accounts as follows: payable are reported in operating earnings. The amounts were negligible. Costs Group Parent Company SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cost of sales –766 –395 –5 –16 Sales and marketing expenses –2 – – – Administrative expenses –132 –41 0 0 Total –900 –436 –5 –16 Note 5: Participations in associated companies and joint ventures Group SEK M 2018 2017 Joint ventures Avarda AB (Sweden) – 10 Ithaca Investment DAC (Ireland) 106 – Total participations in earnings 106 10 Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 73 Group 2018 2017 Note 8: Taxes Asset/ Income/ Asset/ Income/ SEK M liability expense liability expense The tax expense for the year breaks down as follows: Portfolio investments –1,509 –1,330 Group Intangible assets –558 –20 SEK M 2018 2017 Tax-loss carry forwards 935 922 Current tax Provisions for pensions 17 14 Tax expense attributable to net earnings for the year –429 –310 Other 6 –99 Tax adjustments attributable to previous years –58 –2 Total –1,109 –112 –514 –77 Deferred tax Deferred tax related to temporary differences –127 –44 Deferred tax assets 620 692 Net deferred tax expense attributable to previously capitalised and not capitalised tax value in tax-loss Deferred tax liabilities –1,729 –1,206 carry forwards 15 –33 Total –1,109 –112 –514 –77 Total tax expense –599 –389 The deferred tax assets and income tax liabilities are expected to be due In addition, a tax expense of SEK 5 M (41) from divested operations is also for payment in over one year. recognised. No tax is recognised in respect of capital gains. Deferred tax assets are reported in the balance sheet, when it is The Group has operations in more than 20 countries in Europe, with varyexpected to be possible to offset the loss carry forwards against taxable ing tax rates. The current tax expense for the year relates mainly to income profits within the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities taxes in Switzerland, Finland, France, Italy, Belgium, Portugal, Spain, the are recognised on a net basis if they refer to the same tax authority or are Czech Republic, Germany and Hungary. The Group’s Swedish companies planned to be used simultaneously. paid no income tax for the relevant year as they were able to utilise tax-loss The Group has tax-loss carry forwards that can be utilised against future carry forwards from historic losses, as well as from the loss for the year earnings totalling SEK 6,293 M (6,215). attributable to interest expenses and exchange rate losses. On 31 December 2018, deferred tax assets regarding tax-loss carryIntrum AB is domiciled in Sweden where the nominal corporate tax rate forwards amounted to SEK 935 M and included SEK 453 M in Sweden, in 2017 and 2018 was 22 percent. The following reconciliation explains SEK 231 M in Norway, SEK 105 M in Germany and SEK 74 M in Spain. The the difference between the Group’s actual tax cost and the expected tax utilisation of tax-loss carry forwards is limited in time in Poland, where there cost taking the Swedish corporate tax rate into account: were tax-loss carry forwards for SEK 74 M (47) and in Slovakia, where there were tax-loss carry forwards for SEK 4 M (3). In Poland, the tax-loss carryforwards may only be utilised during a period of five years from the year in Group 2018 2017 which the loss was incurred and, in Slovakia, they may only be utilised during Reconciliation SEK M % SEK M % a period of four years. For Poland, deferred tax assets are recognised in the Profit before tax 2,615 1,755 amount of SEK 4 M and, for Slovakia, in the amount of SEK 1 M. Tax-loss carry forwards for which no deferred tax assets are recognised Income tax calculated at standard pertain mainly to Sweden with SEK 1,541 M (1,484) and the UK with SEK rate in Sweden, 22.0 percent –575 22.0 –386 22.0 501 M (337). As a consequence of the costs for the head office expenses Effect of different tax rates and financing costs, the Parent Company has for several years incurred in other countries 121 –4.6 69 –3.9 a tax deficit, even when taking in to account the group contributions received from the profitable companies conducting business in Sweden. Tax effect of tax-exempt income It is Intrum assessment that tax-loss carry forwards cannot be fully and non-deductible expenses –48 1.8 –55 3.1 utilised against positive taxable income in the foreseeable future without Unrecognised tax assets pertaining first restructuring the Group internally so that, for example, the Parent to tax-loss carry forwards –82 3.1 –29 1.6 Company’s interest expenses are transferred to foreign subsidiaries. If such restructuring is implemented, it may be relevant to evaluate the tax-loss Utilised previously unrecognised tax carry forwards in the accounts. Loss carry forwards in Sweden may also assets pertaining to tax-loss carry be consumed through so-called CFC taxation on the earnings of foreign forwards 14 –0.5 33 –1.9 subsidiaries with revenues subject to low tax rates. Adjustments to previous Tax expenses recognised in other comprehensive income over the year years and other –29 1.1 –22 1.2 amounted to SEK 79 M (15) of which SEK 81 M refers to currency hedges and SEK –2 M refers to remeasurements of pension provisions. The tax Total tax on net earnings –599 22.9 –389 22.2 for the year impact of implementing new accounting principles according to IFRS 9 of SEK 6 M is recognised directly against equity. Unrecognised tax assets regarding tax-loss carry forwards relate to the Parent Company 2018 2017 negative tax effect during the year attributable to losses in countries where no deferred tax asset is recognised because it is not probable that enough Reconciliation of taxable profit will arise within the foreseeable future. Utilised previously Parent Company tax rate SEK M % SEK M % unrecognised tax assets pertaining to tax-loss carry forwards relate to the Loss after financial items 1,666 –579 positive tax effect over the year arising through the utilisation of tax-loss carry forwards never previously recognised as deferred tax assets. Income tax calculated at When differences arise between the tax value and carrying value of standard rate in Sweden, 22.0 assets and liabilities, a deferred tax asset or tax liability is recognised. Such percent –367 22.0 127 22.0 temporary differences mainly arise for portfolio investments, provisions Tax effect of tax-exempt income for pensions and intangible assets. Deferred tax assets include the value of and non-deductible expenses 176 –10.5 –26 –4.5 tax-loss carry forwards in the instances where they are likely to be utilised Utilised previously unrecognised to offset taxable surpluses within the foreseeable future. tax assets pertaining to tax-loss carry forwards 0 0.0 98 16.9 Total tax on net earnings for –191 5.2 199 34.4 the year Tax-free income and non-deductible expenses in the Parent Company consist largely of dividends from subsidiaries, as well as gains on disposals 74 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes of shares and, for 2017, non-deductible transaction expenses in conGroup Parent Company nection with the merger with Lindorff. At the end of the year, the Parent SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Company had accumulated loss carry forwards of SEK 68 M (1,357). To the extent that it is expected to be possible to utilise them against future Accumulated amortisation/ taxable earnings, deferred tax assets are reported for these loss carry depreciation, opening balance –1,091 –954 –5 –5 forwards in the amount of SEK 8 M (199). Discontinued operations – 64 – – Disposals 14 42 – – Purchased via acquisition – 0 – – Note 9: Earnings per share Amortisation/depreciation for the year –159 –129 –5 0 Group Translation differences –6 –114 – – 2018 2017 Accumulated amortisation/ –1,242 –1,091 –10 –5 Net earnings for the year attributable to depreciation, closing balance Parent Company’s shareholders, continuing Impairments, opening balance –23 –23 –16 – operations (SEK M) 2,009 1,364 Impairments for the year 0 0 – –16 Net earnings for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders, Accumulated impairment, –23 –23 –16 –16 discontinued operations (SEK M) –73 137 closing balance Net earnings for the year attributable to 1,936 1,501 Parent Company’s shareholders, total Carrying values 393 341 43 10 (SEK M) Number of shares at beginning of year 131,541,320 72,347,726 Client relationships New share issue – 59,193,594 Acquisition cost, opening Share repurchases –250,000 – balance 3,954 202 – – Number of shares at end of year 131,291,320 131,541,320 investments 10 0 – – Weighted average no. of shares during the Capitalised expenditures for year before and after dilution 131,390,632 102,674,307 the year – 101 – – Earnings per share before and after dilution: Disposals –979 0 – – Earnings from continuing Purchased via acquisition 2,059 2,699 – – operations (SEK) 14.73 13.28 Translation differences 165 952 – – Earnings from discontinued operations (SEK) –0.56 1.33 Accumulated acquisition cost, 5,209 3,954 0 0 closing balance Total earnings per share before 14.18 14.62 and after dilution (SEK) Amortisation/depreciation, There are no instruments outstanding with a dilution potential. opening balance –1,251 –139 – – Disposals 359 – – – Reclassification 1 0 – – Note 10: Intangible fixed assets Amortisation/depreciation for the year –596 –209 – – Group Parent Company Translation differences –52 –903 – – SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Amortisation/depreciation, –1,539 –1,251 0 0 Goodwill closing balance Acquisition cost, opening balance 29,565 3,120 – – Carrying values 3,670 2,703 Acquisitions for the year 2,235 26,449 – – Adjustment of acquisition Other intangible fixed assets analyses for the year 177 – – – Acquisition cost, opening Translation differences 1,078 –4 – – balance 338 242 – – Carrying values 33,055 29,565 – – Capitalised expenditures for the year 22 32 – – Capitalised expenditure for IT Disposals 0 –2 – – development Purchased via acquisition 0 35 – – Acquisition cost, opening Translation differences 19 31 – – balance 1,455 1,170 31 5 Accumulated acquisition cost, 379 338 0 0 Discontinued operations – –68 – – closing balance Capitalised expenditures for the year 190 182 38 26 Disposals –47 –42 0 0 Purchased via acquisition – 161 – – Translation differences 60 52 – – Accumulated acquisition cost, 1,658 1,455 69 31 closing balance Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 75 Group Parent Company Note 11: Tangible fixed assets SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accumulated amortisation/ Group Parent Company depreciation, opening balance –253 –191 – – SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Discontinued operations 10 0 – – Property investments Disposals 0 3 – – Acquisition cost, opening balance 0 – – – Amortisation/depreciation for Purchased via acquisition 256 – – – the year –54 –33 – – Accumulated acquisition cost, 256 0 0 0 Translation differences –15 –32 – – closing balance Accumulated amortisation/ –312 –253 0 0 depreciation, closing balance Carrying values 256 0 0 0 Impairments, opening balance –4 –4 – – Computer hardware Accumulated impairment, –4 –4 0 0 closing balance Acquisition cost, opening balance 322 240 1 1 Investments for the year 24 25 5 – Carrying values 63 81 0 0 Sales and disposals –5 –10 – – Reclassification –27 0 – – Payments during the year regarding investments in intangible fixed assets Purchased via acquisition 0 17 – – amounted to SEK 232 M (116) for the Group. Capitalised expenditure for IT development is mainly generated internally Discontinued operations – –6 – – using our own employees and/or contracted consultants. Client relations Translation differences 14 56 – – and goodwill are acquired primarily in connection with business acquisiAccumulated acquisition cost, 328 322 6 1 tions. Other intangible fixed assets are mainly acquired externally. closing balance Capitalised expenditure for IT development is mainly generated internally using our own employees and/or contracted consultants. Client Accumulated amortisation/ relations and goodwill are acquired in connection with business acquisidepreciation, opening balance –264 –199 –1 – tions. Other intangible fixed assets are mainly acquired externally. Sales and disposals 7 10 – – Impairment testing for cash-generating Reclassification 27 0 – – units containing goodwill Discontinued operations 0 5 – – The Group treats the following geographical regions as cash-generating units in the sense referred to in IAS 38 Intangible Assets. The goodwill value is Amortisation/depreciation for distributed among each group of countries as follows. the year –31 –24 – –1 Translation differences –11 –56 – – SEK M 2018 2017 Accumulated amortisation/ –272 –264 –1 –1 Northern Europe 12,223 11,870 depreciation, closing balance Central and Eastern Europe 5,486 5,147 Western and Southern Europe 6,229 3,820 Carrying values 56 58 5 0 Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 9,117 8,728 Total 33,055 29,565 Other equipment Acquisition cost, opening balance 530 313 – – Impairment testing of goodwill for each cash-generating unit was done Investments for the year 53 33 – – prior to preparation of the annual accounts. The recoverable amount is Sales and disposals –14 –17 – – determined through an estimation of its value in use. For each cash-generating unit, management has compiled a projection of annual future cash Reclassification 0 2 – – flows based on historical experience and the Company’s own plans and Purchased via acquisition 5 130 – – estimates for the future. The calculation is based on a detailed forecast for the years 2019–2020 and thereafter an annual increase of 1 percent. The Discontinued operations –1 –10 – – cash flows have been discounted to present value applying the Group’s Translation differences 21 79 – – weighted average cost of capital, which is estimated at 6.2 percent (5.1) before tax, corresponding to 4.8 percent (4.0) per year after tax. The Accumulated acquisition cost, 594 530 0 0 recoverable amount has been compared for each unit with the Group’s net closing balance book value of the unit’s assets and liabilities. The test gave no indication of a need of goodwill impairment. Accumulated amortisation/ –343 –250 – – Impairment testing is based on a number of assumptions, where the depreciation, opening balance outcome is judged to be most sensitive to some of those assumptions in particular: Sales and disposals 10 16 – – For 2019, annual revenue growth of 4 percent (4) is assumed, and for Reclassification 0 –1 – – 2020, 4 percent (2), with each SEK 1,000 in increased revenue being assumed to result in an increase in working capital of SEK 250 (250), Discontinued operations –4 7 – – that is, an “incremental increase in earnings” of 25 percent (25). For the Amortisation/depreciation for –60 –40 period after 2020, perpetual growth in cash flow of 1 percent (1) annually the year – – is assumed. The same assumptions were applied for all four geographical regions. The same discount rates were also applied, since no long-term Translation differences –16 –75 – – difference can be identified between the regions’ growth potential or risk. Accumulated amortisation/ –413 –343 – – depreciation, closing balance Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis has been performed, in which cash flows have been discounted at 6 percent interest after tax. Applying this assumption, Carrying values 181 187 0 0 impairment of SEK 2.4 billion would need to be recognised in goodwill attributable to the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America region. Disbursements during the year regarding investments in tangible fixed assets for the Group amounted to SEK 74 M (56). 76 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Share of Note 12: Group companies Corp. identity no. Domicile capital SEK M No. of shares 2018 2017 Subsidiaries of Intrum AB (publ) and their subsidiaries in the same country Intrum Brasil Consultoria e BRAZIL Participaçoes, S.A 729 37 0 Intrum Brasil 29.063.190 São Paulo 51% Intrum A/S, Denmark 40 188 188 Consultoria e Participaçoes, S.A. Intrum AS, Estonia 430 1 1 Intrum Finans AB 66,050,000 75 75 DENMARK Intrum Oy, Finland 14,000 1,649 1,649 Intrum A/S DK 10613779 Copenhagen 100% Intrum SAS, France 5,000 345 345 Intrum Holding Greece AE 24,000 0 0 ESTONIA Intrum Justitia SpA, Italy 0 0 22 Intrum Estonia AS 10036074 Tallinn 100% SIA Intrum Global Technologies, Latvia 2,000 0 0 Intrum BV, Netherlands 40 377 377 FINLAND Fair Pay Please AS, Norway 0 0 264 Intrum Oy FI 14702468 Helsinki 100% Intrum Portugal Unipessoal Lda, Intrum Rahoitus Oy FI25086904 Helsinki 100% Portugal 68,585 71 71 Intrum AG, Switzerland 7,000 942 942 FRANCE Intrum Justitia Ibérica S.A.U, Spain 600,000 32 13 Intrum SAS B322 760 497 Lyon 100% Collector Services Ltd, UK 88,100,002 0 0 Intrum Corporate SAS B797 546 769 Lyon 100% Intrum Sverige AB, Sweden 22,000 1,749 1,649 Socogestion SAS B414 613 539 Lyon 100% Intrum International AB, Sweden 1,000 601 601 Cabinet PPN SAS B380 637 405 Vernon 90% Intrum Justitia Holding GmbH, Intractive SAS B480 172 998 Lille Métropole 100% Germany 2,050,000 36 36 Intrum Austria GmbH, Austria 72,673 37 37 GREECE Intrum Romania SA, Romania 39 16 16 Intrum Holding 800914045 Athens 100% Intrum Financial IFN SA 3,000,000 30 0 Greece AE Lock TopCo AS, Norway 861,952,839 24,626 19,491 Total carrying value 30,812 25,777 LATVIA SIA Intrum Global 40103314641 Riga 100% Opening balances 25,777 6,322 Technologies Acquisition 67 17,348 Capital contributions paid 5,254 2,107 NETHERLANDS Disposal –286 0 Intrum BV 33.273.472 Amsterdam 100% Closing balance 30,812 25,777 NORWAY Acquisitions in 2017 refer to shares in Top Factoring SA, Romania, and Lock TopCo AS 913,852,508 Oslo 100% Lock TopCo AS, Norway, which was the parent company of the Lindorff Group. Acquisitions in 2018 refer to Intrum Brasil Consultoria e Participaçoes, PORTUGAL S.A, Brazil, Intrum Holding Greece AE, Greece and Intrum Financial IFN SA, Intrum Portugal 503,933,180 Lisbon 100% Romania. Unipessoal Lda. Disposals in 2018 refer to shares in Fair Pay Please AS, Norway, which was divested in accordance with the European Commission’s terms for Seguridad en la gestión 508,624,878 Lisbon 100% permitting the merger with Lindorff, and Intrum Justitia SpA, Italy, which Portugal unipessoal, LDA was divested within the Group to Intrum Italy Holding srl. Andanças e Semel514,167,041 Lisbon 100% The Group’s Parent Company is Intrum AB (publ), domiciled in hanças Unipessoal Lda Stockholm with corporate identity number 556607-7581. The subsidiaries within the Group are listed below. ROMANIA Intrum Romania SA 18496757 Bucharest 100% Intrum Financial IFN SA 39041618 Bucharest 100% SWITZERLAND Intrum AG CH-020.3.020.656-9 Zurich 100% Inkasso Med AG CH-020.3.913.313-8 Zurich 70% Byjuno AG CH-020.3.921.420-2 Zug 100% Intrum Finance CH-020.3.912.665-1 Zurich 100% Service AG Intrum Brugg AG CH-400.3.023.076-0 Brugg 100% Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 77 Share of Share of Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Corp. identity no. Domicile capital SPAIN SWEDEN Intrum Justitia Ibérica A28923712 Madrid 100% Fair Pay 556239-1655 Stockholm 100% S.A.U. Management AB Segestion Gabinete B61210696 Madrid 100% Fair Pay Please AB 556259-8606 Stockholm 100% Tecnico Empresarial, S.L Seguridad en la B58182973 Barcelona 100% gestión, S.L Subsidiaries of Intrum Debt Finance AG LUXEMBOURG UNITED KINGDOM LDF65 S.a r.l. B 134749 Luxembourg 100% Intrum UK Group Ltd 03515447 Reigate 100% IDF Luxembourg S.a r.l. B188 281 Luxembourg 100% Intrum UK Holdings 2 Ltd 01356148 Reigate 100% Intrum UK 2 Ltd 01918920 Reigate 100% POLAND Intrum UK Funding Ltd 05265651 Reigate 100% Intrum Justitia 108-00-01-076 Warsaw 100% Intrum UK 05265652 Reigate 100% Towarzystwo Funduszy Acquisitions Ltd Inwestycyjnych S.A Intrum UK Holdings Ltd 04325074 Reigate 100% Intrum Justitia 108-00-01-900 Warsaw 100% Debt Fund 1 Fundusz Intrum UK Ltd 03752940 Reigate 100% Inwestycyjny Zamknięty Intrum UK Finance Ltd 04140507 Reigate 100% Niestandaryzowany Intrum UK Finance 6 Ltd 07694793 Reigate 100% Fundusz Sekurytyzacyjny Intrum UK Finance 7 Ltd 07694791 Reigate 100% Lindorff I NSFIZ RFI 752 Wroclaw 100% Intrum UK Finance 8 Ltd 07694764 Reigate 100% Intrum UK Finance 9 Ltd 08149397 Reigate 100% Intrum UK Finance 10 Ltd 08149421 Reigate 100% Subsidiary of Fair Pay Please AB BELGIUM SWEDEN Intrum N.V BE 0426237301 Ghent 100% Intrum Sverige AB 556134-1248 Stockholm 100% Outsourcing Intrum Intl AB 556570-1181 Stockholm 100% Partners N.V BE 0466643442 Ghent 100% Intrum Finans AB 556885-5265 Stockholm 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum BV AUSTRIA FRANCE Intrum Austria GmbH FN 48800s Vienna 100% FCT IJ Invest SAS — — 100% Schimmelpfeng FN 105105t Vienna 100% Auskunftei GmbH IRELAND Intrum Ireland Ltd 175808 Dublin 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum Sverige AB LUXEMBOURG NETHERLANDS Intrum Luxembourg sarl B 183336 Luxembourg 100% Intrum Justitia Data 27.306.188 Amsterdam 100% Centre BV SWEDEN Intrum Delgivnings556397-1414 Stockholm 100% SLOVAKIA service AB Intrum Slovakia s. r. o. 35,831,154 Bratislava 100% Intrum Shared Services AB 556992-4318 Stockholm 100% CZECH REPUBLIC Intrum Czech s.r.o. 27221971 Prague 100% Subsidiaries of Intrum Intl AB MAURITIUS HUNGARY Intrum Mauritius Ltd 127206 Port Louis 100% Lakóingatlan01-09-268230 Budapest 100% Forgalmazó Kft Intrum Justitia Zrt. 01-10-044857 Budapest 100% SWITZERLAND Intrum Justitia ASC Kft 25965308-2-41 Budapest 100% Intrum Debt CH-020.3.020.910-7 Zug 100% Finance AG Intrum Hitel Zrt. 01-10-045485 Budapest 100% Intrum Debt Finance CH-170.3.026.065-5 Zug 100% Domestic AG Intrum Licensing AG CH-020.3.926.747-8 Zug 100% Subsidiaries of Fair Pay Management AB SWEDEN Intrum Invest AB 556786-4854 Varberg 100% 78 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Share of Share of Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Subsidiary of Lock TopCo AS POLAND SWEDEN Intrum Global Technologies Spzoo 0000654943 Wroclaw 100% Indif AB 556733-9915 Stockholm 100% Intrum Spzoo 5212885709 Warsaw 100% Kancelaria Prawna KIG 5213705017 Warsaw 100% Intrum Spzoo SK w Subsidiary of Indif AB likwidacji SWEDEN Intrum K & WKP SK 000270515 Wroclaw 99% Intrum Holding AB 556723-5956 Stockholm 100% Intrum Detektyw Spzoo 0000223801 Wroclaw 95% Intrum Service Spzoo 0000364126 Wroclaw 100% Finotrex Spzoo w Subsidiaries of Intrum Holding AB and their likwidacji 0000507125 Wroclaw 100% subsidiaries in the same country Trigon Profit NS FIZ 1037 Warsaw 99.62% FINLAND Trigon Profit II NS FIZ 1099 Warsaw 100% Lindorff Finland Oy 1858518-2 Helsinki 100% SPAIN IRELAND Intrum Holding Spain A86128147 Madrid 100% Lindorff Investment No SAU 1 DAC 584295 Dublin 100% Intrum Servicing SAU A85582377 Madrid 100% Intrum Hellas DAC 613412 Dublin 100% Northwind Investments Intrum Hellas 2 DAC 626396 Dublin 100% Holdings, S.L.U. B88213012 Madrid 100% Northwind Finco, S.L. B88250774 Madrid 80% ITALY Global Zappa, S.L.U. B88208822 Madrid 100% LSF West Srl 09409950962 Milan 100% Copodia ITG, S.L.U. B88174131 Madrid 100% Intrum Italy Holding Srl 08724660967 Milan 100% Lindorff Iberia Holding Cross Factor SPA 09490900157 Milan 100% SLU B87523262 Madrid 100% Isabel SPV Srl 04614020263 Milan 100% Aktua Soluciones B86538279 Madrid 85% Financieras Holdings SL Gextra Srl 03008751202 Bologna 51% Aktua Soluciones B84983956 Madrid 100% Intrum Italy Spa 10311000961 Milan 51% Financieras SL CAF Spa 08010981002 Rome 51% Aktua Soluciones FT Real Estate Srl 09421851008 Rome 100% Immobiliaras SLU B50509447 Zaragoza 100% LATVIA SWEDEN Intrum Latvia SIA 40203088409 Riga 100% Intrum Holding 2 AB 556664-5460 Gothenburg 100% Lindorff International AB 559077-1274 Stockholm 100% LITHUANIA Intrum Lietuva UAB 304615887 Vilnius 100% GERMANY Intrum Global Business 303,326,659 Vilnius 100% Lindorff Finanzholding HRB 87998 Heppenheim 100% Services UAB GmbH Lindorff Holding GmbH HRB 88008 Heppenheim 100% NETHERLANDS Lindorff Deutschland GmbH HRB 87484 Heppenheim 100% Intrum Nederland Holding BV 08178741 Amsterdam 100% DMV Debitorenmanagement– und Intrum Nederland BV 05025428 Amsterdam 100% Verwaltungsgesellschaft Mirus International BV 30150149 Amsterdam 100% mbH HRB 81939 Hamburg 100% Marjoc I BV 08203108 Ede 100% HIT Hanseatische Inkasso-Treuhand GmbH HRB 52053 Hamburg 100% NORWAY AssetGate GmbH HRB 13260 Heppenheim 100% Lindorff Holding Intrum Financial Norway AS 992,984,899 Oslo 100% Services GmbH HRB 4709 Darmstadt 100% Lindorff AS 835,302,202 Oslo 100% Intrum Justitia BankenLindorff Obligations AS 945,153,547 Oslo 100% services GmbH HRB 5345 Darmstadt 100% Schimmelpfeng Creditmanagement GmbH HRB 85778 Darmstadt 100% Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 79 Share of Corp. identity no. Domicile capital Note 13: Shares and participations in joint ventures Subsidiaries of Lindorff Investment DAC No 1 Group SPAIN SEK M 2018 2017 Locairol ITG, S.L.U. B87882528 Madrid 100% Joint venture Venira ITG, S.L.U. B88001128 Madrid 100% Ithaca Investment Designated Activity Company, Dublin 4,746 – Total, joint ventures 4,746 – Subsidiary of Intrum Spzoo CYPRUS Ithaca Investment DAC Since 2018, Intrum has held profit participating notes corresponding to 80 Casus Management Ltd HE 310705 Nicosia 100% percent of the capital in Ithaca Investment DAC. The company is subject, by agreement, to controlling influence shared by Intrum and CarVal Investors. Subsidiary of Intrum Holding 2 AB Ithaca Investment DAC invests in junior notes and mezzanine loans NORWAY issued by the Italian company Penelope SPV S.R.L., corresponding to 51 percent of the capital in Penelope SPV. Penelope has invested in overdue Lindorff Capital AS 958,422,830 Oslo 100% receivables acquired from Banca Intesa Sanpaolo in 2018. Penelope also controls property company, Savoy Reoco S.R.L., which assumes control of seized collateral in the form of properties. Summary financial information on a 100 percent basis for Ithaca InvestCompanies without a shareholding that are consolidated ment DAC including the consolidated companies Penelope SPV S.R.L. and on the basis of contractual controlling interest Savoy Reoco S.R.L: ITALY IJ DF Italy Srl 08438930961 Milan SEK M 2018 Alicudi SPV srl 04703580268 Treviso Income statement Total revenues 379 Operating earnings (EBIT) 308 Subsidiaries in which the Company has a holding without a controlling interest (minority interests) Net financial items –75 Minority interest Minority interests Profit before tax 233 in equity in earnings Taxes 0 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net earnings for the year 233 IJCOF Corporate SAS, France 0 0 0 2 Of which, attributable to: Inkasso Med AG, Switzerland 4 3 0 0 Parent Company’s shareholders 132 Intrum Brasil Consultoria e Participaçoes, S.A 7 – –3 – Non-controlling interests 101 Northwind Finco, S.L. 174 – 0 – Earnings for the period 233 Intrum Italy SPA 1,136 – 15 – CAF SpA 660 – 0 – Balance sheet Gextra Spl 25 – –5 – ASSETS Total 2,006 3 7 2 Other fixed assets Portfolio investments 27,031 Ellisphère SA was a minority shareholder in IJCOF Corporate SAS during the period January to March 2017. Current assets Ärtztekasse Genossenschaft Urdorf AG is a minority shareholder in Property holdings 73 Inkasso Med AG. Other receivables 137 Private individual Lucilla Ines Tchira holds 49 percent of the shares in Intrum Brasil Consultoria e Participaçoes, S.A. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 43 A subsidiary of Ibercaja Banco is a minority shareholder in Northwind Cash and bank balances 1,096 Finco, S.L., holding 20 percent of the shares. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA is a minority shareholder in Intrum Italy SpA, CAF Total assets 28,380 SpA and Gextra Srl, holding 49 percent of the shares in those companies. In addition, Banco Santander holds 15 percent of the shares in Aktua SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Soluciones Financieras Holdings SL, which is not, however, reported as non-controlling interest, but as a long-term liability to Santander, as there are Shareholders’ equity mutual buy and sell options between the owners that Intrum assumes will be Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 135 utilised. Attributable to non-controlling interests 98 Total shareholders’ equity 234 Liabilities Junior notes 6,151 Mezzanine loan 5,033 Senior notes 16,778 Current liabilities 78 Accrued income 107 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 28 380 80 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Note 14: Portfolio investments Note 16: Accounts receivable Purchased debt Group Group SEK M 2018 2017 SEK M 2018 2017 Acquisition cost, opening balance 35,775 20,611 Non-delinquent receivables 403 453 Effect before tax of amended Accounts receivable < 30 days overdue 114 140 accounting principle in accordance with IFRS 9 56 – Accounts receivable 30–60 days overdue 30 59 Discontinued operations 0 –519 Accounts receivable 61–90 days overdue 29 30 Purchased debt 6,882 7,130 Accounts receivable > 90 days overdue 175 97 Sales and disposals –65 14 Total accounts receivable 751 779 Purchased via acquisition 0 7,826 Translation differences 1,568 713 Accumulated reserve for impaired receivables, Accumulated acquisition cost, closing balance 44,216 35,775 opening balance –24 –19 Amortisation, opening balance –14,626 –11,878 Reserve for impaired receivables for the year –17 –12 Discontinued operations 0 391 Realised client losses for the year 1 5 Amortisations and revaluations for the year –3,854 –2,788 Withdrawals from reserve for impaired accounts receivable for the year 9 1 Sales and disposals –12 15 Translation difference –2 1 Reclassification –83 – Accumulated impaired receivables, closing balance –32 –24 Translation differences –811 –366 Accumulated amortisation, closing balance –19,386 –14,626 Carrying values 719 755 Carrying values 24,830 21,149 The reserve for impaired accounts receivable relates primarily to receivables overdue by more than 90 days. See also Note 34 on page 90. Amortisations and revaluations for the year Group SEK M 2018 2017 Time and interest component –3,942 –2,785 Upwards revaluation in connection with changes in Note 17: Other receivables expectations in projections of future cash flows 795 332 Group Parent Company Impairment in connection with changes in expectations in projections of future cash flows –707 –335 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total amortisations and revaluations for the year –3,854 –2,788 Outlays on behalf of clients 165 145 – – Less: reserve for uncertainty in Payments during the year for portfolio investments amounted to SEK 6,872 outlays on behalf of clients –3 –6 – – M (7,175). Total 162 139 – – For a description of Intrum’s accounting policy for portfolio investments, see Note 1. Factoring receivables 437 351 – – Acquired VAT refund claims on purchased debt 54 66 – – To be recovered from NetherNote 15: Other long-term receivables lands bailiffs 87 89 – – Group Receivable, co-financier of joint venture 373 – – – SEK M 2018 2017 Receivable, joint venture 145 – – – Deposits 16 16 A further goal is to reduce the Loan receivables 17 20 proportion of fixed costs. 295 286 13 16 Total 33 36 Total 1,391 792 13 16 Opening balances 36 6 Carrying values 1,553 931 13 16 Paid –3 0 Repaid 0 0 In the Netherlands, a VAT receivable arises in connection with portfolio Reported through acquisitions of subsidiaries 0 30 investments. The VAT portion of the acquired receivable can be recovered from the tax authorities if it is not collected from the customers and is Carrying values 33 36 therefore recognised as a separate receivable. The portion that is expected to be recovered within 12 months is recognised as current. In the Netherlands, bailiffs are private companies and expenses for collection cases paid to them can sometimes be recovered from the bailiffs if their collection measures fail. When it emerges that Intrum is entitled to request that the amount be returned from the enforcement authorities, the amount is moved from Outlays on behalf of clients, to To recover from enforcement authorities. Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 81 Retained earnings including net earnings for the year Note 18: P  repaid expenses and accrued income Refer to earnings in the Parent Company and subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies. Provisions to the statutory reserve, excluding Group Parent Company transferred share premium reserves, were previously included in this item. SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accumulated revaluations of the Group’s defined benefit pension provisions are also included. Dividends paid and share repurchases are deducted from Prepaid expenses and accrued the amount. expenses Following the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors proposed Prepaid rent 14 18 0 0 a dividend of SEK 9.50 per share (9.50), or a total estimated payout of Prepaid insurance premiums 4 3 2 1 SEK 1,247 M (1,250). Prepaid expenses for Other shareholders’ equity in the Parent Company purchased debt 58 7 0 0 Statutory reserve Accrued income Refers to provisions to the statutory reserve and share premium reserve (contract assets) 480 351 0 0 prior to 2006. The statutory reserve is restricted equity and may not be reduced through distributions of earnings. Derivative assets (forward exchange contracts) 229 212 229 212 Share premium reserve Other 105 147 40 87 When shares are issued at a premium, the amount exceeding their quota value is transferred to the share premium reserve. Provisions to the share Total 890 737 271 300 premium reserve as of 2006 are non-restricted equity. Fair value reserve Refers to unrealised exchange rate gains or losses on external loans in foreign currency, which are intended to hedge the Group’s translation Note 19: Cash and cash equivalents exposure attributable to net assets in foreign subsidiaries. The fair value reserve is non-restricted equity. Group Parent Company Earnings brought forward SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Refer to retained earnings from the previous year less the dividend paid Cash and bank balances 1,315 857 251 95 and share repurchases. Retained earnings are non-restricted equity. Restricted bank accounts 33 24 0 0 Capital structure Total 1,348 881 251 95 The Company’s definition of capital corresponds to shareholders’ equity including holdings without a controlling interest, which at year-end totalled SEK 25,672 M (22,439). The measure of the Company’s capital structure used for control purposes is consolidated net debt in relation to pro forma rolling 12-month-adjusted cash EBITDA, which at year-end amounted to 4.3 (4.1). Note 20: Shareholders’ equity This ratio is calculated by placing current consolidated net debt at the end of the year in relation to pro forma cash EBITDA, including operations beShare capital ing phased out and including a calculated cash EBITDA throughout the peAccording to the Articles of Association of Intrum AB (publ), the company’s riod for larger units acquired during the year, and excluding non-recurring share capital will amount to not less than SEK 1,300,000 and not more items (NRIs). Net debt is defined as the sum of interest-bearing liabilities than SEK 5,200,000. All shares are fully paid in, carry equal voting rights and pension provisions less liquid funds and interest-bearing receivables. and share equally in the Company’s assets and earnings. No shares are The Board of Directors has established financial targets for the Group, reserved for transfer. in which net debt divided by pro forma rolling 12-month-adjusted cash There are 131,541,320 shares in the Company, and the share capital EBITDA, as stated above, shall be between 2.5 and 3.5 in the long term. amounts to SEK 2,899,805.49. See below regarding repurchased shares. New share issue On 27 June 2017, Intrum Justitia AB merged with Lindorff and completed a non-cash issue, whereby Intrum Justitia AB issued 59,193,594 new Intrum Justitia shares, in exchange for all shares in Lock TopCo AS, which was the parent company of the Lindorff Group. Accordingly, there are 131,541,320 Note 21: Pensions shares outstanding in Intrum. Employees in Intrum’s companies are covered by various pension benefits, Share repurchase some of which are defined benefit plans and others as defined contribution No shares were repurchased in 2017. In 2018, 250,000 shares were plans. The Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits, which contains, repurchased for SEK 56 M. Accordingly, there were 131,291,320 shares among other things, uniform regulations on the actuarial calculation of outstanding in Intrum at the beginning of 2018. The average number of provisions for pensions in defined benefit plans. shares outstanding over the year was 131,390,632 (102,674,307). Group employees in Switzerland, and certain employees in Germany, are covered by pension plans funded through assets under the manageOther shareholders’ equity in the Group ment of insurance companies and are reported as defined benefit pension Other paid-in capital plans. Other employees in Germany and employees in Norway and Italy Refers to equity other than share capital contributed by the owners or are covered by unfunded defined benefit pension plans that can be paid arising owing to the Group’s shared-based payment programmes. Also out as a one-time sum or as monthly payments following retirement. In included are share premiums paid in connection with new issues. France, the Company makes provisions for one-time payments made to employees on retirement, and these provisions are also reported according Reserves to the rules for defined benefit pension plans. In Belgium and Sweden, Includes the translation reserve, which contains all exchange rate there are pension plans, funded through insurance, which theoretically differences that have, since the transition to IFRS in 2004, arisen in the should have been reported as defined benefit plans, but which are rectranslation of financial statements from foreign operations as well as ognised as defined contribution plans since the Company lacks sufficient long-term intra-Group receivables and liabilities that represent an increase data to report them as defined benefit plans. See also below regarding the or decrease in the Group’s net investment in the foreign operations. The ITP 2 plan. amount also includes exchange rate differences arising in the Parent Among other things, IAS 19 requires pension costs for service in the Company’s external loans in foreign currency, which are intended to hedge current period to be reported in the operating earnings, while the calculatthe Group’s translation exposure attributable to net assets in foreign ed interest expense on the pension liability and the interest income from subsidiaries. assets under management are reported in net financial items. Actuarial revaluations are recognised in other comprehensive income. 82 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Provisions for pensions reported in the balance sheet can be analysed as Provisions for pensions, the following assumptions are used: follows: Group Group % 2018 2017 SEK M 2018 2017 Discount rate 0.85–2.50 0.75–2.30 Present value of fully or partly funded obligations 321 319 Assumed rate of increase in compensation 1.0–2.5 1.0–2.5 Fair value of plan assets –253 –243 Assumed return on assets under management 1.0–2.0 1.0–4.0 Deficit in the plan 68 76 Assumed pension increases 0.4–2.0 0.4–3.0 Present value of unfunded obligations 195 99 Future adjustment to social security base 2.0–4.2 2.5–4.2 Total provisions for pensions 263 175 The Group also finances a number of defined contribution plans, Consolidated expenses for these amounted to SEK 146 M (108). Changes in net obligation: Group Funded defined benefit pension plans For Group employees in Switzerland, commitments exist in the form of SEK M 2018 2017 obligatory service pension plans funded through insurance policies in the Opening balances 175 157 Swiss Life Collective BVG Foundation and in Transparenta BVG Foundation. The funded commitments currently amount to SEK 307 M (273), and the Expenses for employment in current year 15 17 fair value of the assets under management is SEK 237 M (206). ConseInterest expense 5 2 quently, the net pension liability is SEK 70 M (67). The pension commitment is funded through insurance contracts. During the year Intrum paid SEK Pensions paid –19 –19 42 M (40) to the plan, while disbursements to retirees amounted to SEK Pension provisions in acquired operations 86 26 43 M (22). In 2019 payments to the plan are estimated at SEK 42 M, with disbursements to retirees of SEK 43 M. For these pension plans, a discount Discontinued operations – –24 rate of 0.85 percent is applied. An increase/decrease in the discount rate by Revaluations –8 18 0.5 percentage points would entail the pension liability decreasing by 7.7 Exchange rate differences 9 –2 percent/increasing by 8.9 percent. For Group employees in Norway, mandatory occupational pensions Closing balance 263 175 commitments exist that were previously secured through a funded defined benefit pension solution, although these were replaced in 2019 by an unfunded defined benefit solution and a defined contribution solution. Reconciliation of fair value of assets under management: Group ITP 2 plan The commitments for retirement and family pensions for the Group’s SEK M 2018 2017 Swedish employees are secured through insurance with Alecta according Opening balance 243 247 to the so-called ITP 1 and ITP 2 plans. ITP 1 includes employees born in 1979 or later, while ITP 2 covers employees born in 1978 or earlier. ITP 1 Fees paid 41 40 is a defined contribution plan. On the other hand, according to a statement Compensation paid –43 –23 from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, the ITP 2 plan is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. Alecta’s customers have not had Interest revenue 2 2 access to such information for the fiscal year that would make allow them to Assets under management in acquired operations 0 37 report their proportional share of plan assets, liabilities and costs, preventing Discontinued operations – –53 it from being possible to report the plan as a defined benefit plan. Nor is there a contractual agreement how surpluses and deficits in the plan are Revaluations –7 5 to be distributed among plan participants. The ITP 2 plan secured through Exchange rate differences 17 –12 insurance with Alecta is therefore reported by Intrum as if it were a defined contribution plan. The premium is individually calculated, depending on Closing balance 253 243 salary, previously vested pension and anticipated remaining term of employment. At year-end Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 142 percent (154). The collective funding ratio consists of The pension cost recognised in the income statement can be specified as the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligafollows: tions calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which do not Group conform to IAS 19. Under the provisions of the ITP 2 plan, measures must be SEK M 2018 2017 taken if the funding ratio falls below 125 percent (for example, in connection with an increase in the price of the subscription) or exceed 155 percent (for Expenses for employment in current period 15 17 example, in connection with a premium reduction). Net interest income/expense 5 2 Total pension expense in net earnings for the year 20 19 Costs for employment in the current period are reported in operating earnings. Net interest income/expense is reported under net financial items. Revaluations of the pension liability are included in other comprehensive income in the amount of SEK 8 M (negative 18) before tax. In calculating Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 83 Note 22: Other provisions Note 23: Borrowing Group Group Parent Company SEK M 2018 2017 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balances 152 27 Long-term liabilities Amounts utilised during the year –134 –27 Bank loans 6,534 2,703 6534 2,694 Unutilised amounts reversed during the year –18 0 Bond loan 33,254 32,052 33,254 32,052 New provisions for the year 33 64 Current liabilities Provisions in acquired operations 114 88 Commercial papers 2,123 2,269 2,123 2,269 Provisions in divested operations 1 0 Bond loan 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 Translation differences 6 0 Bank overdraft facilities 296 0 11 0 Closing balances 154 152 Total 43,207 38,024 42,922 38,015 Since June 2017, Intrum AB has had a four and a half year revolving syndiGroup cated loan facility totalling EUR 1,100 M with a bank consortium consisting SEK M 2018 2017 of five Nordic banks. The loan framework of EUR 1,100 M can be utilised for borrowing in a number of different currencies. On 31 December 2018, the loan framework had been utilised for loans in SEK totalling SEK 0 M Of which, long-term provisions (700), in EUR totalling EUR 295 M (100), in GBP totalling GBP 102 M (0), in NOK totalling NOK 3,000 M (0) and in HUF totalling HUF 16,200 M (0). Expenses for returning leased office premises to their The unutilised portion of the facilities amounted to SEK 4,241 M (8,008). original condition 2 2 The loan carries a variable interest rate based on the interbank rate in Personnel expenses 2 7 each currency, with a margin. The loan facility contains operations-related Rent and additional costs 1 0 and financial covenants, including limits on financial indicators. All of these covenants were fully met in 2018. In addition, the credit agreement includes covenants that may restrict, condition or prohibit the Group from Of which, short-term provisions incurring additional debt, making acquisitions, disposing of assets, making capital and finance lease expenditures, allowing assets to be encumbered, Expenses for termination of personnel changing the scope of the Group’s business and entering into a merger and other restructuring expenses 0 51 agreement. Additional purchase consideration for shares 138 92 During 2017, Intrum AB issued public bonds for approximately EUR 3,000 M, divided into four tranches of a total EUR 2,700 M and SEK 3,000 Consultancy expenses (law, tax M. During 2018, Intrum issued an additional public bond for SEK 1,000 M, and compliance) 11 0 and thus has bond loans outstanding for a total SEK 34,254 M (33,052). In Total 154 152 2018, Intrum also issued a commercial paper that, at the end of the year, amounted to SEK 2,123 M (2,269). Current provisions are expected to be settled within 12 months from of the balance sheet date. Long-term provisions are expected to be settled later. Change in borrowings during the year Group SEK M 2018 2017 Opening balance 38,024 7,843 Borrowings 24,963 38,216 Amortisation of loans –21,430 –33,764 Acquisitions and divestments 286 25,687 Translation differences 1,364 42 Closing balance 43,207 38,024 84 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Bonds outstanding as per 31 December 2018 Interest rate for fixed-rate bonds, and margin for Nominal amount in Nominal Carrying Market value of Designation Maturity date variable-rate bonds Currency currency, million amount, SEK M value, SEK M bond, SEK M EUR 2024 Fix 15 July 2024 3.13% EUR 900 9,233 9,163 8,240 EUR 2022 Fix 15 July 2022 2.75% EUR 1,500 15,388 15,282 14,234 EUR 2022 Float 15 July 2022 2.63% EUR 300 3,078 3,056 2,890 SEK 2022 Float 15 July 2022 2.75% SEK 3,000 3,000 2,980 2,872 SEK 2020 Float 6 July 2020 1.90% SEK 1,000 1,000 998 988 SEK 2019 Fix 15 May 2019 3.13% SEK 200 200 226 202 SEK 2019 Float 15 May 2019 1.60% SEK 800 800 908 801 EUR 2013 Float PP 22 June 2023 – EUR 160 1,641 1,641 1,379 Total 34,340 34,254 31,606 Bonds with the word “Fix” in the designation accrue a fixed interest rate. Bonds with the word ”Float” in the designation accrue a variable interest rate. Maturities of long-term bank borrowings Group Parent Company SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Maturities of long-term bank borrowings Between 1 and 2 years 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 Between 2 and 3 years 11,200 11,200 11,200 11,200 Between 3 and 4 years 21,466 – 21,466 – Between 4 and 5 years 1,646 22,281 1,646 22,281 More than 5 years 9,233 8,854 9,233 8,854 Total 44,545 43,335 44,545 43,335 Unused lines of credit excluding guarantee facility Expiring within one year 0 0 0 0 Expiring after more than one year 4,200 8,008 4,200 8,008 Total 4,200 8,008 4,200 8,008 Specification of maturity dates for short and long-term loans as per 31 December 2018 (excluding interest) SEK M 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Commercial papers 2,124 Bond loan 1,000 1,000 21,466 1,646 9,233 Syndicated loan facility 7,000 Unutilised portion of facility 4,200 Total 3,124 1,000 11,200 21,466 1,646 9,233 Specification of maturity dates for short and long-term loans as per 31 December 2017 (excluding interest) SEK M 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Commercial papers 2,270 Bond loan 1,000 1,000 20,707 1,574 8,854 Syndicated loan facility 2,814 Unutilised portion of facility 8,386 Total 3,270 1,000 0 11,200 20,707 1,574 8,854 Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 85 of additional purchase consideration. These demands are motivated by Note 24: Accrued expenses and prepaid income claims that the actions of Intrum (and its executives) caused a worse result in Buckaroo than expected, and thus a lower supplementary purchase Group Parent Company consideration. Although Intrum divested the shares in Buckaroo in 2017, SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 the claim on Intrum from the previous owners remains. Intrum refutes all of these demands and has not made any provisions with regard to these Accrued social security disputes. expenses 116 103 20 22 In Spain, a number of disputes are in progress in both higher and lower Accrued vacation pay 192 187 12 14 level courts against two former executives, attributable to their termination Accrued bonus expense 241 264 55 50 in June 2015. The disputes concern whether the dismissals were unlawful, the former executives’ entitlement to different bonuses and the entitlement Prepaid to compensation for one of the former executives for a competition subscription income 110 81 0 0 commitment in his employment contract. Although Intrum won in the court Provisions for losses on charge of first instance in 2018, the counterparties have appealed. Intrum refutes card guarantees 1 1 0 0 all of these claims. The potential impact on consolidated earnings is not considered to be material. Accrued interest 387 388 386 387 In Poland, a dispute is in progress related to the acquisition of Casus Provision for expenses to pay Finanse S.A. in 2015. The dispute concerns the entitlement of the sellers, to collection authorities in the the former management of Casus Finanse SA, to an additional purchase Netherlands 15 19 0 0 consideration and remuneration for continued employment under the share transfer agreement. The former management of Casus Finanse SA was Other accrued expenses 994 751 109 97 dismissed in December 2016, and Intrum’s position is that no entitlement Total 2,056 1,794 582 570 to an additional purchase consideration nor remuneration for continued employment applies. The dispute has been referred to an arbitration board, which requested an expert opinion in 2018 and is expected to announce its ruling in the spring of 2019. Intrum Justitia has made a provision for the dispute in accordance with the anticipated outcome. The Group is otherwise involved in disputes in the normal course of Note 25: P  ledged assets, contingent assets and business. In the opinion of the Board, none of these disputes are expected to give rise to any significant cost. contingent liabilities Group Parent Company SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pledged assets Deposits 16 16 – – Restricted bank accounts 33 24 0 8 Shares in subsidiaries 35,503 28,371 29,944 24,709 Total 35,552 28,411 29,944 24,717 Contingent assets None None None None Contingent liabilities Payment guarantees 120 111 – – Total 120 111 0 0 Pledged assets Pledged collateral includes deposits and restricted bank balances that can be claimed by clients, suppliers or authorities in the event that Intrum were not to meet its contractual obligations. Pledged collateral also includes shares in subsidiaries within the Group pledged as collateral for the Parent Company’s revolving credit facility. The reported value of pledged collateral in the table above refers to the consolidated value of the subsidiaries’ net assets. Payment guarantees The Group offers services whereby clients, against payment, obtain a guarantee from Intrum regarding the clients’ receivables from their customers. This entails a risk being incurred that Intrum must compensate the client for the guaranteed amount in the event that the invoices are not paid on time. In those cases where the guarantee comes into play, Intrum assumes the client’s claim against its customer and takes over the continued handling of the case within the Portfolio Investments area of operations. At the end of the year, the total amount guaranteed was SEK 120 M (111). Intrum’s risk in this business is managed through strict credit limits and analyses of the borrower’s credit status. As of year-end Intrum had allocated SEK 1 M (1) in the balance sheet to cover payments that may arise due to the guarantee. Other In 2012, when Intrum acquired the Dutch company Buckaroo BV, a supplementary purchase consideration to the sellers was agreed that would be based on the results achieved by the Company during the period 2012–2014. Only part of the supplementary purchase consideration has been paid. In 2015, the sellers initiated legal proceedings, bringing claims against Intrum and some of its executives, demanding payment 86 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Note 26: Average number of employees Group Of which, the Parent Company SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Belgium 49 58 45 48 – – – – Brazil 13 10 – – – – – – Denmark 74 110 66 109 – – – – Estonia 5 20 6 21 – – – – Finland 120 324 131 306 – – – – France 200 443 197 455 – – – – Ireland 33 45 25 45 – – – – Italy 108 166 31 133 – – – – Latvia 148 73 126 51 – – – – Lithuania 59 220 27 110 – – – – Luxembourg 1 0 1 0 – – – – Mauritius 20 39 15 31 – – – – Netherlands 129 81 138 97 – – – – Norway 295 349 157 191 – – – – Poland 227 279 218 333 – – – – Portugal 77 150 56 122 – – – – Romania 65 117 50 74 – – – – Switzerland 130 140 134 133 – – – – Slovakia 34 65 33 57 – – – – Spain 614 1,256 429 810 – – – – UK 65 82 58 59 – – – – Sweden 157 256 156 264 39 29 34 23 Czech Republic 32 46 33 52 – – – – Germany 157 340 99 225 – – – – Hungary 147 243 106 192 – – – – Austria 13 26 14 24 – – – – Total 2,972 4,938 2,351 3,942 39 29 34 23 7,910 6,293 68 57 Of the Group’s employees 21 percent are younger than 30 years old, 37 percent are 30–39 years old, 25 percent are 40–49 years old and 17 percent are 50 years old or older. 2018 2017 Men Women Men Women Gender distribution of senior executives Board of Directors 6 3 6 2 Group Management Team 10 3 10 4 Country Managers 20 3 16 5 Board members in subsidiaries (percent) 85 15 80 20 Seven members of the Group Management Team are employees of the Parent Company. There is no special management team for the Parent Company. Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 87 Long-term incentives Note 27: Salaries and remunerations Through the long-term incentive programme, Group Management’s long-term interests and perspectives are brought onto an equal footing Group Parent Company with those of shareholders, while commitment to the company is also SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 reinforced. This encourages the long-term generation of value over a three-year period, allowing Group Management to participate in the Salaries and other remuneration company’s financial success. Growth in Intrum Justitia’s earnings per share to Board members, Presidents is generally applied as a metric because this is considered a good indicator and Executive Vice Presidents 141 136 16 8 of the Group’s long-term success. As with the variable salary component, an effect of the programme’s design is that the cost varies alongside the Salaries and remunerations to Group’s financial performance. other employees It is proposed that long-term incentives be offered in the form of shares or share-related instruments. The maximum initial allocation is 150 percent Northern Europe 1,096 842 – – of fixed annual salary for the CEO, CFO and CIO and between 35 and 50 Central & Eastern Europe 690 552 – – percent for other members of Group Management. The outcome of long-term incentives is not pensionable. Western and Southern Europe 718 502 – – Iberian Peninsula and Latin Costs America 656 423 – – For 2018, expenses for incentive programmes for the CEO and other members of Group Management are expected to amount to at most SEK Head offices and central 18 M for the variable salary component and at most SEK 33 M for the operations 219 252 127 114 long-term incentive programme, excluding social security contributions. Total salaries and other 3,520 2,707 144 122 The estimate does not take into account any changes in the composition of remuneration, Group Group Management during the year. Guidelines for individual share ownership Social security expenses 728 565 58 39 To further encourage commitment and behaviour as shareholders among Group Management, expectations are expressed with regard to individual Of which, pension expenses 161 125 20 15 shareholdings representing a certain proportion of annual fixed salary beTotal 4,248 3,272 202 160 fore tax – 100 percent for the President and 50 percent for other members of Group Management. Share ownership should persist as long as these individuals remain employees and members of Group Management. . Each Salaries and other remuneration in the Group also include remuneration in member of Group Management has (individually) been allocated a period forms other than cash payments, such as a free or subsidised car, housing of time in which to accumulate shares if this target has yet to be met. and meals. Parent Company figures refer strictly to cash payments, however. For information on compensation to the Group’s senior executives, Other see Note 28. In the event of termination by Intrum Justitia, a maximum of 12 months’ severance pay shall apply (if at all). The Board of Directors shall have the right to depart from these remuneration guidelines if there is particular justification for doing so in Note 28: Terms of employment for senior executives individual cases. Guidelines on compensation for senior executives Role of the Remuneration Committee The 2018 Annual General Meeting adopted guidelines for remuneration to The Board of Directors has a Remuneration Committee whose task is to senior executives, the CEO and members of Group Management. The proaddress the Group’s remuneration issues on behalf of shareholders and posal has been prepared by the Board and its Remuneration Committee. the Board. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for preparing the Group’s remuneration guidelines, which include general principles for how Salary and remuneration philosophy salaries and other remunerations are determined, as well as addressing Intrum Justitia is dependent on its employees to achieve ambitious remuneration issues concerning the CEO and Group Management. The objectives in a challenging environment. The salary and remuneration Remuneration Committee comprises two Board members. Since the 2017 philosophy seeks to ensure our employees are rewarded for their valuable Annual General Meeting, the Remuneration Committee has consisted of Per contributions to the company’s earnings. We also strive to be able to E. Larsson (Chairman) and Fredrik Trägårdh. The CEO and the Company’s recruit, develop and retain high-performance employees in a competitive Chief Human Resources Officer are co-opted to the Committee’s meetings, international environment. At the same time, we try to ensure that our though not when their own remuneration is discussed. employees are offered salaries in line with the market. Remuneration levels should reflect duties, responsibility and perforTerms of employment and remuneration of the CEO mance, and should be competitive compared with similar companies in During 2018, Mikael Ericson, President and CEO, received remuneration similar sectors in the same geographic area. To ensure that appropriate in accordance with the Group’s principles as detailed above. In 2018, his behaviours are encouraged, and that efforts are focused in the appropriate fixed monthly salary amounted to SEK 500,000. In addition to his fixed areas, remuneration levels need to be related to the objectives closely salary, he had the opportunity to receive 50 percent of his annual salary associated with the Group’s business strategy and its core values. within the framework of the short-term remuneration programme and 50 The total remuneration is based on three principal components: fixed percent of his annual salary within the framework of the 2016 long-term salary, incentive programmes and pension benefits. Other benefits, such as remuneration programme, in proportion to his period of employment. In a company car, may be offered as well. 2018, he was offered long-term incentives with an initial allocation of 150 Fixed salary is set based on three perspectives: The complexity and percent of his fixed annual salary. In addition to his salary, the Company responsibility of the post, individual performance and local market paid pension contributions corresponding to 35 percent of his fixed annual conditions. salary. The pension policy is a defined contribution plan and the retirement age is 65 years. He also had a company car in accordance with the Group’s Variable salary component car policy, as well as subsidised meals under the same terms as other Intrum’s variable salary component primarily rewards financial business Group employees in Sweden. targets and serves to encourage short-term performance. It is set for one year at a time. The metrics are set individually for each member of Group Terms of employment and remuneration Management to reflect the Group’s business strategy and priorities. The for other members of Group Management metrics reflect business targets or other generation of value for the ComDuring 2018, other members of Group Management also had benefit levels pany. Short-term variable salary means that the Company’s expenses vary in accordance with the Group’s principles as detailed described above. This alongside the Group’s financial development and the employees’ individual includes fixed annual salary and the opportunity to receive 0–50 percent performance. of annual salary within the framework of the short-term remuneration proShort-term variable salary is capped at 50 percent of fixed annual salary gramme and, for former members of Intrum Justitia’s Group Management, for the CEO and at between 35 and 50 percent for other members of Group 20–50 percent within the framework of the 2016 long-term remuneration Management. However, the Chief Risk Officer does not receive a variable programme. In 2018, they were offered long-term incentives with an initial salary component. allocation of 35–150 percent of their fixed annual salary. Pension benefits vary from country to country. In several cases, they are included in monthly 88 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes salaries. Pension policies are defined contribution plans, and the retirement Board fees pertain to the period from the 2017 Annual General Meeting age is generally 65. Members of Group Management have company cars, until the 2018 Annual General Meeting and from the 2018 Annual General in accordance with the Group’s car policy. Smaller benefits also occur Meeting until the 2019 Annual General Meeting respectively. Some according to local practice, such as subsidised meals and travel. members of the Board of Directors issue invoices for their fees through In March 2017, certain senior executives, excluding the President and their own companies, in which case those invoices include social security CEO, were offered an additional bonus, amounting to two or three months’ expenses and VAT. salary, linked to the merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff. With the predetermined terms having been met, the exceptional bonus was paid out in March 2018. Reported variable remuneration below includes the exceptional bonus, which was vested during the period 22 March 2017 to 31 March 2018. Note 29: Fees to auditors The notice of termination for members of Group Management Team Group Parent Company varies from three to twelve months, regardless of whether termination is initiated by the employee or the Company. SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 External audit assignments Remuneration for the year Other senior executives in the table are defined as members of Group Ernst & Young 21 15 4 4 Management (see pages 112–114) other than the CEO. In 2018, two Audit assignments, individuals were appointed and three stepped down. During the period other auditors 9 15 0 0 from 12 February 2018 to 16 July 2018, Thomas Moss was acting CFO and thus a member of Group Management. At the end of 2018, there were Other assignments 12 other senior executives. Ernst & Young review activities beyond the audit assignment 7 3 0 0 SEK thousands 2018 2017 Total 37 33 4 4 President and CEO Mikael Ericson Base salary 6,000 5,570 Variable compensation 4,920 4,309 Note 30: Operational leasing Other benefits 75 106 Group Parent Company Pension expenses 2,136 1,984 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total, President and CEO 13,132 11,970 Lease payment commitments on non-cancellable leases Other senior executives Year 1 171 213 1 3 (13 individuals) Years 2–4 351 402 1 2 Base salary 36,094 28,080 Year 5 and thereafter 113 126 0 0 Variable compensation 19,375 23,096 Total 635 741 2 5 Other benefits 2,651 1,622 The present values above include lease commitments that will not be Severance pay 0 3,458 reported in the balance sheet in accordance with IFRS 16, since they relate Pension expenses 5,615 4,085 to short-term leases or leases of lower value. Lease costs for operating leases amounted to SEK 193 M (192) during Total other senior executives 63,735 60,341 the year, of which SEK 2 M (2) were in the Parent Company. Operating leasing primarily refers to the office premises used by the The amounts stated correspond to the full remuneration received during Group in the countries in which it operates. No individual lease is of the period in which the individuals concerned were defined as senior material significance to the Group in terms of its amount. executives, including vested but as yet unpaid variable remuneration for each year. This entails, for example, that the variable remuneration accrued and expensed by the Company in 2017 was disbursed in 2018, while the variable remuneration for 2018 is to be disbursed in 2019. No share-based remunerations were paid in 2017 or 2018. Note 31: Financial leasing Board of Directors Group In accordance with the Annual General Meeting’s resolution, total fees SEK M 2018 2017 paid to Board members for the year, including for committee work, amounted to SEK 6,795 thousand (5,395). Board fees are distributed Minimum lease payments and their present value between Directors as determined by the AGM according to the proposal Within one year 2 3 by the Nomination Committee. The Directors have no pension benefits or Later than one but within five years 3 7 severance agreements. Later than five years 0 1 SEK thousands 2018 2017 Total 5 11 Board fees Per E. Larsson, Chairman 1,310 1,060 The present value of future lease payments according to finance leases is recognised in the balance sheet in the item Other liabilities. Magnus Yngen, Deputy Chairman 700 600 Magdalena Persson 600 0 Hans Larsson 750 800 Kristoffer Melinder 600 450 Note 32: Investing commitments Andreas Näsvik 600 600 Commitments to acquire fixed assets amounted to SEK 1,949 M (0) at yearend of which SEK 1,949 (0) in business combinations. Synnöve Trygg 750 600 Fredrik Trägårdh 685 535 Ragnhild Wiborg 800 650 Total Board fees 6,795 5,395 Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 89 Group companies, amounted to SEK 35,857 M (34,839). The item includes Note 33: Financial instruments forward exchange contracts for SEK 229 M (212), recognised at fair value in the income statement. The remaining SEK 35,628 M (34,627) is valued at Group Parent Company amortised cost. 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents Liquid assets mainly consist of bank balances. Liquid assets in foreign Carrying value of financial currency are translated in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Conseinstruments quently, carrying value corresponds to fair value. On the balance sheet date, Financial assets valued cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 1,348 M (881). For the Parent at amortised cost 29,507 25,000 35,880 34,722 Company, the corresponding amount was SEK 251 M (95) on the balance Financial assets valued sheet date. at fair value 602 212 229 212 Liabilities to credit institutions Financial liabilities valued The Parent Company’s and the Group’s loan liabilities carry market rate interat amortised cost 47,440 42,113 50,544 43,362 est with short fixed interest terms. Liabilities in foreign currency are translated Financial liabilities valued in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Consequently, carrying value at fair value 29 55 29 55 corresponds to fair value. On the balance sheet date, consolidated liabilities to credit institutions amounted to SEK 6,831 M (2,703) and for the Parent Company, they amounted to SEK 6,545 M (2,694). The only financial instruments that are regularly restated at fair value are derivatives (e.g. forward exchange contracts). They are valued based on a Bond loans valuation technique that uses observable market data and thus falls under The Parent Company and the Group had bond loans outstanding for a value Level 2 in the valuation hierarchy according to IFRS 13. of SEK 34,254 M (33,052) on the balance sheet date. The bond loans are Financial assets include the balance sheet items: purchased debt, other recognised at amortised cost. The fair value of the bonds, in accordance long-term receivables, accounts receivable, client funds, other current with observable market data, is SEK 31,606 M (33,408). receivables, accrued income, derivatives with positive value, cash and cash equivalents and, for the Parent Company, intra-Group receivables. Commercial papers The total recognised value of consolidated financial assets amounted The Parent Company and the Group had commercial papers outstanding to SEK 30,109 M (25,212) on the balance sheet date. Financial assets for a value of SEK 2,123 M (2,269) on the balance sheet date. classified as loan receivables and accounts receivable in 2017 and at amortised cost in 2018 amounted to SEK 29,507 M (25,000) and financial Accounts payable assets recognised at fair value via the income statement amounted to SEK Accounts payable have short maturities. Liabilities in foreign currency 602 M (212). are translated in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Consequently, The total recognised value of the Parent Company’s financial assets carrying value corresponds to fair value. Consolidated accounts payable amounted to SEK 35,909 M (34,934) on the balance sheet date. Financial amounted to SEK 488 M (572). For the Parent Company, the equivalent assets classified as loan receivables and accounts receivable in 2017 and amount was SEK 33 M (53). at amortised cost in 2018 amounted to SEK 35,880 M (34,722) and financial assets recognised at fair value via the income statement amounted to Other liabilities SEK 229 M (212). The Parent Company’s and the Group’s other liabilities have short Financial liabilities include the balance sheet items: non-current and maturities. Liabilities in foreign currency are translated in the accounts at current liabilities to credit institutions, bond loans, commercial papers, clibalance sheet date rates. Consequently, carrying value corresponds to fair ent funds payable, accounts payable, advances from clients, other current value. Other liabilities, including accrued expenses amounted to SEK 3,773 liabilities, accrued expenses, prepaid income and, for the Parent Company, M (3,572) on the balance sheet date. The item includes derivatives valued intra-Group liabilities. at SEK 29 M (55), recognised at fair value in the income statement (held The total recognised value of consolidated financial assets amounted for trade). Other liabilities, excluding derivatives amounted to SEK 3,744 M to SEK 47,469 M (42,168) on the balance sheet date. Financial liabilities (3,517). recognised at amortised cost amounted to SEK 47,440 M (42,113) and For the Parent Company, other liabilities amounted to SEK 7,618 M financial liabilities recognised at fair value amounted to SEK 29 M (55). (5,348) on the balance sheet date and included liabilities to Group compaThe total recognised value of the Parent Company’s financial liabilities nies and accrued expenses. Derivatives are recognised at fair value in the amounted to SEK 50,573 M (43,417) on the balance sheet date. Financial income statement (held for trade) and amounted to SEK 29 M (55). Other liabilities recognised at amortised cost amounted to SEK 50,544 M liabilities, excluding derivatives amounted to SEK 7,589 M (5,293). (43,362) and financial liabilities recognised at fair value amounted to SEK 29 M (55). Offset of financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value comprise derivatives. Portfolio investments Financial assets and liabilities are not offset in the balance sheet. However, Portfolio investments consist of purchased debt reported at amortised cost there are legally binding agreements that allow offsetting should one of according applying an effective interest rate model with an effective interest the counterparties for the Group’s derivatives suspend their payments. rate reflecting the risk of defaulted payment. The Group determines the carAt the end of the year, Intrum had financial assets totalling SEK 29 M (50) rying value by calculating the present value of estimated future cash flows at that could be offset against debts should the counterparties suspend their the receivables’ original effective interest rate. Adjustments are recognised in payments. the income statement. With this valuation method, the carrying value is the best estimate of the fair value of debt portfolios, in the Company’s opinion. On the balance sheet date, the carrying value of purchased debt amounted to SEK 24,830 M (21,149). An account of purchased debt by year acquired is provided in Note 34. Note 34: Financial risks and financial policies Principles of financing and financial risk management Accounts receivable The financial risks that arise in Intrum operations are limited. Thanks to a Accounts receivable are recognised at amortised cost with no discount strong cash flow, combined with little need for investment and operating being applied since the remaining maturity is judged to be short. Accounts capital, external capital needs in the Group’s Credit Management operareceivable amounted to SEK 719 M (755) on the balance sheet date. tions are relatively low. The purchased debt operations have a greater need for capital, particularly during a growth phase. Other receivables Intrum’s financing and financial risks are managed within the Group in Other receivables have short maturities. Receivables in foreign currency accordance with the treasury policy established by the Board of Directors. are translated in the accounts at balance sheet date rates. Consequently, The treasury policy contains rules for managing financial activities, delecarrying value corresponds to fair value. Other receivables, including gating responsibility, measuring and identifying financial risks and limiting accrued income, amounted to SEK 3,211 M (2,427) on the balance sheet these risks. date. The item includes forward exchange contracts for SEK 229 M (212), Internal and external financial operations are concentrated in Group and receivables of SEK 373 M (0) recognised at fair value in the income Treasury in Stockholm and Oslo, which ensures economies of scale when statement. The remaining SEK 2,982 M (2,215) is valued at amortised cost. pricing financial transactions. Because Group Treasury can take advantage For the Parent Company, other receivables, including receivables from 90 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes of temporary surpluses and deficits in the Group’s various countries of In terms of net assets by currency, shareholders’ equity in the Group, operation, the Group’s total interest expense can be minimised. including non-controlling interests, is distributed as follows: Market risk SEK M 2018 2017 Market risk consists of risks related to changes in exchange rates and interest rate levels. SEK 7,497 4,526 EUR 32,811 31,003 Exchange rate risk – less EUR hedged through foreign currency loans –27,654 –31,709 Exchange rate risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will negatively affect the Group’s income statement, balance sheet and/or cash + EUR hedged through derivatives 5,817 7,944 flows. The most important currencies for the Intrum Group, other than CHF 1,581 1,303 the Swedish krona (SEK), are the euro (EUR), the Swiss franc (CHF), the Hungarian forint (HUF) and the Norwegian krone (NOK). – less CHF hedged through foreign currency loans –31 –97 The following exchange rates have been used to translate transactions – less CHF hedged through derivatives –957 –505 in foreign currency in the financial accounts: DKK 707 1,745 Average Average – less DKK hedged through derivatives –438 0 Currency 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 2018 2017 HUF 2,494 1,865 CHF 9.11 8.42 8.88 8.67 – less HUF hedges through foreign currency loans –516 0 EUR 10.26 9.84 10.26 9.63 – less HUF hedged through derivatives –1,050 –1,183 HUF 0.0319 0.0317 0.0322 0.0312 NOK 13,036 13,163 NOK 1.03 1.00 1.07 1.03 – less NOK hedged through foreign currency loans –5,135 –6,462 – less NOK hedged through derivatives –4,221 0 Exchange rate risk can be divided into transaction exposure and translaOther currencies 1,732 522 tion exposure. Transaction exposure consists of net operating and financial Total 25,672 22,439 receipts and disbursements in different currencies. Translation exposure consists of the effects from the translation of the financial reports of All else being equal, an appreciation in the Swedish krona of 37 percentage foreign subsidiaries and associated companies to SEK. points as per 31 December 2018 against EUR would have affected shareholders’ equity in the Group negatively by SEK 1,097 M, against CHF by Transaction exposure SEK 59 M, against DKK by SEK 27 M, against HUF by SEK 93 M and against In each country, all income and most operating expenses are denominated NOK by SEK 37 M. in local currencies, and thus currency fluctuations have only a limited impact Regarding the currency risk attributable to currency interest rate swaps, on the Company’s operating earnings in local currency. National operations see the description below under Interest rate risks. seldom have receivables and liabilities in foreign currency. Income and exThe Group hedges itself against part of the translation exposure through penses in national currency are thereby hedged in a natural way, which limits currency hedging via external loans in foreign currency and derivatives. transaction exposure. The currency exposure that arises within the operating There is an economic relationship between the hedged balance sheet activities is limited to the extent it pertains to international collection operaitems and the hedge instruments where the efficiency of the hedges is testtions. The subsidiaries’ projected flow exposure is not hedged at present. All ed and adjusted on a monthly basis. The effects of the translation exposure major known currency flows are hedged on a continuous basis in the Group and the hedging arrangements have opposite signs and are reported in and the Parent Company through forward exchange contracts. Other comprehensive income. Hedge instruments amounted to SEK –34,185 M (–32,012) at year-end. Translation exposure No inefficiency has been reported during the year as regards hedges of net Intrum operates in some 25 countries. The results and financial position investments in foreign operations. of subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and later translated into SEK for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements. Interest rate risks Consequently, fluctuations in the SEK exchange rate affect consolidated Interest rate risks relate primarily to the Group’s interest-bearing net debt, income and earnings, as well as equity and other items in the financial which amounted to SEK 42,122 M (37,322) on 31 December 2018. The statements. loan rate is tied to the market rate. The Group’s revenues are distributed by currency as follows: Intrum has a strong cash flow which gives the Group the option of repaying loans or investing in portfolios. The Group’s loans have a fixed SEK M 2018 2017 interest term – currently about 30 months (39) for the entire loan portfolio. SEK 882 878 A 1-percent increase in market interest rates during the year would have adversely affected net financial items by approximately SEK 397 M. A EUR 7,791 5,282 5-percent increase would have adversely affected net financial items by CHF 802 732 SEK 1,986 M. To establish an appropriate matching of currencies in the balance sheet HUF 1,197 780 and thus manage the currency risk between assets and liabilities, the NOK 1,587 763 Company uses currency interest rate swaps in which the Parent Company swaps liabilities in SEK and receives EUR at the same rate on both the start Other currencies 1,183 999 and maturity dates. In this way, the Company can maintain the desired Total 13,442 9,434 level of hedging of shareholders’ equity per currency while also maintaining an interest rate exposure in the same currency. An appreciation of the Swedish krona of 10 percentage points on average Liquidity risk in 2018 against EUR would thus, all else being equal, have affected Liquidity risk is the risk of a loss or higher-than-expected costs to ensure revenues negatively by SEK 779 M, against CHF by SEK 80 M, against HUF the Group’s ability to fulfil its short and long-term payment obligations to by SEK 120 M and against NOK by SEK 159 M. outside parties. The Group’s long-term financing risk is limited by confirmed loan facilities. The Group’s objective is that at least 35 percent of total committed loans have a remaining maturity of at least three years and that not more than 35 percent of the total have a remaining maturity of less than 12 months. Since June 2017, Intrum AB has had a four and a half year revolving syndicated loan facility totalling EUR 1,100 M with a bank consortium consisting of five Nordic banks. The loan framework of EUR 1,100 M can be utilised for borrowing in a number of different currencies. On 31 December 2018, the loan framework had been utilised for loans in SEK totalling SEK 0 M (700), in EUR totalling EUR 295 M (100), in GBP totalling GBP 102 M (0), in NOK totalling NOK 3,000 M (0) and in HUF totalling HUF 16,200 M (0). Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 91 The unutilised portion of the facilities amounted to SEK 4,241 M (8,008). Financial liabilities in the balance sheet – Parent Company The loan carries a variable interest rate based on the interbank rate in each Within 2–5 Later than currency, with a margin. The loan facility contains operations-related and SEK M one year years five years Total financial covenants, including limits on financial indicators. All of these covenants were fully met in 2018. In addition, the credit agreement includes 31 Dec 2018 covenants that may restrict, condition or prohibit the Group from incurring Accounts payable and other additional debt, making acquisitions, disposing of assets, making capital and liabilities 618 618 finance lease expenditures, allowing assets to be encumbered, changing the scope of the Group’s business and entering into a merger agreement. Liabilities to credit institutions 2,820 2,820 In 2017, Intrum AB issued public bonds for approximately EUR 3,000 Bond loan 1,929 27,491 9,700 39,120 M, divided into four tranches totalling EUR 2,700 M and SEK 3,000 M. Commercial papers 2,123 2,123 During 2018, Intrum issued an additional public bond for SEK 1,000 M, and thus has total outstanding bond loans for SEK 34,254 M (33,052). In Liabilities to Group companies 3,825 3,207 7,032 2018, Intrum also issued a commercial paper that, at the end of the year, Total 11,315 30,698 9,700 51,713 amounted to SEK 2,123 M (2,269). The Group’s aim is that the liquidity reserve, which consists of cash, bank balances and short-term liquid investments should amount to at 31 Dec 2017 least SEK 100 M more than the unutilised portion of committed lines of credit. The Group has deposited its liquid assets with established financial Accounts payable and other institutions where the risk of loss is considered remote. The Group’s liabilities 626 626 finance function prepares regular liquidity forecasts with the purpose of Liabilities to credit institutions 2,814 2,814 optimising the balance between loans and liquid funds so that the net interest expense is minimised without, for that matter, incurring difficulties Bond loan 1,000 21,707 10,428 33,135 in meeting external commitments. Commercial papers 2,270 2,270 The table below provides an analysis of the financial liabilities of the Liabilities to Group companies 1,515 3,260 4,775 Group and the Parent Company broken down according to the amount of time remaining until the contractual maturity date. The amounts given in Total 5,411 27,781 10,428 43,620 the table are the contractual, undiscounted cash flows including interest. The amounts falling due within 12 months agree with the reported amounts since the discount effect is negligible. Credit risks Credit risk consists of the risk that Intrum’s counterparties are unable to Financial liabilities in the balance sheet – Group fulfil their obligations to the Group. Financial assets that potentially subject the Group to credit risk include Within 2–5 Later than cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, portfolio investments, SEK M one year years five years Total outlays on behalf of clients, derivatives and guarantees. For financial assets 31 Dec 2018 owned by Intrum, no collateral or other credit reinforcements have been received, with the exception of a certain portion of the Group’s portfolio Accounts payable and other investments. The maximum credit exposure for each class of financial liabilities 4,262 4,262 assets corresponds to the carrying amount. Liabilities to credit institutions 3,105 3,105 Cash and cash equivalents Bond loan 1,929 27,491 9,700 39,120 The Group’s cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of bank balances Commercial papers 2,123 2,123 and other short-term financial assets with a remaining maturity of less than Total 11,419 27,491 9,700 48,610 three months. The Group has deposited its liquid assets with established banks where the risk of loss is considered remote. 31 Dec 2017 Accounts receivable The Group’s accounts receivable from clients and customers in various Accounts payable and other industries, are not concentrated in a specific geographical region. The liabilities 4,144 4,144 Group’s largest client accounts for less than four percent of revenues. Most Liabilities to credit institutions 2,823 2,823 accounts receivable outstanding are with clients previously known to the Group and whose creditworthiness is good. For an analysis of accounts Bond loan 1,000 21,707 10,428 33,135 receivable by age, see Note 16. Commercial papers 2,270 2,270 Total 7,414 24,530 10,428 42,372 Portfolio investments As part of its portfolio investment operations, Intrum acquires portfolios of consumer receivables and tries to collect them. Unlike its conventional collection operations where Intrum works on behalf of clients in return for commissions and fees, in this case it assumes all the rights and risks associated with the receivables. The portfolios are purchased at prices significantly below their nominal value, and Intrum retains the entire amount it collects, including interest and fees. The acquired receivables are overdue and in many cases are from customers who are having payment problems. It is obvious, therefore, that the entire nominal amount of the receivable will not be recovered. On the other hand, the receivables are acquired at prices significantly below their nominal value. The risk in this business is that Intrum, at the time of acquisition, overestimates its ability to collect the amounts or underestimates the costs of collection. The maximum theoretical risk is of course that the entire carrying value of SEK 24,830 M (21,149) would become worthless and have to be written off. To minimise the risks in this business, prudence is exercised in purchase decisions. The focus is on small and medium-sized portfolios with relatively low average amounts, to help spread risks. The average nominal value per case is approximately SEK 18,465. Portfolios are normally acquired from clients with whom the Group has had a long-term relationship. The acquisitions have generally consisted of unsecured debt, requiring relatively less capital and significantly simplifying administration compared with collateralised receivables. Since 2016, however, Intrum has also begun to acquire portfolios with underlying collateral, usually in the form of property mortgages. Intrum places high yield requirements on the portfolios it acquires. Before every acquisition, a careful assessment is made based 92 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes on a projection of future cash flows (collected amount) from the portfolio. assets regarding forward exchange contracts were valued at SEK 229 M In these calculations Intrum benefits from its extensive experience in debt (212), and liabilities at SEK 29 M (55). See Note 33 regarding the possibility collection and from the Group’s scoring methods. Intrum therefore believes of offsetting receivables and liabilities for derivative contracts. that it has the expertise required to evaluate these types of receivables. To The contracts have short maturities, typically one or more months. All enable acquisitions of larger portfolios at attractive risk levels, Intrum has, outstanding forward exchange contracts are restated at fair value in the on occasion, partnered with other companies such as CarVal and Deutsche accounts, with adjustments recognised in the income statement. The purBank to share the capital investment and return. pose of these forward exchange contracts has been to minimise exchange The portfolio values are reassessed quarterly for impairment, based on rate differences in the Parent Company attributable to receivables and historical collection patterns as well as macroeconomic forecasts. liabilities in foreign currency. The currency risk is attributable to the translation of the balance sheet Outstanding forward exchange contracts at year end in the Parent item Portfolio investments is limited due to currency hedging using loans Company and in the Group comprise the following currencies: in the same currency as the assets, and currency forwards. A considerable proportion of the acquisitions take place through forward flow agreements Local currency Hedged – that is, Intrum may have previously agreed with a company to acquire all of Currency amount, buy amount, sell that company’s accounts receivable at a certain percentage of their nominal value once they are overdue by a certain number of days. In most of these CHF 50,955,314 –105,000,000 agreements, however, Intrum has the opportunity to decline to acquire the CZK 528,907,000 0 receivables if, for example, their quality decreases. Risks are diversified by acquiring receivables from clients in different DKK 19,086,000 –975,370,000 sectors and different countries. The Group’s purchased debt portfolios EUR 857,084,209 –763,480,353 include customers in 21 countries. The Group’s total carrying amount for purchased debt is distributed as follows: GBP 11,473,000 –138,447,000 HUF 16,761,976,000 –37,170,134,000 NOK 2,296,600,000 –6,433,583,000 By country PLN 1,810,000 –221,337,600 Germany RON 7,465,000 –154,903,000 Norway 11% (14) Spain The Parent Company and the Group also hold currency interest rate Sweden 13% (13) swaps that were signed in connection with the Parent Company’s issue of France 41% (40) bonds in SEK. To achieve suitable currency matching between assets and UK liabilities, liabilities in SEK were exchanged to EUR at the same rate on the Other countries 12% (12) starting date and the date of maturity. Payment guarantees 8% 7% 8% (9) The Group offers services whereby clients, against payment, obtain a (6) (6) guarantee from Intrum regarding the clients’ receivables from their customers. This entails a risk being incurred that Intrum must compensate the client for the guaranteed amount in the event that the invoices are not paid on time. In those cases where the guarantee comes into play, Intrum assumes the client’s claim against its customer and takes over the continued handling of the case By sector within the Portfolio Investments area of operations. At the end of the year, the total amount guaranteed was SEK 120 M (111). Intrum’s risk in this business Telecommunications companies 7% 6% is managed through strict credit limits and analyses of the borrower’s credit Banking sector (8) (7) status. At the end of the year Intrum had allocated SEK 1 M (1) in the balance Credit card receivables sheet to cover payments that may arise due to the guarantee. 14% (15) Other financial operations Other sectors 10% (5) Note 35: Acquisitions and divestments 63% (65) In the cash flow statement, SEK 8,587 M (1,506) is reported as acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures. For 2018, the amount relates to the acquisition of 51 percent of the shares in Intrum Italy Spa for SEK 1,883 M, the acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in Northwind Investment Holding Sl for SEK 1,787 M, the Of the total carrying value on the balance sheet date, 26 percent repreacquisition of Iplatform Consultoria e Participacoes SA for SEK 15 M, and sents portfolios acquired in 2018, 25 percent those acquired in 2017, the acquisition of profit participating notes in Ithaca Investment DAC for 13 percent those acquired in 2016 and 12 percent acquired in 2015. The SEK 4,902 M (recognised as participations in a joint venture). remaining 24 percent relates to receivables acquired in or before 2014, For 2017, the amount refers to the acquisition of 100 percent of the which have therefore been past due for more than four years. In the case of shares in CAF S.p.A. for SEK 1,307 M, Asset Gate for SEK 19 M, LSF West a large share of the oldest receivables, Intrum has reached agreement with S.r.l. for SEK 9 M, Mirus International for SEK 2 M, Top Factoring for SEK the customers on payment plans. 27 M, Intractive Wide Development for SEK 57 M, and the acquisition from the former minority shareholder of 42 percent of the shares in IJCOF Outlays on behalf of clients Corporate for SEK 85 M. As an element in its operations, the Group incurs outlays for court fees, legal representation, enforcement authorities, etc., which can be charged Partnership with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo to and collected from customers. In many cases Intrum has agreements In April, Intrum entered into a partnership agreement with the Italian bank with its clients whereby any expenses that cannot be collected from Banca Intesa Sanpaolo in April, contributing a collection department with customers are instead refunded by the client. The amount that is expected a labour force of 600 and a portfolio of overdue receivables that is held to be recovered from a solvent counterparty is recognised as an asset in together with an investor. The transaction was completed in early December. the balance sheet on the line Other receivables. Intrum reports its holding in the jointly-owned portfolio of receivables as a participation in a joint venture, Ithaca Investment DAC, and the holding Derivative contracts in the shared Italian collection business as a subsidiary, Intrum Italy Spa, The Parent Company and the Group hold forward exchange contracts to in which the minority share attributable to shares owned by Banca Intesa a limited extent. The credit risk in the Group’s forward exchange contracts Sanpaolo is reported as non-controlling interest. is because the counterparty generally is a large bank or financial institution that is not expected to become insolvent. On the balance sheet date, Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 93 On Intrum’s acquisition of the shared collection operation, the company InAcquisition of 51 percent of the shares in trum Italy Spa, the following preliminary acquisition analysis was prepared: platform Consultoria e Participacoes SA In July, a majority shareholding of 51 percent was acquired in the Brazilian Carrying credit management company iPlatform. The name of the company has amounts been changed to Intrum Brasil Consultoria e Participaçoes, S.A. Goodwill before the Fair value of SEK 15 M has been recognised. SEK M acquisition adjustments Fair value Acquisition of Solvia Client relationships 2,065 2,065 In December, Intrum met with Banco Sabadell regarding the acquisition of Fixed assets 26 26 the bank’s wholly owned subsidiary Solvia Servicios Inmobiliaros (Solvia), which offers real estate management services in the Spanish market. Deferred tax liability –576 –576 The transaction is expected to be concluded during the first half of 2019. Net assets 26 1,515 Solvia’s earnings for the second half of 2018 were below the expected level. Discussions are in progress with the seller to reach a final agreement. The acquisition analysis has yet to be prepared. Other companies added 718 Merger with Lindorff Paid in cash 1,884 On 12 June 2017, the EU Commission approved the merger of Intrum Minority interests 1,136 Justitia and Lindorff. The approval was conditional on the divestment of Goodwill 2,223 Lindorff’s operations in Denmark, Estonia, Finland and Sweden, and of Intrum Justitia’s operations in Norway. On 27 June the merger was effectuated and Lock TopCo AS (the parent company of the Lindorff Group) with all of its subsidiaries have since been owned by Intrum AB (publ). The company was included in the consolidated accounts effective from The merger was effectuated through a non-cash issue whereby Intrum December 2018 and contributed to consolidated revenues by SEK 113 Justitia AB issued new shares in exchange for all shares in Lock TopCo AS. M and to operating earnings by SEK 60 M. The company was founded in The preliminary acquisition analysis prepared by Intrum in connection 2018 and it would be inpractible to determine what revenues and earnings with the merger has been adjusted to the following final acquisition analysis. would have been if it had existed the full-year. A change from the preliminary acquisition analysis previously prepared is The goodwill recognised is attributable to synergies in the form of that contingent liabilities regarding some of Lindorff’s litigation and tax expected cost savings and economies of scale achieved when the Italian disputes, ongoing as per the transaction date, are reported as current operations are integrated, and to the combined workforce. liabilities and provisions in the final acquisition analysis. Acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in Northwind Investment Holding Sl In December, Intrum met with Ibercaja Banco SA to acquire 6,400 properties in Spain from Ibercaja and the bank’s subsidiaries. The real estate portfolio has been transferred to a new company, in which Intrum will initially be the majority shareholder, while Ibercaja’s subsidiary retains a minority holding of 20 percent. This company, Global Zappa Sl, is owned through a holding company by Northwind Investment Holding Sl, in which Intrum has acquired 100 percent of the shares. Intrum’s final investment, when financing and co-investors are in place, will amount to approximately EUR 30–40 M. Property holdings are not a strategic area of focus for the Group. On Intrum’s acquisition of Northwind Investment Holding Sl, the following preliminary acquisition analysis was prepared: Carrying amounts Fair value SEK M before the acquisition adjustments Fair value Fixed assets 256 256 Property holdings 2,233 2,233 Liabilities –530 –530 Net assets 1,959 1,959 Less minority interests in subsidiaries –172 Net assets, Intrum 1,787 Acquisition price 1,787 94 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes The acquisition is reported as follows in the consolidated accounts: Preliminary acquisition analysis from June 2017 Final acquisition analysis from June 2018 Carrying value before Fair value Fair value SEK M the acquisition adjustments Fair value adjustments Fair value Intangible assets 19,001 –15,248 3,753 –16,072 2,929 Database of credit data 0 261 261 Tangible assets 138 138 138 Portfolio investments 7,826 7,826 –34 7,792 Other fixed assets 508 334 842 489 997 Current assets 1,778 1,778 89 1,867 Cash and bank balances 684 684 684 Assets for sale 5,184 5,184 5,184 Long-term liabilities –22,940 –1,392 –24,332 –1,408 –24,348 Current liabilities and provisions –2,047 –2,047 –155 –2,202 Liabilities in operations to be sold –3,091 –3,091 –3,091 Net assets 7,041 –16,306 –9,265 –16,830 –9,789 Acquisition price 17,332 17,332 Goodwill 26,597 27,121 Of which, in operations to be sold 4,255 1,826 Of which, in continuing operations 22,342 25,295 Other acquisitions in 2017 Acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in CAF S.p.A (CAF) Note 36: Critical estimates and assumptions In December 2017, CAF S.p.A (CAF) was acquired, the third-largest credit management company for unsecured claims in Italy. In connection with To be able to prepare the accounts in accordance with generally accepted this, Intrum also acquired a large, diversified investment portfolio where accounting practices, company management and the Board of Directors collection is handled by CAF. The total purchase consideration for CAF must make assessments and assumptions that affect reported income and the portfolio was approximately EUR 200 M, on a cash and debt-free and expense items, asset and liability items, as well as other disclosures. basis. CAF employs some 200 people in credit management services at Management has discussed with the Audit Committee the Group’s critical three locations in Italy. The acquisition analysis was detailed in the 2017 accounting principles and estimates as well as the application of these. Annual Report. Estimates and assumptions are continuously assessed on the basis of historical experience and other factors, including expectations of Acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in Asset Gate GmbH future events considered reasonable under prevailing conditions. Actual In December 2017, Asset Gate GmbH was acquired. The company has outcomes may vary from the assessments made. been included in the consolidated accounts as of December 2017. The The areas in which estimates and assumptions could entail significant acquisition analysis was detailed in the 2017 Annual Report. risk of adjustment in the recognised amounts for assets and liabilities in future fiscal years are primarily the following: Acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in Mirus International BV In September 2017, Mirus International BV, a small credit management Impairment testing of goodwill company in the Netherlands, was acquired for a partial conditional As indicated in Note 10, an impairment test of goodwill was done prior purchase consideration of approximately EUR 5 M. The acquisition analysis to the preparation of the annual accounts. The geographical regions was detailed in the 2017 Annual Report. are judged to achieve a sufficient degree of integration that they form combined cash generating units. Recoverable amounts for cash generAcquisition of 100 percent of the shares in Top Factoring SA ating units have been established by calculating their value in use. The In April 2017, the acquisition of Top Factoring, one of the leading assumptions and assessments made with regard to expected cash flows purchased debt companies in Romania, was completed. The Company is and discount rates in the form of weighted average cost of capital, as well mainly present in the bank and telecommunications sectors, with several as a sensitivity analysis are detailed in Note 10. Projections of future cash strong customer relationships generating recurring investment opportuniflows are based on the best possible assessments of future income and ties in portfolio investments. The acquisition analysis was detailed in the operating expenses. 2017 Annual Report. Portfolio investments Acquisition of the minority shareholding in IJCOF Corporate SAS As indicated in Note 14, the recognition of portfolio investments in overIn April 2017, Intrum acquired the minority shareholding of 42 percent of due receivables is based on the Company’s own projection of future cash the shares in the French subsidiary IJCOF Corporate SAS. IJCOF Corporate flows from the acquired portfolios. Although the Company has historically SAS is active in credit management for customers with mainly corporate had good projection accuracy with regard to cash flows, future deviations receivables. cannot be ruled out. The Group applies internal rules and a formalised decision-making Acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in 1 Credit Ltd finalised process in the adjustment of previously established cash flow projections. In February 2017, the acquisition was completed of 1st Credit, a mediumThese entail, among other things, that cash flow projections are only in sized company active in portfolio investments in the UK. The name of the exceptional cases adjusted in the first year of ownership of a portfolio. company has been changed to Intrum UK Ltd. The company was consolidated Furthermore, an amendment of the cash flow projection normally requires as of February 2017. The acquisition analysis was detailed in the 2017 an agreement between local management in the country in question and Annual Report. the Group’s risk department. All changes in cash flow projections are ultimately decided on by a central revaluation committee. Acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in Intractiv Wide Development SAS In February 2017, a small business was acquired within Credit Management Sales of portfolio investments in France, Intractiv Wide Development SAS. Intractiv mainly offers a digital The Group has occasionally sold certain portfolios of purchased debt. platform in credit management for clients with corporate receivables. Divestments of portfolios are not included in the business model for this Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 95 asset category. Intrum has assessed the transactions and concluded that a sale of purchased debt should be recognised in the same way as if an amount Note 38: Reconciliation of key figures equivalent to the selling price had been collected as part of normal operations. For Intrum’s accounting, it does not matter if the same amount is received Group through collection from customers or by sale to an external party. The entire SEK M, unless otherwise indicated Pro forma sale price for the portfolios sold has been reported as the amount collected on 2018 2017 2017 purchased debt, and the entire carrying value remaining prior to the sale has been reported as amortisation of purchased debt. Earnings from portfolio investments 3,464 2,433 2,979 Useful lifetimes of intangible and tangible fixed assets Of which, revaluations 88 –3 63 Group Management establishes assessed useful lifetimes and thus consistent amortisation and depreciation for the Group’s intangible and tangible Average carrying value of fixed assets. These estimates are based on historical knowledge of equivaportfolio investments in lent assets’ useful lives. Useful life and estimated residual values are tested receivables 22,990 14,830 18,696 on each balance sheet date and adjusted when necessary. Recognised Average reported value values for each balance sheet date for intangible and tangible fixed assets, of properties excluding the see Notes 10 and 11. Ibercaja transaction 145 47 47 Assessment of deferred tax assets Total 23,134 14,877 18,743 Deferred tax assets for tax-loss carry forwards or other future tax deductions are recognised to the extent it is deemed likely that the deduction can be made against future taxable surpluses. Carrying amounts for Return on portfolio investments deferred tax assets on each balance sheet date are provided in Note 8. incl. properties, percent 15 16 16 Reporting of Polish investment fund Earnings from portfolio The Group has operated in Poland since 2006 through investment funds investments 3,464 2,433 2,979 designed for the purchasing and holding of portfolio investments. From the Group’s perspective, the funds function in practice as a subsidiary. Against Participations in joint ventures 106 0 0 this backdrop, Intrum has resolved to consolidate the investment funds as a Total 3,570 2,433 2,979 subsidiary in the consolidated financial statements. Joint venture Average carrying value of As stated in Note 13, in 2018, the Intrum Group invested in profit portfolio investments in participating notes issued by the Irish company Ithaca Investment DAC. receivables 22,990 14,830 18,696 Through its holding in the profit participating notes and the wording of the agreement, Intrum holds a position closely corresponding to that of a Average reported value shareholder in the company, and the consolidated accounts therefore treat of properties excluding the the profit participating notes as though they were an equity instrument Ibercaja transaction 145 47 47 issued by Ithaca Investment DAC. Although Intrum’s holding corresponds Average value of shares and to 80 percent of the profit participating notes issued shareholder loans, participations in joint ventures 2,373 0 0 through an agreement with another investor holding 20 percent of the profit participating notes, the two parties share a controlling influence, Total 25,507 14,877 18,743 and Intrum therefore reports the investment according to the rules for joint ventures. Return on portfolio investments including properties and joint Acquisitions ventures, percent 14 16 16 In 2018, Intrum entered into a partnership with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo, which included the acquisition of a subsidiary and participations in a joint venture. During the final month of the year, a real estate company was also EBIT 3,978 2,728 3,489 acquired in Spain. The acquisitions and acquisition analyses are detailed in Note 35. The acquisitions were large and complex, and the acquisition Depreciation/amortisation 900 436 742 analyses may be adjusted in upcoming quarters. EBITDA 4,878 3,164 4,231 EBIT 3,978 2,728 3,489 Depreciation/amortisation 900 436 742 Note 37: Related parties Amortisation and revaluations, portfolio investments 3,854 2,788 3,295 In addition to associated companies and joint ventures, related parties include the Board of Directors and senior executives, according to Note 28, Cash EBITDA 8,732 5,952 7,526 as well as close family members to these executives and other companies over which they can exert a significant influence. Transactions with related parties, individuals and companies, are EBIT 3,978 2,728 3,489 conducted on market terms and at arm’s length. Non-recurring items (NRIs) 742 397 499 During 2018, Intrum sold services to LBHF Joint Ventures Ltd for SEK EBIT excl. NRIs 4,720 3,125 3,988 5 M (1), a collection company in which three Intrum employees in the UK, including Country Manager Edward Nott, are board members. During 2018, Intrum sold services for SEK 10 M to Sbanken ASA, a bank EBITDA 4,878 3,164 4,231 in which a member of Intrum’s Group Management, Cathrine Klouman, is a board member. Non-recurring items (NRIs) 742 397 499 Although the Parent Company has close relationship to its subsidiaries, EBITDA excl. NRIs 5,620 3,561 4,730 see Note 12, it has no transactions with other related parties. Over the year, the Parent Company received SEK 214 M (159) in income from sales of services to Group subsidiaries, and incurred SEK 203 M (14) in expenses Cash EBITDA 8,732 5,952 7,526 attributable to services purchased from subsidiaries. Non-recurring items (NRIs) 742 397 499 Cash EBITDA excl. NRIs 9,474 6,349 8,025 96 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Group Note 39: Discontinued operations and assets and SEK M, unless otherwise indicated Pro forma liabilities in operations held for sale 2018 2017 2017 The merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff was implemented on 27 EBIT 3,978 2,728 3,489 June 2017. Non-recurring items (NRIs) 742 397 499 In connection with the merger, Intrum undertook to the European ComRevaluations of portfolio investmission to divest Intrum Justitia’s Norwegian subsidiaries, as well as Lindorff’s ments –88 3 –63 Swedish, Finnish, Danish and Estonian subsidiaries. In November 2017, Intrum agreed to divest these subsidiaries to a company in the Lowell Group, Items affecting comparability –132 0 0 and the transaction was finalised in March 2018, in connection with which Adjusted operating earnings 4,500 3,128 3,925 Intrum received the purchase consideration of SEK 7,511 M. (EBIT) In the income statement, the subsidiaries being divested in accordance with the above have been reported in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations as discontinued operations, with the Liabilities to credit institutions 6,830 2,703 2,703 comparative figures for previous years being recalculated. In the balance sheet for 2017, these subsidiaries are reported as assets and liabilities in operations Bond loan 34,254 33,052 33,052 held for sale, without the comparative figures being recalculated. Provisions for pensions 263 175 175 Earnings from discontinued operations are stated below: Commercial papers 2,123 2,269 2,269 Group Other interest-bearing liabilities 0 4 4 SEK M 2018 2017 Liquid assets –1,348 –881 –881 Net revenues 415 1,051 Net debt 42,122 37,322 37,322 Operating expenses –335 –824 Operating earnings (EBIT) 80 227 Return on portfolio investments Net financial items –7 –49 Return on portfolio investments is the service line earnings for the period, excluding factoring and payment guarantees, recalculated on a full-year basis, Profit before tax 73 178 as a percentage of the average carrying amount of the balance-sheet item Taxes –5 –41 Portfolio investments. The ratio sets the service line’s earnings in relation to the amount of capital tied up and is included in the Group’s financial targets. Earnings from discontinued operations 68 137 Loss on disposal including EBITDA accumulated translation differences –141 0 Operating earnings before depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) are operating earnings after reversal of depreciation of fixed assets except Total earnings from discontinued operations –73 137 portfolio investments. Cash EBITDA The loss on disposal includes transaction costs of SEK 126 M. Cash EBITDA is operating earnings after depreciation on fixed assets as well The above income statements include Intrum Justitia’s Norwegian as amortisation and revaluations of portfolio investments are added back. subsidiaries for 1 January 2017 to 31 March 2018, as well as Lindorff’s Swedish, Finnish, Danish and Estonian subsidiaries for the period 27 June Non-recurring items (NRIs) 2017 to 31 March 2018. Significant earnings items that are not included in the Group’s normal At the end of 2017, the carrying values of assets in operations held for recurring operations and that are not expected to return on a regular basis. sale amounted to SEK 8,314 M, and liabilities in assets held for sale to SEK Non-recurring items include restructuring costs, closure costs, reversal of 1,168 M. restructuring or closure reservations, cost savings programmes, integration costs, extraordinary projects, divestments, impairment of non-current fixed assets other than portfolio investments, acquisition and divestment expenses, advisory costs for discontinued acquisition projects, costs for relocation to new office space, termination and recruitment costs for members of Group Management and country managers, as well as external expenses for disputes and unusual agreements. Non-recurring items are specified because they are difficult to predict and have low forecast values ​​for the Group’s future earnings trend. Items affecting comparability Significant income statement items included in the Group’s regular recurring operations and which may recur in any form, but which distort the comparison between the periods. EBIT, EBITDA AND cash EBITDA, excluding NRIs In accordance with the above, the key figures EBIT, EBITDA and Cash EBITDA are also reported after recurring non-recurring items, NRIs. Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) are operating earnings excluding revaluations of portfolio investments, items affecting comparability and non-recurring items (NRIs). Pro forma financial reports including Lindorff Pro forma financial reports are issued for the Group including Lindorff, as if Lindorff had been included in the Group throughout the comparison period. Pro forma earnings have been calculated by adding Intrum’s and Lindorff’s actual results for each period without making adjustments for the periods in which transaction costs would have been incurred if the acquisition had taken place at another time. Fair value adjustments made in the acquisition analysis on Intrum Justitia’s acquisition of Lindorff are not recognised in earnings for any period, although they can be recognised as costs in the acquired legal entity. Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 97 Group Group Lindorff Pro forma Note 40: P  ro forma income statement including 1 Jan– Lindorff Full-year Full-year 27 Jun Full-year SEK M 2018 2017 2017 2017 On 27 June 2017, Lock TopCo AS and a subsidiary (the Lindorff Group) was acquired. Below is a calculated pro forma income statement, as well as key Net revenues excluding revaluations and items affecting comparability ratios and alternative performance measurements, in which Lindorff has been Northern Europe 4,002 2,994 833 3,827 consolidated for all of 2017 in the comparison figures. Central and Eastern Europe 3,681 2,794 439 3,233 Western and Southern Europe 2,622 1,847 203 2,050 Group Group Lindorff Pro forma Iberian Peninsula and 1 Jan– Latin America 2,826 1,802 1,244 3,046 Full-year Full-year 27 Jun Full-year SEK M 2018 2017 2017 2017 Total net revenues excluding 13,131 9,437 2,719 12,156 revaluations and items Consolidated income statement affecting comparability Income from customers 7,240 5,041 1,793 6,834 Income from portfolio investOperating earnings (EBIT) ments in accordance with the effective interest method 6,114 4,394 928 5,322 Northern Europe 1,294 1,014 257 1,271 Positive revaluations of Central and Eastern Europe 1,377 831 137 968 portfolio investments 795 334 64 398 Western and Southern Europe 228 290 2 292 Negative revaluations of Iberian Peninsula and portfolio investments –707 –335 0 –335 Latin America 1,079 593 365 958 Total revenues 13,442 9,434 2,785 12,219 Total operating earnings (EBIT) 3,978 2,728 761 3,489 Operating expenses –9,570 –6,716 –2,024 –8,740 Participations in earnings Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) of associated companies Northern Europe 1,425 1,124 288 1,412 and joint ventures 106 10 0 10 Central and Eastern Europe 1,442 999 115 1,114 Operating earnings (EBIT) 3,978 2,728 761 3,489 Western and Southern Europe 664 334 3 337 Net financial items –1,363 –973 –969 –1,942 Iberian Peninsula and Profit before tax 2,615 1,755 –208 1,547 Latin America 969 671 391 1,062 Taxes –599 –389 –78 –467 Total adjusted operating 4,500 3,128 797 3,925 Net earnings for the year 2,016 1,366 –286 1,080 earnings (EBIT) from continuing operations Earnings for the period Net revenues by service line from discontinued operations after tax –73 137 101 238 Credit Management 9,480 6,700 2,152 8,852 Net earnings for the year 1,943 1,503 –185 1,318 Financial Services 6,394 4,516 990 5,506 Elimination of inter-service line revenue –2,432 –1,782 –356 –2,138 Net revenues by geographical region Total net revenues by 13,442 9,434 2,786 12,220 service line Northern Europe 3,979 3,012 857 3,869 Central and Eastern Europe 3,790 2,775 471 3,246 Service line earnings excl. NRIs and items affecting comparability Western and Southern Credit Management 2,489 1,771 704 2,475 Europe 2,564 1,847 209 2,056 Financial Services 3,604 2,445 501 2,946 Iberian Peninsula and Latin America 3,109 1,800 1,248 3,048 Shared expenses –1,505 –1,091 –342 –1,433 Total net revenues by 13,442 9,434 2,785 12,219 Total service line earnings 4,588 3,125 863 3,988 geographical region excl. NRIs and items affecting comparability Revaluations of portfolio investments Key figures and alternative performance indicators Northern Europe –23 18 24 42 Adjusted operating earnings (EBIT) 4,500 3,128 797 3,925 Central and Eastern Europe 109 –19 32 13 Cash EBITDA excl. NRIs 9,474 6,349 1,676 8,025 Western and Southern Europe –58 0 6 6 EBITDA excl. NRIs 5,620 3,561 1,169 4,730 Iberian Peninsula EBIT excl. NRIs 4,720 3,125 863 3,988 and Latin America 60 –2 4 2 Non-recurring items in EBIT –742 –397 –102 –499 Total revaluations of 88 –3 66 63 Items affecting comparability 132 0 0 0 portfolio investments Revaluations of portfolio investments 88 –3 66 63 Cash EBITDA 8,732 5,952 1,574 7,526 EBITDA 4,878 3,164 1,067 4,231 EBIT 3,978 2,728 761 3,489 Portfolio investments 11,854 7,223 634 7,857 98 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes Proposed appropriation of earnings The Parent Company’s distributable funds are at the disposal of the BoThe Board of Directors and the President propose that the earnings be ard of Directors as follows: distributed as follows: SEK SEK Share premium reserve 17,441,835,284 Dividend, 131,291,320 shares x SEK 9.50 1,247,267,540 Fair value reserve –1,163,951,762 Balance carried forward 14,914,201,655 Retained earnings –1,593,942,869 Total 16,161,829,195 Net earnings for the year 1,477,888,542 Total 16,161,829,195 The Board of Directors’ complete statement motivating the proposed disthe Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting position of earnings for the 2018 fiscal year will be presented in a separate standards. document prior to the 2019 Annual General Meeting. It concludes, among The annual accounts and consolidated accounts give a true and fair view other things, that the proposed dividend is in line with the Company’s of the financial position and results of the Parent Company and the Group. dividend policy and that the Board, having considered the nature, scope The Board of Directors’ Report for the Parent Company and the Group and risks of the Company’s operations, as well as the Company’s and the gives a true and fair overview of the operations, financial position and Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and financial position in results of the Parent Company and the Group, and describes significant general, has found no indications that the proposed dividend is unjustified. risks and uncertainties that the Parent Company and the companies in the The Board of Directors and the President certify that the Annual Report Group face. has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting The annual and consolidated accounts were approved for publication standards in Sweden and that the consolidated accounts have been preby the Board of Directors and the President on 28 March 2019 and are pared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred proposed for approval by the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2019. to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of Stockholm, 28 March 2019 Mikael Ericson President and CEO Per E. Larsson Magnus Yngen Hans Larsson Chairman of the Board Deputy Chairman of the Board Board member Kristoffer Melinder Andreas Näsvik Magdalena Persson Synnöve Trygg Board member Board member Board member Board member Fredrik Trägårdh Ragnhild Wiborg Board member Board member Our audit report regarding this annual report was submitted on 3 April 2019. Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant Notes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 99 Audit report To the Annual General Meeting of Intrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556607-7581. Report on the annual and consolidated accounts Opinions We have conducted an audit of the annual and consolidated responsibility. We are independent of the Parent Company accounts of Intrum AB (publ) for the year 2018. The compaand the Group in accordance with generally accepted ny’s annual and consolidated accounts are presented on pagauditing practices in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled es 46–99 of this document. our professional ethical responsibilities in accordance with In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared these requirements. This means that, based on our best in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and presknowledge and conviction, no prohibited services referred ent, in all material respects, a fair portrayal of the financial to in Article 5.1 of the Audit Regulation (537/2014) have been position of the Parent Company as of 31 December 2018 provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its and its financial performance and cash flow for the year in parent company or companies that it controls within the EU. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidatWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is ed accounts have been prepared in accordance with the sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Annual Accounts Act and give, in all material respects, a fair portrayal of the financial position of the Group as of 31 Key Audit Matters December 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our for the year in accordance with the International Financial professional judgment, were of most significance in our Reporting Standards IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Annual Accounts Act. We believe that our audit provides a the current period. These matters were addressed in the reasonable basis for our opinion set out below. context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, We therefore recommend that the Annual General the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, Meeting approve the consolidated Income Statement and but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Balance Sheet and the Income Statement and Balance For each matter below, our description of how our audit Sheet of the Parent Company. addressed the matter is provided in that context. Our statements in this report on the annual and consoliWe have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the dated accounts are consistent with the content of the supAuditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial stateplementary report that has been submitted to the Parent ments section of our report, including in relation to these Company’s Audit Committee in accordance with Article 11 matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of the Audit Regulation (537/2014). of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial stateBasis for Opinions ments. The results of our audit procedures, including the We conducted our audit in accordance with International procedures performed to address the matters below, proStandards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing vide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying standards in Sweden. Our responsibility in accordance financial statements. with these standards is described in the section Auditor’s Income recognition Description of the area How our audit addressed this key audit matter Consolidated net revenues for 2018 amounted to SEK 13,442 M. As is In our audit, we examined principles for revenue recognition, processes evident from Notes 2 and 3 to the annual accounts, net revenues are for significant revenue streams and related IT systems. We have, among distributed between the various revenue sources, including collection other things, tested the Company’s controls, performed an analytical fees, commissions and fees, as well as amounts collected on purchased review using data-based analysis tools and evaluated the effectiveness receivables less amortisation. The number of transactions in the various of the Company’s controls for IT systems of relevance for income recogflows is extensive, which places high demands on the Company’s internition. On a random basis, we have also examined income against agreenal controls and administrative processes. We have therefore assessed ments and amounts paid in. Processes for programme development, the income statement and the related IT systems as a particularly programme changes and access management have been reviewed, as important area in the ​​ audit. has the monitoring and handling of incidents. We have also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements regarding income recognition. 100 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Goodwill Description of the area How our audit addressed this key audit matter Goodwill is reported in the amount of SEK 33,055 M in the consolidated We have assessed the Company’s process for performing impairment balance sheet as per 31 December 2018. Over the fiscal year, goodwill testing. We have examined valuation methods and calculations, the increased by SEK 3,490 M as a consequence of acquisitions. The Compareasonableness of the assumptions made and sensitivity analyses for ny tests, at least annually and when there is an indication of impairment, changed assumptions supported by our valuation specialists. Comparithat the carrying values do not exceed the assets’ recoverable amounts. sons have been made with historical results, and other companies in the The recoverable amounts are determined by calculating the value in same sector. The precision of previous forecasts has been evaluated. We use of each cash generating unit, in connection with which estimated have also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements regarding future cash flows are discounted. The Company’s cash flow forecasts are goodwill. based on historical experience, business plans and other forward-looking assessments. The impairment test for 2018 did not result in any impairment. A description of the accounting principles for goodwill is presented in Note 1 and the impairment testing, as well as critical estimates and assumptions are presented in Notes 10 and 36. As a consequence of the reported amounts being of material importance to the financial reporting and the assessments and critical assumptions required for the calculation of the value in use, we have assessed goodwill accounting as an area of particular importance in the audit. Portfolio investments Description Description of of the the area area How our audit addressed this key audit matter Purchased debt is reported at SEK 24,830 M in the consolidated balance In our audit, we have, among other things, evaluated the Company’s prosheet as per 31 December 2018. Reporting follows the effective interest cesses for valuing purchased debt, the valuation models applied and the method, where the carrying value of each portfolio corresponds to the reasonableness of the assumptions made in calculating effective interest present value of expected future cash flows. The expected cash flows are rates. We have also reviewed the company’s ongoing review of book discounted at an effective interest rate determined on the acquisition of values. We have also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements the respective portfolios. Current cash flow projections and book values regarding purchased debt. are monitored over the course of the year based on, among other things, achieved collection results, agreements reached with customers on instalment plans and macroeconomic information. Accounting principles for purchased debt are presented in Note 1, critical estimates and assumptions are presented in Note 36, and a description of the purchased debt is given in Note 14. The Company’s accounting of purchased debt is considered to be a particularly important area in the audit due to reported amounts being of significance for the financial reporting and the portfolio valuations require the Company to make estimates, assumptions and judgements. Information other than the annual and consolidated accounts This document also contains information other than the Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the CEO annual and consolidated accounts presented on pages The Board of Directors and the President are responsible 1–45 and 104–128. The Board of Directors and the President for the preparation of the annual and consolidated accounts are responsible for this other information. and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and accounts does not cover this other information and we do Securities Companies and, concerning the consolidated not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. other information. The Board of Directors and the President are also responsiIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and ble for such internal control as they determine is necessary consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the to enable the preparation of annual and consolidated information identified above and consider whether the accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether information is materially inconsistent with the annual and due to fraud or error. consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and accounts, the Board of Directors and the President are assess whether the information otherwise appears to be responsible for the assessment of the Company’s ability to materially misstated. continue operating. They disclose, as applicable, conditions Audit report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 101 that could impact the company’s capacity to continue oper• E valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of ating, and the assumption of continued operation. However, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the assumption of continued operation is not applied if the the disclosures, and whether the annual and consolidated Board of Directors and the President intend to liquidate the accounts represent the underlying transactions and events Company, cease operations, or have no realistic alternative in a manner that achieves fair presentation. but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other the financial information of the entities or business things oversee the Company’s financial reporting process. activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the Auditors’ responsibility direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about We remain solely responsible for our opinions. whether the annual and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, must also inform of significant audit findings during our but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordaudit, including any significant deficiencies in internal ance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in control that we identified. Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it We must also provide the Board of Directors with a exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are opinion that we have complied with relevant ethical requireconsidered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they ments regarding independence, and to communicate with could reasonably be expected to influence the economic them all relationships and other matters that may reasondecisions of users taken on the basis of these annual and ably be thought to bear on our independence, and where consolidated accounts. applicable, related safeguards. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise From the matters communicated with the Board of professional judgement and maintain professional sceptiDirectors, we determine those matters that were of most cism throughout the audit. In addition, we: significance in the audit of the annual and consolidated • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement accounts, including the most important assessed risks for of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit matters. We describe these areas in the audit report unless procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit legislation or other regulations prevent disclosure. evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for Report on other legal and regulatory requirements one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the Opinions override of internal control. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal President of Intrum AB (publ) for 2018 and the proposed control relevant to our audit in order to design audit appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss. procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, We recommend that the Annual General Meeting appropribut not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the ate Company’s profit or loss in accordance with the proposal effectiveness of the company’s internal control. presented in the statutory administration report (Board of Directors’ Report) and that the directors and the President • E valuate the appropriateness of accounting policies used be discharged from liability for the fiscal year. and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and Basis for opinions the President. We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibility • C onclude on the appropriateness of the Board of in accordance with this is described in the section Auditor’s Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going responsibility. We are independent of the Parent Company concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual and the Group in accordance with generally accepted accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a auditing practices in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as our professional ethical responsibilities in accordance with to whether any material uncertainty exists related to these requirements. events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is the Company’s ability to continue its operations. If we sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the CEO disclosures in the annual accounts or, if such disclosures The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss. At the proand consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on posal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements report. However, future events or conditions may cause a which the Company’s and the Group’s type of operations, company to cease to continue as a going concern. size and risks place on the size of the Parent Company’s and 102 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Audit report the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, SE–103 99 Stockholm, and position in general. Sweden was appointed Intrum AB’s auditor at the Annual The Board of Directors is responsible for the Company’s General Meeting on 27 April 2018 and has been the Compaorganisation and the administration of the Company’s ny’s auditor since 25 April 2012. affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the Company’s and the Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the Company’s organisation is designed Stockholm, 3 April 2019 so that the accounting, management of assets and the Ernst & Young AB Company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The President is responsible for the ongoing management in accordance with the Board’s guideJesper Nilsson lines and instructions, including taking the measures necAuthorised Public Accountant essary for the Company’s accounting to be completed in accordance with the law and for the management of funds being handled in a secure manner. Auditors’ responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the Company. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgement with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the Company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Audit report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 103 Corporate Governance Report Intrum’s corporate governance serves to strengthen the confidence of clients, society and the capital markets through a clear allocation of responsibilities and wellbalanced rules between owners, the Board, Group Management Team and the different control functions. Intrum AB (publ) (“Intrum”) is a Swedish public company domiciled in Stockholm. The Company’s shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. Proposal Information Nomination Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Auditors Committee Appointment Election Election Information Board of Directors Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Audit Committee Targets Strategies Reports Steering instruments and Control Group Risk & Internal Compliance President and CEO Audit Group Management Risk & Investment Committee Region Region Central and Region Western and Iberian Peninsula and Investments Northern Europe Eastern Europe Southern Europe Latin America Innovation & HR Commercial Communications Legal Finance Production Internal rules External control instruments 104 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 This corporate governance report has been prepared in At the Annual General Meeting, 69 percent of the shares accordance with the rules of the Annual Accounts Act and conveying voting rights were represented. All nine Board the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (“the Code”) members proposed for election or re-election as Board in order to describe how Intrum applied the Code during members were present. The Board of Directors was rep2018. Corporate governance at Intrum comprises structures resented by a quorum at the Annual General Meeting. The and processes for management and control of the ComCEO, auditor and chairman of the Nomination Committee pany’s operations for the purpose of creating value for the were present. Company’s owners and other stakeholders. The 2019 Annual General Meeting is scheduled for 26 Intrum has applied the Code effective from 1 July 2005. April 2019. Intrum’s corporate governance also adheres to the applicaResolutions of the Annual General Meeting are published ble rules in the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act, in a press release following the Meeting, and the minutes of Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers, the Swedish Securities the Meeting are published on the company’s website. Council’s resolutions, Intrum’s Articles of Association, as well as laws, regulations and official guidelines and rules in Nomination Committee countries where the Intrum Group operates (in some The task of the Nomination Committee, among others, is to cases subject to licensing). nominate Board members for election at the next Annual The Code is based on the principle of “adhere or explain”, General Meeting. The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved meaning that deviations from the Code are permitted if it that the Chairman of the Board shall convene the five largest is possible to explain why the deviation occurred. During shareholders of the company based on known voting power the period to which the Annual Report pertains, Intrum has at the end of August to appoint a member each to the Nomiadhered to the Code in its entirety. The code is available nation Committee. at www.corporategovernanceboard.se, where the Swedish The composition of the Nomination Committee ahead of model of corporate governance is also described. the 2019 Annual General Meeting was announced on 24 SepIntrum’s Articles of Association are available on tember 2018: Robert Furuhjelm (appointed by Cidron 1748 www.intrum.com. Sarl) (chairman), Patrick Lapveteläinen (appointed by Sampo plc), Mats Gustafsson (appointed by Lannebo Fonder), Carl Shareholders Cederschiöld (appointed by Handelsbanken Fonder) and At the end of the year, Intrum’s largest shareholder, Cidron Tomas Flodén (appointed by AMF and AMF Fonder). The 1748 Sarl, held approximately 43.9 percent of all shares outChairman of the Board serves as a co-opted member of the standing in the Company. See also page 44–45. Nomination Committee. The Group’s legal counsel has served as the secretary of the Nomination Committee. Annual General Meeting Besides nominating the Board members, the Chairman of The Annual General Meeting is Intrum’s highest decithe Board and the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting, sion-making body at which the shareholders exercise their the duties of the Nomination Committee include evaluating right to make decisions regarding the Company’s affairs. the Board and its work, proposing a Chairman for the Each share corresponds to one vote. Shareholders are enAnnual General Meeting, proposing compensation for the titled to have matters addressed at General Meetings, they Board and its committees, and proposing candidates for are also entitled to ask questions regarding the Group’s opauditors’ elections and compensation for auditors. The erations at the Annual General Meeting. Chairman of the Board has reported the results of the The Annual General Meeting was held on 27 April 2018. annual Board evaluation to the Committee, which also Among other things, the Meeting resolved: held individual meetings with certain Board members. • to adopt the income statements and balance sheets for Shareholders have been offered the opportunity to submit the Company and the Group, and to pay a dividend of proposals to the Nomination Committee. At the time of the SEK 9.50 per share in accordance with the proposal by publication of this report, the Nomination Committee had the Board of Directors, held 6 minuted meetings. No compensation has been paid • to discharge the Board of Directors and the President to the members of the Nomination Committee. from liability for the 2017 fiscal year, • to elect the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board of Directors Board, The Board of Directors has the overarching responsibility • to agree on remuneration to the Board of Directors and for administering Intrum’s affairs in the interests of its shareauditor, holders. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the • to establish guidelines for remuneration to senior Board of Directors shall comprise at lease five and at most executives, nine members with at most four deputies. From the 2017 • to establish guidelines for the appointment of a new Annual General Meeting until the 2018 Annual General Nomination Committee, Meeting, the Board of Directors comprised eight members • to introduce a new long-term incentive programme, elected by the Annual General Meeting, of whom, six were and to transfer treasury shares in accordance with that men and two were women. At the 2018 Annual General programme, Meeting, nine ordinary Board Members were elected, with • to authorise the Board of Directors to repurchase (and, no deputies, of whom six were men and two were women. under certain conditions transfer) up to 10 percent of Per E. Larsson was elected as Chairman of the Board and shares in the company via the stock market, and Magnus Yngen as Deputy Chairman. There are no employee • to amend the Articles of Association to change the name representatives on the Board of Directors. Further informaof the Company to Intrum AB (publ). tion about Board members, including their shareholdings, can be found on pages 110–111. Corporate governance report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 105 Hans Larsson, Magdalena Persson, Synnöve Trygg, Fredrik Meetings of the Board Trägårdh, Ragnhild Wiborg and Magnus Yngen are considThe Board meets regularly in accordance with the schedule ered independent in relation to the Company and company laid down in the rules of procedure. Every Board meeting management as well as in relation to major shareholders. follows a predetermined agenda. The agenda and backPer E. Larsson, Andreas Näsvik and Kristoffer Melinder have ground information on each information or decision point been deemed by the Nomination Committee to be indeare sent to all Directors well in advance of each meeting. pendent in relation to the Company and company manageDecisions by the Board are preceded by an open discussion ment but not in relation to major shareholders. The compoled by the Chairman. The Board held 22 meetings in 2018 sition of the Board thereby complies with the requirements (41 in the preceding year). Over the year, the Board devoted of the Code in this respect. The President of the Company particular focus to the following issues: is not a member of the Board, but attends all Board meetings except when the evaluation of the Board’s work and • the Company’s strategies and objectives, the President are on the agenda. The Secretary of the Board • synergies and cost efficiency is the Group’s General Counsel. The Board of Directors • the Group’s earnings and financial position, has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration • interim reporting, Committee and an Investment Committee. The Separa• corporate governance, risk management and internal tion and Integration Committee established in connection control, with the merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff was • corporate acquisitions and acquisitions of major discontinued in connection with the 2018 Annual General portfolios of receivables, including follow-up of Meeting. Issues related to integration and separation have completed acquisitions, since been addressed by the Audit Committee. • the Company’s risk appetite and investment objectives, The committees are mainly subordinated to the Board • a new long-term incentive programme, and do not relieve the Board members of their duties and • the Group’s capital structure and financing, and responsibilities. The committees are presented in more • the assessment of the work of the Board and the detail on the following pages. assessment of the CEO. The Board’s rules of procedure The Company’s auditor attended one Board meeting during Each year, the Board of Directors reassesses and sets rules of the year and four meetings of the Audit Committee. procedure, instructions for the committees and instructions for the President. The latter also includes instructions regardAssessment of the Board and CEO ing financial reporting. These control documents contain Each year, the Board assesses the composition of the Board instructions on the delegation of responsibilities and work and its work with the purpose of illuminating matters conbetween the Board, the President and the Board committees, cerning the Board’s composition, areas of focus, materials as well as the forms of the Company’s financial reporting. and meeting climate, as well identifying areas for improveThe Board’s rules of procedure are based on the overarching ment. In the third quarter of 2018, an assessment was perrules included in the Swedish Companies Act on the overall formed with the assistance of an external adviser and the responsibilities of the Board and President and otherwise on Chairman has reported the results of that assessment to the decision-making procedure approved by the Board. The the Nomination Committee. The Board makes continuous rules of procedure also regulate other issues, including: evaluations of the President and discusses this at least one • number of Board meetings and decision points normally meeting without his presence. on the agenda at each meeting, • the duties of the Chairman, the committees, the President Compensation for directors and CEO, and their decision-making authorities, as well as In accordance with the decision by the 2018 Annual Gena clear regulation of the issues that require a decision by eral Meeting, fees and other compensation to the Board of the Board of Directors, Directors are payable totalling SEK 6,795,000, of which SEK • the assessment of the Board of Directors and its work, the 975,000 to the Chairman of the Board, SEK 550,000 to the assessment of the President, and Deputy Chairman of the Board, SEK 450,000 to each of the • the forms of the Board’s meetings and minutes. other Board members, SEK 200,000 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK 150,000 each to the other two members of the Audit Committee, SEK 250,000 to the Chairman of the Investment Committee, SEK 150,000 each to the other Attendance at Board meetings in 2018 eight members of the Investment Committee and SEK 85,000 each to the two members of the Remuneration Committee. Per E Larsson 22/22 Magnus Yngen 22/22 Audit Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee has a preparatory role and reports Hans Larsson 22/22 its work to the Board of Directors. The duty of the Audit Kristoffer Melinder 21/22 Committee is, among other things, to supervise the Group’s Andreas Näsvik 22/22 financial reporting and the efficiency in the Group’s internal Synnöve Trygg 22/22 control, internal auditing and risk management with regard Fredrik Trägårdh 21/22 to the financial reporting. The Annual General Meeting shall also keep itself informed regarding the audit process, conRagnhild Wiborg 22/22 sider the auditor’s impartiality and assist the Nomination Magdalena Persson 12/12 Committee in connection with the election of an auditor. 106 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate governance report The Annual General Meeting has established guidelines for The Investment Committee is tasked with making decisions which services, other than auditing services, the Company on matters involving investments in companies (or operamay procure from the auditor. tions) and portfolios of receivables, to the extent that such Since the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Audit Commatters require decisions being made outside ordinary mittee has consisted of Ragnhild Wiborg (chairman), Hans Board meetings. Larsson and Synnöve Trygg. All are considered independent The Investment Committee consists of all Board members in relation to the Company and its management as well with Per E. Larsson as chairman. as in relation to major shareholders. Normally, the auditor, In 2018 the Committee met five times. The work have the Company’s CFO, the head of the internal audit and the focused exclusively on investments in companies or portGroup’s Chief Accountant participate in the Annual General folios of receivables. Meeting’s meetings. The latter is also appointed secretary of the Committee. During the year, Andreas Näsvik was also Remuneration principles for senior executives co-opted to the work of the committee and participated in The 2018 Annual General Meeting adopted the Board’s one of the meetings. proposal on the principles of compensation and other The Audit Committee met seven times in 2018 (four times terms of employment for the senior executives. The guidein 2017). All of the ordinary members of the Committee lines regulate the relationship between fixed and variable attended all meeting. The external auditors attended four of remuneration and the relationship between performance the meetings. The issues addressed by the Annual General and remuneration, non-monetary benefits, issues related to Meeting over the year included interim reporting, risk manpensions, dismissal and severance payments and how the agement, aspects of internal control. The Committee has Board deals with these issues. The principles for remunerapaid special attention to issues relating to acquisitions and tions for senior executives applied in 2018 are described in divestments, and of integration and separation in relation Note 28, on pages 88–89. The Board of Directors’ proposed to the merger between Intrum Justitia and Lindorff, data guidelines for 2018 are reported in full in the Directors’ security and compliance (particularly with regard to GDPR). Report on page 54 For a more detailed account of wages In addition, the Committee has considered the annual and remunerations for senior executives, see Note 28 on accounts and the audit procedure for the Group, recompages 88–89. mendations regarding the election of external auditors at the Annual General Meeting, changes in accounting rules, Group Management tax and financing issues, as well as the preparation of the The Company’s management team consists of the Chief Board’s efforts to assure the quality of the Group’s financial Executive Officer (CEO), the Chief Financial Officer reporting, especially regarding the accounting of portfolio (CFO), the four Regional Managing Directors (RMD), the investments and goodwill. Chief Investment Officer (CIO), the Chief Brand and Communications Officer (CBCO), the Chief Operations Remuneration Committee Officer (COO), the Head of Credit Management Services The tasks of the Remuneration Committee include prepar(HCMS), the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO), the ing the Board’s decisions on matters involving remuneration Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and the Chief Legal Officer (CLO). principles, remunerations and other terms of employment The Group Management Team meets regularly to discuss for senior management, following-up and evaluating profinancial targets and results, strategy issues and Group-wide grammes for variable remunerations for senior management, guidelines. These discussions, decisions and guidelines and monitoring and assessing general remuneration strucare also part of the control of financial reporting. More tures and compensation levels in the Group. information about the Group Management Team can be The Annual General Meeting also assists the Board in found on pages 112–114. drafting proposals for guidelines for remuneration for senior management that the Board presents to the Annual General Risk and Investment Committee Meeting, and also to monitor and assess the use of these The CEO has established a Risk and Investment Committee guidelines. Since the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the consisting of members of the Group Management Team, Remuneration Committee has consisted of Per E. Larsson tasked with making decisions, within defined financial lim(Chairman) and Fredrik Trägårdh. Per E. Larsson is considered its, on investment matters, primarily regarding portfolios of to be independent in relation to the Company, company receivables. Investment decisions above a certain amount management but not to major shareholders. Fredrik Trägårdh require Board approval. is considered to be independent in relation to the Company and its management as well as in relation to the principal Risk and Compliance shareholders. The Company has a Risk and Compliance function that The CEO and Human Resources Director normally paris headed by the CRO. The function is tasked with proacticipate in the Committee’s meetings. The latter is also the tively promoting risk awareness and continuously and secretary of the Committee. During 2018, the Committee independently monitoring and verifying compliance met four times (five meetings in the preceding year) with all among the Group’s financial and operational units. The Committee members present. Among other matters, efforts function reports on its work to the Board of Directors on focused on determining remuneration for the new company a quarterly basis. management and preparing a proposal for a new long-term incentive programme that was adopted by the 2018 Annual Internal Audit General Meeting. The Internal Audit constitutes the independent review function that reports directly to the Board via the Audit Investment Committee Committee. The role of the Internal Audit is to provide inIn 2018, the Board established an Investment Committee. dependent assurance to the Board of Directors and CEO of Corporate governance report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 107 the effectiveness of internal control, risk management and The second line of defence consists of the Risk and Complithe Group’s governing processes. The Internal Audit also ance functions. These serve to support to the operations in provides advice to Management and the Board of Directors the first line of defence and provide them with training and regarding how the control environment can be improved advice. The functions are also tasked with following-up and and how risks in internal control can be limited. The unit controlling the operations in the first line of defence. The reports quarterly to the Audit Committee and Group Risk and Compliance function comprises four main areas: Management. Investment Risk, Operational Risk, Compliance Risk and Personal Data Protection. In addition, a central anti-money Auditor laundering unit was set up within Compliance. At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the accounting firm The third line of defence comprises internal and external Ernst & Young AB was elected as the auditor of the Parent audits, which are tasked with following-up, in terms of risk, Company. Authorised Public Accountant Jesper Nilsson is the operations in the first and second lines of defence to the auditor in charge. The auditor was elected for the period ensure that the Company’s internal control works satisfacextending until the close of the 2019 Annual General Meettorily and that operations are conducted efficiently. The ing. The auditor is considered to be independent. Beyond Internal Audit reports to Intrum’s Board of Directors through the audit assignment, the Company has also consulted the Audit Committee. Ernst & Young AB on matters of taxation and reporting, following approval by the Audit Committee. The scope of Risk assessment the compensation paid to Ernst & Young AB is presented in The Group’s risks are assessed and managed in coordiNote 29 on page 89 As Intrum’s auditor, Ernst & Young AB nation between the Board, Group Management and local is obliged to test its independence prior to every decision operations. The Board of Directors and Group Management when providing independent advice to Intrum alongside its work to identify and manage risks at the Group level. In auditing assignment. addition, the management of each local unit is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks associated Internal control predominantly with the local operations. Compliance asThe Board is responsible for the Company having sound sists operations in risk assessment. internal control and ensuring that the Company has formalThe risk assessment of the financial reporting serves to ised procedures to ensure that established principles for identify what risks may impact reporting by the Group’s financial reporting and internal control are adhered to. companies, business areas and processes. The assessment The Board’s Audit Committee monitors adherence to set is based partly on evaluations performed by the Group’s guidelines for financial reporting and internal control and finance function as well as the dialogue with regional finance maintains ongoing contacts with the Company’s auditors. managers. These assessments form the basis for the continThe objective is to ensure that applicable laws and regulaued control and improvement of financial reporting. tions are adhered to, that the financial reporting complies with Intrum’s accounting principles in accordance with IFRS Control activities and that operations are conducted in an efficient and Controls are designed to manage the risks identified in the appropriate way. work described above. To a large extent, the risk level determines control activities aimed at ensuring that the Group Control environment applies a risk-based approach. In the financial reporting, the The basis for good internal control is the control environcontrols are based on the Group’s minimum requirements ment, which includes the values and Code of Conduct for internal controls in financial reporting and consist both on which the Board, Management and the Company’s of company-wide controls, controls at transaction level and shareholders base their actions, but also the Group’s organgeneral IT controls. isation, leadership, decision-making paths, authorities and For a number of years, the Group has applied a specific responsibilities, as well as the skills and knowledge of the decision-making process, “New Product Approval Process” employees. Intrum’s management model is based on a clear (NPAP), applied in connection with material changes, such delegation and follow-up of powers and authorities, which as acquisitions, launches of new products or services, major pervades all business areas, staff units and control funcreorganisations or the establishment of new Group-wide tions. The annual process of revising the Group’s targets systems or processes. This decision-making process is manand strategies constitutes a major effort, which includes all datory at both the local and central levels. Emergency and units and is systematically followed up. The strategy process continuity plans have also been set up in all operating units also includes risk analyses of the operations. within the Group. The intention is for such plans to be subCorporate governance comprises the Group’s system of ject to annual assessment. rules, procedures and processes by which the Company Control activities encompass operations in all subsidiaries Management controls the operations. The implementation and include, among other things, a) methods and activities of the Group-wide rules in the subsidiaries is reviewed to hedge assets, checks on the accuracy and reliability of annually to ensure compliance. The Group’s Code of Coninternal and external financial reports, and ensuring compliduct is contained within these rules and is communicated to ance with laws and established internal rules and guidelines. all employees by means of associated training programmes. As part of this process, the presidents and finance managThe Group’s internal regulations are revised annually. ers of the subsidiaries report quarterly that the financial Intrum operates according to the principle of three lines of reporting has been conducted in accordance with the defence, where the operations, along with the support funcinternal regulations or if there have been any deviations tions, form the first line of defence. These are responsible for from these. These reports are reviewed and followed up by risk management in their respective areas and report risks to the Group’s finance function. The Group finance function the second line of defence. also conducts a number of control activities in the Group’s 108 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate governance report subsidiaries to ensure good quality in the financial reporting. Auditor’s statement Operational subsidiaries, also draw up annual compliance regarding the Corporate Governance Report programmes that include both risk-based controls and supportive measures in the form of information and training in To the Annual General Meeting of Intrum AB (publ), new regulations. corporate identity number 556607-7581. The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate Information and communication Governance Report for 2018 presented on pages 104–109 The Company works continuously to improve the awareness and for it having been prepared in accordance with the among employees of the control instruments and reviews Annual Accounts Act. applicable in financial reporting, both external and internal. We have read the Corporate Governance Report and, Responsibilities and authorities are communicated within based on that reading and our knowledge of the Company the Group to enable reporting and feedback from operaand the Group, we believe that we have a sufficient basis tions to Group Management and the Board’s Audit Commitfor our opinions. This means that our statutory examination tee. The Group’s internal guidelines can be accessed via the of the Corporate Governance Report has a different focus Company’s intranet and employees receive training on an and is substantially less in scope compared to the focus and ongoing basis. There is also cooperation within and between scope of an audit in accordance with International Standthe different staff and finance functions, aimed at increasing ards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing practices coordination and opportunities to compare analyses, moniin Sweden. toring of accounting and business systems, and the developA Corporate Governance Report has been prepared, and ment of various key figures. we consider its statutory information to be consistent with the annual and consolidated accounts. Follow-up The Group is organised on a matrix model, whereby finanStockholm on 3rd April 2019 cial review primarily follows the four geographical regions and, secondarily the service lines Financial Services, InvestErnst & Young AB ment Services and Credit Management Services. Within the geographical regions, the respective regional and country managers bear considerable responsibility. Group Management exercises control through regular reviews of financial Jesper Nilsson and operational performance, local and regional meetings, Authorised Public Accountant and through participation in local company boards. Each month, the subsidiaries submit their monthly closing reports, which consist of income statements divided by service line, balance sheets and key performance indicators in the Group’s reporting system. The closing figures are consolidated as a monthly report to Group Management. Consolidated accounts are prepared each month for internal follow-up and analysis. The subsidiaries receive feedback from the Group on their reporting and in-depth follow-up meetings are held with each country organisation on a monthly basis. The follow-up of the internal control with regard to financial reporting is conducted primarily by the Group Finance function and is reported to the Board’s Audit Committee. At the assignment of the Board, the internal audit also reviews and assesses how the internal control is organised and its efficacy, as well as following up on outstanding material observations from previous audits. Stockholm on 28th March 2019 The Board of Directors of Intrum AB (publ) Corporate governance report Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 109 Members According to Intrum’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall consist of no less than five and no more than nine members with no more than four deputies. All Directors of the Board are independent in relation to the Company, its management and in relation to the principal shareholders. Three of the Directors are not independent in relation to the main owner Nordic Capital Fund VIII according to the assessment of the Nomination Committee. Magnus Yngen Deputy Chairman Born: 1958. Elected: 2013 Education: Master of Engineering and Licentiate in Technology from the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. Magnus Yngen has previously been CEO of Camfil, Dometic and Husqvarna, and has held several leading positions within Electrolux. Yngen is the Chairman of the Board of Duni, Välinge Group, Fractal Design, and a Board Member in Dometic. Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 7,500. Independent in relation to the company and its management, and the major shareholders. Kristoffer Melinder Born: 1971 Elected: 2017 Education: M.Sc. in Economics and Business Administration, Stockholm School of Economics. Kristoffer Melinder has previously worked Per E. Larsson with leveraged finance and M&A at JP Morgan. He has also been a Member of Chairman the Board at Binding Site, Ellos, Convatec, Resurs, Dynal Biotech, Kappahl, Nycomed Born: 1961 and Atos Medical in Nycomed. Current Elected: 2017 assignments include Chairman of the Education: Business Administration and Economics Board in GHD Gesundheits, AniCura, Uppsala University, Sweden. Greenfood, and Managing Partner at NC Advisory AB. Per E. Larsson has previously served as CEO of OMX, UBS in Middle East North Africa, Dubai International Financial Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 0. Exchange and Borse Dubai, as well as Chairman of the Independent in relation to the company Board of the Stockholm Stock Exchange, and several other and its management, but not in relation to board assignments. He is currently Chairman of the Board the company’s major shareholders. of Directors at Itiviti, and Senior Advisor and Operating Chairman to the Nordic Capital Funds. Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 33,500. Independent in relation to the company and its management, but not in relation to the company’s major shareholders. Hans Larsson Born: 1961 Elected: 2017 Education: M.Sc. in Business Administration and Economics, University of Uppsala. Hans Larsson has previously held various leading positions within the Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken Group. He has also served as a Board Member in Nordax Bank AB (publ) and Deputy CEO for the Lindorff Group. Current assignments include Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nordnet Förläng Bank AB and Board Member in the Swedish Export bakgrunden här Credit Corporation (SEK), and CEO and owner of Linderyd Advisory AB. Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 34 500. Independent in relation to the company and its management, and the major shareholders. 110 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Andreas Näsvik Born: 1975 Elected: 2017 Education: M.Sc. in Economics and Business Administration, Stockholm School of Economics. Andreas Näsvik has previously worked with corporate finance and private equity investments at Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs. He has also been a Board Member at Lindorff AB. Näsvik is currently a Board Member at Munters AB (publ), Ryds Bilglas AB, Partner at NC Advisory AB and advisor to the Nordic Capital Funds. Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 0. Independent in relation to the company and its management, but not in Synnöve Trygg relation to the company’s major shareholders. Born: 1959 Elected: 2013 Education: Bachelor in Business Administration from the Magdalena Persson University of Stockholm. Born: 1971 Ms. Trygg has previously served as CEO of SEB Kort Bank AB. Elected: 2018 She is currently Member of the Board of Precise Biometrics Education: M.Sc. in International Economics AB (publ), Landshypotek Bank AB, Volvo Finans Bank AB and and Licentiate in Industrial Economics, Vaitor Hf (Island). Linköping University. Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 3,500. Magdalena Persson has been the CEO Independent in relation to the company and its management, of Interflora and has had several roles at and the major shareholders. Microsoft, SamSari and WM Data. She is Chairman of the Board at Candidator DGC, Board Member of NCAB Group and industrial advisor to EQT Partners. She has previously been Chairman of the Board at Affecto Plc and Board Member at Aditro and Fortnox. Ragnhild Wiborg Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 0. Independent in relation to the company Born: 1961 and its management and to major shareElected: 2015 holders. Education: Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the Stockholm School of Economics and has studied a Master’s program at Fundacao Getulio Vargas, Sao Paolo. Ragnhild Wiborg is Chairman of the Board of EAM Solar AS and Board Member of Gränges AB, REC Silicon ASA, Fredrik Trägårdh Skandiabanken ASA, INSR Insurance ASA and I.M. Skaugen SE. She was previously active in asset management as Born: 1956 CIO and Portfolio Manager at Odin Fonder and Wiborg Elected: 2009 Kapitalförvaltning. Prior to that, she worked for investment Education: M.Sc. in Business Administrabanks in the Nordics and London. tion and International Economics from Gothenburg School of Economics. Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 300. Independent in relation to the company and its manageFredrik Trägårdh is Vice CEO of Ekman & ment, and the major shareholders. Co AB and former CEO and CFO of Net Insight AB. He has also been CFO at DaimlerChrysler Rail Systems GmbH Berlin and has held several leading positions within ABB Financial Services in Sweden and Switzerland. Holding in Intrum AB (publ): 1,000. Independent in relation to the company and its management, and the major shareholders. AUDITORS Jesper Nilsson Ernst & Young AB Born 1964. Chief auditor since 2017. Jesper Nilsson is an Authorised Public Accountant at Ernst & Young AB. Other auditing assignments includes Handelsbanken, Alecta, Fora and FOREX Bank. Members of the Board Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 111 Group Management Danko Maras Chief Financial Officer Born: 1963 Danko Maras joined as Chief Financial Officer for Intrum in July 2018. He is an experienced financial professional with senior international positions in the fast moving consumer goods industry such as Unilever, Leaf and most recently Cloetta where, in addition to being Group CFO, he also held positions such as CEO and President interim and Area President Italy. He holds a GMP from Harvard Business School (HBS) and a B.Sc. in Business Administration and Economics, Uppsala University. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 100,002. Johan Brodin Chief Risk Officer Born 1968. Mikael Ericson Johan Brodin joined as Chief Risk Officer (CRO) in 2011. Previous to that he was CRO CEO & President at SBAB Bank. Johan Brodin has previously held different positions within risk control Born 1960. at Handelsbanken, as well as Management consultant within financial services at Mikael Ericson assumed the role as CEO and President KPMG and Oliver Wyman. Johan Brodin 1 March 2016. Previously Mikael Ericson has held various holds a M.Sc. in economics from Örebro leading positions within the banking and finance sector. University. His most recent role prior to joining Intrum was as Head of International Banking at Danske Bank. He has also held the Own holdings and/or holdings of closely position as CEO of Carnegie AB and during more than a affiliated persons: 250. decade he had a number of senior roles at Svenska Handelsbanken. Ericson holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from Stockholm University. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 64,500. Per Christofferson Regional Managing Director, Central & Eastern Europe Born 1968. Per Christofferson joined Intrum in 2009 and has since 2012 held the position as Regional Managing Director. Previous to that he was Director of Credit Management Services at Intrum between 2009–2012. Before joining Intrum he worked in the consultancy industry including KPMG and Acando, where he held the position as Vice President and Business Area Director. Per Christofferson has a M.Sc. from CWRU (Case Western Reserve University) Cleveland, Ohio, and a M.Sc. in Engineering from the Institute of Technology in Linköping, Sweden. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 15,000. 112 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Anna Fall Chief Brand & Communications Officer Born 1969. Anna Fall joined as Chief Brand & Communications Officer of Intrum in October 2018. Anna Fall has a long background from the financial industry, where she most recently held the position as Head of Communications at Första AP-fonden (The First Swedish National Pension Fund). 2004–2016 she was Nordic Head of Marketing & Communications at The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and prior to that, she had different roles at the property Anders Engdahl leasing company Nordisk Renting and within the real estate and construcChief Investment Officer tion company NCC. Anna Fall has a B.Sc. from Uppsala University in Political Science, Business Administration and Communications. Born 1974. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 750. Anders Engdahl assumed his position at Intrum in 2017. Between 2014–2017, he worked at Lindorff as EVP Debt Purchasing. Before that he held several senior positions at Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and McKinsey. At Morgan Stanley, Anders Engdahl was Managing Director and Head of Nordic Financial Institutions investment banking. Anders Engdahl has a M.Sc. in BusiJean-Luc Ferraton ness administration and Economics from the Stockholm School of Economics. Chief Human Resources Officer Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 198,000. Born 1973. Jean-Luc Ferraton holds his current position as Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) since 2012. Jean-Luc Ferraton has held several positions at Intrum between 2006–2012; he was Group HR Director 2011–2012, HR Director region Western Europe 2010–2012 and HR Director region Southern Europe 2006–2012. Prior to joining Intrum, he was HR Director JTEKT of Toyota Group 2001–2006. Jean-Luc Ferraton holds a M.Sc. in Economics from ESDES Lyon and an Executive MBA from INSEAD. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 220. Cathrine Klouman Chief Operating Officer Born 1962. Cathrine Klouman assumed her role as Chief Operating Officer at Intrum in 2017. Previous to that she held the position as EVP Lindorff Business Partner and Group CIO since January 2016. Previous to her position at Lindorff she was Chief Information and Digital Officer at The Moller Group and held different senior positions within IBM, Bank-Axept and DNB. Cathrine Klouman holds an M.Sc. in Business Administration from the Norwegian Business School (BI) and extended courses from MIT Sloan School of Management. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 36,839. Group Management Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 113 Niklas Lundquist Chief Legal Officer Born 1970. Niklas Lundquist joined Intrum as General Counsel in 2011. Previous to that, he held the same role at Tradedoubler AB (publ). He has also experience from two prominent law firms and has served at the Swedish courts. Niklas Lundquist holds a law degree from Stockholm University. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 2,000. Marc Knothe Regional Managing Director, Western & Southern Europe and Managing Director Italy Harry Vranjes Born 1968. Head of Credit Management Services Marc Knothe was appointed as Managing Director Italy during 2018 in addition to his role Born 1970. as Regional Managing Director. Before joining Intrum 2017, Marc Knothe held the position Harry Vranjes joined Intrum in 2002. Between 2015– as Country Manager at Lindorff Netherlands. 2017 Vranjes held the position as Regional Managing Between 2011–2016, he was Executive Board Director Western Europe. He was Chief Technology Member at GFKL (an Advent Intl company) and Officer (CTO) at Intrum 2008–2015 and previous to previous to that he was CIO at Bawag PSK that Project Manager and Business Developer (a Cerberus Company) in Austria, COO at 2002–2008. Harry Vranjes has previously held the GE Money Bank in Russia and Germany and he position as IT-management consultant at WM-Data has also held senior positions at Citigroup in (1998-2001). Vranjes holds a Bachelor in Computer Italy and Germany. Marc has studied Business Science from Lund University. Management at the University of Applied Sciences in Ludwigshafen, Germany. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 7,500. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 20,067. Anette Willumsen Regional Managing Director, Northern Europe Born 1963. Anette Willumsen assumed the position as Regional Managing Director in 2017. During 2009–2017 she held several positions at Lindorff, as Country Manager in Norway from 2012–2017, acting Country Manager Alejandro Zurbano in Denmark 2016–2017 and Head of the Corporate Client Division at Lindorff in Regional Managing Director, Iberian Norway 2009–2012. Prior to joining Peninsula and Latin America Lindorff she was SVP in EDB Business Partner (EVRY). She has an EMP from Born 1967. INSEAD and holds a M.Sc. degree in Finance and Business Administration Alejandro Zurbano assumed the role as Regional Managing from the Norwegian School of Economics Director in 2017. Between 2015–2017, he held the position as (NHH). Country Manager, Lindorff Spain. Before that he was the Chief Executive Officer of Emergia and has acted as Country Manager Own holdings and/or holdings of closely for SITEL Spain, Chile, Colombia and Portugal. Alejandro has affiliated persons: 56,891. a law degree from Universidad Complutense de Madrid and a PDG at IESE University. Own holdings and/or holdings of closely affiliated persons: 16,780. 114 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Group Management Sustainability information About the Sustainability Report Accounting principles ties, which pervades all business areas, staff units This Annual and Sustainability Report includes and control functions. More information on our financial data and sustainability information. governance model and control of compliance The Sustainability Report has been prepared in with our internal regulations can be found in the accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Corporate Governance Report on page 104–109. Act (ÅRL) and is designed in accordance with the GRI Standards Core option. The report also Framework for sustainability work constitutes Intrum's Communication of Progress To contribute to a global acceptance of respon(COP) at the Active level for the UN Global sibility with regard to sustainability, Intrum has, Compact and contains information on how Intrum since 2016, been a signatory of the UN's Global contributes to the UN's global development Compact business initiative and its ten principles goals and Agenda 2030. The Sustainability on human rights, working conditions, the environReport covers the period from 1 January 2018 to ment and anti-corruption. These are implement31 December 2018. The preceding Sustainability ed through our internal instructions and our Code Report was published on 4 April 2018. of Conduct, which also governs our work in the The report includes disclosures regarding our area of sustainability. We also support Agenda view on sustainability, value creation and risks 2030 and the UN's global development goals. associated with issues related to the environment, social conditions, personnel, respect for The scope and limitations of the report human rights and anti-corruption. The auditor’s The report encompasses Intrum AB (publ) and report on the statutory sustainability report is our operations in 25 markets. found on page 124. Operations beyond Intrum's direct control, suppliers, customers, clients or partners are not Governance of Intrum's sustainability work included in the account. The strategic focus of Intrum's sustainability work is approved by the Board of Directors. Ongoing Dialogue with our stakeholders and key issues work on strategies, targets and review in the area We maintain daily discussions with our stakeof sustainability is led by the Chief Brand and holders in various contexts. Through continuous Communications Officer, who is a member of discussions, we can be sensitive to our stakeholders' the Group Management team. Operationally, expectations and develop our business in line with sustainability work is conducted by a number of stakeholders' expectations. different functions, thus forming an integrated Our principal stakeholders are those who are part of our operations. influenced by our operations to a substantial Our purpose, values, mission and vision lay the extent and who play a significant role in our operfoundation for our sustainability work alongside ations. We communicate with them in a variety of our Code of Conduct and related internal instrucways, including through individual conversations, tions. The Code of Conduct covers all of our embroader discussions, surveys and questionnaires. ployees and all of those who represent us, whether The results of these conversations and dialogues consultants or suppliers. Other governance dochave formed the basis of our materiality analysis uments of significance for our sustainability work and played a significant role in setting our susinclude our environmental instructions, our HR tainability agenda. We view stakeholder dialogues instructions and instructions on anti money launas a rewarding element in our operations, as they dering and financing of terrorism. facilitate development in the desired direction. Intrum’s management model is based on a clear We will be developing and strengthening the diadelegation and follow-up of powers and authorilogues with additional groups in 2019. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 115 Our customers responding to referrals on legislation regarding We meet our customers on a daily basis and talk payment times and in connection with the Eurowith them on the phone, in person at meetings pean Commission's proposal for a new directive and through our website. We have conducted on non-performing loans. In addition, each year, detailed customer surveys in a number of markets we conduct a European Consumer Payment and, in the UK for example, we have arranged Report in which we ask 24,000 consumers about round table discussions for our customers, at their payment habits and household finances. which they have had opportunities to address For this broad stakeholder group, priority issues issues relevant to debt and the services we offer. involve shortening payment times and counterOver the year, we also met with organisations acting unreasonable interest rates on loans and representing people in debt and conducting credit, as well as disseminating knowledge on perdiscussions with them. sonal finances and preventing over-indebtedness. Our customers demand and appreciate a perThe importance of conducting sustainable and sonal approach, which requires us to treat them ethical business is also emphasised. with empathy and to adapt solutions to their the individual circumstances. We are also expected Shareholders to provide flexible and easily accessible and We meet our investors and shareholders and user-friendly tools. actively engage in dialogue with them in oneon-one meetings, conferences, seminars, quarOur clients terly presentations and at the Annual General Our clients are companies, large and small alike, Meeting. To increase our understanding of the who we help secure payment. We are in contact expectations of our shareholders, in 2018 we with our clients on a daily basis through faceconducted a survey among a selection of our to-face meetings, by e-mail and over the phone shareholders in which key areas of sustainability to provide the best possible service, which we were ranked. Some of the areas that our sharefollow up with the help of our annual customer holders consider particularly important are finansatisfaction survey. We are also in close dialogue cial results, corporate ethics, consumer protection, with organisations representing companies and transparency, anti-corruption and issues of diversibusiness – small business owners in particular. ty. Increasingly, investors also highlight the imporEach year, Intrum also carries out its European tance of work on risks related to sustainability. Payment Report survey, in which we talk to about 10,000 entrepreneurs around Europe about the Employees principal challenges they face with regard to payChannels we use to converse with our employees ment times. include our recurring development interviews, Key issues for companies and organisations employee survey, information meetings, and our involve shortening payment times and ensuring internal communication platform Workplace. In that companies are paid for the goods or services addition, we maintain an ongoing dialogue with they have sold. Our clients seek a credible partthe trade union organisations representing our ner offering user-friendly, customised solutions employees. Through the recurring and varied and service. dialogues we conduct with our employees, we obtain an understanding of their needs and exSociety pectations of us as an employer. Our employees Intrum conducts discussions with decision underscore topics including workplace environmakers, public authorities and politicians nationment and health, internal development opporally and within the EU to promote sound payment tunities and the company's earnings as being times. Over the year, we played an active role, particularly important. Materiality analysis • Environmental risks • Human rights • Profitability and growth • Relations with decision • Labour and rights • Offering of services and solutions makers and organisations • Benefits and salaries • Ethical collection • Direct and indirect green• Workplace environment and health • Business ethics house gas emissions (CO2e) • Favourable payment terms/late • Transparency payments •D iversity inclusion and develop• Consumer protection ment opportunities • Regulatory compliance • Over-indebtedness Materiality 116 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability information Materiality analysis and climate footprint in the form of direct and Intrum conducted its first materiality analysis in indirect greenhouse gas emissions, human rights, 2018 and this will be updated continuously as workplace environment and health, and how we we refine our sustainability work, and extend and work to prevent over-indebtedness. deepen our stakeholder dialogues. The materiality analysis builds on questions emerging from Sustainability areas our stakeholder surveys and discussions. Based The stakeholder dialogues and materiality analyon this, we conducted an internal exercise at the sis have paved the way for our efforts to identify Group level over the year, focusing on Intrum's key aspects in our sustainability efforts. Based on opportunities to influence these areas. this, our sustainability work builds on three areas This process identified 17 areas of significance, of strategic focus: enabling sustainable payments, six of which were considered to be of the utmost being trusted and respected, growing by making a importance: profitability and growth, service difference. offering and solutions, ethical collection, corpoWe work with a number of internal and external rate ethics, transparency and diversity inclusion activities to achieve the objectives associated with and development opportunities. Other issues on each area, and we renew the objectives annually. which we focus and report are our environmental Sustainability data Enabling sustainable payments Over-indebtedness involves those who find they experience recurring problems with not being able to pay for the goods and services they have purchased. In certain countries and among certain groups of people, knowledge about private finances and the consequences of paying on credit is low, and many people would like to learn more about these issues at young age. For this reason, we conduct a number of different educational initiatives in our various markets. Norway • Intrum supports Norway's official pensioners' association and its helpline on financial matters, and we, among other things, provided knowledge and training for those answering the helpline. • A full day of training has been provided on two occasions within the Street Lawyer youth programme, within the Young Economy project. Belgium • Intrum supports Socrem vzw , a special-interest organisation that works, among other things, to increase awareness on private finances among the younger population. Sweden • Spendido is an interactive digital tool for upper-secondary school students and their teachers in Sweden, through which they can learn about issues related to credit and indebtedness. France • Partnership with CRESUS, a French association providing support and advice on over-indebtedness. Hungary • In 2017 we launched the annual competition Zsebpénzügyes (Pocket-money) for upper-secondary school students, in which they can test their knowledge on financial education and personal finance. Netherlands • In 2018, we gave seven guest lectures at the regional education centre (ROC), informing students aged 16–22 about personal finance and payment habits. Finland • Over a period of three days, we provided debt counselling at the Tampere market. • We provides training materials in financial education. Portugal • Educational initiative at a university. UK • Education initiative for young adults on private finances and credit. Germany • Financial support for the charity organisation Caritas. Sustainability information Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 117 Trusted and respected Environmental and climate impact ronmental footprints of our operations within Climate change is one of the greatest challenges scopes 1, 2 and 3 of the Greenhouse Gas Protoof our time. Business and industry can play an col. During 2019, we will strengthen our efforts important role in reducing the environmental to establish a process ensuring that all country and climate impact, and we consider it our reorganisations are included in the next set of ensponsibility to minimise our impact where we vironmental data in the sustainability disclosures. have the opportunity. The year 2018 acts as our In 2019, we will set goals for the extent to which start year for measuring the climate and enviwe are to reduce our impact, and these will be presented in the next annual report. Our climate footprint (CO2e* emission) 155 tons (2%) Total tCO2e emission: 8,454 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2,886 tons (34%) * GWP 100 (IPCC 2014) 5,413 tons (64%) Data for calculating our greenhouse gas emisScope 1 data represent six out of the ten counsions within scopes 1, 2 and 3 have been gathtries in which we own cars. ered in 23 of the 25 countries in which we operate. The data have been gathered through Scope 2 emissions from electricity consumption own measuring systems, invoices and estimates are reported for 21 countries. Emissions from based on data from previous years and months. district heating are accounted for by 10 of the 14 The emission factors used to calculate carbon countries that have district heating. Emissions dioxide equivalents have been obtained from from refrigeration plants are reported from one fuel suppliers, the Swedish Environmental Proof three countries. Emissions from natural gas tection Agency, the Association of Issuing Bodies heating are reported by all three countries that (AIB), the Department of Environment, Food and have this kind of heating. Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol. Scope 3 emissions from leased cars are accountThe data presented for 2018 do not represent ed for by 13 of 17 countries. Emissions from busiall 23 countries for all three scope since the data ness travel are reported for 19 of the 22 countries gathering processes have different degrees of where business travel has taken place in 2018, by maturity. During 2019, we will establish a process train, air, taxi and/or bus. ensuring that all of the countries are included in the next set of environmental data in the sustainability disclosures. 118 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability information Growing by making a difference Employee statistics Number of employees by age category: Average number of employees 7,910 Personnel turnover 28% Number of new hires 2,204 50 years or Younger older: 1,356 than 30 Number covered by approximately 50% years: 1,736 collective agreements 40–49 years: 2,035 30–39 years: 2,982 In our 25 markets, we speak a total of 36 different languages in addition to English. Shown in brackets are the number of markets in which a language is spoken and where support and help can be provided in that language (2018) French (12) Polish (4) Serbo Croatian (3) Estonian (1) Armenian (1) German (11) Arabic (4) Persian (3) Latvian (1) Catalan (1) Spanish (11) Turkish (4) Hindi-Urdu (3) Greek (1) Norwegian (1) Italian (8) Albanian (3) Romanian (2) Icelandic (1) Telugu (1) Russian (7) Slovakian (3) Czech (2) Macedonian (1) Dutch (6) Lithuanian (3) Bulgarian (2) Lingala (1) Swedish (5) Danish (3) Tamil (2) Azerbaijani (1) Portuguese (4) Hungarian (3) Finnish (2) Punjabi (1) Suppliers, partners and purchasing Organisations and partnerships Intrum has a number of different suppliers of of which we are members both services and materials for our offices. FolAs a global company, Intrum is a member of lowing the merger of Intrum Justitia and Lindorff, several organisations and we also support a we have been working to derive economies of number of Non-governmental organisations in scale from shared purchasing and streamlining several markets. our IT infrastructure. In 2017, Intrum signed a Globally, we are members of FENCA, the global agreement with IT provider Fujitsu for IT Federation of European National Collection infrastructure services in all markets, including Associations, working at the European level to outsourced IT services, data centre management, coordinate the credit management and colleccloud and hybrid IT. tion industry. For us, human rights and favourable working In Belgium, Intrum is also a member of conditions are just as important with regard to SOCREM, an organisation for the credit manageour own employees as for everyone working for ment industry and representatives of people in us throughout our value chain. All who represent debt aimed at creating a socially and financially us, including our suppliers and partners, are sustainable industry, with an understanding of obliged to sign our Code of Conduct. the particular circumstances of the customers. Intrum has established partnerships with repIntrum co-founded the organisation in June 2018. resentatives in some 160 additional countries to To name a few others, in Sweden, Intrum is a assist clients with operations both within Europe member of Föreningen för Effektiva Affärstransakand beyond. All of our partners have signed our tioner (the Association for Effective Business Code of Conduct. Transactions), the trade association Svensk Inkasso Sustainability information Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 119 and the Gilla din ekonomi (Like Your Finances) Goals GC principles Status network. In Ireland, we are members of the Irish trade association for the Receivable Management Expand the geographical scope of our 1, 2 educational initiatives. services industry. We also support a number of voluntary organInitiate a forum for dialogue with our external 1, 2 isations and provide philanthropic contributions. stakeholders. In several countries, Intrum's employees have themselves determines what organisation we Include the views and perspectives of our 1, 2 should support. Support is provided either stakeholders in our sustainability work. financially or in the form of collaboration and exchange of knowledge. Become involved in charity activities 1, 2 supporting the fulfilment of the UN's • Spain: Fundación Adecco and Fundación sustainability goals. Prodis for a more inclusive labour market. • Norway: The Red Cross and the national Provide our employees with training to 1, 2 increase their awareness of human rights. pension association to disseminate knowledge on sound finances. Start gathering data on work-related injuries 3–6 • Switzerland: Kinderhospitz (Swiss Children’s among our employees. Hospice Foundation) • Romania: Let’s do it Romania (environmental Start measuring the composition with 3–6 organisation), Free Miorita (renewable energy regard to gender and age of managers in our project for those without access to electricity) operations. • Sweden: Hand in Hand (fighting poverty and promoting entrepreneurship) Increase our employees' satisfaction with 3–6 * • France: Partnership with CRESUS, a French Intrum as an employer. association providing support and advice on over-indebtedness Initiate a dialogue with our employees and 3–6 integrate their views and perspectives into • Hungary: Heliopolis Minden Gyermek Érték our sustainability work. Alapítvány (works to help foster children and young adults with their studies and continued Update and develop our environmental 7–9 education). instructions to reduce our climate footprint. • Netherlands: Amargi (providing knowledge on sound finances) Increase our data collection to improve 7–9 opportunities for measuring progress with Significant changes since regard to our climate footprint. the preceding reporting period A sustainability report was prepared in accordInitiate recycling initiatives at all our offices. 7–9 ance with the supplement in the Annual Accounts Act for the first time in 2017. The Sustainability Strengthen our antitrust protection by 10 formulating a new policy. Report was then prepared as an appendix to the Annual Report and thus constituted a separate report according to the Annual Accounts Act and the UN Global Compact's Communication of Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Progress. Intrum's first full calendar year following the merger of Intrum Justitia and Lindorff was 2018. * Engagement Index 2017: 76/100 Engagement Index 2018: 74/100 In connection with this, the Sustainability Report has been included into the Annual Report and follows the guidelines in the core level of the Global Reporting Initiative's standards. This framework brings a new method for preparing the accounts. The targets for sustainability efforts in 2019 have been established in accordance with the new approach and also constitute a start year in this regard. 120 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability information GRI Index GRI Standard Description Page reference Comment 101 This report has been prepared in accordance with Page references are GRI standard Core. to Intrum's Annual and Sustainability Report 2018. General disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 125 Intrum AB (publ) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8–10 102-3 Location of headquarters 46 Stockholm, Sweden 102-4 Location of operations 22–23, 47–48 102-5 Ownership and legal form 46 Limited company 102-6 Markets served 22–23, 47–48 102-7 Scale of the organisation 40, 48, 52, 55, 58, 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 40, 42, 52, 119 Due to technical reasons we have insufficient information regarding the type of employment and employment contracts based on gender and per region. 102-9 Supply chain 119 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and 46 During 2018 we implemented our first, minor its supply chain acquisition in Brazil, and a joint venture with Banca Intesa Sanpaolo. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 38 102-12 External initiatives 117, 119–120 Intrum is a signatory of the Global Compact since 2016. 102-13 Membership of associations 119–120 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 16, 32–33 behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure 104–107, 115 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 116 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 119 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 116 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 30, 115–116 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 116–117 Sustainability information Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 121 GRI Standard Description Page reference Comment About the report 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 115 The report covers all our subsidiaries. financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 30, 115–116 102-47 List of material topics 30, 116 102-48 Restatements of information 120 2018 is Intrum’s starting year for measuring environmentaland climate data according to scope 1, 2 and 3. 102-49 Changes in reporting 120 This is Intrum’s first report according to GRI. 102-50 Reporting period 115 1 January – 31 December 2018. 102-51 Date of most recent report This is Intrum’s first sustainability report in accordance with GRI. The latest sustainability report was published the 4th of April 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 125 anna.fall@intrum.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 115 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 121–123 102-56 External assurance 124 Topic-specific disclosures 201: Financial results 103-1–103-3 Management approach 12–13, 19–20, 115 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 55 205: Anti-corruption 103-1–103-3 Management approach 31, 37 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 37 actions taken 305: Emissions 103-1–103-3 Management approach 38 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 38, 118 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 38, 118 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 38, 118 122 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability information GRI Standard Description Page reference Comment Social 401: Employees 103-1–103-3 Management approach 40–43 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 119 405: Diversity and equality 103-1–103-3 Management approach 40, 43, 52 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 42, 110–111, 112–114 Company-specific issues Ethical collection 103-1–103-3 Management approach 26, 32–33 Corporate ethics 103-1–103-3 Management approach 33, 36 Offering of services and solutions 103-1–103-3 Management approach 19–20, 26, 36 Sustainability information Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 123 The auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report. This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To the Annual General Meeting of Intrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556607-7581. Engagement and responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for that the statutory sustainability report for 2018 on pages 28–43 and 115–120 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination of the statutory sustainability report has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm 3rd of April 2019 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant 124 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Intrum AB (publ) will be held preliminarily on Friday April 26, 2019 at 3:00 p.m. CET at the Company’s offices at Hesselmans torg 14, Nacka, Sweden. Notification is made through an advertisement placed in Swedish national daily newspaper Svenska Dagbladet and in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar (official Swedish gazette). The notice and other information in preparation for the Annual General Meeting are also available at www.intrum.com. Dividend For the 2018 fiscal year, the Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of SEK 9.50 (9.50) per share be paid. Financial information 2019 Annual General Meeting 2019, April 26 Interim Report January–March, April 26 Interim Report January–June, July 18 Interim Report January–September, October 23 Additional information from Intrum Financial reports are published in Swedish and English and can be ordered from Intrum AB (publ), Communications Department, SE-105 24 Stockholm. The reports and other information from the Company are published on the Group’s website www.intrum.com. Communications with shareholders, analysts and the media are a priority area. Intrum’s earnings and operations are presented to analysts and investors in Stockholm after each interim report. In addition to these contacts, representatives of the Company meet existing and potential shareholders on other occasions, for example at one-on-one meetings and at share savings gatherings. Please visit our website, www.intrum.com, which, in addition to a broad presentation of the Group, offers an in-depth investor relations section with analysis tools and more. Shareholder contact Louise Bergström Ph. +46 8-546 10 342 E-mail: ir@intrum.com This Annual Report can be ordered in printed format via ir@intrum.com or downloaded as a pdf via www.intrum.com. Contact for the content of the report Anna Fall Ph. +46 709 98 96 21 E-mail: anna.fall@intrum.com Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 125 Definitions Result concepts, key figures and alternative indicators Consolidated net revenues: integration costs, extraordinary projects, Price/earnings ratio: Consolidated net revenues include external divestments, impairment of non-current Share price at year-end divided by earnings per credit management income (variable collection fixed assets other than portfolio investments, share before any dilution. commissions, fixed collection fees, customers acquisition and divestment expenses, advisory fees, guarantee commissions, subscription costs for discontinued acquisition projects, Price/sales ratio: income, etc.), income from portfolio investments costs for relocation to new office space, Share price at year-end divided by net sales operations (collected amounts less amortization termination and recruitment costs for members per share. and revaluations for the period) and other income of Group Management and country managers, from financial services (fees and net interest from as well as external expenses for disputes and Pro forma financial data financing services). unusual agreements. Non-recurring items are including Lindorff: specified because they are difficult to predict Pro forma financial information is issued for the Average number of employees: and have low forecast values ​​for the Group’s Group as if Lindorff had been included in the Average number of employees over the year as future earnings trend. Group for the entire period, as well as in the full-time equivalents. comparative figures. Pro forma earnings have Operating cash flow per share: been calculated by adding Intrum Justitia’s and Beta: Cash flow from operating activities divided by Lindorff’s actual results for each period without Measure of share price changes/fluctuations relthe average number of shares over the year. making adjustments for the periods in which ative to the market as a whole, in the form of the transaction costs would have been incurred if OMX Stockholm index. Changes that precisely Operating earnings (EBIT): the acquisition had taken place at another time. follow the index produce a beta of 1.0. A beta Operating earnings consist of net revenues less Fair value adjustments made in the acquisition value below 1.0 means that the changes in the operating expenses as shown in the income analysis on Intrum Justitia’s acquisition of share has been smaller than those in the index. statement. Lindorff are not recognized in earnings for any period, although they can be recognized as Currency-adjusted change: Operating margin: expenses in the acquired legal entity. With regard to trends in revenues and operating The operating margin consists of operating earnearnings, excluding revaluations for each region, ings expressed as a percentage of net revenues. Revenues, operating earnings and operating the percentage change is stated in comparison margin, excluding revaluations: with the corresponding year-earlier period, Organic growth: The revaluation of portfolio investments in both in terms of the change in the respective Organic growth refers to the average increase the period is included in consolidated net figures in SEK and in the form of a currency-adin net revenues in local currency, adjusted for revenues and operating earnings. Revaluations justed change, in which the effect of changes revaluations of purchased debt portfolios and are performed in connection with changes in in exchange rates has been excluded. The the effects of acquisitions and divestments of estimates of future collections, and are therefore currency-adjusted change is a measure of the Group companies. Organic growth is a measure inherently difficult to predict. They have a low development of the Group’s operations that of the development of the Group’s existing predictive value for the Group’s future earnings management has the ability to influence. operations that management has the ability to performance. Consequently, Intrum also reports influence. alternative key figures in which revenues, Dividend payout: operating earnings and operating margin are Dividends as a share of earnings for the year Portfolio investments: calculated excluding revaluations of portfolio attributable to Parent Company shareholders. Investments in portfolios of overdue receivables investments. for the period, with and without collateral, and Earnings per share: investments in properties held for sale, acquired Service line earnings: Earnings for the year attributable to Parent together with portfolios of receivables. Service line earnings relate to the operating Company shareholders, divided by the average earnings of each service line, Credit Managenumber of shares over the year. Portfolio investments – collected amounts, ment and Financial Services, excluding shared amortizations and revaluations: expenses for sales, marketing and administraExpected remaining collections, ERC: Portfolio investments consist of portfolios tion. Estimated remaining collections are the nominal of delinquent consumer debts purchased at value of expected future collections on the prices below the nominal receivable. These Service line margin: Group’s portfolio investments. are recognized at amortized cost applying the The service line margin consists of service line effective interest method, based on a collection earnings expressed as a percentage of net Items affecting comparability: forecast established at the acquisition date revenues. Significant income statement items included in of each portfolio. Net revenues attributable the Group’s regular recurring operations and to portfolio investments consist of collected which may recur in any form, but which distort amounts less amortization for the period and See also Note 38 on page 96. the comparison between the periods. revaluations. The amortization represents the period’s reduction in the portfolio’s current Non-recurring items (NRIs): value, which is attributable to collection taking Significant earnings items that are not included place as planned. Revaluation is the period’s in the Group’s normal recurring operations and increase or decrease in the current value of the that are not expected to return on a regular portfolios attributable to the period’s changes in basis. Non-recurring items include restructuring forecasts of future collection. costs, closure costs, reversal of restructuring or closure reservations, cost savings programs, 126 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Intrum AB (publ) Finland Latvia Romania Hesselmans Torg 14 Intrum Intrum Intrum Nacka PL 47 Latvijas filiale Str. Dinu Vintilă nr. 11, 021101 105 24 Stockholm FI-00811 Helsinki Duntes iela 11 Bucuresti Sector 2 Sweden Finland LV-1013 Riga Romania Ph +46 8 546 10 200 Ph +358 9 229 111 Latvia Ph + 40 21 301 29 25 Fax +46 8 546 10 211 Fax +358 9 2291 1911 www.lindorff.lv Fax +40 21 301 29 29 www.intrum.com www.intrum.fi www.intrum.ro info@intrum.com Lithuania France Intrum Slovakia Austria Intrum filialas Intrum Intrum 97 Allée Alexandre Borodine Konstitucijos pr. 29 Blumental Offices I. Donau-City-Strasse 6, CS-80008 LT-08105 Vilnius Mýtna 48 AT-1220 Vienna FR-69795 Saint Priest Cedex Lietuva 811 07 Bratislava Austria France www.lindorff.lt Slovakia Ph +43 1 260 88 80 0 Ph +33 4 7280 1414 Ph +421 2 321 63 185 Fax +43 260 88 99 0 Fax +33 4 7280 1415 Netherlands Fax +421 2 3216 3280 www.intrum.at www.intrum.fr Intrum www.intrum.sk PO Box 36161 Belgium Germany 1020 MD Amsterdam Spain Intrum Intrum Netherlands Intrum Martelaarslaan 53 Donnersbergstraße 1 Ph +31 (0)88 118 99 39 Lindorff España SAU B-9000 Gent D-64646 Heppenheim www.intrum.nl Calle Vía de los Poblados, 3. Belgium Germany Edificio 1. Ph +32 9 218 90 94 Ph: +49 6252 672 0 Norway 28033. Madrid. Fax +32 9 218 90 51 www.intrum.de Lindorff Spain www.intrum.be Hoffsveien 70B Ph +34 91 423 4600 Greece 0377 Oslo www.intrum.es Czech Republic Intrum Norway Intrum 268 Kifisias Avenue Ph +47 23 21 10 00 Sweden Ža Pasáži 1609 152 32, Halandri, Fax +47 23 21 11 00 Intrum 53002 Pardubice Greece www.lindorff.no 105 24 Stockholm Czech Republic Sweden Ph +420 277 003 734 Hungary Poland Ph +46 8 616 77 00 Fax +420 283 880 902 Intrum Intrum Fax +46 8 640 94 02 www.intrum.cz Váci út 144–150 Ul. Domaniewska 41 www.intrum.se HU-1138 Budapest PL-02-672 Warszaw Denmark Hungary Poland Switzerland Intrum Ph +36 1 459 9400 Ph +48 22 576 66 66 Intrum Kirsten Walthers Vej 7 Fax +36 1 459 9574 Fax +48 22 576 66 68 Eschenstrasse 12 2500 Valby www.intrum.hu www.intrum.pl CH-8603 Schwerzenbach Denmark Switzerland Ph +45 33 69 70 00 Ireland Portugal Ph +41 44 806 56 56 www.intrum.dk Intrum Intrum Fax +41 44 806 56 60 1st Floor, Block C Alameda dos Oceanos 59 www.intrum.ch Estonia Ashtown Gate Edifício Espace Intrum IEDublin 15 Piso 1, Bloco 2, A/B United Kingdom Rotermanni 8 Ireland Parque das Nações Intrum EE-Tallinn 10111 Ph +353 1 869 22 22 1990-207 Lisboa The Omnibus Building Estonia Fax +353 1 869 22 44 Portugal Lesbourne Road Ph +372 6060 990 www.intrum.ie Ph +351 21 317 22 00 Reigate, Surrey, RH2 7 JP Fax +372 6060 991 Fax +351 21 317 22 09 United Kingdom www.intrum.ee Italy www.intrum.pt Ph + 44 17 372 373 70 Intrum www.intrum.co.uk Via Galileo Galilei 7 Milano – 20124 Italy Ph +39 02 288 701 Fax +39 02 288 70 411 www.intrum.it Intrum’s Annual and Sustainability Report for 2018 has been produced in collaboration with Passion:Reutersten AB. Design: J Friman. Portrait photo: Erik Thor. Illustration: Bo Lundberg Intrum AB (publ) (corporate identity number 556607-7581).
