Teva 2018 Social Impact Report 2 Table of Contents 3 A Message from Our President & CEO, Kåre Schultz 4 About Teva and Our Approach 5 About Us 6 Our Portfolio 7 Social Impact at Teva 8 Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals 9 2018 Social Impact Highlights 12 Contributing to Healthy Communities 13 Access and Affordability 18 Science and Innovation 21 Patient Engagement 24 Global Health Priorities 28 Leading a Responsible Business 29 Compliance, Ethics and Transparency 31 Environmental Sustainability 33 Supply Chain 35 Patient Safety 36 Our People 38 About This Report Teva 2018 Social Impact Report About Teva and Our Approach 3 A Message from Our President & CEO, Kåre Schultz In 2018, we aligned on our mission to be a global leader in generics and biopharmaceuticals, improving the lives of patients. Underpinning every aspect of our work is a continued promise to act with integrity and maintain a culture of ethical conduct and compliance. I am pleased to share our 2018 Social Impact Report, which showcases our commitment to conducting our business responsibly and leveraging our resources and expertise to make a positive impact on society. Our efforts to lead a responsible business include fostering compliance, supporting employees, protecting the environment, ensuring patient safety and upholding a responsible supply chain. Our focus on healthy communities means increasing access to medicines, developing biopharmaceutical treatments, supporting patients through their health journeys and addressing global health challenges. These efforts are inherently tied to our vast portfolio. We continue to be the world’s leader in generics—in 2018, we received more than 900 generic medicine approvals, bringing more treatments to more patients. Kåre Schultz We also introduced numerous specialty medicines, including AJOVY®, a novel biologic medicine for President & CEO the preventive treatment of migraine, which we launched in the US and are preparing to launch across Europe. We advanced our environmental sustainability efforts, including reducing greenhouse gas Teva Pharmaceutical emissions by nearly 25% since 2012 and sending only 5% of our waste to landfill. Industries Ltd. In the last 18 months, we have also made significant progress in our restructuring and delivered on our targets, guided by our strategic principles. We have improved our financials, optimized our portfolio and become a more efficient, unified company. We seek to create long-term value for our stakeholders, who make it possible for us to reach nearly 200 million patients with our quality medicines every day. We are dedicated to building a healthy Teva and contributing to a healthy world. By collaborating with a range of partners, we aim to improve access to medicines and care, address unmet needs and help advance the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We hope you will continue to join us on this journey, and we welcome your input along the way. Kåre Schultz Teva 2018 Social Impact Report A Message from Our President & CEO, Kåre Schultz 4 About Teva and Our Approach Teva 2018 Social Impact Report 5 About Us Teva is the world’s leading provider of generic medicines, with an innovative portfolio, including specialty medicines and biosimilars. Our mission is to be a global leader in generics and biopharmaceuticals, improving the lives of patients. We are headquartered in Israel, where Teva was founded in 1901. We specialize in developing, manufacturing and delivering quality affordable generic medicines, as well as innovative and specialty pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products and active pharmaceutical ingredients that we supply to industry peers. We are led by Kåre Schultz, President & CEO. Our Board of Directors is chaired by Dr. Sol J. Barer and includes 10 additional directors. We have a presence in 60 countries, with 70 manufacturing facilities. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: TEVA) and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE: TEVA). Teva 2018 Social Impact Report About Teva and Our Approach 6 Our Portfolio Leading Specialty Medicines Central Nervous System Respiratory Oncology Generics 3,500 1,800+ 550+ 120 billion 12-20% of all Supplied to all leading products and molecules therapies tablets and prescriptions in pharmaceutical 40,000 SKUs capsules every markets around companies for year the world clinical trials Teva 2018 Social Impact Report About Teva and Our Approach 7 Social Impact at Teva At Teva, Social Impact means aligning our corporate resources and expertise with relevant areas of global health and social need. We are dedicated to promoting health and increasing access to treatment for patients, while cultivating a culture of compliance, ethics and transparency. Our Social Impact strategy holds us accountable to the people and communities we serve. It reflects our efforts to contribute to healthy communities and lead a responsible business. Our activities are overseen by the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors, which provides direction on the company’s policies and practices for complying with laws, regulations and internal procedures. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report About Teva and Our Approach 8 Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015. At its core are 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are a universal call for action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity. As a company in the business of improving health, Teva is committed to partnering to help achieve the SDGs. Advancing good health and well-being is core to our business and our mission to improve the lives of patients. We help increase access to, and affordability of, treatments as a leading supplier of medicines on the World Health Organization’s Essential Medicines List (EML), which presents safe and effective medicines for addressing health needs. More specifically, we address SDG 3.4—reduce premature mortality from non-communicable diseases (NCDs)—through our portfolio and global health efforts, including those focused on people with multiple chronic conditions. We contribute to economic growth in the markets where we We minimize our impact on climate change through reduced operate. We promote diversity, inclusion, gender equality, greenhouse gas emissions, including from reduced use of health and safety to create work environments where our energy and increased use of renewable energy. employees can thrive. We collaborate and establish ongoing partnerships with We continuously innovate to uncover novel medicines and non-profit organizations, governments, healthcare providers, use the latest technologies and techniques to transform industry peers and patient organizations to expand the reach insights into treatments. of our insights and resources and develop multi-stakeholder solutions to pressing health challenges. We strive to reduce the environmental impact of our company’s operations through the responsible use of energy and natural resources, minimizing waste and proactively managing our emissions. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report About Teva and Our Approach 9 2018 Social Impact Highlights Teva 2018 Social Impact Report 10 Contributing to Healthy Communities 900+ generic medicine approvals 2 oncology biosimilars approved by US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and 35 approvals for specialty medicines announced by Celltrion and Teva for certain indications— in therapeutic focus areas the 15th and 16th FDA-approved biosimilars in the US $43M+* $380M+* worth of medicines provided to patient worth of medicines donated to patients around the world assistance organizations Supplied Launched Life Effects, a digital hub for patients, in the EU and US, with 220,000 packs of antibiotics in 60+ countries 500,000+ visits in the first 7 months 1.5 million packs of vitamin B6 in 30+ countries for patients with tuberculosis 400+ thought leaders convened 111 peer-reviewed articles published at multi-sectoral events to discuss the impact of, on drugs to treat oncology and neurological, respiratory and solutions for, multiple chronic conditions and pain conditions and innovative public and patient-centric health * Wholesale acquisition costs (WAC) Teva 2018 Social Impact Report 2018 Social Impact Highlights 11 Leading a Responsible Business Environmental sustainability progress Ascore from CDP, 16,500+ employees an environmental disclosure 23% reduction non-profit, for progress to trained on 10 ethical behavior topics, with a 98% training completion rate in greenhouse gas emissions address climate change since 2012 52% of waste recycled, 30% more than in 2017 Teva’s Global Environment Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) implemented across more than 80% of markets Less than 6% of waste sent to landfill EcoVadis Silver Medal (top 16% of pharmaceutical companies) for responsible conduct in environment, labor and human rights practices, ethics and sustainable procurement Best recorded safety management performance to date 13% reduction Significant reduction in Established comprehensive in total recordable injury rate reportable environmental global privacy program incidents (spills and releases)— and implemented global 44 vs. 206 in 2017 privacy standards 10% improvement in lost time injury rate Risk mitigation framework established in EcoVadis platform 43% improvement and high-risk suppliers’ corrective actions tracked in total lost workdays Teva 2018 Social Impact Report 2018 Social Impact Highlights 12 Contributing to Healthy Communities For Teva, a healthy community is one in which individuals have access to resources and conditions that enable them to live their healthiest lives. We strive to nurture healthy communities around the world, through our portfolio and beyond—putting patients at the heart of everything we do. Our patients are the reason we increase access to quality affordable medicines and continuously innovate to uncover novel treatments. Our patients’ perspectives and experiences inspire us to support their holistic care and address pressing global health challenges. Cultivating healthier communities allows us to support people around the world on their unique paths toward wellness, thereby creating value both for society and for our business. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report 13 Access and Affordability Every person deserves access to quality health treatments and services, when and where they need them. Unfortunately, for too many, this is not the reality; one of two people globally lack access to critical health services, according to the World Health Organization.1 Teva exists to bring more quality, lower-cost medicines to more people in more places around the world. We do this Teva’s Position on Access by expanding, advancing and innovating our portfolio every day. Yet we recognize quality healthcare requires more than just quality to Medicines highlights our medicines. Through partnerships with non-profit organizations, governments, healthcare providers and industry peers, we help approach and commitment patients, caregivers and communities access the services they need to live better days. to offer quality affordable medicines and implement programs that enhance access to treatment. Delivering quality affordable generics Generic medicines deliver significant savings to patients Teva is a leading supplier and healthcare systems. For example, Teva has saved the of quality medicines US healthcare system $259B over a decade.2 As the world’s on the World Health Organization’s Essential Medicines List, manufacturing: leading provider of quality generics, making medicines widely accessible is fundamental to our business, values and support for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. One of eight generic prescriptions in the US and one of six generic prescription packs in the UK and Germany is a Teva product.3 In 2018, Teva received 912 approvals for new generic medicines. We are a leading supplier of generic medicines listed on the 92 of cardiovascular 85 of antibiotics/ 83 of respiratory World Health Organization’s Essential Medicines List (EML), 84 96 100 treatments anti-infectives treatments which is comprised of medicines considered important for addressing key public health needs.4 For example, Teva of cancer of pain of mental health manufactures 92% of cardiovascular treatments, 84% of treatments treatments treatments cancer treatments, 83% of respiratory treatments and 100% of mental health treatments on the EML. 1 World Health Organization. World Health Day 2019 Key Messages. 2019. Available: https://www.who.int/campaigns/world-health-day/world-health-day-2019/key-messages (accessed April 2019). 2 Between 2007-2016; based on Teva’s generic market share and Association for Accessible Medicines, Generic Drug Access and Savings in the US, 2017. 3 Based on IQVIA data of market share. 4 World Health Organization. WHO Model List of Essential Medicines. 2017. Available: https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/273826/EML-20-eng.pdf?ua=1 (accessed April 2019). Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 14 Partnering to improve access Teva donated more than $380M* worth of quality medicines to more than 100 countries in 2018 through ongoing partnerships with non-profit organizations, such as Direct Relief, Operation Blessing, Universal Heart and Healthcare professionals Brother’s Brother Foundation. We donate medicines from from Harvard University our wide portfolio, including treatments for cardiovascular and Massachusetts General disease, central nervous system conditions, respiratory Hospital traveled to the conditions and oncology. Republic of Guinea and, through Universal Heart, For more than a decade, Teva has partnered with Direct Relief carried Teva medicines to to deliver prescription medicine donations. Over the course patients in need. of our partnership, we have donated generic medicines valued at more than $1.25B* to millions of patients in more than 90 countries. In 2018, Teva donated $97.7M* worth of essential and specialty medicines to Direct Relief. This helped fulfill more than 1,000 shipments to more than 500 recipients across 62 countries, representing more than 65 million daily doses of medicine. Where one lives should not determine if one lives, but far too often—for people in vulnerable circumstances and under-resourced communities—it does. Teva’s Since 2011, Universal Heart has facilitated international relief shipments from within Rotary Clubs. In 2007, it expanded its commitment to expanding access to medicine is critical to Direct Relief’s mission mission to include warehousing to facilitate medical product and vital to the people and communities it serves in the United States and globally, and we are distribution, and Teva became an active donor. Universal deeply appreciative of their partnership and support.” Heart has distributed Teva’s products to doctors, clinics and Thomas Tighe, President & CEO, Direct Relief hospitals in more than 15 countries around the world. Teva medicines provided to Universal Heart reach patients in low-income countries who lack access to critical treatments. For 10 years, Universal Heart has supported an individual from Honduras who suffered kidney failure. An organ donor match was identified in Honduras, funds were raised to cover hospital expenses and a transplant team in New Mexico donated its services. Five years later, the patient is doing well, but must take immunosuppressant medication to keep his body from rejecting the transplanted organ. Along with all other medicines donated to Universal Heart, Teva provides a single case of immunosuppressant medication for this one special patient. * Wholesale acquisition costs (WAC) Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 15 Operation Blessing is a global humanitarian relief organization that provides ongoing access to safe water, medical care, health services, food and emergency services. Since 2008, Teva has partnered with Operation Blessing to donate medicines to patients in El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, Haiti and the Dominican Republic each quarter. Through Operation Blessing, Teva helps 300 people in Tambla, Honduras, receive health treatment at a local health center, as they are typically three hours from the closest city. At an Operation Blessing clinic in Jucuaran, El Salvador, Teva’s medicines are provided to 560 people with chronic diseases, such as high blood pressure and diabetes. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 16 The Association for Accessible Medicines annual conference, attended by more than 1,000 industry leaders, provides a forum for pharmaceutical companies to share best practices and meaningful insights. Teva participated in a panel discussion, along with Direct Relief and the National Association of Community Health Centers, which discussed issues with, and solutions to, pharmaceutical access for patients who are uninsured, under-insured or affected by disaster. We highlighted our commitment to ensure all our medical relief partners are fully vetted, audited and qualified to properly handle, store, distribute and track the medicine donations we provide. Participating in global health tenders Global health tenders provide an opportunity for Teva to increase access to quality medicines for vulnerable populations. We focus on creating equitable access in lowermiddle-income countries, enabling us to supply medicines to regions where Teva does not have a commercial presence. —— For the third year, Teva won a tender to supply antibiotics to Stop TB/IDA Foundation for tuberculosis (TB) patients in more than 60 countries. While TB remains a top 10 cause of death worldwide, diagnosis and successful treatment averts millions of deaths each year.5 In 2018, Teva supplied more than 220,000 packs of the antibiotics to patients with multi-drug resistant TB. —— Teva was selected as Stop TB/IDA Foundation’s sole supplier of vitamin B6, another critical medicine used in TB treatment. We provided 1.5 million packs, reaching patients in more than 35 countries. —— Teva won a tender to supply more than 70,000 packs of immunosuppressant medications to the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO). Immunosuppressant medications help reduce the body’s likelihood of rejecting transplanted organs, yet many low-income countries lack access to these lifesaving medicines. Teva is committed to working with patient organizations and advocacy groups in an ethical and transparent Providing patient assistance manner. In accordance with the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations Code Teva works with many organizations that advocate for patients around the world. These of Practice, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical efforts are part of our longstanding commitment to enhance access to resources, tools Industries and Associations Code and the Medicines and support for patients facing various health challenges. In the US, the Teva Cares for Europe code of conduct, our 2018 Global Patient Foundation works to address financial barriers to access to medicines, supplying Teva Organization and Advocacy Disclosure outlines patient medicines to hundreds of patients each year. group activities across 60 countries. In 2018, we provided $23.4M* worth of medicines to the Teva Cares Foundation and $20M* worth of medicines through our AssistRx-run HUB service. * Wholesale acquisition costs (WAC) 5 World Health Organization. Global tuberculosis report 2018. 2018. Available: https://www.who.int/tb/publications/global_report/en/ (accessed April 2019). Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 17 Increasing access in our communities Our approach to enhancing access takes many forms. In addition to making medicines accessible through our commercial portfolio, we offer patient programs, promote education and collaborate with governments, industry partners and non-profit organizations to expand access to, or reduce the cost of, medicines. Below is a snapshot of some of these initiatives. In Russia, Teva established a support program for patients with severe asthma, providing access to treatments and patient assistance not covered by a In 2018, Teva became the largest international company reimbursement program. to contribute to Ukraine’s Accessible Medicine Reimbursement Program, with eight medicines on the list. Since launch, more than seven million Ukrainian patients have benefited from the program. In August, the US Food and Drug In Japan, information on generic drug Administration (FDA) approved Teva’s package inserts has been insufficient, After severe floods hit the state of generic epinephrine auto-injector. hindering wider use of generic Kerala, India, in August, Teva and According to then-FDA Commissioner Scott medicines. With consent from the employees supported recovery and Gottlieb, “This approval means patients Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices relief efforts. More than 2,100 Teva living with severe allergies who require Agency, the country’s approval and employees contributed one day of their constant access to life-saving epinephrine review authority, Teva enhanced the salaries, raising INR 4.19M ($60K). Teva should have a lower-cost option, as well as descriptions on our package inserts, supplemented this, reaching a total another approved product to help protect including updating information on donation of INR 10M ($143K) to the against potential drug shortages.”6 pharmacokinetics, frequency of Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. adverse events and clinical trial results. This contributed to an environment in which healthcare professionals have more confidence in using generics. 6 US Food and Drug Administration. FDA approves first generic version of EpiPen. Available: https://www.fda.gov/newsevents/newsroom/pressannouncements/ucm617173.htm (accessed April 2019). Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 18 Science and Innovation Being a leader in global healthcare means consistently providing innovative and quality medicines. We develop, In 2018, Teva received personalize and improve specialty treatments, including for migraine, respiratory diseases, non-communicable diseases, multiple sclerosis (MS) and cancer. We are also committed to enhancing research and development efforts for specialty 35 approvals for specialty biologics and biosimilars. We take this knowledge beyond our own walls—lending our unique expertise in this area to medicines across our educate and empower our local communities. In Israel alone, Teva contributed $207M in royalties to academic research therapeutic focus areas. institutions in 2018 (equivalent to 7% of government budget for higher education).7 Sharing our expertise and research In 2018, Teva researchers published 111 peer-reviewed articles on drugs to treat oncology and neurological, respiratory and pain conditions and innovative public and patient-centric health. These included articles about: —— Drug repurposing: Recognizing the potential to bring medications with known safety profiles to new patient populations, this review describes approaches to systematic repurposing and discusses the need for strategic collaborations to bring existing molecules to new indications. It also highlights advantages, considerations and challenges of pharmaceutical companies pursuing repurposing as a drug development strategy. —— Personalized medicine: Personalized medicine is the tailoring of medical treatment to the individual characteristics of each patient. As an example, with the shift in research toward the pre-dementia stage of Alzheimer’s disease, there is a need for reliable, non-invasive biomarkers to predict amyloid pathology (proteins associated with the condition). This study assessed whether easily obtainable For the past eight years, The College of Physicians of Philadelphia has been measures from structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), combined with one of Teva’s community partners in the US. Teva sponsors a STEM program demographic data, cognitive data and genes associated with Alzheimer’s disease, for high school students, and in 2018, TEVA R&D Biologic and Device can be used to predict amyloid pathology using machine-learning. teams gave students the opportunity to learn about development and —— Bioequivalence: Bioequivalence (BE) describes two drugs with identical manufacturing of biologics and devices that deliver them. A panel of Teva employees representing diverse roles spoke about their career paths and active ingredients or two dosage forms of the same drug that possess similar bioavailability and produce the same effect. BE is a key question in new and opportunity to improve patients’ lives and answered students’ questions. generic drug development and registration worldwide. A better understanding of scientific principles and expectations from different regulatory authorities may In 2018, Teva joined the national coalition to promote STEM education in allow for more uniform regulatory requirements around the globe. This article Israel. 5pi2 is a public-private partnership between the Israeli Ministry of summarizes a workshop for pharmaceutical scientists from academia, industry Education and leading Israeli and global corporations. Teva has focused on and regulatory agencies during which they discussed BE issues in hopes of promoting science education among middleand high-school students and identifying common ground and achieving a harmonized view. launched new programs, including a science teacher orientation seminar and visits to pharmaceutical R&D centers and laboratories to improve 7 Rotem Strategy. Teva’s Economic Contribution to the State of Israel. 2018. understanding of the applicability of science curricula. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 19 Pursuing biotechnology Biopharmaceuticals, also known as biologic products, are innovative, complex medicines made with cells of living organisms, which provide more precise and personalized treatment with fewer side effects than traditional medicines. They offer new hope for patients suffering from untreated or undertreated conditions. A biosimilar product is a biologic product that is approved based on demonstrating that it is highly similar to an approved biologic product, known as a reference product. Biosimilars are often 30% cheaper than brand-name biologic products,8 and estimated to save the US $54B over 10 years.9 Following our crucial role in the development of the generic medicine industry over the past 40 years, Teva made a strategic decision to invest in biosimilars. They combine our strength in generics with our knowledge of biologics, benefitting patients around the world and our company’s growth.10 Teva has five biopharmaceuticals in our portfolio, including AJOVY® (fremanezumab-vfrm) injection, which received US Food and Drug Administration In 2018, Teva Turkey (FDA) approval in 2018 for the preventive treatment of migraine in adults, which was invited to conduct a impacts 36 million Americans. “This approval furthers our ongoing commitment workshop for capacity training on and experience in neurological conditions like migraine,” said Hafrun Fridriksdottir, biotechnology for government officials at Executive Vice President, Global R&D, Teva. Turkey’s Ministry of Health. Israel Innovation Additionally, in 2018, Celltrion and Teva announced US FDA approval of TRUXIMA® Authority’s Head of Healthtech Sector, (rituximab-abbs) for injection, a biosimilar to Rituxan® for certain indications, and Dr. Itai Kela, joined the Teva delegation HERZUMA® (trastuzumab-pkrb) for injection, a biosimilar to Herceptin® for certain to share his knowledge. The workshop indications, marking the 15th and 16th FDA-approved biosimilar products in the covered the role of biotechnology in US.11 Teva has 20 specialty biologic and biosimilar programs in various phases of biopharmaceutical R&D and the Israeli development, from discovery through clinical and regulatory stages. Many of these healthcare ecosystem. The invitation reflects treatments, including AJOVY®, will be produced in our new $500M state-of-the-art the recognition of our scientific expertise at a biopharmaceutical plant in Ulm, Germany. government level, and as a business Our comprehensive manufacturing capabilities allow us to make partner in developing and advancing biopharmaceuticals efficiently, while maintaining high quality. This new direction Turkey’s healthcare system. is integral to bringing cutting-edge treatments to patients while remaining focused on our mission to improve patient lives. 8  IMS Health. Shaping the biosimilars opportunity: a global perspective on the evolving biosimilars landscape. 2011. Available: www.imshealth.com/ims/Global/Content/Home%20Page%20Content/IMS%20News/Biosimilars_Whitepaper.pdf (accessed April 2019). 9  Mulcahy AW, Hlavka JP, Case SR. Biosimilar Cost Savings in the United States: Initial Experience and Future Potential. Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation. 2017. Available: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30083415 (accessed May 2019). 10 Based on company filings, first shared with market in Q2 2018. 11 Food and Drug Administration. Biosimilar Product Information. 2019. Available: https://www.fda.gov/drugs/developmentapprovalprocess/howdrugsaredevelopedandapproved/approvalapplications/therapeuticbiologicapplications/biosimilars/ucm580432.htm (accessed April 2019). Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 20 Innovating across the world This approval marks a significant milestone US: In December, we received US FDA approval for ProAir® Digihaler™ (albuterol not only for Teva, but for sulfate) inhalation powder, our respiratory the respiratory community, as it digital therapeutic inhaler. It is the first and allows patients and their caregivers only digital inhaler with built-in sensors and a to better understand inhaler usage companion mobile app designed to provide through digital technology.” information to people with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The Sven Dethlefs, Executive Vice President, inhaler combines a breath-activated, multiGlobal Marketing & Portfolio, Teva dose dry powder inhaler with albuterol, one of the most commonly prescribed asthma rescue medications. Built-in sensors detect when the inhaler is used and measure inspiratory flow. This inhaler use data is then sent to the companion mobile app using Bluetooth® wireless technology so patients can review their data over time and, if desired, share it with their As a drug company healthcare professionals. committed to helping people live healthier and better lives, we see the Germany: In September, Teva Germany launched autotest VIH®, the HIV self-test, which allows patients to test for HIV at home. The test is available introduction of our HIV self-test at pharmacies and reliably detects HIV infections that occurred within as a boost to prevention and three months of testing. public health literacy.” Christoph Stoller, General Manager, Teva Germany Mexico: Teva recently partnered with PAXMAN to license the PAXMAN Scalp Cooling System across major Mexican cancer centers. The technology uses a simple treatment to prevent chemotherapy-induced hair loss, allowing patients to regain some control, maintain their privacy regarding the illness and increase their self-esteem. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 21 Patient Engagement Teva was founded more than 100 years ago on a mission to improve patient lives. Today, approximately 200 million people take our medicines every day. Patients are at the center of everything we do, from uncovering new medicines and treatments to expanding our generics pipeline and supporting initiatives that enhance access to medicines and health services. However, to truly advance health, patients must be engaged in their own care, and those caring for them must feel empowered. We aim to help patients, their caregivers and healthcare professionals feel supported by arming them with tools, resources and education to promote health. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 22 Co-creating with patients to reach patients Over the last decade, we have invested more than $11B in researching new ways to help patients manage their conditions. We work with more than 250 patient organizations and share our knowledge with academic institutions, non-profit organizations and governments. As a result, we have a profound understanding of how health affects patients, particularly those with chronic conditions. After speaking with more than 13,500 patients around the world, we learned patients want to hear from other patients—but also want credible information from healthcare professionals. That is why we developed Life Effects—a digital hub for patients, by patients. In 2018, Life Effects launched in the US and Europe to empower those living with chronic conditions. Teva works with a core group of patient contributors who offer firsthand, credible perspectives on what it’s like to live with a chronic condition. Articles and podcasts are reviewed by experts to address the unmet need for trustworthy health information online, particularly for patients with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), asthma, depression, migraine and multiple sclerosis (MS). According to Aoife Kirwan, a patient with MS in Ireland, “It’s always exciting when an opportunity arises for the voices of people with MS to be heard. Life Effects was developed in collaboration with people living with chronic conditions, including MS, which means that it is created by us, for us. It allows people living with chronic conditions the chance to share our stories, thoughts and opinions while knowing that the information is also checked by experts. In an age where endless amounts of information are readily available, this reliable information from people with the same condition is invaluable to patients. As someone living Life Effects launched in May with MS, I am delighted to see such collaboration between my community and the medical community, 2018 and received more than which offers a new resource that combines lived 501,000 visits from experience with scientific fact.”12 332,000 visitors and 97,000 podcast downloads in the first seven months. 12 Teva Draws on Patient Experience to Empower Those Living with Chronic Conditions. 2018. Available: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181011005032/en/ (accessed May 2019). Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 23 Providing comprehensive support Beyond our portfolio, we support the social, psychological and mental well-being of patients, as well as the healthcare professionals and caregivers who play an important role in their health. Sleep disorder is highly underdiagnosed Teva Canada partnered with Huddol, an globally. In Teva International Markets, online peer and professional support we created five e-modules to increase network for caregivers, to strengthen healthcare professional awareness and the relationship between caregivers and understanding of excessive sleepiness pharmacists. A six-month pilot launched in associated with obstructive sleep apnea, Quebec in June includes an online training narcolepsy and shift work disorder. The course for pharmacists and an information kit modules provided insights into patient to support caregivers. challenges and the science behind sleep. In partnership with CareGivers Israel, Teva Approximately 400 pharmacists of the BENU Israel sponsored the Interdisciplinary Center’s Pharmacies and Euroaptieka pharmacy chains Caregivers Challenge Hackathon to uncover HEALTHCARE in Latvia participated in interactive lessons on PROFESSIONALS CAREGIVERS innovative solutions to improve lives of those generic drug safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness caring for older family members. Three and sustainability. The former Pharmacists’ winners presented ideas, including a caregiver Society president supported small working information marketplace and aggregator of groups and answered participant questions personalized professional information. directly. Teva France collaborated with local patient To increase efficiency of customer organizations and Journée Nationale des engagement, Teva UK developed the Aidants (National Day of Caregivers) to create ChatBot, an interactive platform on its website. brochures about the role of caregiving for An industry first, the ChatBot provides breast cancer, colopathy, MS and asthma. rapid responses to healthcare professional The materials were placed in waiting rooms, questions about our COPD inhaler. hospitals and pharmacies. PATIENTS For the third year, Teva Spain’s In November, Teva Russia Insights gleaned from parents and caregiver Teva was a corporate sponsor of Miles Humanizing Health Awards recognized 11 launched a new site, consultations in Israel revealed children for Migraine, which hosts walk/run events organizations for improving patient health 4periods.ru to answer were fearful of asthma inhalers, impacting and Patient Education Days across the US, through humanizing approaches that common questions about their ability to adhere to the medication. during which patient advocates, healthcare go beyond medicine. Winning projects menstrual cycles and methods To enhance adherence as part of a global professionals, headache specialists and included bringing therapy animals of contraception. Together pediatric clinical trial, we created a tailored the migraine community raise awareness to elderly patients with depression, with the scientific community, kit featuring animated stickers for children to of migraine and other headache disorders. enhancing pediatric emergency rooms Teva is helping women obtain apply to inhaler cartons. The stickers indicated Teva reached approximately 1,550 people with creative design and providing swim reliable information about the children took their medication, a small across 13 events, of which 572 (37%) therapy to patients with disabilities. reproductive health. change that made a big difference in the registered for more information about patient experience during the clinical trial. Teva’s More to Migraine campaign. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 24 Global Health Priorities Today’s world faces pressing health challenges, many of which impact the patients we serve. Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are responsible for 71% of global deaths and threaten progress toward the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),13 as they exacerbate economic inequities and contribute to poor health.14 Meanwhile, though treatment for communicable diseases has improved, a new threat—antimicrobial resistance (AMR)—compromises the ability to treat infectious diseases and undermines other healthcare advances. In addition to being urgent global health issues, NCDs and AMR are close to our heart and our business. Teva provides medicines to treat many NCDs and is the largest manufacturer of antibiotics. Additionally, we are the leading provider of many medicines listed on the World Health Organization’s Essential Medicines List (EML), which includes important medicines for addressing key healthcare needs.15 We manufacture 92% of cardiovascular drugs, 84% of cancer drugs, 83% of respiratory disease drugs and 85% of antibiotics/anti-infectives on the EML. We apply our expertise and resources to understanding and tackling these growing problems through multi-stakeholder collaborations, thought leadership, industry partnerships and patient programs. Addressing the growing burden of multiple chronic conditions We partner with Mount Sinai’s Arnhold Institute for Global In 2017, Teva announced a commitment to address NCDs by better Health in New York City to understand the needs of patients understanding, preventing and treating patients with multiple chronic with MCC and identify patient-centered solutions. In 2018, conditions (MCC). Teva continued to drive thought leadership in this area in we conducted a retrospective study of more than 190,000 2018 through independent research, stakeholder events and strengthened adults with Medicaid insurance between 2012 and 2014. partnerships. In October, a study published in Preventive Medicine Reports and The study identified the number of chronic conditions commissioned by Teva shared findings of independent research analyzing the within that cohort and grouped patients based on clusters health, economic and patient burden of MCC.16 (i.e., combinations of chronic conditions). The results will be shared once the manuscript is published. 13 W  orld Health Organization. NCD mortality and morbidity. 2018. Available: https://www.who.int/gho/ncd/mortality_morbidity/en/ (accessed May 2019). 14 Nugent R., et al. Investing in non-communicable disease prevention and management to advance the Sustainable Development Goals. The Lancet 391.10134 (2018): 2029-2035. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29627167 (accessed June 2019). 15 World Health Organization. Essential Medicines List. 2018. Available: https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/273826/EML-20-eng.pdf?ua=1 (accessed April 2019). 16 Hajat C. & Stein E. The global burden of multiple chronic conditions: A narrative review. Preventive medicine reports. 2018. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6214883/ (accessed June 2019). Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 25 To elevate MCC on the global public health agenda, Teva hosted a NCD Care Continuum event during September’s United Nations General Assembly. In partnership with Intel and the International Alliance of Patients’ Organizations (IAPO), we convened more than 80 multi-sectoral leaders, including representatives from the Mount Sinai Health System, the US Department of Health and Human Services, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and the World Health Organization (WHO), to discuss how our expertise and resources can help improve the lives of those with MCC. With opening remarks by Dr. Sania Nishtar, co-chair, WHO High-Level Commission on NCDs, the event offered an opportunity to share insights and learn more about the struggles of patients with MCC, their caregivers and providers. Left: Panelists at NCD Care Continuum event, hosted with Intel and IAPO during September’s United Nations General Assembly in New York. Right: Dr. Sania Nishtar, co-chair, WHO High-Level Commission on NCDs, opens the panel by highlighting the importance of partnerships and sharing a personal account of her mother’s numerous health conditions. PATIENT TESTIMONIAL Teva’s partnership with Mount Sinai’s Arnhold Institute for Global Health in New York City has helped uncover important insights related to MCC. Roslyn, a Mount Sinai patient, shares her story: The most difficult part for myself is that I am not able to do the things I am used to doing. Now I feel sometimes like I am less of a person. I have learned to gain other skills that help me to deal with the pain and would help me feel better about myself. I have learned I have to pay attention to my body and what it is telling me. I have learned to organize everything that I am doing to the best of my ability. But you have to find strength somewhere, whether it is in religion, in friendship or medication. Being involved with people’s support groups, of course, helps. But it’s also important for people to realize that even with the pain, you’re still really deep down inside the person you always were.” Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 26 Enhancing access to care for patients with multiple chronic conditions Since 2012, Teva has worked with Volunteers in Medicine (VIM) to provide healthcare services to those without access in the US. We support the national office in establishing new clinics and providing ongoing assistance to VIM clinics across the US. We also expanded our efforts to address MCC in local communities. Enhancing Access2Care, established in 2017, is a two-year program that improves access and care for underserved US populations. Funded by Teva and implemented with Direct Relief and VIM, the program supports VIM clinics in providing primary and preventive healthcare to individuals with MCC. These clinics develop creative and effective strategies to treat chronic conditions, including medication management, team-based care and health coaching. Through Enhancing Access2Care, patients with MCC, who often require complex and costly healthcare and management, receive access to the care they need. Community Volunteers in Medicine (CVIM), an Enhancing Access2Care grantee in West Chester, Pennsylvania, expanded its comprehensive onsite service to treat MCC. The grant allowed CVIM to hire a chronic disease management clinical care coordinator who works with a team of physicians, Staff at Volunteers in Medicine clinic in the Berkshires, Massachusetts endocrinologists, nurses and nutrition education specialists. The coordinator counsels diabetic and prediabetic patients to create individual care plans that include follow-up tests, CVIM services navigation support and health indicator tracking to improve patients’ understandings of their health. In 2018, one-toone visits at CVIM increased by 64% from 2017. PATIENT TESTIMONIAL Pilar is a Latina patient with type 2 diabetes and other health issues, as well as a long history of smoking. She turned her life and health around after becoming a CVIM patient and shared her story at a CVIM fundraiser: The care I received at CVIM has—I kid you not— come off insulin to control my blood sugar and continue my saved my life. I came to CVIM a year and a half counseling sessions. I now have also nearly stopped smoking ago with nowhere else to turn. Type 2 diabetes, after almost 30 years—except for one cigarette a day, down very low blood sugar, PTSD from traumatic moments in my from several packs a day! life and a severe back injury that I sustained from a bad car It truly takes a village—and I am grateful and I have hope— accident several years ago have all ruled my life for quite something I haven’t felt for a very long time. Some say I have some time. As you can imagine, I was broken and hopeless lived a really tough life. I want you to know that the patients when I arrived at CVIM. you are helping by your decision to be generous to CVIM will CVIM means the world to me—my caregivers and doctors be treated with dignity and respect, and will receive the best Pilar (center) with her grandson and volunteers at have all been so good to me—they have treated me like medical and dental care. The personal care that I received Community Volunteers in Medicine, Enhancing a real person. I cannot imagine life before CVIM—that life was amazing. While I was a patient at CVIM, I never felt like a Access2Care grantee for its Expansion of seems so different now. CVIM has given my life back—and number. Words cannot describe what CVIM has meant to me. Coordinated Chronic Disease Care Management Program, which has benefited 273 patients with peace—even though I struggle from time to time. To control Thank you my dear CVIM family for welcoming me with open diabetes and pre-diabetes. my diabetes I have lost 46 pounds and counting! I also have arms and providing me with compassionate care.” Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 27 Elevating asthma and chronic Combating antimicrobial resistance disease in Russia Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a growing public health threat, which requires action from multiple We sponsored the All-Russian Congress of Patients, which and diverse stakeholders. As a global manufacturer of medicines, and specifically antibiotics, we are drew attendees from more than 100 patient organizations committed to working with industry peers and global health organizations to identify solutions. and 150 public councils across the country. Teva hosted Our efforts to address AMR focus on our manufacturing, access to medicines and environmental healthcare professionals and patient organization leaders stewardship. In 2018, we updated our Position on Antimicrobial Resistance to reflect our commitments, for a roundtable discussion, “The Problem of Multichronic aspirations and approach. Diseases and the Burden of Severe Bronchial Asthma,” to Teva is on the board of the AMR Industry Alliance, which brings together more than 100 biotech, share stories, actualize the need for a national asthma care diagnostics, generics and research-based pharmaceutical companies and associations to drive progress program and discuss critical healthcare needs for those with to reduce AMR. In 2018, the Alliance published its first progress report, detailing member companies’ both bronchial asthma and another chronic condition. progress. Through the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations, Teva also helped develop the AMR Industry Alliance Antibiotic Discharge Targets, published in September. This details discharge targets for antibiotic manufacturing, referred to as Predicted No-Effect Concentrations, for environmental risk assessments of antibiotics. In the UK, Teva All-Russian Congress of Patients roundtable discussion. donated samples of antibiotic medicine packages to a special exhibition, Superbugs: The Fight For Our Lives, at the Science Museum in London. The exhibition explored how society is responding to antibiotic resistance and featured real bacteria, scientific research from across the globe and personal stories of those fighting the superbugs. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Contributing to Healthy Communities 28 Leading a Responsible Business At Teva, a responsible business is one that enacts and enforces strong practices and controls to ensure all activities are carried out ethically and transparently. As a global company that influences the health and safety of millions of people, we recognize our responsibility to conduct our business with integrity and protect the environment and our employees. Operating in this manner helps ensure our long-term sustainability, allowing us to focus on what matters most—improving health. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report 29 Compliance, Ethics and Transparency Improving health comes with a responsibility to act with integrity. We hold ourselves to the highest professional and ethical standards, as this reflects our moral values. Our Mission & Values act as our Teva’s Position on internal compass, guiding every decision and every action, and our comprehensive, 360-degree approach Marketing and to compliance was thoughtfully developed to cultivate a culture of ethics and honesty. We comply with Promotional Practices all laws and regulations, uphold ethical engagement with our external stakeholders and enforce the right describes our approach policies, processes and programs to achieve and enhance our ethical business and human conduct. and commitment to engaging in ethical, honest and fair marketing Leading with a culture of ethics In 2017, the Office of Business practices. Teva’s Position on Integrity received 324 reports Government Affairs outlines Teva’s Code of Conduct brings our Mission & Values to life, our commitment to ethically setting clear expectations for our behavior. It describes areas engage with policymakers in which acting in accordance with our values is particularly 24% were related to and stakeholders to support important. Our employees are aware that compliance with business integrity and public policy related to laws, regulations and policies is non-negotiable and integral corruption and shared healthcare, our company to our vision of the right way to operate our company. with our Audit Committee and our industry. —— In 2018, 97% of new hires completed the Code of Conduct training, instilling the importance of ethics and compliance from the start. 20% —— Last year, a three-part Our Way of Life Campaign helped of these were inform employees of the latest dilemmas they may substantiated encounter. Leveraging a modern and innovative platform, we trained more than 16,500 employees on 10 ethical behavior topics, including communicating carefully in business, competition law, data privacy, ethically Of the substantiated reports: interacting with third-parties, conflicts of interest and business ethics. Collectively, the campaign achieved a 98% training completion rate. 75% resulted in termination Our 360-degree approach to compliance includes implementing systems to protect our company from within. Teva encourages employees and others who interact with 25% resulted in our company to report potential non-compliance or Code other actions, including of Conduct breaches to our Office of Business Integrity. formal warnings or These are handled individually and judiciously to ensure referrals to legal counsel appropriate corrective action is taken. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 30 Maintaining ethical engagement and marketing We often engage with government stakeholders, healthcare systems, healthcare professionals and patients to ensure proper use of our medicines and enhance patient care. Internal resources are provided to ensure ethics and transparency guide these interactions. New tools from our Global Compliance team help employees further reduce compliance risk when managing communications and engagements with healthcare professionals, healthcare organizations, patient organizations, government officials and third-party representatives. In 2018, we published three new internal compliance policies to address Conflicts of Interest, Global Customs and Trade Controls, and Due Diligence and Interactions with Third-Party Representatives. These are based on rules and regulations, as well as standards set by the industry. Alongside our global peers, Teva is proud to be a part of associations that foster compliance and ethical conduct. We are a member of Medicines for Europe, the generics self-regulatory body, and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA). We adhere to IFPMA’s Code of Practice, which governs marketing practices and all interactions with healthcare professionals, medical institutions and patient organizations. We also support and apply the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Principles and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations Code. These ensure our activities are governed by ethical standards and aligned with industry expectations. Ensuring data privacy Teva is committed to meeting data privacy and protection obligations for employees, healthcare professionals, patients and all others who entrust us with their personal information. In 2018, we established a comprehensive global privacy program and implemented global privacy standards to provide the framework, tools and information for our management of privacy obligations across countries and regions. These standards support our certification under the EU-US Privacy Shield and the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In May 2018, the EU GDPR—the most important change in data privacy regulation in 20 years—took effect to standardize and enhance data privacy and protection in all EU countries and all companies that process the personal data of EU data subjects, wherever the organization is geographically located. In preparation, we provided organizational resources to meet these new or enhanced obligations. We recently launched the GDPR Resource Portal to house the GDPR policy and implemented the OneTrust software for affiliates to maintain required internal records about processing activities. Additionally, regional and local teams have been organized to manage GDPR implementation, and employees continue to be trained on data privacy and protection topics. Our Global IT Security team also established an approach to assist business and IT owners with evaluating a Teva system and adopting technical and organizational security measures in accordance with the GDPR and industry best practices. In December 2016, Teva resolved certain claims under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice. The settlement included the retention of an independent compliance monitor for a period of three years. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 31 Environmental Sustainability As the threat of climate change intensifies, we increasingly recognize the importance of reducing our environmental impact on the planet. Despite recent business challenges and restructuring, our commitment to preserving the environment has not wavered. We continuously seek new initiatives that are both beneficial to the environment and sustainable for our business. As the leading supplier of quality generic medicines and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs), and with 70 manufacturing facilities around the world, it is our fundamental responsibility to comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and other requirements designed to protect the environment. We also proactively set targets to reduce our impact, collaborate with stakeholders and take a precautionary approach to environmental risk. Teva’s Global Environment Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) reflects expectations that often go beyond local laws and regulations to ensure we effectively manage environmental health and safety risks, compliance obligations and performance. Reducing the impact of our operations We aim to limit our waste and reduce our energy and water use. Between 2012 and 2018, we reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 23%. This was largely In 2018, Teva driven by renewable energy use, which accounted for 29% of our global electricity experienced 44 reportable consumption in 2018. We recycled 52% of waste, 30% more than in 2017 and environmental incidents (spills the most in four years. This reflects our continued focus on moving waste from and releases), compared to 206 treatment and disposal to recycling and beneficial reuse. In 2018, less than 6% of in 2017. This improvement can waste was sent to landfill, and 54% of total waste was hazardous, a 16% reduction be attributed to our focus on from 2017. While all indicators improved in absolute terms compared to 2017, proactively preventing spills the intensity factors (when normalized by total headcount) increased due to the and releases in all operations, company’s extensive restructuring actions. particularly our TAPI business unit, which carries the greatest risk. Establishing new targets Teva previously established and publically communicated targets for reducing the environmental footprint of Teva legacy entities by 2020. Last year, we reported that we met or exceeded these targets, with one exception. While we did not meet our energy efficiency target, we made solid progress and are proud of these achievements. We are currently in the process of re-evaluating our external environmental improvement commitments and intend to communicate our path forward in the near future. CDP climate disclosure assessment The CDP climate disclosure assessment is an important external feedback mechanism for our efforts to reduce energy use and associated GHG emissions. We received an Ascore from CDP for 2018 progress to address climate change. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 32 Collaborating with external stakeholders We proactively engage with key external stakeholders regarding environmental matters and are committed to being transparent about our performance. Teva also routinely responds to investor and customer queries and participates in other external evaluations and ratings, such as EcoVadis, MSCI and Sustainalytics. In 2018, we engaged with regulators, industry groups and key customers regarding our approach to managing pharmaceuticals in the environment and antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Teva is a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative, the AMR Industry Alliance and the Pharmaceutical Environmental Group and an active participant in environmental working groups, such as Medicines for Europe, the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations. Promoting Enhancing biodiversity: The land surrounding Teva’s Gajraula plant in India was cleaned environmental up and developed to improve biodiversity. Teva contributed $31K sustainability in our to the project and collaborated with the government and local local communities administration to increase the township’s hygiene levels by providing restroom facilities. We aim to protect the environment and limit the impact of our operations in our communities Implementing ecological and safety solutions: around the world. The following Teva Czech Industries (TCI) Opava Company voluntarily signed stories provide a snapshot of an agreement with Moravian-Silesian Region, promising a $870K some of our local efforts. investment in ecological and safety solutions by 2020, $22K in annual maintenance of vegetation and roads within the company’s complex and planting of new vegetation. TCI Opava Company will also purchase 100% green energy in 2019. “We are aware of the environmental impact of our manufacturing activities and endeavor to minimize this impact by continuously improving technological processes, using effective systems for capturing emissions and limiting the amount of pollutants discharged into the atmosphere,” said Jaroslav Chylík, Director, TCI Opava Company. Reducing electricity consumption: After successfully adapting HVAC systems to operate in savings mode in quality control labs, the production/packaging department and part of the warehouse, Teva Poland set out to expand HVAC savings mode in its largest area—the Oral Solid Dosage Manufacturing Department. This work is estimated to generate 450-750 MWh in annual electricity savings, equivalent to $38K to $65K per year. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 33 Supply Chain Suppliers play an integral role in our business and impact our ability to provide quality medicines to patients every day. We expect the highest ethical standards throughout our supply chain and only work with those who share these goals. Our Supplier Code of Conduct ensures our core values—and the principles and expectations that reflect them—are echoed across our supply chain. Our thorough approach includes industry collaborations that work to improve environment, social and governance standards across our supply chain and risk assessments that mitigate issues and promote sustainable procurement. Partnering for In 2018, we established a risk mitigation framework in sustainable sourcing the EcoVadis platform and across the industry tracked high-risk suppliers’ In partnership with EcoVadis—the leading corrective actions. provider of sustainability risk and performance ratings for global supply 9 high-risk chains—GlaxoSmithKline and Takeda, Teva suppliers tracked launched the Responsible Health Initiative (RHI). The effort is intended to increase shared value across the industry’s supply Of tracked suppliers: chain by enabling key players in the global health sector to boost not only their own sustainability performance, but also that 2 were reassessed and of the industry’s collective suppliers. improved their scores Powered by EcoVadis’ platform and Teva was awarded an scalable methodology, which offers deeper 4 are in the process of EcoVadis Silver Medal for transparency and insight into supply chain being reassessed responsible conduct in partners’ corporate social responsibility environment, labor and human (CSR) practices, RHI members will be able to identify suppliers with high-performing CSR 3 are providing additional rights practices, ethics and sustainable procurement in efforts and best practices, mitigate risk and documentation in the EcoVadis 2018. This improved EcoVadis drive value with suppliers. platform prior to reassessment score placed Teva in the top 16% of pharmaceutical companies. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 34 Increasing supplier diversity in the US Supplier diversity in the US in 2018 Our supplier diversity program focuses on our US efforts in alignment with our US government contracts. In 2018, we exceeded our annual goal for spending with US small businesses. We also expanded relationships with partner organizations to drive additional engagement with the small and diverse supply base at a regional level, participating in 15 outreach events to develop and grow relationships with 330 50 5 small and diverse suppliers. small businesses women-owned small, disadvantaged small businesses businesses Supplying active pharmaceutical ingredients Teva Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (TAPI) is the leading international active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) manufacturer. With the industry’s broadest portfolio of more than 400 high-quality API products, we serve nearly 1,100 TAPI at-a-glance customers in more than 75 countries. $745.5M in sales Supports 75% of top 50 global pharmaceutical companies Operates 17 plants, 5 R&D centers and 7 sales offices Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 35 Patient Safety Each day, 200 million people take our medicines, a responsibility we do not take lightly. By ensuring our medicines follow strict Global pharmacovigilance safety standards, we allow them to serve their intended purpose: improving health. Our approach to medicine quality and performance in 2018 safety is comprehensive, transparent and uncompromising. We carefully monitor all of our medicines and conduct thorough evaluations at every stage of their life cycles. 185,648 adverse event reports Driving pharmacovigilance across Innovating real-time data evaluation our company and our industry in the US 1,879 periodic reports Teva’s global pharmacovigilance (PhV) division monitors, In 2018, we launched Spotfire, an interactive visualization analyzes and reports potential safety risks associated with tool for reviewing real-time clinical and operational data. As Teva medicines or devices. We continuously work to ensure we aim to increase our internal data oversight capabilities 284 Risk Management compliance with all relevant global PhV regulations. in the US, Spotfire enables us to monitor study data for Plans (RMPs) prepared subject eligibility and compliance and ensure risk signals Teva is an active participant in the Pharmacovigilance and are detected, communicated and mitigated as quickly as Drug Safety Working Group of Medicines for Europe. We 187 health hazard possible. To date, dashboards have been created for Clinical also participate in public consultation on new PhV guidance, assessments completed Project Physicians, Clinical Project Managers and Centralized European Medicines Agency stakeholder platform meetings, Monitoring groups. We are refining these dashboards and joint trainings and other authority-industry initiatives to plan to make Spotfire available for all new Phase II and III 56 internal and third-party improve patient safety. studies moving forward. PhV audits Using social media to understand 51 PhV inspections by patient safety in the Netherlands We identify opportunities to reduce the risk of regulatory authorities and In May, Teva Netherlands sponsored a national social media counterfeit drugs, which are a threat to patient safety third-parties campaign, launched by WOMENINC, to raise awareness and public health. In November, when the Drug Supply of migraine. The campaign garnered more than 9.5 million Chain Security Act (DSCSA) went live in the US, all impressions across social and traditional media. Teva’s Teva packages carried unique identifiers. This was patient support, medical and PhV teams collaborated successfully implemented at: to monitor social channels daily, identifying migraine side effects hidden in user comments. Discussions and 20+ 110+ 50+ stories arose in which patients expressed concerns and Teva sites packaging lines CMO sites debated potential solutions. The innovative approach to understanding patient needs and safety concerns yielded new insights into the experience of those living with migraine. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 36 Our People Teva’s more than 41,000 employees are the ones who bring our mission to life. In 2018, Teva was responsible for 19,000 direct and indirect jobs in Israel, the place we were born, representing 0.5% of total employment.7 Our employees uncover our novel health solutions to support and protect patient health. They ensure our company operates sustainably and ethically. When our employees are engaged, healthy and safe, they can work to their full potential. It is our responsibility to invest in their well-being and success and provide an enriching, rewarding work environment where people are treated with respect and can be proud of the work they do. 2018 company-wide employee survey 33,000 employees (80%) completed our annual Teva Organizational Health Survey. Respondents felt Teva has improved significantly in terms of confidence in strategic direction, trust in business unit leadership, support, cooperation and empowerment. 77% of respondents reported positive care and respect for employees. Areas noted for improvement include more opportunities for growth and development. Supporting our employees In 2018, we continued Teva’s restructuring to address financial commitments and regain stakeholder trust. Throughout these changes, we supported employees with development resources to address topics such as leading change, resilience and engagement. In the future, we will provide opportunities for employees to learn new ways of working, enhance skills and be a part of exciting changes in the pharmaceutical industry. In the US, Promoting health and well-being our total well-being program offers Optimal health and quality of life is as important for our employees as it is for our innovative services. In 2018, we achieved patients. With a holistic approach to well-being, we provide practical tools and 100% on the Human Rights Campaign locally-tailored programs that address the physical, financial, social and emotional Foundation Corporate Equality Index, which needs of our employees and their families. measures companies on non-discrimination We celebrate health and wellness across many of our sites through programs and policies, employee benefits, organizational initiatives that promote healthy diets, physical activity and mental well-being. For competency around LGBTQ diversity and example, in Poland, we provide free fruit and vegetables to our employees every inclusion, and responsible citizenship. week, and in Bulgaria, we offer yoga and mindfulness training sessions. In the US, We also changed the family medical leave Teva Wealth Coordinators provide personal financial planning and offer web-based, policy to have no gender bias and self-guided tutorials on important financial topics to help employees plan for today updated our transgender health and save for a secure financial future. Meanwhile, Teva Care Coordinators assist benefits to include surgical and employees in identifying benefits and services that help them understand their non-surgical benefits. health status, lose weight, quit smoking, register at onsite fitness centers and access free Teva medications. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 37 Managing safety During 2018, Teva continued to execute on a balanced portfolio of improvement initiatives designed to move the company toward our aspirational objective of Teva Czech Republic Target Zero: Zero Incidents, Zero Injuries, Zero Releases. In 2018, this included decreased exposure levels continuing to install Teva’s Global Environment, Health and Safety Management at its highest-risk production System (EHSMS), driving effective implementation of high-risk work procedures, areas, where highly-active API completing loss prevention improvements (e.g., fire protection, risk reduction) and (HAPI) products are opened. sharing best practices related to environmental health and safety (EHS) incidents Three new gloveboxes led with all sites. to significantly decreased exposure to HAPI products for our operators. Our EHSMS brings our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Policy to life and establishes a global standard for health and safety. By the end of 2018, it was more than 80% implemented globally. We have worked hard to establish a catalog of more than 50 online EHS learning modules, which are available to all employees via our online learning management system. These modules are mandatory for all Teva EHS professionals and individuals with significant responsibility under our EHSMS. Teva is a member of the International Process Safety Group (IPSG) and hosted its annual meeting at our Zagreb facility in June. This was an opportunity to share best practices, including methods for eliminating the potential for unwanted releases of material or energy that could impact people in and around operating sites. With continued significant improvements, Teva achieved our best To reduce risks associated recorded safety management performance to date in 2018: with pharmaceutical flammable solutions, Teva Israel implemented an automatic safety manufacturing system. The system sends automatic alerts to all production 13% 10% 43% room entrances, eliminating the reduction in total improvement in lost improvement in total need for employees to recordable injury rate time injury rate lost workdays be present. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report Leading a Responsible Business 38 About This Report This report describes our approach to sustainability and responsibility, as well as our key actions in 2018 to improve health and maintain ethical business conduct. We report on Social Impact annually, and our last Social Impact report covered our activities in 2017. An accompanying content index has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, core option. GRI is a not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder organization which works to increase the level of business transparency through sustainability reporting. GRI Standards are considered to be the most advanced sustainability reporting framework available today. For more information, please see: www.globalreporting.org. Additional information about Teva and our global business can be found on our global corporate website: www.tevapharm.com. Thank you for your interest in this report. Please contact Amalia Adler-Waxman, Vice President, Social Impact & Responsibility, with any feedback or suggestions: Amalia.Adler-Waxman@tevapharm.com. Teva 2018 Social Impact Report
