UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2019 Contents Statement from our CEO 4 Responsible business at Hogan Lovells 6 Delivering legal solutions for our clients 11 Contributing to society 14 Further information 16 4 Statement from our CEO Sharing this annual update with you on our commitment to responsible business seems particularly important to me as my term as CEO at Hogan Lovells ends next year. I am excited about the future of our firm and how we rise to the challenges and opportunities ahead of us. There is a tremendous amount of volatility and uncertainty in the world today, and we need to be ready to adapt. There is no way we can predict exactly what will happen or when, so our best approach is to be as fit as we can be. Fit for the future. This means continuing to strengthen our firm, an integral part of which is how our business makes a positive impact on all of our stakeholders. In doing so we ensure we are even more client centric, understanding the radical shifts that are on the horizon for every industry and being able to navigate the complex legal landscape for issues we couldn’t have conceived of just a few years ago. Our own legal profession has a number of unique challenges which we are specifically addressing and align to the core elements of the UN Sustainable Development Goals including: diversity and inclusion; physical and mental health and wellbeing; community engagement; and environmental sustainability. In many cases we are leading our industry, putting in place award-winning and world-class programs which support and draws on the talents of our people. You can see this in some of the examples in this report, including our commitment to being a living wage employer, achieving our U.S. Mansfield Certification Plus, and the provision of independent mental health counselling to our employees. This sits alongside the wide-ranging work we do in our communities including supporting the American Bar Association on protecting the rights of LGBT+ parents, making HIV tests available in Asia, and looking into ethical decision making by artificial intelligence. We do not rest on our laurels. That isn’t who we are. There is a powerful need to keep the momentum going, every one of us, regardless of our role and our tenure with the firm. Our actions rather than intentions ultimately define us and in this, my final update, I am filled with confidence in our abilities to not just meet but exceed our commitments. Stephen Immelt CEO, Hogan Lovells 6 Hogan Lovells Responsible business at Hogan Lovells Global human rights policy The majority of our suppliers supply standard We respect human rights in our practices, office goods or services. We recognize there business and supply chain by clarifying what are supplies involving potentially higher risk we expect of our people and our business for example, supplies of food and drink and partners through our Global Human Rights promotional products, and some services policy. Our Human Rights Sub-Committee involving relatively high levels of contracted monitors its implementation and reports to labor. Individual offices maintain their own the board on issues related to human rights databases of first tier suppliers, and we in our business and supply chain in order to are working to centralize this information continuously assess and improve our human and to integrate it into existing firm-wide rights due diligence procedures, and integrate systems in order to further increase control the findings into our operational procedures. and coordination. The UK Modern Slavery Act Suppliers are risk assessed and categorized taking into account the nature of their business We are committed to the highest standards of as well as country of operation, and product ethical, moral and legal business conduct and and industry characteristics. Suppliers we expect our suppliers to uphold the same categorized as presenting significant risk of values. We have adopted a global modern modern slavery are subject to additional due slavery policy which prohibits modern slavery diligence, primarily based on public sources in our business and supply chains, and are of information including checks of their committed to implementing systems and own modern slavery and human trafficking controls aimed at ensuring that modern statements where applicable, and any other slavery is recognized and eradicated. published policies and procedures. Where, We have a dedicated core group addressing following additional due diligence and checks, risks in the area of modern slavery and ensuring a supplier is still assessed as presenting a that appropriate measures are applied to significant risk of modern slavery or failing assess, manage and minimize risk. This group to meet our standards, they are required to comprises representatives from compliance, complete a modern slavery questionnaire. procurement and our human rights practice. The quality and transparency of responses to As a regulated provider of legal services and these questionnaires is assessed. employer of predominantly professionally This risk assessment exercise has been qualified and highly skilled people, the risk completed in respect of suppliers to all our of modern slavery within our business is offices. To date, we have not identified any considered low. We apply robust policies occurrence of modern slavery in our supply and procedures concerning employment chain, nor have we identified any risks of screening including work eligibility checks and modern slavery that we have not been able to employment conditions including our London resolve through additional due diligence or Living Wage commitments. engagement with the supplier. We have been named by Acritas as the global law firm that most women partners would like to work for. UNGC COP 2019 November 2019 7 We have developed a Supplier Code of Gender equality Conduct which applies to our providers of We are a signatory to the Women’s goods and services and sets out the standards Empowerment Principles, and we put those we expect them to observe, including in principles into action. Currently 34 percent respect of modern slavery risks. This code of our senior management committee are has been introduced for suppliers to our women and 25 percent of partners globally UK offices and is in the process of being are women. Our aim is to have at least 30 introduced for suppliers to other offices. percent women in partnership. Where our standards are not met, suppliers are expected to take and evidence remedial In 2019 we achieved gold standard in the steps to ensure their activities in our supply U.S. Women in Law Empowerment Forum chain are free from modern slavery, timely (WILEF) certification for the seventh considering what approach will result in consecutive year, and gold standard in the the safest outcome for potential victims and inaugural UK WILEF certification. We enhance supplier behavior. have also been recognized by The Times Top 50 Employers for Women for eight Living Wage Employer consecutive years and as a Working Mother We are a voluntary signatory to the Living Top 50 firm for six years. In Europe, the Wage Foundation (LWF) campaign in the Italian Parliament awarded us the StandOut UK. The LWF provides a benchmark for Woman Award for our empowerment of employers that choose to pay their employees women program and we were recognized by at a rate which is calculated according to Forbes Spain as the Best Firm for Diversity. the cost of living. We require our suppliers, Gender Pay Report UK such as our caterers, to state in their contracts that they pay their staff at least this rate. We have gone beyond the statutory We pay our employees the Real Living Wage, guidelines in our Gender Pay Report for the a rate higher than the LWF wage. last two years with the provision of partner data which has shown a gender pay gap in Global Diversity & Inclusion Committee favor of our women partners in both 2017 Our Global Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) and 2018. This year, in addition to sharing Committee comprises senior representation partner data, we have also provided a from across our practice groups, industry breakdown of both our lawyer and business sectors, and regions. The Committee is services pay gap as well as sharing our accountable for defining and executing our Ethnicity Pay Gap information. global D&I strategy. In addition, we have Our gender pay gap figures in 2018 compared regional committees that are responsible for to 2017 remain relatively unchanged. This is delivering this strategy in alignment with because the composition of our workforce local priorities. remains the same. Women comprise almost two thirds of our population and are well represented at every level. In the U.S. we have achieved Mansfield Certification Plus in 2019, demonstrating our commitment to measuring, tracking and improving the composition of women, minority and LGBT+ candidates for senior leadership positions, lateral recruiting and business development activities. 8 With respect to our ethnicity pay gap, BAME talent. We are now implementing 91 percent of our people have shared their the recommendations including how to ethnicity information with us. Of that increase the visibility of BAME role models, population, 17 percent identify as from a developing ‘race fluency’ in the firm to enable black, Asian or minority ethnic (BAME) us to have more open conversations around background. We have a very strong record race, and the creation of an employee network in recruiting BAME students through our focused on race and ethnicity. graduate recruitment programme; using a Hogan Lovells hosted its inaugural range of innovative activities including our Allverse conference for U.S. minority and contextual recruitment system, our Ladder LGBT+ lawyers. With a theme focused on to Law program and working with Aspiring ‘Investments and Intrapreneurship,’ the twoSolicitors. We are committed to creating day event brought together over 200 lawyers an environment that attracts, retains and from 18 of the firm’s offices and provided an develops our BAME talent and have placed a opportunity for diverse lawyers in the U.S., significant focus on this in our UK diversity and a delegation of diverse lawyers from the strategy through to 2022. firm’s non-U.S. offices, to interact with each We have in place a range of talent other, senior leadership, and clients. development, coaching and mentoring Dignity and respect in the workplace opportunities to support our women in progressing their careers. This is alongside Respect at Work is our proactive approach our five active employee networks and to ensure that we protect both our people external partnerships with Business in the and our culture, the principles of which have Community, PRIME, Rare recruitment and been deployed across our regions. We have Reignite Academy. initiated a program of activity that includes refreshing and relaunching our anti-bullying LGBT+ and harassment policies in all regions, We believe that every person should as well as localized training on inclusive have equal rights to study, work and be behaviors and bias. an active part of their community. That In the UK, we have introduced Respect is why we continue to focus on growing Advocates who are available to provide Pride+, our LGBT+ and Allies network, support and guidance to anyone in the with approximately 1800 members firm who would like to speak confidentially worldwide, which equates to 27 percent of about bullying and harassment, whether our colleagues. Our LGBT+ people and allies experiencing themselves or witnessing set the culture of our firm and use their in relation to others. We have delivered influence to raise important issues both mandatory workshops for all UK partners locally and globally. and Business Services leads to ensure our Race & Ethnicity leaders understand and are equipped to In line with our focus on improving the deal with these issues. In addition, respect retention and progression of our ethnic guidance has also been rolled out across minority talent, we commissioned research each of our regions. to explore, with our people, what promotes and hinders inclusion at the firm as well as understanding the lived experience of our We have been awarded the PRIDE 500 seal in Germany in recognition of the focus we have in creating a LGBT+ inclusive culture for our people and our clients. Health & Wellbeing As part of our global wellbeing framework, we focus on supporting the mental and physical health of our people. All regions participate in a wellbeing day, week or month. All our people have access to an Employee Assistance Program providing consultation and mediation services. We provide on-site gyms or subsidized gym access, as well as free fruit in many of our offices and access to nutritionists. We embed wellbeing into our benefits packages, and as a multi-generational workplace we provide initiatives that support people at every stage of their life. In the UK and U.S. we also have on-site, independent counsellors and provide mental health awareness training. People networks Our networks and affinity groups are active across all our regions and support a wide network of communities including LGBT+, women, working families, racial/ethnic minorities, wellbeing, millennials, carers and colleagues with disabilities or long-term health conditions. They provide a forum for networking and business development, and support our understanding of the relevant issues. Global Sustainability Our Global Sustainability Policy helps us to minimize energy consumption and waste, maximize recycling and reuse, and travel responsibly. In the UK, we are founder members of the Legal Sustainability Alliance on Climate Change and in the U.S. we are members of the Law Firm Sustainability Network (LFSN). 10 Our sustainability strategy includes our During the construction phase, contractors commitment to: assessed the sustainability and health implications of all products used on site • Ongoing environmental and sustainability including using products with low volatile education within the business. organic compounds, timber from sustainable • Improved waste management. sources in custody certification schemes such • Reduced reliance on non-renewable energy as FSC, components and packaging with low through procurement of green electricity. or zero ozone deletion factor. Improving building systems aimed to increase air quality • Continual review of our business activities and continued monitoring will assess the and associated environmental aspects improvement longer term. and impacts. Improved shared spaces include new Environmental Management Systems breakout spaces on each floor, improved We have achieved ISO 14001 accreditation in on‑site restaurant, fully refurbished gym our London offices and this is being worked with new equipment designed to suit all levels towards in our Birmingham office. of gym user and services to fit into flexible This ISO standard specifies the requirements working hours, refurbished multi-faith room for an environmental management and a new family room for new mothers to system that an organization can use to breast feed or express. enhance its environmental performance. Waste from the project was reported on The refurbishment of the London offices throughout with a priority of not sending achieved a gold level SKA rating, a Royal waste to landfill. London’s Atlantic House Institute of Chartered Surveyors led refurbishment achieved a record of environmental assessment and benchmark 97 percent of waste diverted from landfill. scheme for non-domestic fit outs. Wherever possible items were sent for In the U.S. we are silver certified through the reuse and repurpose rather than recycle. LSFN’s American Legal Industry Sustainability In our Virginia and Boston office moves we Standard. We were also awarded silver diverted nearly 15 tonnes of metals, furniture recognition in the EcoVadis survey which and miscellaneous equipment from landfills evaluates and rates firms on a number via donation and recycling avenues. of categories including environment and sustainable procurement. Ethical behavior Our updated Global Anti-Bribery and Office refurbishments and moves Anti‑Corruption Policy aims to support The aims of improving wellbeing and our commitment to the prevention of bribery sustainability across the London portfolio and corruption and to the promotion of an were integral to all phases of the premises anti-bribery and anti-corruption culture refurbishment recently carried out. As part by setting forth the firm’s expectations and of the early project stages targets for requirements relating to the prevention, improving long term sustainability within detection, and reporting of bribery and the buildings were set and reported on along other forms of corruption. Our Global with opportunities identified to improve the Whistleblowing Policy provides means for services and spaces provided for wellbeing. our people to raise concerns in a manner that protects them from the fear of reprisals or victimization and which is fair to all persons involved. 11 Delivering legal solutions for our clients Business Integrity Group in their operations and supply chains. Through our Business Integrity Group We provide clients with the full range of (BiG) we advise major corporates, human rights services, from due diligence national governments, debt and equity on new operations and ventures through investors and disruptors on all aspects of to investigations of adverse human rights their business integrity and alignment to impacts and human rights related litigation. the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Among other matters, we have advised on This includes mapping their corporate purpose, the human rights implications of projects at mission and brand to the SDGs and other the leading edge of technological innovation methodologies and on every aspect of their engaging clients in the human rights risk commercial and legal infrastructure. Our focus associated with their operations, products, is to ensure they comply with best practice and, services and supply chains and demonstrating more importantly, that their incentives and how this risk interacts with their “hard” legal structures are driving performance in their risk, we can support businesses to prevent, priority SDGs. We advise on all areas including address and mitigate adverse human rights governance, debt, equity, employee incentives impacts and the associated legal risks, and supply chain and how they can drive wherever they operate. a progressive agenda. UN Protect, Respect and Remedy BiG focuses on five specific areas: sustainable Framework for Business and development and the social license to operate; Human Rights green financing, including green bonds; We are leaders in the BHR policy debate socially responsible investing; anti-bribery and are guided by preventing adverse and corruption; and business and human human rights impacts while also ensuring rights. We take an innovative, client-focused legal certainty and a level playing field for approach, leveraging our global services and responsible businesses. sector knowledge. • We demonstrate our cutting-edge thinking Business and Human Rights Practice by regularly publishing commentary on We have a market leading international developments in business and human business and human rights (BHR) practice, rights through our dedicated BHR blog. advising businesses on how to identify and It has received over 35,000 views with address adverse human rights risks readership spanning over 100 jurisdictions. Representative experience • EDF on the introduction of a sustainability fund established to make social and pricing mechanism indexing the margin environmental impact investments of its €4 billion syndicated revolving credit in Latin America. facility to three of its environmental, social, • Training to the Government of Malawi and governance criteria. with regards to sustainable development • A “Double-Bottom Line” private equity fund principles and best practices for sponsor on the formation, fundraising, international mining agreements. and maintenance of a U.S. domiciled 12 Hogan Lovells • We also develop practical guidance for our We work to address any legal issues that are clients, having authored the Practical Law a barrier to scale and sustainability, whether BHR practice note and a Practice Guide for that is by supporting clients to become the ENRG sector, which was republished investment ready, restructuring at the point of on the BHR Resource Centre website. scale or protecting their intellectual property. • We published the first in a series of sector HL BaSE Training specific practical guides on the UN Guiding This is a mini-MBA style course for trainee and Principles for Business and Human Rights; junior lawyers ensuring that they are familiar • We delivered training on human rights risk with the importance of social impact to all to clients around the world and advised of our clients. The program is delivered in them on how to comply with applicable partnership with Ashoka and runs in London, regulatory frameworks. Hong Kong, and New York. A key part of the program is a workshop in which social HL BaSE: Business and Social enterprises can access pro bono legal support Enterprise Practice from a small team of junior lawyers who then We have been providing legal support to social go on to advise for the next six months. enterprises for over 10 years through HL BaSE HL BaSE Catalyst and have advised in over 25 countries involving every one of our practice areas. This is a program of pro bono support We focus on three areas: for social enterprises provided by volunteers from Hogan Lovells and our HL BaSE Legal clients. Part of the program is a series We advise social business, charities and impact of afternoon workshops during which investment projects on the full spectrum of social entrepreneurs can receive bespoke legal issues they face. We offer flexible charging and confidential advice from a small arrangements which include the offer of pro team of senior lawyers on a particular bono or deferred fees where the organization issue. Our workshops also offer social has a demonstrable social impact. entrepreneurs guidance in other business areas, such as marketing and human resources, by drawing on the expertise of volunteers from Hogan Lovells’ Business Services teams. Representative experience • Appt Health on GDPR and data protection data which enables health care providers issues for their intelligent appointment to supply cost-effective, targeted treatment. booking platform designed to help the UK’s • Kai Pacha Foods on corporate restructuring National Healthcare Service to transform matters. They support Andean farmers and the delivery of preventative healthcare. protect agrobiodiversity by creating markets • Peek Vision with international for native quinoa and other superfoods memorandum agreements to scale in ways that provide the greatest possible their charitable activities. Through their benefits to producers, consumers and smartphone based technology they identify the environment. people with eyesight problems and connect them to local health workers and generate Representative experience • Massachusetts Senate Committee on an • FM Capital Partners Ltd, or FMCP, in an internal investigation surrounding ethics internal investigation; also, to recover and misconduct of a Senator, this involved assets from its former CEO and his a comprehensive review of more than associates after a large-scale fraud. 250,000 emails, text messages • Borelli Walsh, the provisional liquidators of and interviews. China Metal Recycling (Holdings) Limited, we pursued damages claims against the previous directors for wrongfully and falsely inflating the revenue and profit of the group over at least seven years. Anti-bribery and corruption We launched the ninth annual Global Bribery Global companies need corruption related and Corruption Outlook, housed on our online advice from local experts who have bribery and corruption portal. Each year, an international perspective. We have our compliance and investigations lawyers dedicated, on the ground corruption teams in around the world take stock of the bribery key regional hubs: London, Moscow, Paris, and corruption trends of the preceding year Munich, Johannesburg, Singapore, Shanghai, and begin anticipating important issues of Sao Paulo, Mexico City, San Francisco, the next. Our outlook for 2019 is based on Tokyo, and Washington D.C. which enables industry news and data, recent engagements, us to field truly global teams who understand and client feedback. local nuances and are sensitive to local laws, Our ABC portal also includes our Latin combined with a thorough understanding of American investigations guide covering internationally‑applicable laws. We advise frequently asked questions for conducting on the most high profile, high value, and corporate investigations in Latin America precedent setting matters. and our European investigations guide which addresses the most common issues in 34 European jurisdictions. 14 Hogan Lovells Contributing to society Good citizenship first court to issue a final decision striking down Our Global Citizenship Policy asks all of our the rule and demonstrates that attempts to people globally to contribute at least 25 hours deny access to asylum is illegal. per year to Citizenship activities. This includes Belonging commitments to pro bono legal services, skilled In partnership with PositiveNegatives, volunteering, fundraising and environmental Kids in Need of Defense UK and The Project sustainability. And our clients partner with us for the Registration of Children as British too, going beyond business as usual by offering Citizens (PRCBC) we launched Belonging, their expertise to collaborate around a shared a pro bono initiative in part focused on purpose. In the last year, our people devoted raising awareness of the citizenship law more than 230,000 hours to work which rights of the children of Swiss and EEA strengthens our communities. national parents living in the UK. Success for refugees Brexit has caused a spike in people making A federal court has ruled that refugees cannot decisions around citizenship and this area be barred from seeking asylum simply because of law is complex. Along with our partners, they entered the country outside of a designated colleagues from our London office have port of entry. We filed the pro bono lawsuit on developed a series of three communication behalf of individuals adversely affected by the tools to highlight the complexities in this area policy, as well as the Capital Area Immigrants’ and encourage people to seek specialist advice. Rights Coalition (CAIR Coalition) and Refugee We created a comic targeted at children and and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal young people, a leaflet for parents, carers and Services (RAICES). legal guardians and a published article which Judge Moss on the United States District Court provided an overview of different immigration for the District of Columbia vacated the asylum law and the citizenship options for EU rule in its entirety, finding that it violates the nationals living in the UK. Immigration and Nationality Act. This is the London Bridge terror attack inquest Our London office represented six of the eight in the London Ambulance Service attending bereaved families of the London Bridge terror some victims, missed opportunities in the attack inquest on a pro bono basis, exploring pre-attack MI5 and counter terrorism police what happened to their loved ones and other investigations and a failure to install hostile significant issues of wider public interest. vehicle mitigation barriers on a known high Inquests of this scale are rare but through risk location; engaging Article 2 of the European our specialist safety, security and terrorism Convention of Human Rights. expertise, our team was able to deal with the Following an incident such as this, a Coroner’s complexity and sensitivities of the case. inquest is the only forum of investigation This was a significant and award-winning available to the families and, in the context of endeavour. Through the review of the continued terrorism threat; it also provides approximately 10,000 documents and a vital accountability mechanism to prevent examination of often reluctant witnesses, we further deaths from happening in future. highlighted concerns such as a three hour delay SDG Global Festival of Action We showcased our global shared value together more than 1,500 participants partnership with Barefoot College at the from 150 countries, including activists, Global Festival of Action for the Sustainable politicians, ministers and high-level business Development Goals in Bonn, Germany. representatives to share different perspectives, test and accelerate new ideas, and focus on The Festival, organized by the United Nations the SDGs and what still needs to be done to was the largest ever of its kind. It brought promote and embed them around the world. The right to parent The American Bar Association (ABA) has adopted a resolution we drafted that protects Connecting indigenous communities the rights of LGBT+ parents. Our Mexico City office has been advising We helped the LGBT Bar with the resolution non-profit organization Indigenous for the ABA’s House of Delegates to address Community Telecommunications (TIC) recent attempts by state and federal which provides telecommunication services lawmakers to restrict LGBT+ individuals’ to indigenous communities that, due to fundamental right to parent. Despite their remote location, are not serviced significantly increased recognition of LGBT+ by commercial operators for lack of rights in recent decades, 10 states now profitability. Moreover, TIC services allow permit state-licensed child welfare agencies a better administration of public safety, to refuse to place and provide services to health, and social welfare. children and families if doing so conflicts Through our advice and legal services, with the agency’s religious or moral beliefs. TIC won a legal dispute with the These policies have acutely affected LGBT+ Federal Telecommunications Institute parents, who are disproportionately more – which is the Mexican regulator for all likely to adopt or foster children. telecommunications matters – and received The resolution affirms the ABA’s commitment important tax exemptions on the provision to the equal protection of LGBT+ individuals of its telecommunications services, and their families in the face of these threats since those aim to benefit indigenous and announces the ABA’s opposition to all groups. As a result of this victory, more laws and practices that discriminate against indigenous communities will receive LGBT+ individuals in the exercise of their telecommunications services at a lower cost. fundamental right to parent. Making HIV Tests Accessible Ethical decision-making We are assisting AIDS Concern, a Hong Kong We co-authored an interactive curriculum based NGO, with research and analysis of with Technovation, a global tech education the regulatory requirements across multiple nonprofit, that encourages young inventors Asian jurisdictions. We completed research in to consider the ethical implications of new Jakarta, Beijing, Shanghai; India, Philippines, artificial intelligence (AI) technologies. Malaysia and Thailand and leveraged our Through our “Guiding Questions for Families network of partners in jurisdictions where we Creating with AI,” we introduce students do not have an office, to investigate the online to a process by which they can identify the sales of HIV self-test kits through a new impact that a technology will have on groups social enterprise to make health awareness of people, engage the community that the affordable to everyone including the LGBT+ invention aims to help, and reduce risks community. that someone will be harmed. 16 Hogan Lovells Further information For further information on our approach to responsible business, we welcome you to browse our website. www.hoganlovells.com UN Global Compact key contacts: Christelle Coslin Liam Naidoo Partner, Paris Counsel, London T +33 1 53 67 47 47 T +44 20 7296 5887 christelle.coslin@​hoganlovells.com liam.naidoo@hoganlovells.com 17 Alicante Amsterdam Baltimore Beijing Birmingham Boston Brussels Budapest* Colorado Springs Denver Dubai Dusseldorf Frankfurt Hamburg Hanoi Ho Chi Minh City Hong Kong Houston Jakarta* Johannesburg London Los Angeles Louisville Luxembourg Madrid Mexico City Miami Milan Minneapolis Monterrey Moscow Munich New York Northern Virginia Paris Perth Philadelphia Riyadh* Rome San Francisco Sao Paulo Shanghai Shanghai FTZ* Silicon Valley Singapore www.hoganlovells.com Sydney Tokyo “Hogan Lovells” or the “firm” is an international legal practice that includes Hogan Lovells International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP and their affiliated businesses. Ulaanbaatar* The word “partner” is used to describe a partner or member of Hogan Lovells Warsaw International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP or any of their affiliated entities or any employee or consultant with equivalent standing. Certain individuals, who are designated as Washington, D.C. partners, but who are not members of Hogan Lovells International LLP, do not hold qualifications equivalent to members. Zagreb* For more information about Hogan Lovells, the partners and their qualifications, see www.hoganlovells.com Where case studies are included, results achieved do not guarantee similar outcomes *Our associated offices for other clients. Attorney advertising. Images of people may feature current or former lawyers and employees at Hogan Lovells or models not connected with the firm. Legal Services Centre: Berlin © Hogan Lovells 2019. All rights reserved. 1108569_1119
